29-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid safe house nod for Greenwood Sonata||Greenwood Sonata became the first housing complex in Bengal to receive government permission for initiation of a safe house for asymptomatic or mild Covid cases. The order, dated August 19, has been issued by the chief medical officer of health, North 24-Parganas. In the cover story titled ‘New Town complex sets up Covid centre’, The Telegraph (Salt Lake) had reported on July 24 that the housing complex had received satisfactory comments verbally from the government team that came for inspection. Sudipta Mukherjee, president of Greenwood Sonata Apartment Owners’ Association, said they had further done up the five-bedded facility. “We purchased semi Fowler beds with bedside tables, foldable mattreses, medicine trolley and stethoscope as well as created space for caregivers to stay.” While two residential doctors had volunteered to oversee neighbours who might be checking in with Covid-19, three more have since volunteered help if needed. Having in-house medical help is a key condition for setting up safe houses in residential complexes, according to the standard operating procedure issued by the central government for residents’ welfare associations to run Covid safe houses. “We are receiving queries from other housing complexes like Uttara Tritiya on how to set up a safe house,” said Mukherjee. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Duttabad councillor tests positive for Covid-19||Nirmal Dutta, councillor of Ward 38, comprising a portion of Duttabad, has tested positive for Covid-19. This makes him the second councillor under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to be infected. Subhas Bose, councillor of Ward 6 that comprises places like Chinar Park and Kaikhali, succumbed to it.  Dutta was down with fever since August 23 and the doctor advised him a Covid test. “I took the test on August 25 and my report has come positive. I am staying in home isolation now,” he said. Duttabad is reeling under Covid cases and Dutta himself admitted that many were not following proper social distancing and hygiene protocol in his ward. “More than 80 cases have been reported from Duttabad,” he said. “I have been organising testing camps and was also helping people reach government-run quarantine centres and safe houses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Relief for non-insurance patients: Panel||The state health regulatory commission on Friday clarified that its advisory to private hospitals on offering discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines and consumables would only be applicable to Covid-19 patients without any medical insurance policy. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had earlier fixed at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables for Covid-19 patients who would buy those from the hospital’s pharmacy. After a meeting with representatives of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said the advisory on the discount would not be applicable to patients with personal or corporate medical insurance. “They (private hospitals) raised issues about the 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables, because they have issues about corporate and insurance patients. We clarified that for corporate and insurance clients this advisory will not be applicable,” Banerjee said on Friday. “For some medicines they said discounts are not available (from pharmaceutical companies). We told them to inform us about these on a case-to-case basis and we will speak to the manufacturers.” Later, officials of some private hospitals and insurance companies said patients with insurance policies were given a 5-10 per cent discount on their bills during discharge. “We have tie-ups with hospitals by which 5-10 per cent discounts are given on the final bill of a patient admitted with cashless facility. The non-admissible amount is calculated separately,” said an official of an insurance company. The CEO of a private hospital said such discounts were allowed as part of the agreement. Last Saturday, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the MRP of medicines and consumables to lessen the bill burden. If hospitals are unable to offer a discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside. At Friday’s meeting, private hospitals pleaded for withdrawal of the advisory that bed charges be capped at the rates prevailing on March 1. “We had said the bed rates of March 1 will prevail. They said the financial year in a corporate hospital starts on April 1 and they revised the bed charges that day. So they are finding it difficult to return to the earlier bed charges…. We told them that the March 1 date was fixed keeping in mind the non-Covid period charges and requested them to wait for some time till we get out of this pandemic situation. After that we will definitely reconsider this,” said Banerjee. Sources said the hospitals had been asked to charge the old rates till December. “We had a fruitful meeting on Friday. Since this was the first meeting between the AHEI and the commission, we presented our concerns before him (the chairman) and he gave us a patient hearing. He clarified that the discount is only for cash patients,” said Rupak Barua, president, AHEI and Group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “In regard to bed charges, he urged us to continue with it (the March 1 rates) till December 31, after which the commission will reconsider.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Report nails goods carrier role in pollution||Goods vehicles are responsible for the bulk of automobile pollution in Calcutta and Howrah and the proportionate share is more in Howrah, a study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) reveals. Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had on August 18 handed the report — PM10 & PM2.5 Source Apportionment and Development of Emission Inventory of Twin Cities of Kolkata and Howrah — to the National Green Tribunal in connection with a petition filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta on air pollution. NEERI had carried out the study from April 2017 to December 2019, following an assignment from the state pollution control board. The report said that goods carriers were responsible for 49 per cent of the PM10 in the ambient air generated by vehicular emission. For PM2.5, the contribution of goods vehicles was estimated at 49.5 per cent. In Howrah, goods vehicles accounted for 67 per cent of both PM10 and PM2.5 in the ambient air generated by automobile emission. PM10 and PM2.5 are fine and ultra-fine particles that are major air pollutants in Calcutta and Howrah. Both types of particles can penetrate the respiratory system — the reach of PM2.5 is more because they are smaller than PM10 — and trigger a range of serious respiratory ailments, including cancer. In comparison, buses were found to account for 24 per cent of the total load of PM10 and PM2.5 emitted by automobiles in Calcutta. The corresponding figure for Howrah was about 13 per cent. The study found the contribution of private vehicles, both petrol and diesel variants, marginal. In Calcutta’s overall pollution mix, all types of vehicles together spewed 22 per cent of PM10 and PM2.5 in ambient air in summer. In winter, the figure stood at 25 per cent for PM2.5. In Howrah, vehicles were found to be responsible for 31 per cent of PM2.5 during both summer and winter. “The report underlines the importance of immediately undertaking strong actions against polluting and old goods vehicles in both Calcutta and Howrah,” said petitioner Dutta, who stressed the need to bring the environment-friendly Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) to Calcutta at the earliest and replace petrol and diesel with it. “The results of the study are on expected lines as most goods vehicles run on diesel and they are generally ill-maintained. Most of them hardly undertake the mandatory pollution check,” said emission expert S.M. Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Options for Bengal, post-SC order||The education department may explore the option of holding exams in common service centres, set up by the state JEE board to enable engineering aspirants to attend counselling, for the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, sources in the department said. The Supreme Court’s order on Friday upholding the UGC’s July 6 directive on conducting exams for the final-year batches has forced the department to consider ways to evaluate the students. The apex court set aside the pleas of several states, including Bengal, that students be assessed based on the results of previous semesters and internal assessment amid the pandemic. “Using the 17,000-odd common service centres, which the state JEE board has created across the state for students without Internet connectivity at home to upload documents and take part in online counselling, might be an option for writing tests online,” said an official of the department. “It will not be prudent for students to travel to colleges and universities to write pen-and-paper tests in October, given that Covid-19 cases are likely to rise before Puja. We are wondering whether these centres can double as venues where the final-year college and university students can write tests online.” The state panchayat and rural development department runs Sahaj Tathya Mitra Kendra across the state to promote e-governance among rural people. “These facilities, too, have Internet connectivity. They, too, can be thought of as venues for writing exams that would be bare minimum in nature, as the chief minister has suggested,” said a vice-chancellor. But one VC warned that a vast section of the students are not conversant with writing any online test and they need to be trained if these facilities are to be hired as venues for writing the tests. “The state JEE board had uploaded manuals in Bengali to guide engineering aspirants on how to take part in the process for several days. A similar kind of exhaustive training has to be started for college and university students at the earliest,” said a VC. Education minister Partha Chatterjee is likely to hold a meeting with the VCs soon to decide on the possible options. A principal said if the situation marginally improved by the first week of October, the option of holding pen-and-paper tests at colleges could be considered. Another principal said the state government should file a review petition as it has done in the case of NEET and JEE-Main. “The state government has become a party to a review petition the Punjab government has filed in the apex court, seeking deferment of JEE Main and NEET. The government should ask if the IITs can publish results without holding the exams, why not the state universities?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to four hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked four hospitals to return various sums that it feels the hospitals had wrongfully taken from Covid-19 patients, the chairperson of the panel said on Friday. The commission as an interim measure asked R Flemming Hospital in Topsia to return Rs 1.45 lakh of the Rs 3.45 lakh it had taken from a patient, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. BP Poddar Hospital in New Alipore has been asked to return over Rs 60,000 to a patient, while Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Mukundapur and ILS Hospital in Dum Dum have been asked to return Rs 27,000 and Rs 15,000, respectively. Unlike the order for the Topsia hospital, the ones for the other three are not interim. “The patient who was admitted to R Flemming Hospital complained that he underwent dialysis twice during his six-day stay there. No other procedures were done. They complained that the Rs 3.45-lakh bill was not justified,” said Banerjee. “We examined the bill and asked the hospital to return Rs 1.45 lakh immediately…. If the hospital is able to justify the bill, it will get back the money. If we find other lapses… we will ask the hospital to refund more money to the patient.” Repeated calls to the phone number mentioned on the hospital’s website throughout Friday evening elicited the same response — that it was busy. About the order to BP Poddar Hospital, Banerjee said the patient had stayed there for four days and was billed Rs 1.51 lakh. “After analysing the bill, we directed the hospital to keep Rs 90,000 and return the rest to the patient,” he said. The Telegraph reached out to the hospital for a comment but no one responded till late on Friday. The complaint against Medica was about Rs 27,000 it had charged a patient for “consumables”. The insurance company whose policy the patient had bought refused to pay the amount. Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica, said the patient was not overcharged. “There are certain items that no insurance policy covers, but that does not mean we overcharged the patient. We were perfectly within the legal frame to charge this money. However, we agreed to refund the money with due respect to the proposal from the chair,” said Roy. The complaint against ILS Hospital was that it had overcharged a patient Rs 15,000 for PPE. “The hospital agreed to return Rs 15,000. They said the complaint was from a period when PPE rates were not capped,” said Banerjee. An ILS official, when contacted by this newspaper, promised to call back but did not do so till late on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Petrol on stove for not squealing||A taxi driver poured petrol on a stove at a roadside tea stall on Narkeldanga Main Road early on Friday over a dispute, leaving the tea stall owner with severe burns, police said. The driver, Sujit Yadav, 33, was arrested later in the day from his home in Duttabad on the charge of attempt to murder. The tea stall owner, Vinod Yadav, has been admitted to SSKM Hospital’s burn ward. Preliminary investigation has suggested the taxi driver was angry with the tea stall owner for failing to share with him the addresses of two of his clients who apparently picked a fight with the driver at the tea stall, the police said. The two were later identified as Saheb Yadav and Arjun Yadav. All three were at the stall to have tea around 5am when they got into a fight over shares from a profit they had made, an officer of Phoolbagan police station said. “The two fled the spot after the fight. The driver got to know they and the tea stall owner were from the same village. He wanted to confront the two and he kept asking the owner for their addresses,” the officer said. When Vinod Yadav failed to give him their addresses, the driver lost his cool and fetched a can of petrol from his taxi, which he had parked nearby, the officer said. Before anyone could react, he apparently emptied the can on the stove, on which Vinod Yadav was preparing tea for customers, the police have found after speaking to people who were present at the stall at that time. “As soon as he poured the petrol, a huge flame leapt up and burned the tea stall owner’s hands, chest and shoulders. He was admitted to the burn ward of SSKM. The taxi driver fled the spot,” the officer said. Cops will question the taxi driver to find the exact cause of dispute between him and the other two, another officer said. “It could be that they are party to some other offence and hence the dispute over the share of money. We will question Saheb Yadav and Arjun Yadav, too, in connection with the case,” the officer said. Four men were arrested on Thursday in connection with an illegal deal involving a rare species of lizard. Two men had taken money for the delivery of the lizard but failed to do so, police said. The buyer and one of his associates kept the two locked in a house to recover the money. Cops got to know of the matter after both parties filed complaints with Lake police station, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Cops to help transport patients to safe house||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will ask police to accompany health workers and ambulances to transport “unwilling” Covid patients from slums to a government safe house for isolation. The decision to take the help of cops was taken after civic workers faced a steady resistance from Covid patients living in slums in Duttabad, Mongalganthi and in parts of Baguiati and Rajarhat, a Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation health official said. All these places are densely populated and those living here have little or no option to go for self-isolation as their single or two-room houses do not have toilets. They use public toilets and community taps for water. The living areas are cramped. A single entry to slums in these areas lead to narrow passageways lined with rooms on either side, a civic official said. It is impossible for a Covid patient to self-isolate himself/herself without risking the spread of infection among others, the civic official said. Earlier this week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed her concern regarding the Covid situation in North 24-Parganas, especially because of the congested pockets in several places. Duttabad, a slum bordering Salt Lake; Mongalganthi and Atghara near Baguiati; and several areas in Rajarhat and Narayanpur are among the places under civic scanner. It was a challenge to transport patients from these areas to a safe house as they feel they are better off at their homes, a civic health department official said. “Many are refusing to move to the government safe house… they pose a serious risk to the spread of Covid. No amount of persuasion has worked… so, we decided to take the help of cops,” the official said. Civic officials are coordinating with officers of the Bidhannagar commissionerate, mayor Krishna Chakraborty said. “We will take the support of the police whenever necessary.” A safe house near Sector V is operational to help Covid patients from these areas to self-isolate themselves. But there have been several instances when health teams could not find patients at their homes or faced resistance from families when they went there to pick up such patients. “I have had to play cat and mouse with residents of my ward. There have been more than a dozen instances of Covid positive people refusing to go to the safe house,” Nirmal Dutta, the councillor of Ward 38, said. Duttabad is part of the ward. Dutta himself has tested positive for the coronavirus and is in isolation. Another civic official said there had been a couple of instances of men resuming work and stepping out of their houses even after knowing they had tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Need women leaders to change lives||Modern High School alumna Anita Bhatia, the UN Women deputy executive director, stressed the need for women leaders in decision-making roles, influencing policy and changing lives while speaking from New York with students of her school. “The problems that the world faces today, the existential threats of climate change, the erosion of democracy, the erosion of liberal values, and the erosion of secularism require a new kind of leadership. Is it any surprise that the countries that have done the best job in dealing with this pandemic are countries run by women — Germany, New Zealand, Finland, Taiwan among others,” she said while speaking to the students early this week. Bhatia is the assistant secretary-general for resource management, sustainability and partnerships and the deputy executive director of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of women (UN Women). The girl from the Class of 1979 said: “We need more female leaders. We need women at the table, making decisions, influencing policy and changing lives. And I am so proud to be part of the family of Modern High School because every day Modern High School produces leaders who are capable of doing just that.” Bhatia has been working with women globally, addressing gender rights and issues of discrimination. The school recognised her as the “distinguished alumna” of 2020 during a webinar attended by present and past students and teachers joining from various time zones. Bhatia said the world has “turned upside down” during the pandemic and “women are at the centre of this crisis” but still underrepresented in leadership roles. “The frontline health workers during the pandemic are women, 72 per cent of the nurses in the world are women and still women continue to be underrepresented in all aspects of leadership,” she said. “Less than 10 per cent of the heads of state in the world are women, less than 10 per cent of the heads of government are women... and women continue to face discrimination in pay.” Head girl Mayukhi Ghosh introduced Bhatia as one who was not only academically brilliant and keenly interested in public speaking, debating and dramatics but also remembered by batchmates as “fun-loving and vivacious” with varied interests. “While many of us maybe very privileged and never face any sexism or discrimination we know that actually women can suffer a great deal when they are not given equal opportunity and most importantly when they are not given an education,” Bhatia said. In the midst of the pandemic Modern High kept its annual tradition of felicitating distinguished alumni in their chosen fields. “It is generally accepted that it is what students do after they leave the safe haven of the school that establishes the value of the institution where they were nurtured. On their part, the students say it was their school, which had shaped and inspired them,” director Devi Kar said. Bhatia does not miss a chance to visit her father in Calcutta and even in her schedule finds time to grow herbs in her garden, cook and visit the opera. “What I love about Modern High School and what I think is so important about an all girls and single gender education is that girls in all girls’ schools leave with models of strong female leadership,” she said. It is not for nothing that principal Damayanti Mukherjee said that this felicitation by the alma mater would remain “tucked into a very special, warm corner of your heart”. “You have made a choice to make a difference to the world, to communities and issues beyond your immediate and familiar. And therefore you are a role model to our gender and for Modernites — past, present and future,” Mukherjee said. The school authorities said they had received requests from people across the world to have online programmes. “We had people joining from various parts of the world… it generated a feeling of togetherness, which was unlimiting,” Kar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||No exams in September, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced that Bengal would not have college and university examinations in September. While delivering a virtual address, Mamata asked education minister Partha Chatterjee, who was seated next to her, to inform students by next week how they could be evaluated before Puja. The chief minister’s comment came hours after the Supreme Court upheld the University Grants Commission’s decision to assess students through offline or online exams or a blend of the two. About 7.5 lakh final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students in Bengal will have to take their exams because of the UGC’s directive on July 6, which has set September 30 as the deadline for the tests. At least six universities in Bengal had distributed results to their students in July based on internal assessments and results of previous semesters. An official of the education department said the assessment was done based on a UGC directive in April that left it to the respective state governments to decide on the mode of assessment. In her address on the occasion of the foundation day of her party’s students’ wing, Mamata said: “I can tell you this much that examinations will not be held in September. That question does not  arise. If the examinations are to be held, I will urge the education minister to look into the possibility of holding the exams before Puja, through online or offline mode, so that the students are not inconvenienced.” The UGC notification on July 6 said the examinations would have to be held by September 30. Mamata said: “I will urge minister Chatterjee to explore whether those enjoying the facilities can write the test online from home and those without the facilities can write the test offline from a place close to his or her home without requiring to travel far. Just do what is bare minimum. We need not go for the maximum. You consult with the colleges and the universities and follow the rules and inform the students about what you have decided by next week.” The chief minister took a dig at the Centre for not holding a formal exam to evaluate the graduating batches at the IITs. “Have you held examinations at the IITs? Examinations have not been held there. So the IITs are the best of institutions. We respect them. So at some of the institutions exams are not being held. At some institutions exams are being held,” said Mamata. IIT Kharagpur had assessed students in the spring (end) semester on the basis of grades of mid-semester exams, assignments, class tests and viva voce and cancelled the end semester exams because of Covid-19. The results were announced in early July. The chief minister suggested that her government could invoke the Disaster Management Act to hold the exams after September 30, a provision that was mentioned in the apex court’s judgment. “In the guidelines that have been given today about UGC, it has been stated that the examinations can be held later following the Disaster Management Act. The state government can decide on that. So we could hold the tests after 15 days or after 30 days. But apparently we have to hold the examinations,” she said. An official of the higher education department said the chief minister, while suggesting that her government could invoke the Disaster Management Act, was referring to what the court had said on the final page of the judgment. “The order says that if any state or Union Territory in exercise of the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has taken a decision that it is not possible to conduct the final year/terminal exams by September 30, they are at liberty to make an application to the UGC for extending the deadline for them,” the official said. “The appeal shall be considered by UGC and rescheduled dates be communicated at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-327
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Wedding amid a pandemic||Arnab Kumar Bhattacharya had always dreamt of welcoming guests to his wedding with the auspicious haldi, chandan and rose. Alas, his guests at AA Block community hall were welcomed with hand sanitiser. Priyanka Chakraborty of AB Block, New Town, had planned a big, fat Indian wedding spanning seven days. “I was to have many foreign nationals coming in and would have shown them every Indian ritual in the book,” she says wistfully. Alas, her social marriage was skipped and the registration had 25 guests with the foreigners watched the proceedings on Zoom! Namrata Roy Poddar had to shift her wedding out of BA Block community hall and into her own home. The groom sat on the terrace, adorned in topor and mask, while she sat in her study that had been transformed into a wedding hall by decorators. Welcome to wedding season 2020, where no more than 50 guests are allowed, where the priest chants mantras from behind a mask and where dinner is served in packets to be relished after a guest reaches home. While most weddings slotted this season are getting postponed, a few bravehearts-cum-romantics are taking the plunge anyway. Some are doing it as they have unwell relatives who want to see the wedding solomnised, others because there’s no telling how long they would have to wait for the pandemic to end. But in the bargain, they are facing and tackling unprecedented hurdles. Priyanka had wanted to buy her wedding sari directly from weavers in Benaras but since that didn’t happen, she wore her mother’s wedding sari. When Namrata got married, in mid June, shops had barely opened. “I booked a Benarasi sari online but also bought one from CA Market, just in case the former didn’t land up. Lata Poddar, who runs a boutique in BA Block, supplied saris for the tatwo and did my make-up. But what really drove me up the wall was getting the blouses stitched,” she recalls. With no reputable tailoring shop open, Namrata had to resort to a footpath tailor in GC Block to alter her wedding blouse. “As for the blouses for gaaye holud and aiburo bhat, I myself had to thread a needle and do the needful the night before the wedding,” says the the NIFT alumni, who works as a merchandiser. In fact, when no invitation card shops could be found open, Namrata painted herself and her groom and took 25 printouts to invite guests. Designer Namitha R. Dalmia, who runs Ssidhh Studio in Kankurgachhi, has created outfits for five or six weddings this season. “Some are negotiating the price, citing the poor economy or claiming that only 50 people would witness the wedding but I’m reasoning that since every other department has got trimmed down, the families have more to spend on the lehengas,” says the AJ Block resident. The outfits come with matching masks.  “Many are placing orders now for winter weddings.” Previously Namitha’s clients would celebrate sangeets, mehendis, pool parties, Sufi nights, poker nights and casino nights in the run-up to the big day but now she’s only designing for the basics — mehendi and wedding. When Arnab got hitched on July 2, he had to give the police in writing that there would be no more than 25 attendees, including himself and his bride. “A day before the wedding, the government extended the limit to 50 guests so I had to rush to invite 25 more people,” he recalls. At the venue, they erected a barricade in front of themselves, forcing a distance between themselves and guests. To avoid awkward situations among friends, some couples are inviting only family. “Eighteen guests were invited to my engagement, all of whom were immediate family. My fiance and I have a large group of friends whom we couldn’t invite but my cousins set up a Zoom link for them to watch,” said Anant Banka, who got engaged to Rashi Agarwal at an open ground in New Town, hoping it would allow better air circulation. Arnab’s bride Rituparna’s family had booked the hall for their July wedding by standing in queue from 3am on January 1. “That’s how coveted that hall near Dum Dum cantonment is and we didn’t have the heart to cancel this the venue. The reception took place at AA Block community hall after thorough sensitisation,” he says. While Priyanka and Sombit Chowdhury settled for a registry, they performed a Narayan puja at her New Town home beforehand. “It was there that we realised social distancing was impossible at home, even with 25 guests,” says the lawyer, who then chose Ibis hotel. “We book the 150-capacity hall for 25 people.” Sumanta Maity, general manager of Golden Tulip hotel, says they have hosted over 10 weddings this season. “Previously our priority would be good food and quick service but now it’s safety! While most weddings have been postponed, some are spreading their festivities over several days so as to break the guest list up somewhat and invite as many as possible,” he says. Ritu Agarwal, who runs a wedding planning company called Ritvan Events, said she had organised three weddings between June and August. “Most people are opting for hotels as hotels are following all norms. The workers setting up the stage, lights and sound are working in different shifts and that too not more than four workers are allowed in the venue at a time,” she says. Given the challenges of commuting, couples are trying to wrap out proceedings early. “The logno of our wedding was at 8.35pm so we couldn’t help it but the reception was held in the afternoon. It was an unusual hour but back then, a curfew would come into force at 9pm. How would guests get home after that?” says Namrata. Priyanka too had to wrap up early as the next day had been declared a state lockdown. “We stayed the night at my New Town house and left for my in-law’s place in the morning. Since my husband is a doctor his car has a doctor’s sticker and the police did not stop us,” she says. But nothing beats a wedding party that came to Baisakhi Abasan from Chhattisgarh in early June. In fact, they caused ample consternation among residents when they launched themselves into the proceedings without the 14-day quarantine that was supposed to have been followed after inter-state travel. Another wedding at Baisakhi took place on the first day of the weekly state lockdown — on July 29. “The estate officer cancelled permission to use the community hall and we had to seek the MLA’s intervention to hold the wedding,” said Sukhendu Khamaru, secretary, Baisakhi Abasan Samity. Numerous theories have surfaced as to the safest way to treat guests to dinner this season. Arnab had a sit-and-eat as the caterer said a buffet would have people piling on top of one another for helpings. Namrata had the pulao-mangsho-chingri malai curry packed into boxes and handed out for guests to eat in the safety of their own homes. Asparagus Hospitality, an event management group, prefers buffet as it does it not require waiters to go up close to guests and serve. “And we are serving only five diners at a time,” says Pritam Dutta of the CA Block firm. In fact, they are going a step ahead and allotting separate time slots for friends and relatives to prevent crowding. And even though the guest list may be miniscule, they are packing dinner for relatives who did not come. “In case no one showed up from a particularly family, we are delivering food home so the average number of heads we cook for is 70,” says Pritam. Dasgupta Caterers of Chinar Park has stopped cooking at the wedding venue and only delivers now. “Because of this, starters like kebabs have disappeared from the menu. Kebabs need to be served hot but without a live counter that’s not possible,” says manager Narayan Kundu. “Besides, catering for 40 people is not cost effective for us so we aren’t too eager to cater to weddings now.” Swade o Ahare, that has kitchens in AE Block and Sector V, has delivered food for a handful of weddings this season. “Most are at homes and we are not staying back to serve unless expressly requested,” says Subhrajit Boral, who runs the unit. “In case some guest gets Covid later, no one will blame their own family members. Fingers will point at us outsiders and we don’t want to take the chance.” When Studio Manorama got an offer to shoot a wedding in July, they jumped at the offer. “Safety and precautions we would manage later. But during such a lean period we need to embrace whatever business comes our way,” says Dwaipayan Chakraborty of the CF Block studio. In the pre-Covid era they would have got 15 to 20 contracts in this period. While they usually sent six to seven still and video photographers to weddings, they have trimmed it down to three now. “It’s working out fine as the number of guests, rituals, and of course, budget have all got slashed,” Chakraborty says. Indrajit Bhattacharya, partner at a photography agency called Wedding Bells, would even use drones to capture moments back in the day. “But now weddings are a subdued, compulsory celebration. All that jazz and bling are gone,” he says. At a wedding they covered recently, Indrajit says almost everyone began the day wearing a mask but let their guard down as the day progressed. “And for photos, everyone would take off their masks to show off their happy faces for the record,” says the CL Block resident. Social distancing has also sent for a toss the customary group photo of guests with the couple on the stage. “People from the same family were eager to be clicked together but there was a lack of trust, and rightly so, when it comes to clicking with people living in different houses or from different families. The shooting experience was odd,” Indrajit says. Incidentally, the couple his company clicked stays in Hyderabad. They reached Calcutta a fortnight ahead of the wedding and stayed in quarantine to avoid any mishap. Priest Nilratan Mukhopadhyay, who has officiated weddings in both Salt Lake and New Town this season, says he has been sanitising flowers, plates and pidis before offering the couple. “And if they cannot make out the mantras through my mask I’m removing it,” says the priest who is being ferried to the venue on his son’s bike. The son is helping out with rituals in the absence of his assistants. Marriage registrars are in a fix. “The legal procedure requires us registrars to be photographed along with the couple. If the bride, groom and registrar stand apart as per social distancing norms how are they to fit in one photo frame? How are they to fit in the small offices that many registrars work out of?” asks Susmita Chakraborty of BF Block. “And of course, masks have to be removed for the pictures, making it all the more unsafe.” Banasree Chatterjee, general secretary of the Progressive Marriage Officer’s Association, proposes that this photo requirement be removed till the pandemic lasts. Chatterjee, whose jurisdiction includes Salt Lake and New Town, says 50-60 weddings on her calendar this season have been put on hold. “There is online provision now for certain steps of the registration but the site is down half the time,” says Chatterjee. “Couples have been trying to register online during the pandemic, failing to do so and blaming us for it!” Despite the hiccups, a BC Block youth is rather envious of those getting married now. “Think of how much money they are saving,” he laughs. Too bad he doesn’t have a lady in mind to take his vows now. Priyanka says the pandemic has meant zero interference from pesky neighbours. Her husband Sombit says they were spared from visiting unending relatives post wedding and were instead able to set up a mini bar at home in the time they saved. “Everyone should get married in the lockdown,” he laughs. With foreign destinations out of the fray, the couple took off for Diamond Harbour for their honeymoon and almost had the near-empty resort to themselves. “We went to Mandarmoni again on August 15 but it so crowded we stayed indoors,” says Sombit. “Either way, I’m glad I lived up to my promise to Priyanka: ‘lockdown or no lockdown, dilwale dulhaniye le jayenge!’” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Focus on New Town||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
29-08-2020||Calcutta||Ode to freedom on the Net||August 15 has always seen the grandest celebrations at Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education as it marks the birth anniversary of Sri Aurobindo, is the school’s foundation day and of course, is also India’s Independence Day. And students weren’t about to let the pandemic change that. They released a slew of videos of their performances on YouTube starting with the principal’s address on August 15. “We never imagined the school in complete silence, without any children playing in the field, without assembly or classes. Covid-19 has shattered our lives but has not been able to stop students from expressing themselves,” said principal Debleena Bhatatcharya. Teachers and students, she said, had used technology this year to reach out and their performances too spoke of solidarity. So a Hindi play depicted a typical home in the lockdown scenario, where the parents are now working from home and kids are itching to go out. But ultimately they realise they are better off being able to spend time together and learning new skills. United, they now look forward to freedom from Covid. The play was shot at homes of different students and edited to look like the same. An audio drama showed a girl getting irritated when her grandparents repeatedly ask for help to use their smart phones and remote controls. “She also looks down on an uncle who limps, only to be reminded that he had lost his legs in a war,” said Sagnik Banik, a Class X student who wrote the script. The protagonist is taught at the end to see the sacrifice of her grandparents and not to discriminate between age and ability. There were dances too. Dance teacher Susmita Nandi Sethia choreographed dances for the tots by sending them videos of herself doing the moves. “Then I had to send another video teaching parents how to upload the kids’ videos to Google Drive. Even then, there were challenges of poor resolution and it was difficult to correct the movements over video call.” Her students danced to songs like Aao bachho tumhe dikhaye. Nandi Sethia would later be part of a dance collage by teachers too. “I have been a part of this school for the last 15 years and never has a function passed without me dancing on stage,” said head girl Anushka Bose. “So this year too, I have shot my dance video at home and sent.” Most of the videos were edited by Jyotirmoy Sanyal of Class XII. “This is our last year of school and we’re spending it on online classes without living it up with friends,” lamented the boy who took part in some plays. “Even if different, this year’s celebration shall be memorable,” said head boy Saptarshi Dutta, who handled much of the show’s co-ordination. Brinda Sarkar Salt Lake School uploaded two videos on its social media sites to mark Independence Day. One was created by the students of Class VII and the other by those of Class XII. Performing to editing, it was an all-student show all the way. “Most classes have unit tests going on. Usually exams are over by now but this year classes started late. The Class VII batch was very enthusiastic to do something for August 15, so we asked them to go ahead,” said principal Sugata D’Souza. The Class VII video had 13 students taking part to give lip to the Roja song Bharat hum ko jaan se pyara. “There were 12 of us initially. So we divided the song amongst ourselves and recorded  giving lip to the section given to us. The clips were sent to me and my father helped me put it together. He is used to editing cooking videos for my mother’s YouTube channel,” said Ishita Samanta, one of the participating students. This meant Drittriksha Chakraborty had to give lip to the male voice of Hariharan. But she did her best to make up for the incongruity with her expressions. The number became 13 when another student, Aryabrata Samaddar, wanted to join. “We had run out of lines in the song, so we added a bit of Main rahoon ya na rahoon to accommodate him,” said Ishita, who loved the experience of being part of the video. “If we were going to school in normal times, there would be no guarantee that our class would have been chosen to perform in the I-Day show. It was because we discussed doing something and our friend Arka Mitra took the request to our class teacher that we got to do this.” The video created by Class XI was a haunting collage of able performances, captured in black and white. The suggestion to do away with colour came from English teacher and cultural co-ordinator Payel Das. “I wanted the video to have a pre-independence feel,” she explained. The Class XI students were asked on Monday if they could produce something in time for I-Day on Saturday. Pratiti Majumder and her namesake Prateeti Parida were put in charge of editing the video. They were also among the five participants. While Pratiti recited Amitabha Dasgupta’s hard-hitting poem Amar naam Bharatbarsha, Prateeti sang Ebar tor mora gangey. Asked about the challenges they faced, Pratiti said receiving a clip of Vande Mataram shot vertically from Srijata Pramanik had caused them a headache. “We had forgotten to ask her to shoot horizontally. Prateeti too had not noticed the problem when she converted the colour clip to black and white. Later she suggested changing the ratio of the picture. The video editing software took care of the rest,” Pratiti smiled. Then it became a race against time. Sagnik Sikdar’s flute piece, which was to conclude the video with the national anthem, finally landed at 10pm on August 13. Both videos were uploaded on Saturday. “We will do a more elaborate Teachers’ Day programme,” D’Souza promised. Sudeshna Banerjee The 33-minute video prepared by Hariyana Vidya Mandir on Independence Day started with photographs of the school officials hoisting the national flag on campus. There was not a single student present. But some of them did their bit at home, in advance, by recording performances.  “The students are missing school but at least they should stay involved. So we have taken the entire co-curricular calendar online. This was perhaps the seventh occasion they contributed from home for since April after Janmastami, Gurupurnima, Rabindra Jayanti, Rakhi, Premchand Jayanti and World Yoga Day,” said principal Sanghamitra Banerjee. The programme started with a spiritual discussion on staying healthy and stress-free amid the pandemic. “Start the morning with thanksgiving to the Creator, your body and mind, nature and your family. Take a resolution to be strong, to be at peace and to be fearless. Do not waste energy in arguments and by being irritable. Banish the thought of what would happen if you or your loved ones fall ill,” said B.K. Shivani, spiritual adviser, Brahma Kumaris, in a recorded address. Class X students Titas Ray, Ditisa Mondal and Anusha Bhattacharjee got the show rolling with the Dwijendralal Ray song Dhanadhanyo pushpo bhora, dressed in white sari with red border, on their respective rooftops. Shreyan Dey recited Kalidas Ray’s poem Annapurna. But Class XII student Sankalp Singh’s recitation was an in-house special as the poem in tribute to Kshudiram Bose was composed by the school’s Hindi teacher Sangeeta Agarwal. “August 11 was the martyr’s death anniversary. I wanted to make the students remember him on this occasion,” said the lady, who has been teaching at the school for 23 years. “I gave an offer to the students, sending them a few lines to recite as test. Sankalp was chosen from those who submitted recordings,” she added. Sankalp’s elder sister Akanksha prepared the video clip with the recitation, with visual material sourced from the Net. Soumyajit Chakraborty of Class IX played a piece on the guitar, Bipasha Dey, Aditi Singh and Godhulika Dasgupta danced, Snehaparna Saha recited while Anushka Chakraborty and Archisman Dutta presented solo songs. Another highlight was Debasmita Bisay performing karate moves with Nanna munna rahi hoon playing in the background. The girl studying in Class VII, who is just a step away from black belt, would have preferred attending school on the day but felt she would have been nervous if asked to perform on stage. “At home, space was a problem but I had the option to record again. The one submitted was my third take,” she said, adding that her kicks were not high enough due to lack of practice. The last segment of the video, edited by the co-curricular activity co-ordinators of the school’s two shifts — Satarupa Hore and Sanjukta Sengupta — comprised dance pieces by Mouma Pal, Disha Gupta and Asmita Mandal, with the latter performing to the lesser-known fourth verse of Janaganamana Adhinayaka. The last shot was of the three doing a salute with Sare jahan se achchha playing in the background. Sudeshna Banerjee When Rohan Khanna, head boy of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, said that it “feels strange to celebrate Independence Day away from school”, he was echoing the sentiments of pretty much everyone from the school watching him speak on the school’s YouTube page on August 15. “I missed the unfurling of the national flag and us singing our national anthem together. But even though we are not together, nothing can stop us from honouring the most important day in our national calendar,” the head boy continued in his address. With students and teachers away from the campus, the school took the celebration online by creating and posting a video to mark Independence Day on its YouTube page. The 45-minute video had both primary and secondary section students singing, dancing, reciting and playing different instruments from home. All the participating students did their best to do up their background with suitable tricolour motifs. Flag in hand, Diptangshu Bhattacharya stood against orange and white balloons on the wall as he sang Chol re chol shobe Bharat-santan with five others from the primary section. Shirshannita Majumdar had balloons arranged in a triangle behind her. Aendri Basu wore tricolour wrist bands. Each student sang a part of the song and in the end all their voices were played together to give a choric effect. “This virtual celebration was a new experience for me as was practising at home. Our teachers helped us a lot. They would regularly do online practice with us and we also had the chance to record again if something went wrong,” said Aendri, a Class V student. “I wanted to have a virtual background and edited my recording but I was not happy with the result. So I sang and recorded again in front of the flag,” she added. The primary section also staged a dance to the song Vande mataram, with the four dancers sitting in poses of worship of different religions at one point and thereby delivering a message of communal harmony. “Our teachers had asked us to create a similar Tricolour-themed background, so I took three of my mother’s saris to hang. My father helped set them up. It looked colourful and bright. The most difficult part was all of us dancers having to wear the sari in a similar way, with one leg sticking out of the folds. In school, our teachers would assist us to get dressed but here we had to do it on our own,” said Ayushi Ray of Class V. A special part of the programme was an instrumental section where senior section students Soumyajit Pal, Souradeep De and Paulasta Ghosh played musical instruments like the violin, the keyboard and the flute respectively. But it was Souryadeepta Majumdar’s playing Ae mere watan ke logon on the melodica that caught the eye. “I chose to play an unusual instrument. It’s a very old model of the melodica that we had at home and I’ve been playing it for six years,” said the Class XII boy, who also can play the keyboard. The video carried another student’s name during his performance but he chose to play down the glitch, which was later rectified. Drawings of several students were showcased during the instrumental performances. The senior section students also presented a medley of patriotic songs and dance. While some of the eight dancers recorded their part indoors others used their rooftop, lending some variety to the ambience. “It was difficult to make the students practise through recorded videos and online calls but we tried our best. I had divided the song lines among the participants and sent them the steps on only those lines as it was not necessary to make them dance to the complete song as it would be edited,” said Dipanwita  Dutta, dance co-ordinator. “We did not want to miss this occasion. The students sent us video clips of their performances which we edited and created a complete video. Everything was done beforehand except the flag-hoisting held on our school premises. That footage was added to the video at the end,” said cultural co-ordinator Mohua Kundu. Arun Dasgupta, the vice-principal, pointed out how tough it was to create a choric effect in the song, using individual recordings of singers.  Sneha Das of Class XII not only participated in the secondary section’s dance performance to the song Bharat anokha raag hai, but she also edited the group’s dance video. “I like video editing and happily agreed when our teachers asked if I could edit our performance. Getting to perform was exciting and that too, in these times when we are locked down at home.” Head girl Siddhi Agarwal tried to be positive in her speech, referring to India’s scientific efforts in the space programme and the coronavirus vaccine race. She also referred to capability to think freely and freedom of opinion being prerequisites of a successful democracy. Head teacher Ranu Biswas reminded everyone that India was “passing through a period of crisis” and this was “not the time to quarrel over petty issues. We must stay strong and united…and bond irrespective of religion, caste and creed,” she said. Principal Sujata Ghosh put up a mirror to the state of the nation.  “The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in India has unveiled the actual condition of a large section of our countrymen. Poverty, oppression, illiteracy, hunger, a health system that is unreachable for many, inexplicable misery of lakhs of migrant labourers.... Is this condition desirable in a country 73 years after its independence?” She urged students to work harder as “you have a lot more to do for the country”. “A lucrative job and a life of luxury cannot be your only aim,” she summed up. Shatadipa Bhattacharya saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
