30-08-2020||Calcutta||Student targeted over use of road||A college student from Belghoria has alleged that a group of youths harassed her and thrashed her friend when she went out with him on a scooter looking for chapatis on Friday night. In her complaint to police, the second-year BSc student has said a group of youths were fighting among themselves on the road near 17-Pally in Belghoria on Friday night. Trouble started when she tried to get past the group and some of them asked her to take a different route. It was around 10pm and when she refused, the youths threatened her and her friend. When they insisted on taking the road, some of them hurled abuses at the two, she said in her complaint. One of the youths took the scooter’s keys while another slapped her, she said. “She has said that when her friend tried to help her, some of the youths assaulted him,” an officer of Belghoria police station said. “He somehow managed to run away and alerted her mother.” The college student said she tried calling the police helpline but the call didn’t go through. Some of the youths then snatched her phone and asked her to delete the video she had recorded of the incident, she said in her complaint. Her mother reached the spot by then and alerted the police. By the time a team reached, the youths had fled. The woman then went to Belghoria police station to file the complaint. The police have started a case of outraging a woman’s modesty, forcibly stopping her on the way and assaulting her and her friend against a group of “unknown youths”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||You can be fined if you refuse to clean up after your pet||The civic body can now fine a pet owner for not cleaning the pet’s poop, a civic official said on Saturday. The civic body has been empowered to impose spot fines on pet owners and a gazette notification regarding this has been published, an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said on Saturday. The power to impose such fines came into effect on July 13. The fine amounts have been fixed at Rs 200 for the first offence, Rs 300 for the second offence and Rs 400 for every subsequent offence, the official said. Arguments between pet owners and people over who is responsible for cleaning the pet’s poop or if an owner has the right to dirty the road is common in Calcutta. The civic body could not do much as it did not have the legal right to impose spot fines even if waste cleaners or other civic officials were sure of the pet owner’s identity, a CMC official said. “We had to issue a notice to someone who would not clean the pet’s poop from the street. The matter used to come up for hearing at the municipal magistrate’s court, which had the sole power to impose fines,” the official said. The lengthy process meant a few people could be penalised. The recent change has given the CMC the power to fine a pet owner on the spot for not cleaning the pet’s poop. “The commissioner of the CMC will delegate the power to junior officials in wards or boroughs... they can fine an offender,” the official said. The fine amounts have been introduced under the CMC’s solid waste management rules. Civic waste cleaners often refuse to collect a pet’s poop till the time it gets dry because they say the poop gets stuck in the shovel, the official said. The poop left for a day or more on the street attracts insects and flies and can pose a health hazard for people living nearby. The CMC will upload the rules on its website, the official said. “We will give some time for people to get acquainted with the new rules and change their behaviour. We will start imposing fines after some time.” The new rules will not bring a blanket change, though, according to many civic officials. It will be very difficult to identify a pet owner unless the animal is found to defecate on the road when a CMC official is present, an official said. In most instances, owners take their pets out for a walk early in the morning or in the evening when CMC officials or cleaners are unlikely to be there. Also, arguments can break out if a pet owner refuses to pay the fine. Many owners act responsibly and carry poop pickers when they take their pets out for a walk, a pet owner said. Poop pickers or poop scoopers are available for Rs 495-Rs 599 on some e-commerce websites. Such fines have been allowed only in the Calcutta municipal area, an official of the government’s municipal affairs department said. But the government is thinking of extending the provision for fines to other municipal areas, at least the ones around Calcutta where keeping a pet is more common than faraway municipal areas where pets are a rarity, the official said. The new rules allow the CMC to impose fines on people who throw waste on roads. “The person can be fined Rs 1,000 for the first offence, Rs 1,500 for the second offence and Rs 2,000 for every subsequent offence,” a CMC official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta kids demotivated in online class: Teachers||Teachers of several schools have reported that students have become “more subdued” in class and the energy level is much less than before. Months of being on the screen has made students “fatigued” and “demotivated”, psychiatrists and teachers said. Even students who are academically strong have not been responding like they used to, teachers of senior classes said. The “mischievous” ones who would always be up to something in classrooms have become “quiet and subdued”, a teacher said. “There are very few questions in classes now. It cannot be that all of them are following the lecture and have no doubts at all. Even when the devices are not on mute, there is hardly any conversation or noise. The students are quiet,” Joseph Chacko, who teaches English in the senior section at St James’ School, said. “It is a robotic experience for teachers and on many occasions, a faceless interaction.” Earlier, students would talk to a friendly teacher about their weekend plans or a web series they were watching; now, they respond to such questions with a yes or no, a teacher said. Students are attending online classes because they have to and not because they want to. “Online class for my daughter is more like a task. The excitement or interest is not there,” the father of a Class XII student said. Schools give breaks in between classes but because of connectivity issues, students have started logging in earlier, eating into the breaks, a parent said. “In the first month, things were fine but with time students are losing interest and a kind of boredom is setting in even for the bright kids,” Anil Jha, who teaches accounts in The Heritage School, said. “For students in senior classes or those who will appear for board exams there is pressure from teachers and parents.... which is taxing.” After attending classes online, often children are sitting for online tuition classes. “Teachers are trying but online classes are not the same as what school was for children. No wonder they are feeling demotivated and fatigued,” psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram said. “They have to attend continuous classes on the screen, at times not on laptops but on phones. All this while there is monotony of the same environment. It’s difficult to maintain a sense of well-being.” In an online class the “nuances of non-verbal communication is completely lost”, Ram said. This is something that has been disturbing teachers. “The connection in an online class is lost. In a classroom, there was unification; now, the student and the teacher are in two worlds,” Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School, said. In several classes, most children answer in monosyllables. “In a physical classroom, I would discuss things not related to academics and they would eagerly share their experiences; now, they hardly respond. Maybe they don’t have anything to share because they are not going out, or they are not interested,” Chacko said. Mischievous students, too, have grown quiet. “Mischief is a group activity and it would happen because they could interact with one another,” Basu said. There should be a “more creative” solution, Ram said. “There should be more light-hearted activities at home and physical exercise to break the monotony of the cycle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Partha to Centre: Defer JEE and NEET||Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Saturday asked Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank why he wanted to “jeopardise” the future of students by forcing them to write the JEE-Main and NEET exams during the pandemic. In a tweet three days before the start of JEE-Main, Chatterjee said: “Amid this global pandemic, @ Dr RP Nishank can you guarantee the safety of nearly 30 lakh students who have registered for JEE and NEET exams? With the transport system not fully operational, why do you want to jeopardise their future so desperately? Immediately postpone the exams!” The JEE-Main exams, through which most engineering colleges admit undergraduate students, are to be held from September 1 to 6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which all medical colleges admit undergraduate students, is scheduled for September 13. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and Tuesday that the exams should be postponed, education minister Chatterjee made a fresh appeal before the Union minister. Pokhriyal on Wednesday justified holding the examinations during the pandemic and said the central government was under pressure from parents and students to conduct the tests. Travelling to exam centres at a time when transport is scarce is bound to pose a serious threat, an official of the state education department said. “Besides, health risk stemmed from the fact that students will have to turn up at centres to write the tests at a time when any kind of phy-sical assembly is being discouraged as a precaution against Covid,” the official said. Although the authorities that conduct the exams have issued guidelines on the precautionary measures to be taken by the students and others, any sort of assembly can pose a risk, he said. Minister Chatterjee has convened a virtual meeting with vice-chancellors on Monday afternoon to discuss when and how the examinations will be held for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. The apex court had ordered on Friday that graduating students would have to write exams. The court had upheld a directive of the UGC issued on July 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Brother death rap on siblings in Calcutta||Police on Saturday arrested two brothers — Apu and Tapu Seal — on charges of murdering their brother Nipu six years ago. The brothers had dug up a part of the balcony of their house in Shyamnagar, 40km north of Calcutta, and dumped the body. A team from Jaggadal police station dug up the spot and recovered the skeletal remains after the two brothers admitted to have killed Nipu over a property dispute, the police said. The two brothers have claimed they used to live in Bangalore and that they had returned to their Shyamnagar house a month-and-a-half ago, an officer of the Barrackpore commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid: brothers in arms fight stigma||Some people in Calcutta and neighbouring areas are trying to fight, literally on the streets, the stigma attached to Covid by preventing attempts to barricade a patient’s house. They are taking pulse oximeters to an infected person to check the oxygen level in his/her blood and organising street plays to make people aware of the misconceptions regarding Covid. Earlier this week, a convention was arranged at Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas where representatives of political parties, voluntary organisations, local clubs, and many doctors were present. They discussed how to allay the fear of Covid among people. A group comprising young people of the neighbourhood has been formed. They provide Covid patients with pulse oximeters to check if the level of oxygen in their blood is satisfactory. “Several months after the outbreak of the pandemic, there is still an illogical panic and misconception in many people’s minds… often that leads to ostracisation of Covid patients and their relatives. But there are many others who have been coming forward to help such patients and their families,” Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert, said. Chowdhury is the mentor of Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, government officials and people who have recovered from Covid. “We are trying to bring such people under one umbrella. The battle is not only against the disease but also against this social problem. To fight the battle, people’s participation is required and government alone cannot do this,” Chowdhury said. He and members of Covid Care Network have been conducting meetings and conventions in Calcutta and neighbouring areas with a high prevalence of the coronavirus. At Ashoknagar, a group of volunteers, mostly members of local clubs, have been motorcycling with pulse oximeters to Covid patients in home isolation to check the level of oxygen in their blood. Doctors have been asking people in home isolation to check their oxygen level and to get admitted to hospital if it is below the prescribed level because they would need oxygen support. “We are getting calls on our helpline from people with fever… we are arranging doctors from our panel to provide them with consultancy. Many of these people are scared to get Covid tests done. We are counselling them and helping them get the tests done,” Pradyut Karmakar, convener of Covid Care Network at Ashoknagar and a member of a local club, said. Volunteers are busy dissuading people from barricading the house of a Covid patient, he said. “Still there is lack of awareness… people think barricading a house will prevent the spread of the virus.” Another member of the network said there was panic among people regarding hospital admission and treatment cost. Last week, several street plays were organised by a theatre group in Jadavpur and Garia to make people aware of the misconceptions regarding Covid-19. “Lot of misinformation about Covid is being shared on social media… it is creating confusion and panic among people. Through our play, we are trying to make people more aware,” Saikat Ghosh, director of Uncurtained, a theater group, said. The group has collaborated with Covid Care Network. “Many people are not wearing masks but they force a Covid patient in home isolation in their area to go to a hospital. Our message is we should maintain distancing rules but not socially abandon anyone because of the virus,” Ghosh said. There are a few people who stand on the road and watch the play, Ghosh said. “Many can relate to the problems… they say similar things have happened in their neighbourhood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||MAKAUT extends fee deadline due to Covid impact ||Students selected for professional courses of the state technology university are struggling to pay their semester and admission fees, even in instalments, because of financial difficulties during the pandemic, a university official said on Saturday. So, the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology has extended the deadline for payment of the first instalment till September 4, the official said. All private engineering and management colleges in the state are affiliated to the university. Till last year a student had to pay Rs 32,000 in full for the BBA or the BCA course during admission. This year, students had to pay Rs 15,000 as the first instalment by August 26. Last year, an MBA student had to pay Rs 35,000 in full during admission. This year, it was Rs 15,000 as the first instalment by August 26. “This shows the financial constraints the students and their families are grappling with,” the official said. “Considering the pandemic situation and the requests from different quarters, the university is pleased to announce that the admission process through CET-I (Common Entrance Test) & JEMAT-I (Management Aptitude Test) is being extended for another 10 more days,” according to a notice signed by the university’s registrar Partha Pratim Lahiri. “The candidates informed the colleges about the financial constraints they have been facing in paying the first instalment. After the colleges requested us, we decided to extend the deadline,” Lahiri told Metro. The remaining amount for every course has to be paid by October 15. Many students have told colleges that earning members in their families have had their salaries slashed during the lockdown. Some have said their family members don’t have jobs anymore. The Telegraph had on August 20 reported that an estimated 1.89 crore salaried people lost their jobs between April and July in the country. July had recorded huge job losses after a partial recovery in June. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt Ltd has estimated that close to 1.77 crore salaried people lost their jobs in April immediately after the lockdown. Another 100,000 lost theirs in May. The impact has been so severe that students are struggling to pay even in instalments, another university official said. “If they don’t clear the payments in time, colleges will struggle to pay their teachers. If this crisis continues we wonder if students would be able to pay the rest on time.” The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, will let students pay tuition fees in instalments in the coming semester. A meeting of the NIT’s deans’ council has decided that 60 per cent of the tuition fees of Rs 62,500 has to be paid by September 30 and the rest by December 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
30-08-2020||Calcutta||WFH snips demand for formalwear||Crisp shirts stacked up on shelves. A neatly pleated trouser has a sole taker — the mannequin near the entrance. Sale of formal clothes has nose-dived at apparel stores across the city. Retailers attributed the plunge to “work from home (WFH)” — the new normal in the wake of the pandemic. Occasionally, for a virtual appraisal or a client pitch, the odd white shirt makes it out of the cupboard. It is paired with shorts, which passes off unnoticed on a screen. Sumit Khemani, who works at a south Calcutta store of a menswear brand, has been calling up people who were regular patrons before the pandemic to inform them of new arrivals. The stock response he gets: “What is the use? I am not stepping out for work. Let me know if there are new shorts and tees.” Kunal Kapasi, of another premium menswear brand’s Shakespeare Sarani store, used to sell “over 300 formal shirts” a month on average earlier. Since April, he has been selling “much less than 100”. Trouser sales have gone down sharply, Kapasi said. Usually, three to four shirts sell for every trouser, retailers said. Apparel brands, like most other segments, are trying to jump the safety-first wagon to tide the Covid crisis, said marketers. Many brands have started promoting “anti-bacterial” and “anti-viral” shirts. “This shirt kills 99 per cent of the Covid-19 virus,” reads a pamphlet at a store near Camac Street. “Inhibits virus and bacteria growth,” reads another poster on the glass wall of a premium apparel store at a Lake Gardens mall. “The pandemic has made everybody insecure. The brands are trying to capitalise on this insecurity. An added layer of perceived safety is the USP of a host of products — from switchboards to mattress covers. Apparel is no different,” said an advertising professional in Bangalore, who has handled the campaigns of leading lifestyle retail chains. The formal womenswear corner at an international retailer’s store in a city mall had one person on Saturday afternoon — a sales executive brushing a series of striped blazers. “A weekend two months before Puja there used to be a mad rush. But there is hardly anyone now,” he said. Womenswear has been the major driver of growth in the formal clothing segment for the past several years, in keeping with the growing role of women in the workplace, said advertisers and officials of apparel companies. The pandemic has put brakes on this as well. Officials of leading apparel brands said the plunge in sales was not without reason. “I work for a formalwear brand. I have not worn a formal shirt more than once or twice in the past four months,” said a senior official of a leading Indian fashion brand. The “anti-bacterial range”, he said, was targeted at people who still had to step out — bankers, sales professionals and so on. “Apparel companies are now concentrating on homewear — shorts, t-shirts. That is the only segment that has been getting some traction. Buttoned waistlines in trousers are being replaced by elastic waistlines and joggers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
