31-08-2020||Calcutta||Onam on virtual platform||Malayalees in Calcutta and outside celebrated Onam on the virtual platform on Sunday. Among the programmes held on Zoom was one by the Calcutta Malayalee Samajam and another by by the Kolkata Kairali Samajam. Both programmes were streamed live on the Facebook pages of the associations. The Malayalee Samajam’s programme was inaugurated by A.K. Balan, Kerala’s culture minister. A performance by Matha Perambra, a musical troupe from Kerala, was one of the prime attractions. “The pandemic has curtailed the scale of the celebrations. But the virtual celebrations went off very spontaneously,” said N. Gopi, the secretary of the Malayalee Samajam. The organisation distributed dry groceries to needy people in the Charu Market area on Friday and Saturday. Thiruvonam, the most important day of  the 10-day Onam festival, falls on Monday. Large pookkalams, or rangolis made of flowers, were shared on the screens by many participants on Sunday. The programme of the Kairali Samajam was inaugurated by Madhupal, a writer, actor and director from Kerala. He spoke of the distress caused by the pandemic to the theatre fraternity. One of the highlights of the programme was a “mid-reading session” by Anand Mezhathur, a magician. The programme also saw several musical performances. “We had people joining in from Australia and the UAE,” said Sreekumar V., one of the organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||2 accidents on Vidyasagar Setu, 1 killed||A man died and another was injured in two accidents on Vidyasagar Setu on Saturday, police said. Sabir Ali, 32, a resident of Noor Ali Lane in south Calcutta, was riding down the city-bound flank of the bridge on his scooter when a vehicle hit the two-wheeler from behind and fled, the police said. The accident happened around 11.15pm on Saturday. Ali was wearing a helmet at the time of the accident, the police said. He was taken to SSKM Hospital where he died. The other accident happened around 5.30pm on the Howrah-bound flank of the bridge. RPF constable Nabin Chaurasiya, 36, who was returning to his quarters at Shalimar in Howrah on a motorbike, lost control and hit the median divider. He is being treated at BNR Hospital for head injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||TV actor cheated of more than Rs 10 lakh, actress arrested||A TV actor has alleged that he has been cheated of more than Rs 10 lakh after being promised roles in television serials and Bengali movies. Based on a complaint lodged by Suprabhat Sarkar, a TV actress named Titas Ghosh and a man identified as Sujoy Bhunia have been arrested. Police said the two were part of a group that cheated Sarkar and others. Sarkar, originally from Kalyani in Nadia district, and at least 17 others have approached Charu Market police station alleging that they have been cheated of Rs 23 lakh. “Sarkar mentioned in his complaint that he had held multiple meetings with the accused, who had offered to groom him as an actor and fetch him more roles in serials and Bengali movies. The accused had allegedly given the complainant and several others forged appointment letters, letters of appreciation and offer letters from various Bengali entertainment channels,” said an officer of Charu Market police station. Ghosh and Bhuniya, who were arrested at their south Calcutta homes on Sunday, have been remanded in police custody till September 5. “We will question them about their modus operandi and how many people they cheated,” a police officer said. The police said the television actress had produced identity documents for herself to prove that she was a member of an artist’s forum.“We are verifying the documents,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||During lockdown, a Calcuttan proves that magic belongs to the magician||All great magicians are named David, claims David Abhijit Nobo, laughing. There’s David Copperfield and David Blaine — and himself, a.k.a. Amazing David. But unlike the other two, he is a Calcuttan. At 32, Amazing David sees himself as belonging to the last of the magicians who learnt from books. “It’s easier now, with videos,” he says. But it is technology that has come to his rescue now and made him turn his bedroom into his studio, where he has installed a statue of Heath Ledger as Joker, framed Roald Dahl quotes, and a laptop. He is using his phone camera as a webcam. Magic is one of the oldest human arts, often a companion of religion, though charged, perhaps more than religion, with the possibilities of the dark and the illicit. Only around the 19th century in the West did it become established as a stage act for entertainment, a kind of theatre, which it remains till date. In India, the rope trick was another kind of performance. A few decades later, after Doug Henning, or David Copperfield performing on television, magicians began to be called “illusionists”. But throughout, like theatre, magic needed a live audience. The lockdown made the audience vanish. For Amazing David it meant work coming to an end. He is popular in the corporate event circuit, where a magic show often helps the transition from gruelling workday to mellow party hour. David, known for his comedy rope escape trick and liked for his friendly, genial manner, is among the higher-paid professionals in his bracket. He is a Bengali. His grandfather, Nobogopal Mukherjee, converted to Christianity and changed his name to Maurice Nobo. Initially after lockdown, David, who was in touch with other members of Kalkutta Konjurors, a platform for Calcutta magicians, did not know what to do. Then one day he pushed the bed out of his bedroom at his Park Circus residence, turned it into his studio (the current one is the third version) and put together an interactive show that the audience could enjoy online. He put up four ticketed events online, got some footage and sent them to event managers. He told them he could do corporate events again from home, where he also maintains several aquariums, terrariums (glass jars with plants and miniature landscapes), Java doves and a dog. Magic-from-Home began. David is now performing before corporate audiences again, online. At the end of June, he performed before a live audience of 1,500 from his home, on an online platform. It is not the same as before. Working magic is not easy. But its pull is irresistible. The theatre of magic combines fantasy, fiction, romance, role-playing and power. David could not help feeling drawn towards it. When he was in senior school at St James, Calcutta, instead of attending his private lessons, he would sneak away to the spot in front of Indian Museum where sat Basant Thapa, selling magic kits from a plastic sheet on the pavement. David learnt his first lessons in magic here, glimpsing scintillating worlds. By that time he was also heavily into Harry Potter. A bright boy with a curious mind, David learnt magic well but began to do poorly in academics. He did not fit into regular school, though he is very grateful to an actual play that he had participated in at school: the musical ‘Oliver’, directed by Katy Lai Roy for St James, in which he had played six to seven roles. It taught him a lot, also about magic. He feels the connection between theatre and magic deeply. “A magician is an actor who is playing the role of a magician,” he says. David began to perform magic professionally in schools when still very young. His mother Namita was his greatest support. By 2006, he was performing magic in almost every school of Calcutta. Though magic was entering a new age of sophistication and world influences, David was a bit of an anomaly in the often ill-paid, “vernacular” magic world of Calcutta. “One reason was my English,” says David. “Look, he can speak English!” a teacher at a school had apparently exclaimed to the principal, pointing at David. About this time, David also tried his hand at a call centre job, sometimes leaving in a local train at dawn with his suitcase to perform a show on the outskirts of Calcutta, and returned to his office. But he left the job as he felt his magic suffer. In 2010, he participated in a national television reality show on magic, staying in Mumbai. Following that, he began to perform at corporate events, as he wanted to perform magic before an adult audience. “It is not the trick per se. It is how I interact with my audience,” says David. “I draw them into a story.” For him, David Copperfield is the greatest magician of all times. “His flying act is the greatest illusion of all times.” But Copperfield is the greatest, says his Calcutta admirer, because also gives us a great story, an emotion, of people, of love. That is difficult online, but he is trying. He has also changed his acts, focusing on those which will survive closer scrutiny better. A lot of mind-reading remains, as do some sleights of hand, but his centrepiece, the rope escape, has been dropped. But fundamentally, he repeats, magic remains the same. “Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic,” he quotes Arthur C. Clarke. This holds for magic, too, from Houdini through the P.C. Sorcars to now. On a video call, he asks me to tell him a close friend’s name. I do, and a few minutes later it appears on an envelope on its own. I gasp. But one thing has changed. “At the beginning, I would work with a lot of equipment. Now I can go without any,” says David. “Because I realise magic comes from the performer, not from the props.” You cannot separate the magic from the magician. Which is why magic stays even in the age of Google. “Now with all the information available, willing suspension of disbelief becomes that much harder,” he says. A Korean group online had taken in particular to exposing every trick. “But you can’t find magic by exposing the trick,” says David. “You can’t find music by pulling the piano apart.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT scholars seek time to leave campus||Sixty-five research scholars at IIT Kharagpur wrote to the institute’s director on Saturday night that they were unable to leave the campus by Sunday and sought permission to stay on till the situation became normal. The students said they could not return home now because trains were not running and some of their family members had comorbidities. IIT Kharagpur director Virendra Kumar Tewari had on Wednesday urged the students who were still on the campus to leave by August 30 as 10 people, five of them students, had tested positive for Covid-19. “We will allow students who could not leave by Sunday to stay for a few more days, but they will have to leave at the earliest,” an official of the institute said. The students mentioned in the letter that some of them were from remote areas, which could only be reached by train. The government is yet to start regular train service. Family members of a number of students are aged and/or suffer from comorbidities. “In view of the rising number of Covid cases on the campus, parents are worried that we might take the dangerous virus home,” a student told Metro. For some students, floods in various places are coming in the way of returning home. This newspaper asked director Tewari about the students’ appeal. He said: “The students are like our children. I would urge them to go to their hometowns without further delay. We have kept them as long as possible. Now when cases have been reported, it is no longer safe to stay on the campus.” What about the problems the students mentioned in their letter to him? “They have to realise we are urging them to go as the institute is concerned about their health,” he said. The students blamed the institute for not letting them go home before the start of the lockdown. “When the IITs in Kanpur and Guwahati were vacating their hostels in March, we had requested the authorities here that we be allowed to go home. There were only a few Covid cases then. But the dean of students’ affair, Somesh Kumar, had said in a notice that it was safer to be on the campus,” said a research scholar. Repeated calls to Kumar went unanswered. Tewari said: “We have done everything for the welfare of our students. When the institute allowed the students to stay, several parents praised us. When we had asked them to vacate the hostels by June 20, most of them left. If they could go home, the remaining students too can.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Hoteliers to seek clarity on alcohol||An association of restaurant owners will write to the Bengal excise commissioner to seek clarity regarding serving alcohol. The Unlock 4 guidelines, issued on Saturday, have dropped bars from the prohibited list. A section of restaurant and bar owners is interpreting the latest guidelines as a nod to serve liquor. But many restaurant owners said there was no clarity on the issue. Seasoned restaurateurs said the excise commissioner should issue a circular that allows serving liquor inside restaurants and also give a date from when it can start. “Our interpretation is that we will be allowed to serve liquor. We welcome the decision. But we would seek more clarity from the excise department. We will write a letter to the excise commissioner,” said Sagar Daryani, the head of the National Restaurants Association of India’s Calcutta chapter. “We would want to serve liquor as soon as possible. But we need the excise department to give us a date,” said Gaurav Karnani, owner of The Grid, a microbrewery in Topsia. The Unlock 4 guidelines say: “In areas outside the containment zones, all activities will be permitted, except the following….” Bars find no mention, unlike the Unlock 3 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Leak triggers drinking water crisis in Salt Lake||A couple of underground water pipes have leaked in Salt Lake, near the stadium, triggering a drinking water crisis in several blocks of Sector III of the township. The leaks were detected about three days back and the situation has only worsened by Sunday, engineers said. One of the leaked pipes carries water from Salt Lake’s tank number 13 to blocks such as IA, HA, GC, IC and KD-KC. The leak has been detected under Broadway, which links the township with the EM Bypass near the Salt Lake stadium's gate number 3A. A pool has formed on the artery, causing a large section of the asphalt to break and a crater to form. The other pipeline has sprung a leak near the FE island, also under Broadway, triggering a road cave-in. A layer of brick and sand has laid to level the stretch but the rough edges of the bricks are posing a threat to motorists. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) have carried out repairs but the bricks still lie exposed. Engineers at the civic body said lead joints in the pipe network were springing leaks because they were not sturdy enough to handle high pressure over a prolonged period. The joint near the stadium was supposed to be replaced with a mechanical one that employs steel gaskets and bolts to withstand high pressure of water, an engineer said. “But we could not do so because of a shortage of skilled labourers. Most of the labourers who specialise in jobs like this have gone home because of Covid-19,” he said. “We had started work near FE Island as it was more critical. We had barely completed the repairs when another joint started leaking near the Salt Lake stadium and a crater formed there as well,” said the engineer. Craters and potholes line the section of the road both near the FE island and near the stadium and are posing a safety threat to commuters. “I have seen several bikers skid while taking turns. It is plain luck that no major tragedy has taken place yet,” said Pratyush Chatterjee, a businessman and resident of Salt Lake. A scooterist skidded at the FE Block island crossing on the exposed bricks on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Awareness campaign on Covid home isolation||The health department has launched an initiative to spread awareness about what a Covid-19 patient should do while in home isolation to clear misconceptions and make it easier for doctors to handle such patients when they are rushed to hospital during an emergency. The department, officials said, wants to explain to the people who can opt for home isolation after testing positive, the need to use pulse oximeters, the role of a caregiver at home and when a patient can return to normal life. Copies of synopsis of the guidelines for home isolation, drawn up by the ministry of health and family welfare, have been printed in Bengali and will be distributed as part of the campaign. The contents have been divided into sections dealing with who can stay in home isolation, when treatment is required and directives for caregivers. The campaign will be launched in parts of Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, Baranagar, New Barrackpore and Barrackpore, the pockets that have seen a large number of Covid-19 cases. The leaflets — one lakh will be distributed in the next few days — list seven numbers of a Covid control room in North 24-Parganas and two WhatsApp numbers where one can post a message in an emergency. Health department officials said there were still misgivings among a large number of those who had opted for home isolation. Many patients are not aware why it is important to check their blood oxygen saturation frequently while at home. There are doubts about whether patients can meet visitors and when to call up and seek advice from a doctor. As a result many patients are being brought to hospital in a critical condition. “A few days back, a senior citizen with several comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension turned up with a blood oxygen saturation level of 70 per cent. This patient could have been handled better (had there been proper awareness),” said Yogiraj Ray, a doctor attached to the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. On the other hand, health department officials said, some patients whose level of infection is low enough for home isolation are looking for hospital beds. An overwhelming sense of fear and stigma about the infection is only making the situation more complicated. Metro has reported several times how neighbours are ostracising Covid patients and their families. “Misgivings go away when there is a clear understanding and that helps both patients and the doctors,” a health department official said. “We have observed that beds in safe homes in North 24-Parganas are lying vacant. Many who have tested positive and lack enough space at home to stay isolated from others are unwilling to shift to safe homes,” an official posted in the Covid cell of North 24-Parganas said. Experts from Sasthya Bhavan who have been monitoring the condition of Covid-19 patients in hospitals have observed that on several occasions patients who were being brought in had progressed from stage II to stage III of the coronavirus infection and were in need of intensive care. “Many such patients could have been managed at home had the caregiver been aware about the parameters that need to be continuously monitored,” Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake patchwork wears out in 2 days||The Salt Lake civic authorities carried out patchwork repairs at the intersection of EM Bypass and Broadway, near the Sports Authority of India complex, just a couple of days back. The road surface has already started to wear out. The 50-m stretch, leading to both EM Bypass from Salt Lake as well as the Salt Lake-bound flank of Broadway, has potholes forming again as the materials used for repairs are being worn out under pressure of moving vehicles. Metro reported earlier this week how potholes were slowing down traffic, leading to snarls during rushing hours. “Vehicles invariably slow down in order to negotiate the stretch. The entire area is now littered with stone chips and that pose a risk to commuters,” said a traffic policeman posted at the crossing. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation carried out the patchwork repairs by levelling the stretch with a thin bituminous layer. A resident of HB block said his car nearly skidded off the road and hit the divider as he slammed the brakes to slow down for the potholes. “The surface is broken and undulating and takes one by surprise. The bad stretch suddenly appears after a smooth and wide one. On Friday, I suddenly met with an accident,” said Alok Dasgupta, an engineer who stays in HB block. Another Salt Lake resident said the repairs should have been more thorough. An official of the Salt Lake civic body said patchwork was the preferred mode of repairs because the sanction for an overhaul often came late. Another official was more forthcoming. Officials do not stand to gain much from a road that lasts long, he said. So, a short-term measure is often the first and the most preferred choice. “A road surface laid by mastic asphalt or concrete outlasts a surface redone with bitumen, which wears out faster. Every time one bags a contract for repair, he or she has to grease several palms in order to work peacefully. The results are there for everyone to see,” the official said. The economics of building roads makes mastic asphalt a better choice in the long run, an engineer of the road repairs department of the civic body said. Around Rs 4 crore is required to create a kilometre of mastic asphalt road. Though the cost is many times higher than patchwork repairs, it evens out in the long run because mastic asphalt doesn’t require frequent repairs. “A concrete road is three times costlier to build compared with a bitumen stretch of the same length but lasts two decades. The longevity of a bitumen stretch, on the other hand, is a few months. A mastic asphalt road costs double and lasts around five years,” the engineer said. A contract for patchwork doesn’t have a built-in guarantee period, an engineer of the Salt Lake civic body said. “Cracks or craters can reappear if it rains the very next day and nobody will be liable,” the engineer added. Tapas Chatterjee, the mayoral council member in charge of roads at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, admitted that patchwork repairs had been carried out a few days ago at the EM Bypass-Broadway crossing but said he had no knowledge that the repairs had started to wear out. “We did not have the time to shut down entire roads and relay them. So, we did patchwork, which is time-saving. We will carry out thorough repairs soon,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
31-08-2020||Calcutta||Unlock 4: Calcutta Metro prepares to resume service||Guards inside coaches are likely to be Metro Railway’s best bet on maintaining social distancing protocols once commercial service resumes, said officials. Suspension of tokens, access open to only smartcard-users and thermal scanning of passengers entering stations are other steps to be taken for resumption of commercial service. The absence of a mechanism to keep real-time track of passengers entering stations and trains has limited the options of the authorities. A shortfall in the number of Railway Protection Force personnel has increased the carrier’s dependency on the state government machinery to enforce the protocols. The Union home ministry’s Unlock 4 guidelines, issued on Saturday, allow “graded” resumption   of Metro services from September 7. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs — the nodal authority of Metro corporations in the country — is expected to meet senior officials of all city Metros this week before coming out with a set of guidelines for running trains. Calcutta Metro, however, is not a corporation and functions under the railway ministry. The railway board is expected to give some specific directions to Calcutta Metro on the resumption of commercial service. “As of now, nobody has told us to attend the meeting of the urban affairs ministry. We are waiting for directions from the railway board,” said an official. A meeting with state government officials will follow a nod from the railway ministry, said Metro officials. The home secretary of Bengal has already written to the chairman of the board, seeking resumption of commercial service of Metro. Metro takes stock of the preparedness of the city’s transport lifeline, grounded since March 25, in the run-up to possible resumption of service.  The carrier used to run 288 trains daily and the average daily passenger count was over six lakh. Metro sources said the trains and the stations were ready for resumption of commercial service but enforcing social distancing norms would be a real challenge. “There is no mechanism to ensure social distancing without physical intervention. It will be premature to say anything on our preparedness before the guidelines come. But we might have to depute security personnel inside coaches,” said a Metro official. Only a set of trains in the Metro fleet has CCTV cameras inside coaches. Live feed can only be accessed by the motormen. There are cameras at stations but not enough to track the number of passengers entering the concourse and the platform. Since the control room cannot access the live footage, there cannot be any instant direction to seal the gates of a train or platform, said officials. “Let us say the central guidelines allow 50 passengers per coach and 40 passengers board one on a New Garia-bound train from Dum Dum. How do we restrict the number in the subsequent stations?” said a Metro official. Keeping track of the number of passengers will be challenging because of the multiple origin and destination points. There are 24 stations on the route. “Once commercial service starts, tokens will be suspended. Only smartcard-users will be able to use the services. They can recharge the cards at the counters or from the Metro Railway website. An app for the smartcard-users is in the works,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. But the carrier is not equipped to keep real-time track of the number of smartcards swiped at each gate. It is expected that passengers will have to undergo thermal screening before entering the stations. The Metro authorities will need police’s help in conducting the checks. “We will need police help in planning anything, both outside and inside the stations,” said another official. Metro’s security is the responsibility of the Railway Protection Force. But the RPF’s Metro contingent is working with a curtailed workforce. “The sanctioned strength is 900. We have a shortfall of around 130,” said an RPF official. RPF sources said the crunch was more acute because over 50 from the existing team have been sent to East-West Metro, which, once fully operational, will link Salt Lake Sector V with Howrah. On the table are options of closing the shutters at stations the moment the volume of passengers goes up, said officials. “We are used to doing it during the Puja rush. The permissible limit will be more at the terminal stations than the intermediate ones,” said an official. To counter the threat of transmission of the Covid-19 virus in an enclosed air-conditioning system, the quantum of fresh air will be increased on trains, said an official. “We will raise the supply of fresh air to the maximum level so that the existing air is not recirculated,” the official said. The frequent touch points like railings and handlebars will also be sanitised frequently once the services start, said the official. Sanitiser dispensing machines were installed at some Metro stations on Sunday. “All stations will be covered within a couple of days,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-326
