06-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Waging a frontline pandemic fight, he is always on his toes||Tribune News serviceAmritsar, January 5Life of Sameer Sharma, a medical lab technician at the Civil Hospital, seems to be now returning back on track after the fall in the Covid-19 cases in the city.“I used to go for exercise and jogging in the morning before the outbreak of Covid-19. The pandemic threw the life of the health staff out of track. Initially, there was a panic among the health staff and workers were not willing to work on the forefront. I was confident about my fitness and offer my services without hesitation. We worked round-the-clock during peak of pandemic,” said Sharma. As the number of cases has been dipped from 250 per day to 70 per day and the workload also decreased on the health staff, Sharma now gives time to his family.“Most of our time was spent in taking precautions. I used to take bath soon after entering home. The emergency call to collect the samples call can ring anytime, sometimes even 3 am. But the situation is now getting normal,” added Sharma.There is no fixed timing for the health staff but Sameer joins his laboratory at 9 am and starts packaging of samples and arrange transportation. Apart from Covid-19 samples, they have to attend various other duties and manage the lab at the Civil Hospital.“The workload is still there but the panic of pandemic has almost ended. Only basic precautions are being taken,” he said. Sharma said, “Pandemic taught us that health and fitness is everything.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waging-a-frontline-pandemic-fight-he-is-always-on-his-toes-194209
06-01-2021||---||Amritsar Municipal Corporation gets hook loader, 10 grab bucket machines to clean city||Amritsar, January 5The Municipal Corporation got a hook loader machine and 10 grab bucket machines to modernise the city’s sanitation system under Smart City project here on Monday. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said that smart bins were installed in 18 iconic places of the city. A truck mounted hook loader machine has been provided to the Municipal Corporation for managing the waste dumped in these smart bins. It will help in making the city clean.He said that manual scavenging (cleaning of sewerage by hand) has been prohibited as per the instructions issued by the High Court and the Supreme Court. Keeping this in view, 10 vehicle mounted grab bucket machines have been purchased under the Smart City Mission. With these machines, the sanitation workers will be able to automatically de-silting the sewerage without risking their lives.On the occasion, Municipal Corporation Commissioner and Smart City CEO Komal Mittal said that 18 underground modern smart bins had been installed around Darbar Sahib. When these sensor equipped bins would be filled an alert will be sent to the operator automatically. A truck mounted hook loader machine has been purchased by the Municipal Corporation at a cost of Rs 52 lakh to manage the waste in these bins which includes the operation and maintenance of the machine for three years.Apart from this, 10 vehicle mounted grab bucket machines have been purchased at a cost of Rs 77 lakh under the Smart City Mission so that the sewermen will be able to clean the sewerage in a modern way without any risk. SE Anurag Mahajan, councillor Mahesh Khanna and Ashwani Kale Shaw were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-gets-hook-loader-10-grab-bucket-machines-to-clean-city-194211
06-01-2021||---||Education Secretary talks to DEOs, school heads about exam readiness||Amritsar, January 5Education Secretary Krishan Kumar on Tuesday addressed the District Education Officers, school heads and teachers across the state regarding the Mission Shat Pratishat launched by the Education Department keeping in mind the upcoming PSEB examinations. Taking part in videoconferencing via Edusat, DEOs, school heads and teachers from Amritsar too gave ground report from the district regarding the preparations for the exams.“Given the pandemic situation, the Education Secretary encouraged the school heads to explore vistas of digital applications in conduct of examinations. The Mission Shat Pratishat is a well-conceived plan by the department, which can be accomplished with determination, dedication and zeal among the teachers to translate the same at the cutting-edge level,” said Krishan Kumar.He said the Education Department had made effective steps to analyse the performance of the students by mobilising all the school heads to prepare the PPTs based data analysis of the performance of each and every student in different subjects in the house examinations during the current academic session. The exercise was aimed at devising a strategy so that individual attention to the weak, average and meritorious students could be given accordingly.“The simplified material for the weak students and exclusive material and coaching for the meritorious students has been prepared. Besides, model question papers in each and every subject have been prepared and put on the Punjab Educare App for the convenience of the teachers and the students. Besides taking online classes, the schoolteachers have started taking extra classes. “The Punjab Government has also provided smartphones and tablets to students to enable them to have access to the latest digital applications for continuing their study as well as preparation for the PSEB examinations,” said Kumar.He asked the DEOs, Zila Sikhiya Sudhar teams, District and Block Mentors belonging to different subjects to ensure motivational monitoring at the ground level so that the availability of simplified material, model question papers, continuous analysis of progress report on the basis of regular tests could be done to accomplish the mission successfully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-secretary-talks-to-deos-school-heads-about-exam-readiness-194213
06-01-2021||---||Jalandhar-based woman’s body arrives from Dubai||Amritsar, January 5Body of a Jalandhar-based woman (22), who died at Dubai, reached Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here on Friday. Dreaming of a good life, deceased Meenu had migrated to Dubai a month ago. The body was airlifted with the efforts of a social organisation, Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, being run by SP Singh Oberoi.Sharing the information, Dr SP Singh Oberoi, founder of Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, said Meenu had gone to Dubai a month ago to work as a labourer in an attempt to improve her family’s financial situation but she soon died after falling ill.Oberoi said the Indian embassy had contacted him and informed that a girl belonging to Punjab had died in Dubai but her whereabouts could not be traced. After gathering all the information about the girl, he contacted her widow mother living in Jalandhar and informed her about Meenu’s death.Meenu had fallen ill soon after reaching Dubai but instead of getting her treated, the people who brought her to Dubai had forced her to pay the pending amount.Oberoi said she was admitted to the hospital in a critical condition. She succumbed later. After completing all necessary paperwork with the help of the Indian Embassy, the body of Meenu was airlifted to Amritsar.Oberoi further said the trust would also bear the cost of transporting the body of the girl to her house and cremating her. Considering the poor financial condition of the family, her widow mother would be given a monthly pension of Rs 2,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jalandhar-based-womans-body-arrives-from-dubai-194234
06-01-2021||---||Manch seeks round-the-clock police patrolling on airport road||Amritsar, January 5A delegation of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) on Monday met the Director of Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, VK Seth, and took up some crucial issues with him. After the meeting, the airport Director decided to write to the Police Commissioner and the SSP (Rural) to provide round-the-clock police patrolling on the road leading from the city to the airport.The delegation was comprised of AVM patron Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi, president Manmohan Singh Brar and secretary Yogesh Kamra.The manch urged him to display the phone numbers of the responsible airport authorities at the car parking so that passengers or their associates could inform them regarding any irregularities or misbehaviour by the contractor or his any employee.He was urged to dismantle the abandoned parking in front of the main terminal building and construct a multi-lane road for the smooth movement of vehicles of passengers and their associates.The authorities concerned might be persuaded to supply an uninterrupted power supply in the night as generally the power supply is insufficient which causes inconvenience to passengers. They urged the Director to get 14 more aprons completed.A parallel taxi track is the need of the hour, which enables the landing plane to leave the runway in shortest possible time so that the runway becomes free to let another aircraft to land, thus reducing arrival and departure times.They also demanded the beautification of the approach road, parking management, usage of aerobridges, quality food and beverage services and help desk support for passengers.The Director assured them of accepting all their demands. He said the Corporation Hospital authorities had initiated the landscaping and beautification of the approach road to the airport. He had already written to higher authorities seeking the approval of constructing the multi-lane road in front of the main terminal building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/manch-seeks-round-the-clock-police-patrolling-on-airport-road-194236
06-01-2021||Tarn Taran||3-day Pulse polio drive from January 17||Gurmat samagam on January 27, 28Amritsar: To commemorate Baba Hazara Singh of Aladdinpur and Baba Hukam Singh of Wajau Kot, the first martyrs of the Gurdwara Reform Movement (Gurdwara Parbandh Sudhar Lehar), a grand Gurmat (teachings of the Sikh Gurus) event is being organised on January 27 and 28 at Aladdinpur village in Tarn Taran district. The event would be dedicated to the centenary of the SGPC. Shaheed Baba Hazara Singh and Shaheed Baba Hukam Singh got martyred to liberate Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib, Tarn Taran, the historic site related to Guru Arjan Dev, from mahants in 1921. Keeping in view their invaluable contribution to the Sikh community, a special Gurmat Samagam is being conducted. TNSTheft at Chohla Sahib agri bankTarn Taran: An incident of theft was reported at the primary cooperative agricultural development bank, Chohla Sahib, 25 km from here, on Monday night. Rachhpal Singh, branch manager, in his complaint to the Chohla Sahib police, said the thieves took 12 bore rifle with 12 cartridges and a printer from the bank. He said the bank belongings, too, were damaged by the thieves. However, they failed to reach till the cash reserves of the bank. The police have registered a case under Sections 457, 380 and 427 of the IPC. OC23 more test positive in districtAmritsar: The Health Department reported 23 positive cases of the Covid-19 disease in the district on Tuesday. With the new cases, the count has risen to 14,602. Of these, 15 were contacts of positive cases and eight others were having symptoms of influenza-like illness. On the other hand, the graph of recovered cases rose to 13,800. Now the rate of active cases is 243. No casualty was reported on Tuesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-day-pulse-polio-drive-from-january-17-194207
06-01-2021||---||News in the winter of dissent||Amritsar, January 5The Majha House organised an online discussion with the founders of the newspaper — Trolley Times — that emerged during the agitation of farmers.The discussion had eminent journalist and author P Sainath as one of the speakers, apart from the founders of Trolley Times — Surmeet Maavi, Navkiran Naat, Gurdeep Singh Dhaliwal and Jassi Sangha. The bi-weekly newsletter was launched in support of farmers’ agitation.Talking about the newspaper, Surmeet, who has a journalism background, said since the true news of the peasant movement was not reaching out to people through the mainstream media, he came up with the idea of Trolley Times. “It is an attempt to bridge the communication gap created by the mainstream media between those sitting in protest and the leaders and also clears the confusion regarding the issue for the rest of the country,” said Maavi. The bi-weekly newsletter published in Punjabi and Hindi has soon become popular for the very ideals it stands for — the significance of free, unbiased news.“There are requests from various provinces of India to start their versions as well. There are proposals to print it not only from India, but from Australia and UK as well,” Maavi said.Educator and poet Prof SS Bahl, who was in conversation with the pannelists, agreed that even in difficult times, people have chosen to put their trust in the medium of newspaper.“Leaders such as Gandhi, Patel and Nehru conveyed the right news to people from the newspaper itself. It has also been seen in this movement that gender-determined roles in society are also changing, where women are at Singhu border with men, who are also seen engaged in kitchen works, while young men are making rotis and cooking,” he said.P Sainath, while speaking about the issue and the ripples it has created, said even earlier movements like the Green Revolution or Globalisation adversely affected the farmers. “But because they did not have access to information and means of proper communication at that time, they could not stand together and activate a movement. It’s not like this today because we have the support of social media, but this four-page newsletter is bringing awareness among people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/news-in-the-winter-of-dissent-194215
06-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||A bit over the top?||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, January 5The Limca Book of Records seems to be his favourite book of all time. After all, Surinder Singh Azad has 11 feats listed to his name in it.Determined to find a place in the Guinness Book of World Records, Azad had developed a penchant for setting records when he learnt that he could expand his chest by 9 inches (22.8 cm). The normal expansion is not more than 6.3 cm.This achievement was acknowledged in 1990 and unlocked a desire to thread various extraordinary feats that were to follow in the coming years. Looking back at his eventful journey, he says: “I always wanted to do something exceptional.” So, he started exercises like bench press and 1,000 push-ups and sit-ups daily to expand his chest.The golden ager had even ventured on his scooter from Amritsar to Pinjore and back, covering 534 km in fourth gear, this was in 1993, and bagged him a record for the second time. He claims that he has been driving the two-wheeler in the fourth gear ever since he bought it in 1979. It fetched him the third national record.For Azad the mantra is making something out of nothing. Even trivial matters, like snapping fingers and clapping, have got him recognition. “Though records like snapping fingers and clapping may sound amusing and comical, but I have put in my best efforts to achieve them,” he quips. The 79-year old, in the year 1997, registered two records — one for clapping 12,178 times and the other for snapping his fingers 11,510 times in an hour each. He snapped his fingers 290 times in a minute, which paved the way for sixth record.Riding back in the day, his seventh record even baffled the engineers at Bajaj Auto Ltd as he had driven his scooter for 70 km in a litre. It seems he really likes his scooter, for it piled more records. He created the eighth by driving the slowest scooter ever in fourth gear ie 2.35 km per hour, while the ninth followed for driving the scooter (no shift in gear) with 10 pillion passengers.Come 2000, the final duo of records were etched which raised the number to 11, ie rotating the wrist 292 times in one minute and rotating his arm 136 times in a minute.Even today, Azad has not been letting the advancing age get better of him. He knows the importance of keeping fit. So, the retired superintendent of Customs and Excise Department walks 15 km daily. Perhaps, the fever of adding more records to the already brimming cup of glories hasn’t come off yet. He claims that he is the only retired person whose 11 records are listed in the Limca Book of Records.Some other feats which he had shown to the committee of Limca Book of Records include clapping and snapping fingers simultaneously for 6,500 times each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-bit-over-the-top-194225
06-01-2021||---||Land dispute: Man shot at in Majitha||Amritsar, January 5Amritpal Singh, a resident of Hamja village falling under the Majitha police station here, was injured when another resident of the same village shot at him over a land dispute on December 31.However, a case was registered only on Monday after a complaint was lodged with the police when the efforts to reach a compromise failed.The victim, Amritpal Singh, told the police that on Thursday evening when he was working in his fields, the accused, identified as Gurpreet Singh, reached the spot and started abusing him. He was armed with a pistol. He said on seeing him, his (Amritpal’s) mother also reached there and urged Gurpreet not to indulge in such violence. Despite this, the accused got enraged and fired at him. He sustained a bullet injury on his leg while Gurpreet fled from the scene.He said his mother Sukhwant Kaur rushed him to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where he was under treatment. The police said a case on the charge of murder bid and under the Arms Act was registered against Gurpreet while further investigation was under progress. The accused was still at large and raids were on to nab him.Pea trader robbed of Rs 4.27 lakh at gunpointThe unabated incidents of robberies and snatchings continue to haunt the residents of the holy city. In the latest, a pea trader was robbed by two motorcycle-borne armed persons here late Monday evening.The accused snatched a bag containing Rs 4.27 lakh from him. The victim, identified as Gurtejpreet Singh of Liddar village falling under the Beas police station, was going to pay the farmers from whom he had procured the pea crop.Police authorities said that a case had been registered in this regard while further investigations were under progress to identify the suspects. The victim stated to the police that he along with Amarpal Singh of Madh village was going to distribute payments to the farmers for the pea crop. He said they were standing in the Dashmesh Nagar locality of the Jandiala Guru when two bike-borne persons with covered faces arrived at the scene and snatched the bag containing the amount at gun point.DSP Sukhwinderpal Singh said the police were examining the CCTV cameras in the area to identify the robbers. They were yet to get any breakthrough in the case, he said while adding that the investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/land-dispute-man-shot-at-in-majitha-194229
06-01-2021||---||Pilfered imported scotch diluted in Anngarh: Police||Amritsar, January 5The blended grain scotch whisky pilfered from two tankers confiscated by the Punjab Police was being supplied in Anngarh area for further dilution, distribution and sale. This came to light during the interrogation of four suspects who were caught red-handed by the Punjab Police while pilfering liquor on Chabal Road in Tarn Taran on Sunday.According to the police, they found the names of Bobby and Jagga in the mobiles of four suspects. Though the raids were conducted at the residences of the suspects, both along with their family members had gone underground following the seizure.The police had arrested Dharminder Singh, Chamkaur Singh and Manohar Singh, all residents of Tarn Taran, and Sarvan Singh of Sue Wali Havelian in Sanghna village here. Their fifth accomplice Gursharan Singh of Sanghna village managed to flee from the spot.“We have zeroed in on two bootleggers, identified as Bobby and Jagga, during interrogation and four accused and raids were on to nab them. Investigation revealed that the arrested accused used to supply the pilfered imported scotch whisky in the Anngarh area falling under the Amritsar city police,” said Maninder Singh, SHO, Gharinda police station. For years, Anngarh remained a hotbed for bootleggers.Acting on a tip-off, the Punjab Police along with Excise Department officials had confiscated two tankers containing 42,000 litres of 3-year-old blended grain scotch whisky worth Rs 2 crore here on Sunday. The accused were pilfering the blended grain scotch whisky on Chabal Road in Tarn Taran.The seized liquor was meant for United Spirits Limited at Khasa and was imported from a foreign consignor – Diageo Brands BV at Amsterdam, Netherlands. It arrived at Nava Sheva dry port in Mumbai.A preliminary probe found that the accused used to pilfer liquor from tankers and put it in 200-ltr drums which would be further sold at Rs 10,000 per drum. After dilution, it would be sold to liquor smugglers. They had planned to pilfer three drums of alcohol while transporting the remaining at the Khasa distillery.The police said the accused were hired by a Haryana-based contractor, identified as Satish alias Tau, working for a transportation company. “We are yet to nab him and his arrest would further expose the entire nexus,” said police sources. A case under relevant sections of the Excise Act and different sections of the IPC, including fraud and criminal conspiracy, has been registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pilfered-imported-scotch-diluted-in-anngarh-police-194230
06-01-2021||---||Double suicide: Police submit challan in court||Amritsar, January 5The Mohkampura police have submitted a challan in the local court in connection with the suicide of jeweller Vikramjit Singh who had accused Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur of blackmailing and extorting money from him. Sandeep Kaur was booked by the Mohkampura police for abetting his suicide while charges of destroying the evidence were later added to the FIR.Vikramjit had ended his life at a hotel room on October 10. He had left suicide notes, video and audio messages before ending his life. The incident shook the holy city as his wife Sukhbir Kaur also committed suicide a day after at her native Navapind village located on Mehta Road here. Two separate FIRs were registered in the double suicide case — one at the Mohkampura police station here and the other at Jandiala Guru in Amritsar rural. Following the incident, the Punjab Government dismissed the SI from her service.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh confirmed that a challan was submitted in the court against sacked Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur in Vikramjit’s suicide case.However, the police were yet to arrest her accomplice Navneet Sandhu, alias Deep Sandhu, who while posing as a DSP, along with Sandeep Kaur, had extorted money to the tune of Rs 18 lakh.In the case registered with the Jandiala Guru police station, the rural police had also booked a police constable, Gagandeep Singh, alias Gurbir Singh, posted with the CRC branch of the city police, besides Sandeep’s two relatives, Kulwinder Singh and Sukhjit Singh, for sheltering her while she was on the run. Gagandeep remained absent from his duty after the registration of a case against him, following which he was placed under suspension.The Jandiala police had already submitted the challan in the court. Meanwhile, the local court has rejected the bail of Sandeep Kaur here on Monday. She had applied for bail in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sarabjit Singh Dhaliwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/double-suicide-police-submit-challan-in-court-194232
