07-01-2021||---||Amritsar to have state’s first waste-to-energy plant||Amritsar is all set to become the first city in the state to convert its dump yard into an energy plant. The Municipal Corporation of Amritsar in collaboration with Averda, a solid waste management firm, has set into motion a process to bioremediate and recycle an estimated 10 lakh metric tonnes of waste to reclaim the land and set up a state-of-the-art waste-to-energy plant.How the process worksThe project would be completed in two years, said the company officials.Amit Bajpai, director, Averda, said, “So far, 38,000 metric tonnes of waste has been biomined at Bhagtanwala site. With this speed, we shall be able to operationalise the waste-to-energy plant in around two years. This plant will extinguish an estimated 650 tonnes of fresh waste every day.” This new plant would consume the entire waste generated in the city and nearby local urban bodies.With participation of the MCA, Averda started municipal solid waste management in July last year and has made considerable progress not only in effective handling of waste, but also in behaviour change. He said, “We have added 50 additional vehicles for door-to-door collection of waste and increased coverage. All vehicles have dual compartments for collection of wet and dry waste separately and are fitted with GPS to enable monitoring of the operations.”Anil Mahajan, manager, Averda, said, “We have been spearheading awareness campaigns, including door-to-door outreach, urging citizens for segregating wet and dry waste at the source itself, organising programmes in markets to sensitise shopkeepers, educate vendors in fruit and vegetable markets and training garbage collectors.”Municipal Health Officer Dr Ajay Kawar said, “This has resulted in substantial awareness. Students are actively participating and so does masses from all strata of society. Shopkeepers are themselves installing bins.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-to-have-states-first-waste-to-energy-plant-194891
07-01-2021||Amritsar||Poultry sales dip by 10% as avian flu scare looms large||Cases of avian flu in the region have created a scare among consumers who have started avoiding poultry products. Poultry farmers say there’s nearly 10 per cent decline in the sale of eggs and broilers.Amritsar Poultry Farmers’ Association chief GS Bedi said consumers were scared but did not panic. Covid-19 taught them to include eggs in their diet for protein intake, he said.Apart from the dip in the sale of poultry products, there was some decline in their prices as well. The wholesale price of a broiler fell down from Rs90 to Rs85. Similarly, there was a decline in the price of an egg from Rs5.50 to Rs5.25.Despite it being the peak season for the poultry products, Amritsar-based poultry farmers have been incurring losses on account of the decline in the sales.Poultry farmers blame it on a ‘misplaced, negative sentiment’ generated among people after a swine flu death was reported in the city.However, a section of poultry farmers fear that the sales could decline if the cases of avian flu rise in the near future.Decline in sales is also visible on the prices of broilers and eggs in the wholesale and the retail markets.Another poultry farmer, Navdeep Singh, brushed away all rumours and categorically stated that there was no fear of infection among commercially and scientifically raised broilers and eggs.He said poultry farmers were taking all precautions against the virus as well as other infections as regular fumigation of potassium permanganate is being carried out, besides using various other disinfectants. After the breakout of the Covid-19 pandemic, this exercise has been intensified, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poultry-sales-dip-by-10-as-avian-flu-scare-looms-large-194892
07-01-2021||Jalandhar||Soaked in blood, letters continue to stir the ‘unstirred’||Revolutions can’t succeed without shedding blood, it is said. At Singhu, it’s being done literally!For the 15th day on Wednesday, 48-year-old Taranjit Singh Nimana sits with a thin wooden straw in his hand; its tip soaked in red. He is penning a letter to the leaders of the country. On a nearby table lies 10 more letters — red on white — in Punjabi. But in place of ink, what he writes with is the blood of farmers!Since December 20, the Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Sewa Society, a Ludhiana-based NGO, has been penning letters in blood of farmers exhorting the top leaders of the country to withdraw the three farm laws. Everyday an array of blood-soaked letters are handed over to farm leaders. This blood is donated at the NGO’s blood donation camps being held behind the main stage of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha at the Singhu border.The NGO, which has won the state award nine times for its contribution in the field on blood donation, is headed by its president Taranjit Singh Nimana. Nearly 1,000 farmers have donated blood across the 15 blood donation camps held so far. Letters have so far been sent to the Prime Minister, Home Minister, President, Vice President and the Chief Justice of India, but to no avail. Nimana now plans to send a letter written in his blood to the UNO on his birthday tomorrow (January 7) in honour of those, who died at the Delhi protests.Environmentalist Seechewal also called upon Nimana, his old acquaintance, after Seechewal’s speech on stage.Such is the spirit that after a storm uprooted the backstage tent and damaged the mattresses and equipment at the camp, it has been shifted to a safer shed, where the camp resumed today.Nimana, says: “Ehnan chitthiyan vich kisanan da khoon raleya hai. Asi bhejde rahange jad tak kale kanoon vapas nahi hunde. Singhan de hausle chikkar vich vi buland ne. (These letters are soaked in farmers’ blood. We will keep writing these until the black laws are withdrawn. Singhs are full of courage even in mud).”Nimana adds: “We sent back doctors yesterday. Our backstage tent lost its roof. It was very windy and the tent ended up dripping in rain. We resumed at another place today. It’s my birthday on January 7. In memory of lives lost at Singhu, I shall donate blood and write in blood to the UNO to get the laws withdrawn.”Blood collected from the camp has been donated to blood banks at Ludhiana, Patiala and now to UP, Delhi and Haryana (Faridabad, Rohtak, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad, Delhi (Mayur Vihar).While Nimana planned to send blood-soaked letters to the PM from Ludhiana, he shifted to Singhu border when the idea was discussed with morcha leaders, who asked the NGO to shift base to Singhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soaked-in-blood-letters-continue-to-stir-the-unstirred-194893
07-01-2021||Amritsar||Life isn’t all sunshine & rainbows||Having been unsighted since birth, 19-year-old Mannat Wahi never really considered life any different in terms of living it to the fullest. With his parents support, he completed studies till Class XII from mainstream schools, without much difficulty. Last year, he was excited to begin college, wanting to experience campus life. But we all know now, the year had something else in store for everyone.A student of Hindu College, Mannat didn’t even get to attend a single day of his college life due to the lockdown. “We had hoped for a different routine to begin, instead Mannat had to spend his first year of college home-bound, struggling to study through digital classroom,” said his mother Ritu, who assisted him all along.Mannat shared that despite every possible means adopted by him to enable him to study without missing out lessons, online education was a challenge. “Without any specific software support to facilitate learning, which mostly happens by listening to my mother dictate the notes to me, studying is not an engaging process rather exhaustive,” he said.Pursuing BA with subjects, including computer application and history, he’s also finding it hard to find a helper for his upcoming exams. “I have made several requests to many people in this regard as Mannat needs helper to write his exam for him but we have not found anyone so far. This is one of the biggest challenges faced by parents of kids with visual disability. People are not sensitised regarding the needs of visually impaired and this comes in way of them getting proper education,” said Ritu.A believer though, Mannat feels that becoming self-reliant is a life-long process for people with disabilities. “I am learning new skills and making myself self-reliant one step at a time.” But his mother feels that until our government and civil society changes their attitude towards his likes, not much will change. “We need to make people with disabilities independent in every way. But in our country, we have zero facilities or accessible infrastructure specially suited for the needs of PwDs. Especially, in terms of giving them right to education,” she loathed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/life-isnt-all-sunshine-rainbows-194894
07-01-2021||Amritsar||Now, specialised academic programmes for disabled||Working towards implementing inclusive academic practices and giving equal opportunity to students with disabilities, GNDU had organised a three-day national workshop on addressing issues faced by students with sensory disabilities. The workshop was organised by the School of Education of Guru Nanak Dev University under the aegis of Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya National Mission on Teachers and Teaching, Department of Higher Education, and the Ministry of Education and had representation from the National Institute for Open Schooling (NIOS).Keeping in mind the challenges of inclusive education as envisaged by the NEP-2020, voiced in the 2030 Millennium Development Goals and Convention on Rights of persons with disability (CRPD), a UNO forum to include people with disabilities into the mainstream education, GNDU, will work on capacity building among teachers educators and pre-service educators in the key strategies for supporting the development and learning of children with multiple disabilities and sensory loss. Prof Amit Kauts, project coordinator for the workshop, said the university was moving ahead with its plans of inclusive education by starting three courses specifically designed to facilitate education for the disabled.“When talking about inclusive education for the disabled, we need to address not just issues with accessibility but also attitudinal barriers and building integrating assistive technologies in the classroom. The university has identified these lacunae and we have also received approval from the Punjab Government to begin with a BEd programme to train special educators. We will soon be applying to the Rehabilitation Council of India for approval and commence two more short term courses for people with intellectual disabilities.”The workshop had Prof Saroj Sharma, Chairperson, NIOS, New Delhi addressing the concerns from framing of the educational policies, outreach programmes and skill development programmes for self-sustainability and talk about innovative initiatives undertaken by NIOS under Pradhan Mantri schemes and sign language programme. The university engaged eminent resource persons representing leading special education institutions to lead the technical sessions on facilitating inclusive education of students with hearing impairment, need-based learning system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-specialised-academic-programmes-for-disabled-194895
07-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers warn of tractor parade at Rajpath||Tarn Taran, January 6To intensify the ongoing agitation against the farm laws framed by the Central government, farmers, mazdoors and other sections of the society on Wednesday organised a well-attended meeting under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, at Gurdwara Baba Kahan Singh in Piddi village. Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the committee, presided over the meeting while Harpreet Singh Sidhwan was among the others who addressed on the occasion.The speakers said thousands of men, women, farmers and people from other sections of society would depart for Delhi on January 20 on tractors, trucks etc. to take part in the proposed tractor parade at Rajpath to be held on January 26 against the farm laws. The speakers said the farmers would burn the copies of farm laws at every place in the state on January 13 and would also organise meetings, flag marches from Thursday to January 18 as part of the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-warn-of-tractor-parade-at-rajpath-194896
07-01-2021||The district police under the move of Punjab Police Mehila Mittar have established women help desks at the police station and the district-level offices. The move was inaugurated by the SSP Dhruman H Nimbale with the appointment of SP Jagjit Singh Walia as the nodal officer of the move. Inspector Paramjit Kaur was made the district in-charge of the help desk. Under the move||Women help desks at police stations||For justice, don’t go to Tarn Taran policeJustice has eluded Gulwinder Singh (pic) of Rani Walha village whose three kanal piece of land was forcibly occupied by a group of armed persons more than three years back and he had to go from pillar to post to get the criminal case registered against the accused. It was the Tarn Taran district police which ignored his grievance. A group of 10 armed persons with tractors-trailers, other farming machinery etc entered his land in November 2017 and started ploughing the land which is the part of playground of the school being run by Gulwinder and his family. Gulwinder was threatened when he went to the spot to question them. He was served threats. Subsequently, he rushed to the police station Chohla Sahib to lodge a complaint. The police dilly-dallied for months. They demanded evidence from him. He produced the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the school but the police denied to acknowledge it as the evidence. Gulwinder for long approached senior officers but no one heeded his grievance, due to this indifferent attitude he went into depression. A disheartened Gulwinder finally approached the State Human Rights Commission to seek justice. The commission took the matter very seriously and assigned the inquiry to a DSP of Kapurthala district. The DSP detected serious lapses at the part of the Tarn Taran district police and suggested to register a criminal case against the ten suspects. On the orders of the Punjab State Human Right Commission, the Chohla Sahib police registered a case under Section 447, 427, 506, 148, 149 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act in December last year. Though all the suspects nominated in the case were of the surrounding villages but none have been arrested till date.Missing a vital cog in the congress wheelThe ruling Congress in the state is in no mood to strengthen its mass base in the district as it is operating without its proper organisational set up. After the party came into power four years back, it somehow forgot to erect an organisational set up. Previously, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, the present MLA from Khemkaran Vidhan Sabha constituency, was the district president who was succeeded by Manjit Singh Ghasitpur in 2018. His appointment was a mere formality as the party only filled the post of the district president when other posts of the office-bearers remained vacant. After the spurious liquor episode in the Majha region, Manjit resigned from the post more than three months back. The position is yet to be filled. The party never organised workers’ meeting at the district level and the MLAs, too, don’t seem much interested, so as to avoid any parallelism in their concerned area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-help-desks-at-police-stations-194897
07-01-2021||Amritsar||Sikh activists gherao residence of Amritsar Police Commissioner Gill||Contesting the disappearance of 328 missing saroops, activists of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal on Monday gheraoed official residence of Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and performed prayers.The activists demanded that despite the Akal Takht constituted panel indicting around 12 Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) officials and staff members for their indulgence in misappropriation of 328 saroops, no criminal proceedings were initiated against them.Members of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal and Gurdwara Akal Bunga had been staging sit-in since November 4, 2020 at the Heritage Street leading to the Golden Temple against the SGPC’s lenience. They had staged peaceful dharna for a few hours outside the residences of ministers as well.Sikh Sadbhawna Dal’s chief Baldev Singh Wadala said the Akal Takht and the SGPC had been brushing aside the issue of missing saroops while the Sikh community has all rights to know the whereabouts of 328 saroops and on whose instance, the holy scriptures were issued in an unauthorised manner. “We have been staging dharnas to wake up the state government and administration from a deep slumber. Despite our complaints, the police took no action,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-activists-gherao-residence-of-amritsar-police-commissioner-gill-194898
07-01-2021||Amritsar||104-year-old draws love, respect from India Post||In what could be called a heartwarming gesture, 104-year-old Giani Pishora Singh of Amritsar was honoured by the Department of Posts at a function held at the post office headquarters here today. He is the oldest pensioner of the department. He was honoured with a trophy, shawl and a ‘My Stamp’ in the name of Pishora Singh Giani by the senior officers of the Department of Posts.Surinder Singh Azad (79), son of Pishora Singh Giani, said, “I am very happy that my father has been honoured by his department today. Even though my father is 104-year-old, his staff remembers and honours him every year in the same way, which is a great thing for our family. I am thankful to all senior officers and employees of the Department of Posts.”Parkash Singh, Senior Superintendent of Post Office (SSPO) said: “Like every year, this year too we are honoring old age people drawing pension form our department and this year, Pishora Singh Giani of Amritsar, who is the oldest pensioner in the department, has been honoured.”Parkash Singh stated it is a pleasure to have old senior officers in our department and we wish them best wishes for their life. We even pray to God for their long life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/104-year-old-draws-love-respect-from-india-post-194899
07-01-2021||Amritsar||IIM Amritsar to host meet on reshaping supply chains||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Amritsar, is all set to go live with the fourth edition of its annual operations and strategy conclave, Sankshetra. The conclave is scheduled to be held on January 9 and 10 in the VC mode for the operations and strategy themes, respectively. The conclave aims to provide a platform where eminent industry stalwarts with all-encompassing experiences in operations and strategy domains can interact with the budding managers and reflect on the recent trends and developments in these domains.The theme for the first-panel discussion would be ‘Reinventing Supply Chains in the Post-Pandemic World’. The theme would be focusing mainly on how the supply-chains have been affected by disasters in the last decade, including earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, and hurricanes, yet most organisations still find themselves unprepared for the Covid-19 pandemic. With countries facing lockdowns, travel restrictions, workforce shortages, halted production, etc., the worldwide outbreak of Covid has exposed global supply chains vulnerabilities.The second-panel discussion theme would be ‘Evolving Strategy and Consulting Amidst Changing Socioeconomic Outlook.’ This topic delves into the disruptions caused by the pandemic across industries and how consulting strategies are evolving to accommodate changing business models amidst a socioeconomic outlook. Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director IIM-Amritsar, said, “Overall, with the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic being rampantly visible on the global economy, newer industries are likely to come to the forefront. Simultaneously, the resilient ones are set to bounce back, and a few will not be able to sustain the current pandemic. The new normal might call for a shift in investment, resources, and more importantly, their existing strategic plans. Therefore, this two-day panel discussion at IIM Amritsar would help prepare future leaders for the uncertainties in a dynamic business scenario.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-to-host-meet-on-reshaping-supply-chains-194901
07-01-2021||Amritsar||SGPC marks death anniv of Indira’s killers||Prayers were recited to commemorate the death anniversary of Satwant Singh and Kehar Singh, the assassins of former PM Indira Gandhi, at Gurdwara Jhanda Bunga in Golden Temple complex.On this occasion, the hazoori raagi of Golden Temple Bhai Simrpreet Singh recited kirtan and ardas was performed by Bhai Sultan Singh and Hukamnama was read out by Giani Gurminder Singh.During the function, Waryam Singh, brother of Satwant Singh, was honoured by Giani Gurminder Singh, SGPC’s general secretary advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, former Jathedar Bhai Jasbir Singh Rode and members Rajinder Singh Mehta and Ajaib Singh Abhayasi who presented siropa to him.Others present on the occasion included SGPC secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, Golden Temple manager Mukhtiar Singh Cheema and Sarbat Khalsa organiser Jarnail Singh Sakhira. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-marks-death-anniv-of-indiras-killers-194902
07-01-2021||Amritsar||Schools reopen for Classes V-XII||2 Covid deaths, 23 +ve reportedAmritsar: Two persons succumbed to Covid-19 contagion on Wednesday. The deceased were Ravinder Singh, 50, of Jujhar Singh Avenue and Lakhbir Kaur,60, of Sohian kalan village. In addition, the district health authorities reported 23 new positive cases, taking the number of positive cases to 14,625. Of these, 11 were contacts of positive cases and 12 were of influenza-like Illness. On the other side, 32 patients recovered which took the total tally to 13,832, while the number of active cases in the district is 232. TNSRobbers decamp with gun, Rs2.54LTarn Taran: Five robbers stole a double barrel gun and other valuable articles from the house of Nishan Singh on Sunday night when he was away to his relatives. Nishan Singh in his complaint to the police said that he had gone to his relative with his wife, while his mother and a sick relative was at the house. The robbers with covered faces entered the house searched almirah and took away his double barrel gun, 25 cartridges, Rs2.54 lakh and gold ornaments . The Sadar police have registered a case in this regard. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-reopen-for-classes-v-xii-194903
