08-01-2021||---||All set for Covid vaccine dry run today||Amritsar, January 7The Health Department is all set for the dry run of the health officials’ vaccination in the first phase of the countrywide vaccination drive. It is scheduled for Friday. During the dry run, a mock drill exercise of the vaccination drive would be done in the entire district.According to health officials, a regional vaccine storage centre with the capacity of storing over 20 lakh vaccine has been set up while as many as 29 vaccination centres have been established for the purpose.Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, informed that the centres were set up in different health centres in city as well as in the rural belt. All these centres would also have a vaccination and observation rooms besides waiting room for the people coming for the inoculation.“The vaccinated person would be kept in the observation room for at least half hour to see if there are any side effects of the vaccine on the subject, staff and doctors would remain present to attend to in case of any side effects,” he added. He said the vaccines would be transferred to these centres as per requirement.As per the government guidelines, in the first phase the health officials and staff would be vaccinated and then frontline warriors would be accommodated. The government has targeted to vaccinate around 4 lakh persons in the state.The Civil Surgeon also said that teams have been formed for the task and in case of emergency backup teams are also there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-set-for-covid-vaccine-dry-run-today-195406
08-01-2021||Amritsar||Patwari held for accepting bribe||17 fresh covid cases reportedAmritsar: The health authorities on Thursday reported 17 new Covid-19 positive cases in the district. Of these, eight cases were contacts of positive patients. The total number of positive cases increased to 14,642 out of which 13,865 patients recovered fully. The authorities reported zero death today and the toll stood at 561 in the district. At present, the district has 216 active cases. TNSWorkshop on cyber crimeAmritsar: An awareness campaign was launched in various educational institutions of the city under the leadership of ACP Central Pravesh Chopra under Cyber Crime Awareness Campaign. A team of police officials led by SHO D Division Harinder Singh, SI Charanjit Sharma, Gurjinder Singh from Sanjh Kendra D Division, conducted an awareness workshop at Government Senior Secondary School, Chitta Katra, where they explained to the students the various aspects of cyber crimes and their prevention. ACP Chopra gave presentation to the staff and school students, where cases of cyber crime were discussed and prevention procedures explained. TNSOne booked for abducting minorTarn Taran: The Sarhali police have registered a case against Sajan Singh of Warhian village on the charge of abducting a teenage school-going girl of a nearby village. The father of the victim girl in his complaint to the police said that the girl had gone to school to appear in the exam when the accused abducted the girl and lured her on the pretext of marriage. ASI Mangal Singh, Investigating Officer, said a case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC had been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patwari-held-for-accepting-bribe-195407
08-01-2021||---||Students welcomed with garlands||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, January 7On the first day of the reopening of the schools after a gap of over nine months for the students from Classes V to VIII standard, students, parents and others welcomed the move of the state government.Parents of the students suggested to school officials and other authorities to call the students without any fear as much education lost had been suffered due to the absence of students from schools for months together. Students from Classes IX to XII were already attending their classes physically and now with the permission given to the students from Classes V to VIII to attend classes physically, the situation is set to return to normal.Pargat Singh of Chamba Kalan and others said parents in Chohla Sahib, Tur, Goindwal Sahib, Khalra, Bhikhiwind and other towns and villages attended the meetings with the schoolteachers and expressed their willingness to call students to the schools physically in the schools.Satnam Singh Bath, District Education Officer (S), and Sushil Kumar Tuli, DEO (Elementary), Tarn Taran, said the move of the state government was wholeheartedly welcomed by students, their parents, school heads, teachers, etc. The officers said though alternative arrangements like online classes, television, WhatsApp, Zoom facility, etc, had been made but students and parents batted for students’ physical presence as it was must for the overall development of the students. The head master and staff of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Government High School, Kairon, welcomed the students who came to school today after a gap of months.School head Gurpartap Singh said the school building had been sanitised and other precautions would be taken in the schools. Ranjodh Singh, a Class VIII student, said he was happy to see his teachers and classmates. He said he would come to school daily to fill the gap as the annual exams were approaching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-welcomed-with-garlands-195408
08-01-2021||Neha Saini||Back to school amid Covid concerns||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 7As schools in the state reopened for Classes V to VIII after orders were issued by the state government, the government schools in the city saw a low turnout on first day. Resuming classroom studies after a gap of nine months, students were seen entering school campuses with masks and following the safety instructions guided by their teachers. The senior classes have already been going on in schools since October 15 but the private schools are still waiting for the parents’ consent before they ask students from middle classes to join classes.Meanwhile, teachers at government schools welcomed the decision to resume the offline classes with several school management committee members welcoming the students and offering parents a tour of the safety measures in place at the campuses.DEO Satinderbir Singh said the SOPs issued by the government regarding reopening were in place. “The school complex, furniture and necessary materials have been sanitised and pedal sanitisers have also been provided to the schools and seating arrangement made to maintain appropriate distances in the classrooms. We are encouraging students to increase students’ strength in the coming days.”Meanwhile, teachers and school heads ensured the implementation of SOPs to prepare the schools after sudden announcement. “We had informed the students and parents regarding the reopening on Wednesday evening through voice messages and we are also calling parents for a PT meet today and tomorrow to inform parents about the safety measures being implemented in schools. We had a poor turnout today but we are hoping that in the coming days students would start coming in,” said Suresh Kumar, principal, Government Elementary School, Mall Road.Classes were held till 3 pm and 10-12 students were seated in every classroom ensuring social distancing. The overall student strength in most government schools remained low.However, private schools in the city will wait for a few more days before they call students of middle classes as the parents’ consent remained an issue. “Though the schools are prepared for reopening, thorough planning will be done before the schools open for middle classes,” said Dr Anita Bhalla, Secretary of Sahodaya Schools.Parents, too, remained sceptical as the decision by the state government came suddenly and amid concerns of the new Covid-19 strain.Meanwhile, Government Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, and Government Elementary School, Gopal Nagar, gave a warm welcome to students on arrival with school principal Mandeep Kaur presenting garlands to students. Students of Class VI and VIII came to school to get surprise welcome with DEO Satinder Bir Singh and Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan in presence.Mandeep Kaur said since the students were coming to school after nine months, the welcome was an encouragement and appreciation for them to return to normal classroom education.Rekha Sharma, Principal, Government Elementary school, Gopal Nagar, said the decision of the government to open a school was in the interest of students as those students who could not get access to online education could now return to classroom teaching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/back-to-school-amid-covid-concerns-195409
08-01-2021||---||Amritsar-Pune flight begins||Amritsar January 7A private operator started daily flights between Amritsar and Pune with a short halt in Delhi.Sameep Singh Gumtala, convener, Fly Amritsar Initiative, said according to the schedule released on Indigo’s website, booking of flight is available till March 27, 2021. The flight operating as Indigo #6E286 departs from Amritsar at 15:45 pm and reaches Pune at 7:35 pm. The flight will have a 45 minute halt in Delhi.From Pune flight #6E602 will depart at 10:10 am and reach Amritsar at 14:50 pm. The flight will have around one hour halt in Delhi.In addition to Delhi and Mumbai, Amritsar is also directly connected to Kolkata, Bengaluru, Patna, Nanded and Srinagar.The total outbound flight time from Amritsar to Pune will be 3 hours 50 minutes, whereas the outbound flight time will be 4 hours 40 minutes, including the time for halt in Delhi.Gumtala said the new connectivity will ease travel between the two cities, especially for people working with IT firms.Also, a large number of tourists from second largest city in Maharashtra will be able to travel conveniently to Amritsar, to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and see other tourist attractions.“Many have been messaging us on social media platforms requesting us to reach out to airlines for direct connectivity between the two cities and we have been writing about this to various airlines. We are hopeful that a good response to this one-stop flight with a short halt may also result in direct flights between the two cities in future by Indigo or another airline carrier, said Gumtala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-pune-flight-begins-195410
08-01-2021||---||Three robbed at gunpoint in separate cases||Amritsar, January 7In yet another robbery incident, a sanitary shop owner was looted at gunpoint on the Chabal road here on Wednesday evening. Four unidentified persons decamped with cash ranging from Rs 40,000 to Rs 45,000 from the cash counter.The victim, Jasmeet Singh, is a resident of Sant Nagar and owner of JS Enterprise sanitary shop near Ganda nala on Chabal road here. He said at around 5.45pm, he, along with his labourers Nishan Singh and Ravi, was present in the shop when the four unidentified looters came on a bike and a scooter. He said they parked their vehicles opposite the shop and three of them entered the shop.The shop owner said two of them were armed with country-made pistols while one was having a dagger. He said they forcibly snatched the keys of the cash box and took out Rs 40,000 to Rs 45,000 from it and fled from the spot. He noted down the bike registration number (PB-02-3648).The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34, IPC, and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.In another incident, four car-borne persons looted Inderjit Singh of Navi Abadi area when he was returning home on his scooter on the Amritsar-Attari bypass road here on Tuesday evening. He told the police that the car-borne persons intercepted him near a nursery. They assaulted him with a baseball stick and pointed a pistol at him. They snatched his purse and mobile phone from his possession and fled from the spot. The police have registered a case in this regard.Similarly, a filling station employee, Mridul Sharma, was looted at gunpoint by around four persons on Monday late evening at Kukkrawala village here. They looted Rs 7,000 from him, besides snatching a rifle of a security guard of a petrol pump.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-separate-cases-195411
08-01-2021||Strap||CIA Inspector, six cops suspended||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 7Adding a twist to the suspension of the CIA Inspector and six police personnel posted with Special Task Force on January 6 in connection with a seizure of 1 kg of heroin in 2017, an eyewitness in the case on Thursday alleged that he was being threatened by the accused.Inspector Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in-charge, CIA staff, along with six cops was placed under suspension following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana Court on a petition filed by the accused Balwinder Singh, who claimed that he was falsely implicated to settle political scores.Eyewitness Harjinder Singh Sandhu today appeared before mediapersons and said Balwinder was threating him and his family of dire consequences for helping the cops.He urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta to provide him police protection.Balwinder was arrested by the STF from Khemkaran road in Tarn Taran in August 2017. The STF had claimed to recover 1 kg of heroin from a car being driven by him.Balwinder approached the high court, which handed over the probe to Bureau of Investigations (BOI). During the probe, the matter was found to be doubtful. After the report, the high court asked the Punjab Government to take action against the erring cops. Besides Sukhwinder, five other policemen were placed under suspension while a cop died.Sukhwinder said the BOI never heard them while probing the matter. “We have faith in the judicial system and law. We will contest the case,” he said.According to police, Balwinder has around five cases registered against him under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cia-inspector-six-cops-suspended-195412
08-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Interstate gang of car-lifters busted, one held with 9 cars||Tarn Taran, January 7The district police busted an interstate gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of one of its members and seized nine stolen luxury cars from his possession. Jagjit Singh Walia, SP (Investigation), said here on Thursday that the arrested gang member had been identified as Kashmirpal Singh of New Amritsar, while Dharminder Singh Gora of Wara Telian and Bhupinder Singh of Kalsian are still at large. Walia said Kashmirpal was arrested by a team of the anti-narcotics staff, led by ASI Gurdial Singh, from the Tarn Taran-Chabal road on Wednesday. He said the accused was travelling in a stolen Careta car (PB-11, BN-0077) and could not produce any document related to the car. In the preliminary interrogation, he confessed that he had parked eight more stolen cars (four Brezza, two Careta, one XUV, Swift and Innova) at a dera in Bhaini Gurmukh Singh, which were impounded by the police party, Walia said.   The SP said the gang had stolen cars from Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand etc. and offered people to buy on cheap rates. The police have registered a case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC against the gang members, the SP said. The police are conducting raids to arrest the absconding member. The police said the absconding gang members, Dharminder Singh and Bhupinder Singh, were earlier also arrested by the Sadar police with six stolen cars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interstate-gang-of-car-lifters-busted-one-held-with-9-cars-195415
08-01-2021||Strap||Dentist’s family held hostage, robbed in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 7 A dentist’s family was held hostage and robbed by unknown armed robbers in a posh Shashtri Nagar area on January 6. The incident has once again raised questions over the law and order situation in the city. This is the second such incident in the last two months in which the family had been held hostage and looted. Initial probe revealed that there were four to five persons involved in the crime and they gained entry in the clinic on the pretext of treatment.Robbers decamped with cash and jewellery worth lakhs. The police said the family members were yet to give details about the extent of loss.According to information, Dr Shivangi K Arora along with her children and mother-in-law was at home when the incident took place.One of the accused first entered the clinic and said their friend suffered a bullet injury and asked for treatment. When Dr Shivangi told that it was a dental clinic, his accomplices barged into the clinic and held the family hostage at gunpoint. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the police have vital clues in the case. One of the accused has been identified and would be arrested soon. “We have formed teams and are conducting raids to nab the accused,” he added.On November 6, around five armed persons had robbed lakhs of rupees from the residence of a textile trader Devinder Singh Bedi in Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area near Putlighar. The accused had gained entry to house by posing as sewer cleaner and sought a bag for collecting silt from the drain. Later, they followed the owner inside the house and took the entire family hostage. The police have yet not made any breakthrough in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dentists-family-held-hostage-robbed-in-amritsar-195416
