11-01-2021||---||Ensure our safety, demand delivery boys of food firm||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10Delivery boys of an online food company, Zomato, on Sunday raised slogans against the company for trying to fix duty hours for them and the government for failing to protect them from robbers.They took out a motorcycle rally and passed through various parts of the city to mobilise support. They said one of the delivery boys was recently attacked with a sharp-edged weapon on the elevated road and was robbed of his mobile phone and Rs 4,000. They said two months ago, another delivery boy was robbed near Bhagtanwala Dana Mandi when he was returning home at night.They said delivery boys were vulnerable as everybody knew that they carried cash and owned expensive mobile phones. However, the reality was that they came from economically weaker families and had to commute from place to place for deliveries to earn a livelihood.They urged the police to provide them security as many of them were looted while on way to deliver orders at night. Meanwhile, delivery boys of private company also raised slogans against the company for trying to fix duty hours without paying them any fixed salary.They said post lockdown the online food delivery company drastically reduced their incentives. For instance, they used to be paid Rs2,000 in the first week of the month, Rs4,000 the next week and more after the delivery of 60 orders per week.The Rs5-incentive, which used to be accrued in the account of a delivery boy upon the star rating given by a customer, was also dispensed with. The Rs20 of pick and drop has already been dropped. They are paid only Rs 4 per km if the order is to be delivered to a destination exceeding 3 km in distance. In case the order is to be delivered to a destination within 3 km then they get Rs 15 per order and the delivery of the next order near the same location fetches them only Rs 2.On the other hand, the company imposes a high penalty on them in case of missing of an item. They claimed that they tirelessly worked during the Covid-19-induced curfew and even later, but even then, their wages were slashed without any reason.They said the company provided them insurance of Rs 1 lakh in case of death and permanent disability which was very insufficient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensure-our-safety-demand-delivery-boys-of-food-firm-196871
11-01-2021||---||Police nab three in youth’s murder case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10With the arrest of three criminals, the Amritsar Rural police on Sunday solved the murder case of Abhishek Singh (19), who was gunned down by armed assailants on January 1. Abhishek was shot dead for his alleged affair with the girlfriend of a drug trafficker and notorious criminal identified as Kishan Singh.Besides Kishan, the police have arrested Baljit Singh, alias Bulli Jandiala, who is considered a close aide of notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Sukhwinder Singh alias Kaddu, all residents of Sheikhupura Mohalla falling under Jandiala police station. Two of their accomplices identified as Gurbhej Singh and Happy Jatt were yet to be arrested.Victim’s brother Akashdeep had stated that Kishan was suspicious that Abhishek Singh was having an affair with his girlfriend. The victim had a quarrel with Kishan, Baljit and Happy Jatt a few days ago over the issue. He said the accused killed his brother at the behest of Happy Jatt. A case under Sections 302 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them.Kamalpreet Singh Chahal, Superintendent of Police, said the three accused were held from Timowal village following a tip-off. The police teams recovered three .32 country-made pistols with magazines and 19 live bullets, one .38 bore pistol with five cartridges, three bikes and three mobile phones from their possession.He said Bulli Jandiala was also associated with Vicky Bhatti of Nanaksar Mohalla in Tarn Taran who was an accused in Jandiala Guru gun house dacoit case. He had four different cases of murder, murder bid, robbery, arms and the NDPS Act at Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Kartarpur. Similarly, Kishan had eight criminal cases while Sukhwinder had around four cases against him.Chahal said raids were on to arrest Gurbhej and Harpreet Singh, alias Happy Jatt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-nab-three-in-youths-murder-case-196872
11-01-2021||---||GNDU nod to online exam for odd semester||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10GNDU allowed its students to appear for the online examination for Jan-Feb semesters after the matter was raised by the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI).Acceding to the request and owing to the personal intervention of NSUI Punjab President Akshay Sharma over Covid-related concerns of students, the GNDU administration on Sunday allowed students the option to appear for online examinations also for odd semesters Jan-Feb exams.The university had also announced cancellation of scheduled January 11 Law Department examination for Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar campuses yesterday.Akshay said the university was also exploring more online avenues to conduct all tests online, beginning with exams scheduled for the semester for all classes.Thanking GNDU Vice Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu on behalf of all students for his support and cooperation, Akshay lauded him for always being forthcoming and generous in ensuring safety and well-being of students on the campus.Akshay said the NSUI Punjab had been working continuously to ensure seamless flow of education to underprivileged children right through the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-nod-to-online-exam-for-odd-semester-196873
11-01-2021||THE Centre for All-India Competitive Examination on the Khalsa College campus commenced its first batch of offline classes recently. The first such coaching centre established by an educational institution in city||‘Pandemic witnessed a surge in demand for government jobs’||What was the purpose behind setting up the Centre for All-India Competitive Examination?Given the surge in the number of candidates appearing for competitive exams in India every year, especially the administrative exams, having one specialised agency to cater to the needs of aspirants taking multiple competitive exams becomes a necessity. Also, in the post pandemic scenario, the private sector job market has shrunk immensely, giving government sector an advantage for better employment opportunities. A lot of students have been opting to sit for competitive exams that offer government sector jobs. So, there is a need for such centres now more than ever. The maiden batch of the centre commenced recently.What is the fee and course structure being offered to applicants?We had 32 candidates attending the classes on the first day and we hope for an increase thereafter. We have begun with three programmes – five-month course, seven-month course and one-month training for just the interviews. General enrolment fee of Rs500 will be charged from candidates and a fee of Rs 6,000 per month, later. Each course has been divided into three categories, depending on the preliminary stage and the mains. We will conduct classes for various competitions including IAS, IPS, PCS, UGC/NET, judicial, defence forces. The programmes have been designed by renowned political scientist Dr Jagroop Sekhon and me.How will your approach for training candidates be different from private-run coaching centres?We will not just train the aspirants academically but also work on attitudinal barriers with them. Most aspirants who take multiple competitive exams face a lot of confusion regarding choosing their subjects and their specialisation. Also, we will function as a skill development centre as well through detailed programme and training schedule that will cater to improve their language proficiency, academic performance and overall personality.What according to you is required to build a temperament conducive to excel in competitive exams?With three decades of academic career and observing several success stories in administrative and other institutional competitive exams, I would say that commitment and consistency are two most important requirements for anyone aspiring to excel in any competitive exam. It is a myth that only academic achievers are successful in competitive exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-witnessed-a-surge-in-demand-for-government-jobs-196874
11-01-2021||---||The law of nature||Ajay JoshiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10Picked on mercilessly as a kid, she started hating school. Skipping classes most of the time and secluding herself, her teenage years withered away in depression. That was also the time it dawned upon her that it wasn’t her fault after all.Born a dwarf, she realised how mentally strong she is. Now 24, Harwinder Kaur, alias Ruby, stands tall as a lawyer who pledges to fight for differently-abled for free, as she can “feel the pain”.“The scornful looks and words of ridicule forced me to doubt my capabilities as a child. Today, I am just 3 ft 11 inches tall, but now I see respect in the once-scornful eyes and the sly remarks have been turned into compliments. I feel proud of myself,” Ruby says.She said her life had been one of a struggle but still went on not only to study law but also to win hearts. “I am currently practising law under District Bar Association vice-president Jagpal Singh Dhupar and want to pursue my career in judiciary,” she adds. A resident of Armaan Nagar in Rama Mandi here, Ruby said she came to know about her disability as a 10-year-old. All members in her family are of average height.“I was in Class IV when I noticed my body was not growing normally. With this came a lot of teasing and bullying. By the time I reached senior secondary classes, I started skipping school and spent most of my days at home. But when I decided to face the world and took admission at the KCL Institute of Laws, life changed for the better. The things I missed in school, I experienced at college,” the law aspirant says.Accepting herself the way she was instilled positivity and motivated her to fulfill all the dreams she had conjured. “Earlier, I wanted to be an air hostess but that was not possible, so I chose to study law and become a voice of the disabled,” Ruby says, adding, “People with insecurities and inferiority complexes now look up to me and appreciate my confidence.”Daughter of an ASI, she believes in hard work, resilience and positive attitude as the key to success. With 50,000 followers on Instagram, she is already popular as a social media star.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-law-of-nature-196875
11-01-2021||What steps should be taken by authorities to check the rising population of stray dogs?||Neutering seems humane, should be prime priority||NGOs can play a big role in sterilisationThe stray dogs menace has been growing out of proportions in almost all the rural as well as urban areas across the nation. Many people blame the provisions of the ‘Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act’ as the main reason. Such people with a lopsided view ought to have compassion for the stray dogs. They ought to think of many compassionate and pragmatic ways and means of checking the menace. Each state government must devise a strategy and a plan to address this menace. The budgetary allocation of funds to implement the plans must be made. The Centre, too, must assist the state governments in ensuring the successful and progressive eradication of the menace. The dedicated and persistent sterilisation and immunisation of stray dogs is the main action which needs an effective implementation. The NGOs may be roped in such drives. The dog lovers ought to be motivated through awareness campaigns to adopt the local breeds/stray pups. The local breed dogs are known for their survival instincts. The stray dogs must be fed as a compassionate gesture. Dogs are minor angels. They love unconditionally, forgive immediately and they are the truest of friends. Lastly, ‘Every dog must have his day’, as has been said by Jonathan Swift.Col VK Sharma (retd)Spaying and neutering are a killer duoSince 1919 livestock census had started in our country but we took no concrete steps based on the said census done after every five years. This does give figures of stray animals increasing with every census but the government never bothers to extend a sympathetic ear to ever-increasing problem. Stray animals do attract our attention when a serious road accident happens due to it or an incident like a stray dog mauled a 2-year-old to death in Amritsar is reported in papers (The Tribune 31.5.20). In our city, freely roaming dogs, cows and pigs are a common sight. But now even media is not reporting it. Under the heading stray cattle menace getting acute day by day (as reported by The Tribune on 28.11.2009) that once Bill Gates during one of his visits to Delhi counted over 15 stray cattle on the road while on his way to hotel from airport. Luckily it was Delhi, had it been Amritsar he would have forgotten the counting. Best measure to control the menace of stray dogs is sterilisation but our local Municipal Corporation has adopted this programme many times in the past and has miserably failed. This programme should be undertaken by central government under their Smart City projects and our city falls under this category. This programme should be named as ABC i.e. ‘Animal Birth Control programme’. To control breeding, spaying and neutering are the best way to control their population. In this process, female animals are spayed by removing their uterus and male animals are neutered by removing their testicles. In the past Bombay High Court had suggested that every society should adopt stray dogs and care for them. Human beings are called social animals but we should realise that animals, being pet or stray, also needs to socialise. In Bucharest, the stray dogs without any training do cross the roads at zebra lines as they probably observed that at such crossings main vehicular traffic stops. Some NGOs should come forward and start training centres for stray dogs as they are sincere, faithful and intelligent, as part of SPG teams they are doing a marvellous job. Sniffer dog squads are too helpful in many ways.Harsh N JoharCreating awareness among masses mustMillions of stray dogs live on the streets of India. Despite several measures, there is rapid increase in their population. A concerted effort is a necessity in this precarious situation. Awareness plays an essential role. Joining campaigns, NGOs, community centres can lead to a great extent of contribution. The citizens have great importance in helping NGOs to conduct vaccination in localities. The Resident Welfare Association, too, can donate. The residents need to ensure that stray dogs are sent to local animal shelters or community dog centres. The CCTV cameras need to be installed in societies for monitoring existing strays. Collecting donations for local animal hospitals and shelter for strays can bring a relief for everyone. Moreover, animal shelter employees need to be specially trained to deal with stray dogs. And most importantly, educating locals about existing animal laws is need of the hour. People violating pets and leaving them outside as stray must be punished and put behind bars. The government must take steps towards the roaming stray dogs.Khushpreet Kaur BrarTransport dogsto a safe placeThe MC should ensure that stray dogs are transported to a safe and isolated location so that the man-animal conflict can be removed and they can be monitored appropriately. Even NGOs can be roped in if there is a shortage of manpower. A helpline number must be issued where residents can inform the whereabouts of stray dogs so that appropriate action can be taken by the department.JATINDERPAL SINGH BatthMany ways to look at the answerThere has been a massive increase in the number of stray dogs in the recent times. Several dogs can be seen on the roads and in the streets posing a threat and even risking accidents as they hinder the traffic. Problem of stray dogs is now out of control. In some areas one cannot count the number as the population is increasing rapidly. We must take various steps to curb the menace. First, municipal corporations should catch and take them to some place away from the city. Second, civic bodies with the help of some other welfare societies must sterilise stray dogs so that there may be a control in their birth rate. Third, some birth controlling pills or medicines can be given. Fourth, residents must keep some medicines in their localities which may help keep these stray dogs away. We all must cooperate with local bodies to curb this menace so that children may play freely of fear. Fifth, to elicit a good response the registration should be compulsory, free of cost and done at the doorsteps of the residents. Sixth, we must stop feeding these dogs so that they can end up in the cages of the MC. Some irresponsible citizens knowingly feed these stray dogs so as to guard their houses. This is also a wrong practice. It must be stopped immediately. All these measures will surely help in curbing the nuisance in the city.Amarjit KalsiIt’s important to have Stray dog managementCatch and release is a very effective means of reducing stray dog population. It does take money and time. Large populations are public health concerns. It is important to reduce the stray animal population to control the spread of dangerous diseases and stop dog bites and attacks. It is also the cause of a lot of painful deaths for animals as well as humans. If stray dogs are not killed, their population will keep on increasing causing more danger to humans, especially to children. Stray dogs are often carriers of diseases because of the lack of care. It is time for individuals to accept personal responsibility in stray dog management. Gradually, it came to our notice that people feed the street dogs which led to more bites as well as the chance of a disease spreading increases. So, only by killing, the menace can be handled.Akshar Kumar SinglaIt is administration’s duty to look into itEverybody is well-acquainted with the fact that the rising population of stray dogs has encroached upon our lives. That is why everybody is grappling with this issue. Stray dogs fear has been increasing day by day because they roam in groups and often bite people who are out on excursions. The administration must take stringent actions against this hurdle. They should assign duty to dog catchers to net the stray dogs in and take them to the forest. This is the only way to get rid of it. However, the truth is that the administration does not payheed to this massive affliction.Saahil HansAnything butthe cullingNo other animal except dog is so sincere and faithful to man. Dogs have been in service of man since time immemorial and are called his best friends. But the moot question that arises is whose best friends are the stray dogs? In fact they have become a perennial nuisance in the city. The nuisance becomes all the more embarrassing when they roam about majestically in a pack of 10-12 during their mating season and pounce upon unwary passers-by without any provocation. A large number of injuries and deaths resulting from dog bites have been attributed to stray dogs whose threat element invariably looms large. Their innate hunting instincts are considered highly dangerous to human beings. Universally culling is a one-stop solution but people like Maneka Gandhi staunchly oppose it; dubbing it as barbaric. Since killing of stray dogs is punishable under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960, they should be exported to China where dog meat is allegedly consumed in large numbers. Even the Supreme Court is said to have opined that stray dogs cannot be entirely killed but permitted culling using proper methods. However, the menace posed by the stray dogs ought to be addressed by proper policy measures, including sterilisation drives rather than killing them en masse. The PETA people and those dog lovers should adopt the stray dogs. Voluntary organisations should work strenuously to help ameliorate the condition of the poor animals. They should be caught and put into government or contractors’ enclosures can be made for this very purpose. Besides pet control laws should be enforced stringently. In addition, stray dogs should be neutered to check the growth of their population and be vaccinated to minimise rabies-related deaths. Above all it is the responsibility of the MC to devise ways and means to enable city residents to heave a sigh of relief. It should find a ‘Pied Piper’ who can take away the stray dogs across the river Ravi. Also WHO’s guidelines pertaining to stray dogs should be followed and implemented in letter and spirit to effectively tackle the menace of stray dogs.Tarsem S Bumrah QUESTIONCovid vaccine drive kicks off on January 16. What are your apprehensions regarding the vaccination programme?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 14).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/neutering-seems-humane-should-be-prime-priority-196876
11-01-2021||---||Farmers to take part in tractor march on Jan 26||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which has been holding the rail roko campaign for over the past 100 days, will proceed towards Delhi for Tractor March on January 26.Jathas head to Delhi to join protestTarn Taran: Great enthusiasm was witnessed among farmers, mazdoors, youngsters and the womenfolk to participate in Delhi morcha. A jatha from Pandori Gola village, led by Baldev Singh Pandori, a leader of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, left for Delhi on Sunday with other farmers.The villagers sent off the jatha with sloganeering against the Union Government for not resolving the issue. Another jatha of farmers left for Delhi from Tarn Taran under the banner of All-India Kisan Sabha. Narinder Singh Algon, who was leading the jatha, said, jathas from different villages had been regularly departing to Delhi. Tara Singh Khehra, leader of the CPI, alleged that the economy of the country was getting affected by the farmers’ agitation but the Union Government was least bothered about this. — OCState secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said a jatha (group) joined the agitation at the Jandiala Guru railway track under the leadership of zone president Sahib Singh Dineke.Addressing the protesters on Sunday, Gurbachan Singh Chabba, a senior leader of the union, said the statements of Union ministers in repeated meetings with farmer leaders that they would not repeal the agriculture laws had given a clear signal that the Modi government was only a government of corporate capitalists and was not concerned about farmers and common people.“In spite of all this, the Modi government is adamant on enforcing the black law. On the one hand, the BJP ministers were justifying the laws but on the other, they were talking of amending them. With the implementation of these Acts, the farming sector would be completely ruined,” said Chabba.The farmer leaders said on January 12, thousands of farmers and labourers would leave Amritsar for the morcha at Kundli border in Delhi.Khalara Singh Pannu said, “We will press the government to not only repeal the three farm laws but also the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and Air Pollution Bill 2020. Prominent among those who addressed the gathering included Rachpal Singh Gattabadshah, Gurmel Singh Fattewala, Ranjit Singh Khacherwala and Harful Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-take-part-in-tractor-march-on-jan-26-196878
11-01-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 5 held||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10The Jandiala police have busted a gang of highway robbers and seized five mobile phones, a motorcycle, air gun and sickle from their possession. The accused have been identified as Arshdeep Singh, Karandeep Singh, both residents of Tajpur village, Raman Kumar of Daburji, Rahul Randhawa of Rajapur village in Kapurthala, and Ajay Kumar of Saiflabad of Kapurthala.Jandiala Deputy Superintendent of Police Sukhwinderpal Singh said they got a tip-off that the accused used to rob commuters. The accused were present near a cremation ground on Gunowal road and planning to commit robbery, he said. The Deputy Superintendent of Police said the accused were nabbed with weapons and mobile phones. He said the accused were produced before the court, which sent them on the police remand. Many cases of robberies were likely to be solved, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-5-held-196879
11-01-2021||Amritsar||1,404 appear for science teacher exam||As many as 1,404 examinees appeared for the Master Cadre science posts offered by the Directorate of Education Department in six designated centres here today whereas 178 remained absent. District Education Office (senior secondary) Satinderbir Singh said a total of 1,582 aspirants had applied to appear for the entrance examination.“Around 88 per cent appeared for the entrance test amid Covid-19 protocol. The examinees had covered their faces with proper masks and arrangements were made to make them sit at safe distance. There was no case of cheating or impersonation during the test,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-404-appear-for-science-teacher-exam-196880
11-01-2021||---||5,600 street vendors register for micro-credit facility||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 10Officials of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation claimed that the city registered 5,600 street vendors who had applied to avail loan under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi Scheme (PM SVANidhi). More than 1,500 cases have been disposed of in which vendors got Rs 10,000 loan to revive their business.Jaswinder Singh, Nodal Officer for the PM SVANidhi at the MC, said, more than 6,000 street vendors had registered for the micro-credit facility and some of the applications were rejected during scrutiny.The government has been encouraging the vendors to register themselves with the government. After registration, the government transfers money in the account of vendor within a month.The Centre had launched the PM SVANidhi to provide Rs 10,000 to street vendors as initial working capital to revive their businesses, which suffered setback in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Initially, the MC got a lukewarm response to the scheme. Jaswinder and his team organised camps to create awareness among vendors and facilitate them at the MC zonal offices.The government has constituted a high-power committee of senior officials to review the ongoing process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-600-street-vendors-register-for-micro-credit-facility-196881
11-01-2021||---||Cyclothon marks golden jubilee year of Indo-Pak war||Amritsar, January 10With the 1971 Indo-Pak war entering its golden jubilee in 2021, the Army, along with the BSF, organised a programme, as a part of the ongoing ‘Swarn Vijay Varsh’ to celebrate India’s victory over Pakistan.Besides, honouring the war veterans and kin of martyrs at the Punjab State War Memorial and Museum, a cyclothon was also flagged off by BSF DIG Bhuphinder Singh. Officers, as well as children of the Army and the BSF officers participated in the cyclothon, from the Attari border to the war memorial.Seven 1971 war heroes and the next of kin of the martyrs joined the wreath laying ceremony.Major General Raju Baijal, recipient of the Sena Medal, said the event also marked the formation of East Pakistan as the new nation of Bangladesh. “The occasion marked the brave deeds of our soldiers who sacrifised their lives in the service of the nation,” he said.Col HP Singh (retired), general manager of the memorial, said, “The memorial is the apt place to pay tributes to the soldiers of the war. An original Patton tank that was captured from Pakistan forces is also stationed here, and there is a full-fledged gallery erected at the memorial,” he said.Brigadier Joginder Singh Jaswal (retired), recipient of the Vir Chakra and the Sena Medal, who was a part of the 1971 squad, also showed solidarity with the farmers, who were protesting against the farm laws.“Constitutional dictatorship is prevailing at the Centre, worse than that at the time of the Emergency during the regime of Indira Gandhi. The farmers have been braving the adverse weather conditions. The former servicemen too face discrimination. They have been fighting to get one rank-one pension (OROP) for the past five years, but in vain. Similarly, many facilities given to the veterans have also been withdrawn. Taxes have been imposed on canteen facility,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cyclothon-marks-golden-jubilee-year-of-indo-pak-war-196667
11-01-2021||---||3-day transit remand for arms racket suspects from Madhya Pradesh||Amritsar, January 10The rural police today got three-day transit remand of the two Madhya Pradesh residents — Mahesh Silotia and Jaggu — arrested for allegedly supplying country-made weapons to gangsters and terrorists in Punjab.They were produced in an MP court, which granted their transit remand. Once here, they would be presented in a local court on Tuesday for further police remand for interrogation.The two were nabbed from MP following a tip-off during the investigation of recent weapon seizures made by the rural police. The police had recovered 12 country-made pistols along with 15 magazines from the two.The police have also initiated the process for bringing Akashdeep Singh, prime suspect in the drone module bust case by the Punjab Police in 2019, who is currently lodged in the Amritsar jail, on a production warrant.Police sources said the suspects were involved in the supply of weapons not only to Punjab but other parts of the country as well. They used to sell the weapons to notorious criminals for Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh, depending on quality.In Punjab, Rahul of Khargone village in MP was the main supplier. Rahul’s name had figured in half-a-dozen cases of seizure of illegal weapons in the recent past. His name had also cropped up during investigations into the seizure of a consignment of six pistols by the Patiala police in September.Another accomplice, Gopal Singh Sikligar of Satipurain, Khargone, has been nominated in the FIR following preliminary interrogation of the two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-day-transit-remand-for-arms-racket-suspects-from-madhya-pradesh-196674
11-01-2021||Amritsar||Sidhu’s key aide accused of assault||With e-Daakhil, file complaints onlineChandigarh: Launched to streamline the grievances redressal system, the e-Daakhil portal would provide consumers a speedy remedial platform with its seamless and synergised mechanism. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday said the online platform was yet another endeavour of the state government under the leadership of CM Capt Amarinder Singh towards technological advancements in the public sector. He said e-Daakhil had been developed under the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which envisaged filing of consumer disputes electronically to the Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission. TNSRevised one-time settlement policy soonChandigarh: Ahead of the civic body polls, the Local Government Department is working on a revised one-time settlement (OTS) policy for non-compoundable violations in urban local bodies. Affecting 30 lakh violations in residential and non-residential buildings in urban local bodies, the government aims at earning revenue of Rs 1,000 crore by regularising the buildings. The previous OTS policy notified in March 2019, when Navjot Singh Sidhu was the Local Government Minister, was held back as it did not find favour with the intended beneficiaries. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sidhus-key-aide-accused-of-assault-196684
