15-01-2021||Amritsar||Lohri festivities turn tragic as 30-year-old youth shot dead||The Lohri festivities turned tragic for the family of a 30-year-old youth who was shot dead by several persons following a dispute over the playing of DJ at high volume on the occasion of Lohri in the Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area here on Wednesday evening. The victim, identified as Jagdish Singh (30), was a SAD activist. He was married around a month ago.The police have arrested one person, identified as Balwinder Singh alias Billa, here on Thursday while police teams were conducting raids to arrest the remaining suspects.Besides Billa, the police have booked his three sons — Mandeep Singh, Sukhchain Singh and Amanchain Singh — Laddi and around 12 unidentified persons in the case. The accused were also associated with the SAD, said the police.Bhupinder Singh, father of the victim, told the police that the accused were playing DJ on the rooftop while flying kites during the festival of Lohri. They had called their friends also. He said they were using abusive language during the function and Jagdish Singh objected to using such language. At this, they got enraged and Billa, along with other accused, attacked him. They shot at him, leaving him critically injured. He was rushed to hospital where he died.Police officials immediately reached the spot and started investigation. The accused fled the spot after locking their houses.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said Billa was arrested on Thursday and raids were on to nab the remaining accused. Gurwinder Singh, SHO, Division B police station, said the accused and the victim belonged to the same party. He said due to the death of municipal councillor Harpreet Singh Goldy of Ward No.37 under which the area falls, the by-election in the ward was announced.The victim, however, supported an independent candidate after he failed to get the ticket from the party. He said this was a bone of contention between the accused and the victim which led to the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lohri-festivities-turn-tragic-as-30-year-old-youth-shot-dead-198708
15-01-2021||Amritsar||Both online-offline modes a ‘nightmare’ for teachers||The decision to continue offline as well as online teaching after reopening of schools from Classes V to XII has thrown up a big challenge infront of teachers.As the number of students attending regular classes is quite low, online classes need to be continued. As a result, teachers have been under immense pressure.Condemning the decision of the government to provide a concrete policy and strategy to cope with the situation, the Democratic Teachers’ Front has decided to protest against the Education Department.“The Education Department has failed to identify the roadblocks in implementing online mode of education at the grassroots level and adding to the burden, it now wants teachers to continue offline classes when only a few students are attending regular classes in schools,” said Ashwini Awasthi, district chief, Democratic Teachers’ Front.He said: “Right from the beginning, online teaching has been a big challenge, especially in rural areas. Teachers tried to make optimum use of buddy groups, but that does not ensure accuracy. The current situation is not suitable for students and teachers.”The buddy group method was introduced as a solution to problem of inaccessibility, but it has limited reach. “The buddy group formed at various levels created small groups of students, who used to get help from a child having mobile phone, usually the head of the group. But that is not possible in case of a large group as only a percentage of them respond. Another way of reaching out to students was to work at village level and call them in small groups to share weekly lessons. In any case, the entire situation has been quite challenging for teachers,” shared a teacher of the Government School, Bhoewali.Another teacher from the Government School, Hathi Gate, said, “The focus has shifted to board classes after the department announced datesheet. What about students of other classes? To conduct regular class in morning and later conduct same classes online is not practical as it disturbs schedule of both sessions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/both-online-offline-modes-a-nightmare-for-teachers-198709
15-01-2021||Amritsar||Canal-based water supply project a concern for MC?||Though the state government has initiated the process of implementing the canal-based water supply project and acquired the land for the purpose, the General House of the Municipal Corporation suspects that they are being bypassed by the state government and officials of the World Bank officials. A recent General House meeting of the MC raised concern over not discussing the multi-crore project at the local level.Raman Bakshi, Senior Deputy Mayor, said the government had acquired land at Vallah for the project. “We were unaware of the acquisition of land. We got information when some stakeholders moved court against alleged corruption by employees of the Revenue Department. We have demanded a high-level inquiry into it as the MC would be answerable for the project after its implementation,” said Bakshi.The Punjab Government had approved the project to provide canal-based water supply to the city in July last year. The 40-acre land for the construction of the water treatment plants, along with treated water collection tanks and pumping stations close to the canals, had been acquired along the Upper Bari Doab canal at Vallah village at a cost of Rs 36.40 crore soon after the approval.The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the lending arm of the World Bank Group, is financing 70 per cent of the cost and the rest would be borne by the Punjab Government.Bakshi claimed that the government had proposed and started some projects, which failed in the last few years. “The project will replace our existing water supply system. In case we fail to provide the potable water to the residents it would be embarrassment for all of us. So, the House has proposed to constitute a committee to review the implementation and functioning of the project,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/canal-based-water-supply-project-a-concern-for-mc-198710
15-01-2021||Amritsar||2 held for making fake documents||The police have arrested two persons for allegedly preparing fake registration certificates (RCs) and driving licences. The accused have been identified as Dharamvir Singh, alias Sunny, of New Krishna Nagar, Tarn Taran, and Jasprit Singh of Fateh Singh colony, Amritsar.The duo was running their office at Fateh Singh colony. The police have recovered a computer, a printer, CPU, spiral binding machine, fake RCs, fake driving licences and around 170 chip cards from their possession.ACP Parvesh Chopra said they got a tip-off that some persons were involved in preparing fake RCs and driving licences in Fateh Singh colony area falling under the jurisdiction of Gate Hakima police station.He said cops recovered various documents with fake signatures of the District Transport Officer and the Regional Transport Officer from the duo. Cops suspected that the accused were preparing fake documents for stolen vehicles as well. The accused were produced before the court, which sent them on the police remand.Man arrested with 80K tramadol pillsThe CIA staff has arrested Mangal Singh of Malluwal village falling under the Gharinda police station here for allegedly possessing huge quantity of banned drugs. He was held from the Chheharta police station area. “The police got a tip-off that the accused was involved in the selling of sedative pills and intoxicants in the rural belt. Following this, the police nabbed him with 18,000 tablets of tramadol hydrochloride. During preliminary interrogation, the police seized 62,000 tablets from his residence in Malluwal village,” said Paramjit Singh of the CIA staff.A case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against him. Paramjit Singh said he was produced in the court and brought on three-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-making-fake-documents-198711
15-01-2021||Amritsar||Family excited to watch me speak Punjabi: Karan||Punjabi by roots, actor Karan Mehra, will be making his Punjabi debut with upcoming show ‘Maavan thandiyan chaavan’. Excited over his maiden project in his mother tongue, Karan, who was born in Jalandhar and has family settled in Amritsar, said it’s an opportunity, which cannot be missed.“From the last four years, I have been getting a lot of offers to work in Punjabi films and numerous projects came my way, but things couldn’t work out. Around a year ago, Sahil Kohli came to me with a story of ‘Maavan Thandiyan Chaavan’. I liked it and it also gave me a chance to explore a new side of me on TV,” said Mehra. While Punjabi culture and mannerisms were not an unfamiliar territory for him, speaking in Punjabi was. “It was a bit of a challenge to get the dialect right, but I love a challenge. My family is excited to see me on the show as I will be speaking in Punjabi for the very first time. So, a lot of expectations are there,” he said.A popular face of Hindi television playing character of Naitik in one of the longest running shows ‘Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai’, Mehra wanted to do something different.“It’s a wonderful emotional journey of a mother-child relationship and it has all the right doses of entertainment. I play a cop and it’s for the first I don uniform on-screen. I am looking forward to audience feedback,” he said.The actor was supposed to begin work on the show a lot earlier, but the pandemic happened. Mehra recalls the time spent during the lockdown as stressful. “We started shooting for the show in November 2020, though we were supposed to begin project a bit earlier. Before that my song Bewafa was out and was received well. Throughout pandemic, I had my hands full with lot of digital assignments and my family took the most share of my time during the lockdown. Its good to work again and things have been picking up quite nicely,” stated Mehra.He will be seen next in a web series and a movie.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-excited-to-watch-me-speak-punjabi-karan-198712
15-01-2021||Amritsar||Ranjit Avenue residents fume over punctured water supply pipe||Residents of the Ranjit Avenue have been irked at a gas pipe laying company for not repairing punctured water supply pipes and refilling the excavated sites in their area. Dr Suresh Chauhan said he filed a complaint a month ago with the authorities concerned and even spoke to the company officials but to no avail.He said the water supply pipe was damaged in front of the entrance of their flats while laying gas pipes.However, the company engaged labourers and officials left the place without rectifying the leakage. Leaking water accumulated on the road turning it into a dirty pool of water. Since the fear of infection looms large after the breakout of the Covid-19 pandemic, yet the officials concerned did not take care to fix the issue.He filed another complaint on December 12 stating that “the workers from the Gujarat gas company damaged the underground water supply pipe while digging a pit in front of our flats and left without filling it, hence jeopardising the safety of the residents. Today, they turned up again, and were about to fill the pit without rectifying the fault. When reminded of the leakage, they left without any response.”Satyan Trivedi, local head of Gujarat Gas Limited, said as per the state government’s policy under the city gas distribution network, his company deposited the cost of repairing the excavated site in advance to the local government for permanent restoration. He said in this specific case, the water pipe was found completely corroded. He assured to address the issue soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ranjit-avenue-residents-fume-over-punctured-water-supply-pipe-198713
15-01-2021||Amritsar||22 fresh cases reported in Amritsar||23-year-old youth found murderedTarn Taran: A 23-year-old youth, identified as Harjinder Singh, a resident of Rattoke village here, was found murdered on the road at Dibbipur village near his village on Thursday morning. Kulwant Singh, elder brother of the victim, said he had left for Harjas Hospital, Algon Kothi, on Wednesday evening but never returned home. The family recovered his body on the road while searching for him in the area. In his statement to the Valtoha police, Kulwant Singh stated that his brother had been killed by unidentified persons. A case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC had been registered by the police. OCFiring at Attari: case registeredAmritsar: The police claimed to have vital clues in a firing incident, which took place at Attari on Wednesday. The police have registered a case against unknown persons. Maninder Singh, SHO, Gharinda police station said we have clues about the occupants of the car. “Being a sensitive issue, we cannot share any details now,” he added. An exchange of fire took place between a police team and two unidentified persons suspected to be gangsters at Attari near the Indo-Pak border. Around 15 rounds were fired from both sides. The police personnel chased the gangsters for around 5 km, but the latter somehow managed to escape in their car. TNSNGO donates nests to trustAmritsar: Office-bearers of the Ghanshyam Das Welfare Society led by Manoj Bansal handed over 50 nests to Dinesh Bassi, chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, to be hanged at various parks at Ranjit Avenue. Bassi appreciated the efforts of Bansal and said during the bone-chilling winter, everyone sleeps in quilts, but helpless birds find shelter in trees under the open sky. In such a situation, the NGO has given a message to save birds from severe cold. Nests provided by the society were also installed at the AIT office. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-198714
15-01-2021||Akhara||Dens of  belief: Akharas of Amritsar||The city has 12 Udasi Akharas, but only a few are now functional. Some of these shifted to Haridwar and Rishikesh after the formation of modern organisations to manage the gurdwara affairs, while some are now sands.Earlier, Udasi and Nirmala saints associated with these akharas used to manage the Sikh shrines till 1920, the foundation year of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). The akhara chief gives his seat to unmarried saints only. In modern days, several saints now find any inheritor to run it. So, after the death of mahants, people caught hold of these properties.History of Sikh akharasSikh Historian Kahan Singh Nabha mentioned in his ‘Mahan Kosh’ that in the mid 18th century, eminent Udasi saint Mahant Nirvan Pritam Das noticed that saints face inconvenience during their visits at Sikh shrines and gurpurbs. To provide boarding and lodging facility in 1779, Pritam Das established a Panchayti akhara. He also constructed some akharas at Kashi Kankhal (Haridwar) and Hindu pilgrimage sites. Later, Mahants of Nirmala sect also established their akharas for educational and spiritual purposes in the city and other holy cities. However, most of the mahants believe that these were established by Sri Chand, the elder son of Guru Nanak Dev.Akhara Tehal DasIt is located on Katra Jallian, on the road heading towards Jallianwala Bagh. Once a prominent akhara, it lies abandoned now. The incumbent mahant resides at Malwa village. The samadhi (tomb) of Mahant Tehal Das is located at the plaza outside the Golden Temple.Akhara Kashi WalaIt was located near Sultanwind Gate and established by Mahant Narain Das in 1795. The akhara provides lodging facilities for devotees in the holy city.Akhara Shatte WalaThe original name of the akhara was Parag Das, given after one of the mahants. Due to a balcony over the old building gate, it came to be known as Akhara Shatte Wala. It is located near Chowk Parag Das.Akhara Bala NandBala Nand was the successor of Tehal Das. He established a separate akhara in 1775. A great scholar of Sanskrit, Jalle Wale Sardar Albel Singh provided funds to run it. In 1888, akhara head Bishambar Das constructed a three-storey colossal gate, which is mind-boggling enough for the tourists. It also has beautiful frescos on its walls and rooms. The Sikh history is depicted through the paintings by Udasi saints. The akhara had a tradition of teaching Sanskrit, which was alive till 1984. “Later, the universities introduced Sanskrit courses and students don’t visit the akhara anymore,” said a custodian.Akhara Brahm ButaThe oldest akhara in the city is Akhara Brahm Buta. It’s located on the northern corner of the Golden Temple. The historians believe that Baba Shri Chand stayed here when he visited the city during the regime of fourth Sikh master Guru Ram Das. Nirban Santokh Das was one of the prominent mahants of the akhara during the Misl period that fought against Ahmad Shah Durrani in 1762. The same mahant had constructed Hansli (water channel) to feed the sarovar of Darbar Sahib in 1783. According to the history written inside the akhara, Maharaja Ranjit Singh was born with the blessing of Mahant Santokh Das. Later, the maharaja allotted a large property to them.Akhara BibbeksarIt was established by Mahant Balak Nath on the backside of gurdwara Bibbeksar Sahib in Katra Ramgarhia, now known as Kulfi Mohalla. Maharaja Ranjit Singh gave grant for erecting the akhara’s gate in 1825. The huge doorway still exists, but in a rueful state. The mahants have another akhara in Haridwar.Akhara Kashi Wala of Gheo MandiThe akhara was founded by Mahant Sharan Das during the Sikh empire. Maharaja Ranjit Singh gifted the land at Tung village. It is still a centre of Udasi sect’s activities.Sanglan Wala AkharaThe akahra was established by Mahant Pritam Das in 1788 in Bazaar Mai Sevan. Two heavy iron chains were installed on the main gate, so devotees named it Sanglan Wala Akhara. It owns good property near the Golden Temple, including the temple of Laungan Wali Devi near Town Hall. Mahant Pritam Das was a well-known Udasi saint, who also constructed a temple inside it. Astonishingly, the old fane is still intact.Dhuna: Most of the akharas have a hearth, where saints of Udasi sect do sadhna and yagya.Gerua flag: Gerua (a red ochre) colour flag topped with peacock’s wings can be seen waving at every Udasi dera and akhara.Frescos and buildings: There was a tradition with Udasi saints to depict the Sikh history and mythology with the wall paintings murals and frescos inside their deras. The deras in city are enriched with the wall painting, though the inner circles of akharas are not open for all due to their spiritual beliefs.Chitta AkharaIt is located in Bazaar Mai Sevan. It was established by Mahant Ganga Ram Viakarani, an expert of Sanskrit and Gurmukhi grammar. Chiefs of Sikh misls gave him grant to run langar near the Golden Temple. A major tourist attraction, several classic frescos are painted on its walls. At present, Damodar Das is the mahant of the akhara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dens-of-belief-akharas-of-amritsar-198715
