17-01-2021||Amritsar||78 healthcare workers vaccinated on Day 1||The Health Department on Saturday launched the Covid vaccination programme in the district with Rajesh Sharma, a lab technician of the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital, becoming the first person to get the Covid-19 vaccine.Apart from the Civil Hospital, the vaccination drive was simultaneously conducted at Government Medical College and the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Verka. The district health authorities reported that a total of 78 employees were vaccinated.Health workers ‘hesitant’ Though the vaccination drive has started, health workers are showing hesitation because of the controversies surrounding the efficacy of the vaccines and side-effects. The department had asked the employees to voluntarily come forward to get vaccinated but most did not respond. The employees suggested that Cabinet ministers, MLAs and senior officers should get the dose to boost the morale of the general public.During the launch of the drive at the Civil Hospital, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni, along with Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Kharia and Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, was present.Speaking on the occasion, Soni said the vaccine was completely safe. Replying to a query regarding the demand of the health employees that the elected representatives and senior bureaucrats should get the injection before others to instill confidence in people, he said, “As per the protocols, in the first phase, the vaccine will be administered to only health workers. In the next phase, police personnel and other frontline warriors would get the vaccine.” He added that sooner or later everybody would get the injection.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said those who were administered the dose of the vaccine today would get the second dose after a gap of 28 days. He said the Health Department had received around 20,000 doses which were sufficient for the health workers in the district.District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said those who were administered the dose were kept under observation at the observation centre set up for the purpose. He said none of the beneficiaries complained of facing any trouble after getting the injection. He said the vaccination drive would pick up the pace in the coming days as per the guidelines of the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/78-healthcare-workers-vaccinated-on-day-1-199623
17-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Civil Surgeon first to get dose in Tarn Taran||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-surgeon-first-to-get-dose-in-tarn-taran-199624
17-01-2021||Amritsar||8 booked for duping two on pretext of sending abroad||The rural police booked eight persons on Friday in two separate cases for allegedly duping local residents on the pretext of sending them abroad in search of greener pastures. The two cases were registered following a preliminary probe conducted by the police.Harpartap Singh, a resident of Chogawan, said that Ramandeep Kaur, Rajwinder Kaur, Jeevanjot Kaur, Amritpal Kaur, Pishora Singh, Dilawar Singh and Kashmir Singh, all residents of Kohala village had duped him of Rs 22 lakh for sending him abroad. A complaint was lodged with the police on December 1, 2020 and an investigation was conducted by the Superintendent of Police (investigations) who recommended registration of an FIR in the case. The Lopoke police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC against them while further investigations were under progress.Similarly, Dalbir Singh of Wazir Bhullar village has accused Buta Singh of Mallian village for duping his daughter-in-law Navneet Kaur of Rs 15 lakh for sending her to Canada. DSP Baba Bakala and SP Punjab Bureau of Investigations had conducted a probe into the case and recommended registration of case. The Beas police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC against him.Police officials said that no arrest had been made in these cases till now. While raids were on to arrest them, further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-booked-for-duping-two-on-pretext-of-sending-abroad-199625
17-01-2021||Amritsar||One death, 12 new cases reported in Amritsar||With one death reported due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the toll has increased to 568 in the district. The deceased has been identified as Mukhtar Singh, a 61-year-old resident of Hawelian Mustafabad (Batala road).The district health authorities have also reported 12 new positive cases with which the total count of infections in the district has increased to 14,822. The new cases include seven cases of influenza-like illness and five contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 8 patients, the recovery count has increased to 14,161. The district at present has a total of 93 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-death-12-new-cases-reported-in-amritsar-199626
17-01-2021||---||Police freeze Rs 62-lakh assets of three peddlers||Amritsar, January 16The Punjab Police have freezed properties worth Rs 62 lakh of three peddlers in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts on Saturday.Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said they have freezed property (house) of Gursahib Singh, alias Sahib, of Vishkarma colony. He said orders for the same were received from the competent authority.The SSP said Gursahib was booked by the Special Operation Cell in Ocotber 2014 and recovered 14 kg of heroin from his possession. He said Gursahib’s house in Vishavkarma colony was worth Rs 35 lakh.The Amritsar police have freezed assets of Sarabjit Singh, alias Saba, of Fattewal village. Sarabjit along with Surjit Masih of Gurala village in Ajnala and Simarjit Singh of Sahowal village were nabbed by the police in August 2019 for cross-border smuggling. The police had confiscated 1-kg heroin, a pistol and Rs 23 lakhs of drug proceeds from their possession.During invesrtigarion, the police found that Sarabjit had procured two kanal and five marla worth Rs 4.21 lakh and a tractor of Rs 4.5 lakh in the name of his father. The police have freezed both properties.The police have also freezed residential property of Harjinder Singh, alias Zinda, of Daoke village. Harjinder was was arrested in February 2015 for allegedly possessing 580 gm of heroin. The cops claimed that with illegal proceeds, Harjinder constructed a house worth Rs18.50 lakh at his native village. He has around six cases registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-freeze-rs-62-lakh-assets-of-three-peddlers-199627
17-01-2021||---||Drone module accused brought on police remand||Amritsar, January 16The Amritsar rural police on Friday brought drone module accused Akashdeep Singh on production warrant in connection with the Madhya Pradesh-based illegal weapon racket busted by the police recently.Mahesh Selotia and Jaggu, both natives of Khargone village in MP, were arrested by a team of the Amritsar rural police headed by DSP (Detective) Gurinderpal Singh Nagra on January 9 and the police had confiscated around 12 illegal pistols and ammunition from their possession.Their names had figured during the investigation regarding illegal weapons seized in the recent past by the police. During Mahesh and Jaggu’s interrogation, the name of Akashdeep Singh also cropped up. Akashdeep was the prime accused in the drone module busted by the Punjab Police last year and he was currently lodged in the Amritsar Central Jail.Nagra said though Akashdeep did not know Mahesh and Jaggu personally but they were in touch with their contact Rahul of Khargone village. In Punjab, Rahul was the main supplier. His name figured in around half a dozen cases of seizure of illegal weapons in the recent past. His name cropped up during their investigation into the seizure of weapons consignment of six .32 bore pistols by the Patiala police in September last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-module-accused-brought-on-police-remand-199628
17-01-2021||---||Old sabzi mandi land turns into garbage dump||Amritsar, January 16The prime land outside the Hall Gate, which was proposed for green belt under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) project plan, has turned into a garbage dump. The Municipal Corporation (MC) had got the land vacated from vegetable market traders after shifting the sabzi mandi to Vallah a few years ago.The land has been vacant since. Even the Municipal Corporation had proposed to create a parking lot here for devotees visiting the Golden Temple and the Hall Bazaar. Meanwhile, a portion of the land was used by the state government for the construction of an elevated road for extension of Bhandari Bridge. The area under the elevated road is being used by private transporters to park their buses illegally. Even after several warnings by MC officials, the road is regularly used by transporters.The areas, which were proposed to be turned into green belt under the BRTS project, are poorly maintained. Residents of the walled city use it for dumping debris. The old sabzi Mandi is turned into a garbage dump. A large number of stray cattle and dogs can be seen roaming about the area. Shopkeepers of nearby markets dump their waste in the ground.Some building structures, which were not dismantled after vacating the market, are being used by mischievous elements. The ground is overgrown with weeds at places. Ironically, the area is on the main entrance to the walled city, which is being developed as a tourist attraction.Rajan Kharbanda, a resident of Katra Ahluwalia, said, “The walled city is lacking in space for parking lots. The MC has a major chunk of land on the entrance to the walled city area. It can be used as a parking lot. The MC should clean it and restrict its illegal use. It can be developed as a parking lot.”The Mayor, Karamjit Singh Rintu, said it was being considered to be developed as a parking lot. “We will stop illegal activities here soon,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/old-sabzi-mandi-land-turns-into-garbage-dump-199629
17-01-2021||Amritsar||Civic body to seal shops of defaulting tenants||The Municipal Corporation (MC) will start a sealing drive at various markets, where tenants have not been paying the rent. The Municipal Corporation has around 1,105 shops in 50 markets of the city. Most of the shops are on the outer circular road and on the prime locations. Around 550 properties have been identified where tenants didn’t pay rent for years. The Estate Wing of the MC had issued notices to the defaulter tenants a few weeks back. But most of the defaulters did not pay their dues till date.Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, MC, said, “We have prepared a list of defaulter shopkeepers, who are not paying the rent for years. There are several tenants who did not pay a single penny for 20 years. We have to collect Rs 82 lakh from these defaulters.”Now, the Estate Wing officials have written to the senior officials of Municipal Corporation to start the sealing drive to press the defaulters to pay rent. The shops of MC are located at Golbagh Taxi Stand market, Tirkoni Market, Beri Gate Market, Bhushanpura B Block Market, Hathi Gate Market, Kot Atama Singh Market, Gurdwara Saheedan Market and Guru Ramdas Hospital market.“Several notices have been sent in the past. Now, we will seal the shops of defaulter next week,” said Bhatia.The MC had offered the tenants to buy the shops in 2019. Around 600 tenants showed their interest to buy the shops but many of them reluctant to pay the dues. The MC asked them to pay their due and then buy the shop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-seal-shops-of-defaulting-tenants-199630
17-01-2021||---||Address our issues, demand ministerial staff||Amritsar, January 16A meeting of the Punjab Government Ministerial Services Union to discuss various demands of the employees was held here on Saturday. District president Dalbir Singh Bajwa said the union would not accept Central government play scales for the newly recruited employees and it should be scrapped.The association has also demanded from the government to stop the move of reorganisation of departments, terming it as a ploy to decrease sanctioned strength of the government employees in different departments.Association general secretary Jagdish Thakur demanded old pension scheme for employees recruited after 2004. He also demanded immediate release of the pending dues of dearness allowance.Thakur said that the resentment among the employees on these issues was brewing and if the government failed to address the issues, the associations would have to resort to protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/address-our-issues-demand-ministerial-staff-199631
17-01-2021||---||Despite ban, Chinese string being sold online||Amritsar, January 16Due to the apathetic attitude of the authorities concerned, the plastic string is reportedly available on online shopping websites. Some reputed companies offer delivery of this killer (Chinese) string.Sushant Bhatia, nodal officer to curb the sale and use of plastic string, said, “We got information about the online sale and delivery of plastic string. We will write to the higher authorities and get the legal opinion to take action against the concerned web portals offering plastic string”.According to information, the kite lovers were ordering plastic string online from the shopping websites in the city. It is worth mentioning here that despite ban on the plastic string it was easily available in the city. The social activists and NGO raised objection on the administration and police for their failure to curb the sale and use of the killer string.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-ban-chinese-string-being-sold-online-199632
17-01-2021||Amritsar||Actors celebrate Punjabi spirit||Actors Adhvik Mahajan and Amandeep Sandhu, who will soon be seen in the upcoming show Teri Meri Ik Jindri, too seemed excited over the fact that life is getting back to normal after the pandemic-induced haitus.“It is good to be back in action, working on good stories and entertaining the audience. The storyline of our show is based on Punjab and carries that Amritsari vibe, with its characters and story. It’s not only a story of young India’s aspirations but also the values we cherish at heart,” said Amandeep, who plays the character of Mahi in the show. Playing a taxi driver in the show, Amandeep said, “I honestly couldn’t have asked for a better character than Mahi as my first lead role. I knew that it was a perfect fit for me. I was really thrilled to begin exploring my journey. I thoroughly enjoyed flagging off the women’s car rally, especially driving towards Saddi Havelli with so many excited and independent female drivers, who are truly all-rounders as they not only manage household work but also contribute to the family.” She was excited to shoot in Amritsar for the show. “I really hope to again visit Amritsar and spend some more time in this city that feels like home.”Adhvik Mahajan, who is the male protagonist of the show and has been a part of several films as well, too was happy to be back in Amritsar. “Shooting in Amritsar and Patiala was like coming back home. People here have been extremely warm and welcoming and it was such a delight to see their love pouring in. Along with paying a visit to my extended family, I also took the chance to relish and gorge on the amazing food here.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/actors-celebrate-punjabi-spirit-199633
17-01-2021||Amritsar||‘Early screening key to cure cervical cancer’||DAV College hosted an online lecture on awareness about cervical cancer held in collaboration with NSS Department and Phulkari CAN. Tania Aggarwal, secretary, Phulkari Can, was the guest speaker during the event.“If screening tests are done from a younger age, cancer can be avoided. This is a matter of global concern because it is the most common cancer in women all over the world,” said Tania Aggarwal.Dr Neerja Kalia, in-charge of the NSS Department, said, “Cervical cancer accounts for the highest number of cases after breast cancer in women. According to a report, 1 in every 53 women succumbs to this dreaded disease.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/early-screening-key-to-cure-cervical-cancer-199634
17-01-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||85 unique IDs issued to differently-abled||As many as 85 Unique Disability Identity Cards (UDID) were issued to persons with disabilities in a special camp organised at the local Civil Hospital here recently.The camp was organised by the district administration on the guidelines issued by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh.SDM Rajnish Arora and Congress leader Sandeep Agnihotri jointly inaugurated the camp. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said 233 persons applied for the identity cards and the remaining persons would get their cards soon. The card is a guarantee for the identity of the disabled on the national level. This type of camps would be organised at the Community Health Centre, Khamkaran, on January 18 and at the Community Health Centre, Chabal, on January 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/85-unique-ids-issued-to-differently-abled-199638
17-01-2021||Amritsar||73rd Army Day celebrated virtually||Students of Shri Ram Ashram Public School on Friday celebrated Army Day with zest and zeal while staying at home due to Covid-19.They expressed their heartfelt gratitude and admiration to the Indian soldiers, who remain undeterred while laying down their lives for the sake of the nation.The Army Day is celebrated every year on January 15 to respect the Lieutenant General of India, KM Cariappa, who was the first Commander- in-Chief of the Indian Army. The young Ashramites paid tribute to the Indian Army through multiple virtual performances including music and dance.School’’s president Balbir Bajaj expressed his reverence to the Indian Army and said that Indian soldier was a role model for people in the country and his role in the nation building was outstanding. Principal Vinodita Sankhyan applauded the efforts of the students and urged them to take inspiration from the courage and determination of the Indian Army, which has been safeguarding the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/73rd-army-day-celebrated-virtually-199647
17-01-2021||Amritsar||Portraits of martyrs to be installed  at Central Sikh Museum on Jan 23||Portraits of Bhai Hazara Singh of Aladinpur and Bhai Hukam Singh of Wasau Kot, the first martyrs of the Gurdwara Reform Movement, will be installed and displayed at the Central Sikh Museum at the Golden Temple on January 23.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Bibi Jagir Kaur told that in addition to this, a function will be held on January 27 and 28 in Aladinpur village in Tarn Taran district, in the memory of these great martyrs.“A large number of Sikhs had sacrificed their lives to set free the holy shrines from the mahants. In the beginning of this series of Gurdwara Reform Movement, the martyrdoms of Bhai Hazara Singh and Bhai Hukam Singh have an important place in Sikh history, as they sacrificed their lives to free Gurdwara Sri Tarn Taran Sahib from the hold of mahants in 1921,” said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/portraits-of-martyrs-to-be-installed-at-central-sikh-museum-on-jan-23-199657
17-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Man held for kidnapping son||Free eye, health camp todayAmritsar: FICCI FLO’s city chapter will be taking off their project ‘Sambhav’ by organizing free health and eye care camp at Bua Nangli on January 17. The FLO chairperson, Meeta Mehra, said that the project aimed at spreading awareness about three types of cancer— focusing on breast cancer, cervical cancer and oral cancer care. “The first phase will have free eye care camp held under Navdrishti initiative at Bua Nangli that has been adopted by FLO Amritsar. Our mission of providing basic health and eye care at our adopted village will reach out to people of all age groups, who will be receiving free prescription eye glasses after testing, free cataract surgeries for the needy and free medicines shall be provided for basic eye care,” informed Meeta Mehra. “Our volunteers will be going door-to-door spreading awareness on three types of cancers and screening camps will be organised on scheduled dates at the village,” she added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-kidnapping-son-199658
