18-01-2021||GS Paul||Golden Temple to soon offer ‘steaming hot’ langar to devotees||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 18The preparation of langar at the world’s largest kitchen at the Golden Temple would now be more efficient, eco-friendly and cost effective.The SGPC is going to introduce steam mechanism as a source for cooking langar items, just on the lines of the kitchen of historic Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj Sahib Baba Deep Singh at the Chattiwind Chowk in Amritsar, since 2017.The Golden Temple’s kitchen, on an average, feeds between 55,000-60,000 devotees daily.Keeping in view the 24X7 operation, a high-capacity steam boiler plant would be installed at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee Langar Hall kitchen in the Golden Temple complex.The boiler could be operated through burning of wood, CNG or the LPG. The steam generated in the boiler will be circulated through pipes to special vessels to be used for cooking.Each vessel would have a capacity of preparing at least two and a half quintal of food at a time.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said that this mechanism would not only curtail the fuel cost and the preparation span by half in comparison to traditional cooking method, but also check emission of heat or smoke in the langar hall.The ‘sewa’ (voluntary service) of setting up the project has been entrusted to Sant Baba Baljinder Singh, head of Gurdwara Rara Sahib.He informed that the equipment would be imported from Germany. "Apart from it being efficient and cost effective, the steam methodology also helps maintaining the nutrition value of food. The reason being it would auto-cut as it attains the requisite temperature,” said Baba Baljinder Singh.Since the work on providing the CNG supply line to the Golden Temple is underway, it will be more efficient to run the steam cooking system at the shrine’s kitchen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-temple-to-soon-offer-steaming-hot-langar-to-devotees-200208
18-01-2021||Open House||Before vaccination, govt must allay fears of people||Check on pvt healthcare providers a mustThe world’s largest vaccination drive started in the country this week. The first case of Covid-19 was reported in the country on January 30 last year, and almost after one year the vaccine for the deadly disease is now available for us. To control the spread of the virus, the vaccine was first introduced in the UK in December 2020 followed by many other countries. In our country, preparations are going on a war footing for this vaccination programme. As planned, 3 crore healthcare frontline workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase. The whole exercise of vaccination — be it vaccine stocks, vaccine storage temperature, tracking of every individual beneficiary of vaccination, etc — is to be controlled through digital platform. In the country, 61,000 programme managers, 2 lakh vaccinators and 3.7 lakh other team members have been trained for the purpose. In Punjab alone, 4,000 teams have been deployed. Each team would administer the vaccine to 100 health workers. Thus, 4 lakh people would be vaccinated per day. People should also extend their full cooperation to make the drive a success. On its part, the state government should also be vigilant otherwise private healthcare providers would make money at this critical juncture. With the arrival of the vaccine, people should not become complacent because this health crisis is not over yet. The news of new strains of the virus in the UK and other European countries is disturbing. So, follow the age-old advice — prevention is better than cure.Harsh N JoharPeople are scared of side-effectsThere are a lot of apprehensions about the Covaxin vaccine to be administered to health workers. People are scared of the side-effects of the vaccine. I, myself, am very scared of vaccination as I suffer from needle phobia. Also, two dry runs of the vaccination have been successful. But the apprehensions must stay with people as it is a matter of their health. I feel we must trust the Serum Institute of India for this indigenous vaccine and pray to the Lord and hope for the best.IzleenAddressing scepticism a prerequisiteThe world’s largest inoculation drive against Covid-19 is going to be a daunting and unprecedented challenge. In the 1970s, a campaign to inoculate Americans against the swine flu started, but it had to be dropped as those who were vaccinated faced side-effects. Moreover, scepticism prevails in people’s mind as there were reports of anaphylaxis deaths and side-effects and allergies in some cases. Its efficacy against the mutated versions of the virus is not known yet. The unprecedented speed of vaccine development has generated misconceptions. The exclusion of pharmacists, medicine traders and support staff from the preference list of the Covid-19 vaccination programme is questionable as these people are equally vulnerable to the infection while dispensing medicines. The development of the vaccines against flu has been tardy with partial success, hence the scepticism over the Covid-19 vaccines needs to be addressed. It will be a tough job to boost public confidence amid concerns about side-effects. The development of smallpox, measles and polio vaccines have been great success stories in the past.Anil SharmaIllusions about efficacy prevailPeople are apprehensive about Covid vaccination announced by the government recently. The two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, have reached hospitals. Most of the people raise a question: “Is this vaccine safe?” There are many illusions about the vaccine and that is why people are not ready for it. Certain studies have shown that the vaccine has an adverse impact on the human body. In such a situation, one should not go for vaccination in haste. Human life is indispensable and everyone should take this seriously.Saahil HansFake news will act as a deterrentMany people may not go for vaccination thinking that they do not need it, posing a risk to themselves and their acquaintances. People who can’t afford the vaccine might be left out of the mass drive. Considering the country’s mammoth population, it will be a tough task to vaccinate the masses. Fake news regarding the Covid-19 vaccine on social media may also deter people from getting vaccinated.Jatinderpal Singh BatthFirst make efficacy data publicPreparations are in full swing for the Covid vaccination drive. But apprehensions of the side-effects of the vaccine prevail among medical personnel. The death of a trial participant in Bhopal and some utterances by the highbrows has given rise to scepticism over the Covid-19 vaccines, particularly Covaxin and Covishield. AIIMS (New Delhi) chief Randeep Guleria has called Covaxin as a back-up shot. Acclaimed Prof Gagandeep Kang asserted a few days ago that she would not take Covaxin as a vaccine until its efficacy data is made public. The SII Chief Executive Officer’s statement a few days ago that vaccines other than those of Pfizer-Moderna and Oxford-Astra Zeneca ‘were just like water’ has queered the pitch. A serious allergic reaction to the vaccines has also been reported from Alaska. Even nurses and medical staff are expressing wariness about actually showing up for their shots. They are sceptical if it will work and are worried about unfounded side-effects. Of course, everybody wants Covid-19 to be over for sure but nobody wants to get a vaccine so hastily. Obviously, a muted response to the vaccine is a knotty problem and to unravel it all the nitty-gritty of the safety and efficacy of the vaccine ought to be discussed threadbare. We trust our scientists and their work but we cannot trust political statements. Also, can a vaccine developed within a few months be deemed safe as vaccine trials usually stretch over many years? The government seldom tells the truth. Even if it is pushing for a good vaccine, there are still some lurking lies. Why is the PM pushing it? Why does he not let the doctors do all the talking? People should not be used as research subjects for the sake of the protagonists who are clamouring for administering the vaccine.” Since the development of vaccines against the virus has been tardy with partial success, the above enlisted apprehensions over the Covid-19 vaccines must be addressed to allay the fears of the people and to raise their hopes.Tarsem S BumrahBeware of active cyber criminalsAs the Covid vaccination drives are being held in various parts of the world, the country seems to be dealing with the problem of fraud messages. People are scared due to such messages and other reasons. With the first vaccine getting the go-ahead for emergency use anytime in India now, the cyber safety wing of the Union Home Ministry has issued a warning against fraudulent offers on vaccine. Any fraud link, email, message or phone call offering priority to receive the Covid vaccine is fraud. As per the Centre, owing to apprehensions associated with the vaccine, cyber criminals are playing various tricks. They may offer to pay and register in getting priority to receive the first corona vaccine through fraud link, mail, message or phone call. People should remain alert otherwise many of them may fall prey to fraudsters.Akshar Kumar SinglaQUESTIONHow can health infrastructure be upgraded to tackle health emergencies like Covid-19 and avian flu in future and how can it be made affordable to all sections of society?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 21).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/before-vaccination-govt-must-allay-fears-of-people-199921
18-01-2021||---||Put leash on stray dog menace: Amritsar Vikas Manch||Amritsar, January 17After the recent incident in which a four-and-a-half-year-old Chanda was killed by stray dogs near Malawali village on January 6, the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) demanded a solution to the problem of stray canines.The AVM stated that apart from attacks on humans, stray dogs had also been causing several accidents. The NGO’s patron Charanjit Singh Gumtala said they had earlier given a written request to the Municipal Corporation demanding that it must find a solution to the problem. “It seems that the MC is not serious for the issue as it has failed to take any concrete steps to solve the problem,” said Gumtala, adding that the MC has even failed in beginning the registration of pet dogs.“Considering the huge population of stray canines, even if a sterilisation programme is started immediately, it would take years before all the stray canines are sterilised. With no efforts being madein this regard, the stray dog population is only increasing,” said Gumtala.The AVM reasoned that as dogs have a high fertility rate and produce multiple offsprings, the canine population, if unchecked would rise exponentially in the coming years. While demanding the government to take immediate action, the AVM stated that the stray dog population was also causing accidents especially with two-wheelers.“The dogs, pets and stray dogs excrete on roads and it looks really unhygienic. Sometimes, when dogs get killed under the wheels of heavy vehicles, their carcasses keep lying there for days and it causes trouble for nearby localities,” said Gumtala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/put-leash-on-stray-dog-menace-amritsar-vikas-manch-199923
18-01-2021||Amritsar||1 death, 18 new cases in Amritsar district||Minor sexually harassed, 1 heldAmritsar: The police have arrested a youth for allegedly sexually harassing his seven-year-old cousin. The accused has been identified as Aman Verma (20), a resident of Khai Mohalla. The incident came to light after the victim narrated the incident to her relative who further informed her mother. A case has been registered under Sections 376-A (B) and 511 of the IPC and Section 3, 4 of the Protection of Children of Sexual Offences Act. The police said Aman was produced before the court, which sent him to five-day police remand. TNS32-year-old man electrocutedTarn Taran: Sarup Singh (32), a daily wager, was electrocuted at his native Baghiari village, on Saturday night. Ranjit Singh, cousin of the deceased, said, Sarup Singh had touched a live wire while switching off the lights. He died on the spot. The Chabal police have lodged a report under Section 174 of the CrPC. The postmortem was conducted at a local Civil Hospital today. The deceased is survived by his wife, daughter and a son. He was the sole bread winner of his family, said Ranjit Singh, his cousin. OCRation distributed among needyAmritsar: Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu attended the ration distribution function of Mahakali Temple Trust at Green Field Majitha Road here on Sunday. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with councillor Priyanka Sharma, Ritesh Sharma and trust managers distributed ration to the needy families of Ward No. 12, 13 and 14. Ration is being distributed to the needy families every month by the Mahakali Temple Trust. Speaking on the occasion, the Mayor said that by giving basic amenities to the residents of Ward No. 12, 13 and 14, we have done development of every area. The Mayor praised managers of the Mahakali Temple Trust for the social welfare work by the trust. Vipan Kumar, Rajiv Sharma, Indrajit Sharma, Bhupinder Kumar, Rajesh Dogra and a large number of area residents were present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-death-18-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-199922
18-01-2021||---||Plastic tube removed from 70-yr-old’s liver||Amritsar, January 17A 70-year-old woman got a new lease of life after a migrated plastic tube was removed from her liver through endoscopy, by a local doctor. Dr Hameed Raina, gastroenterologist and hepatologist consultant at Ivy Hospital, who performed the procedure, said the patient had reached the hospital with severe pain and also complained of vomiting in the upper abdomen area.He said, “On evaluation, a migrated plastic T-tube was found placed in the right hepatic duct. This tube was placed during patient’s previous surgery for gall bladder and common bile duct stones.” He added that usually the tube moves downwards and it automatically gets removed from the body. But in this case, it had moved in the opposite direction and had gone up, he said adding that the situation had posed a threat to the life of the elderly.Dr Hameed said, “It was very complicated and challenging due to various reasons and we decided to remove it endoscopically.” This kind of procedure is usually done by expert gastroenterologists and endoscopists in metropolitian cities which have advanced medical infrastructure and equipment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/plastic-tube-removed-from-70-yr-olds-liver-199924
18-01-2021||---||Political activities pick up pace for by-election in Ward No. 37 in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 17Though the party tickets are yet to be announced for the by-election to Ward No.37 of the Municipal Corporation, political activities have started picking up pace with the polling scheduled to be held on February 15. The post of councillor of Ward No.37 fell vacant after the death of Harpreet Singh on April 30, 2019. Aspirants of various parties are presenting their claims for the party ticket.Jatinder Sonia, the district president of the Congress, received six applications. Kulwant Singh, father of Harpreet Singh Goldy, also presented his claim for the ticket. According to sources, he is a strong contender for the Congress party ticket.Some other aspirants such as Paramjit Kaur, Harmeet Singh Matharu, Udhahy Singh, Amarjit Singh Joda and Gagandeep Singh Sehajra also submitted their applications for the party ticket. Senior leaders of the Congress would conduct scrutiny on January 17 and it was being expected that the ticket would be announced on 18.Meanwhile, Inderjit Singh Pandori and Baljit Singh Raju from the Shiromani Akali Dal are two aspirants for the party ticket. However, no decision on the party ticket has been taken. Some more activists may claim for the party ticket. The Aam Aadmi Party has two aspirants Avtar Singh Babbu and Japinder Singh.During the SAD-BJP alliance, the seat used to be in the SAD quota but now after a split between the two parties, the BJP is fielding its candidate separately for which three aspirants have already submitted their applications to the party office.Apart from political parties, there are chances of independent candidates. The area of Ward No.37 lies along Sultwanwind Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/political-activities-pick-up-pace-for-by-election-in-ward-no-37-in-amritsar-199925
18-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Gang involved in making spurious milk busted, 1 held||Tarn Taran, January 17In a raid at Ghadhum village here on Saturday, a police party, headed by Sub-Inspector Sukhraj Singh, in-charge of the CIA, Patti, busted a six-member gang involved in producing spurious milk. The police arrested Jajj Singh, one of the gang members, while the others absconded.The police said five of the gang members were residents of Ghadhum village in Tarn Taran district while the sixth one was a resident of Dhaddrian Kalan in Ludhiana district.The accused were identified as Jajj Singh, his sons Gurlal Singh and Gursahib Singh and Jajj Singh’s brother Bhajan Singh and his son Arashpreet Singh (of Ghadhum village) while the sixth accused was identified as Romesh Singh (of Dhaddrian Kalan).The police confiscated 25 kg of dry milk (Maltodex Treen powder) and 72 ltrs of refined oil stored in the joint house of Jajj Singh and Bhajan Singh. The police said the accused of Ghadhum village used to produce spurious milk and Romesh Singh would carry the milk in a van and supply it to different shops in Ludhiana and other districts.The accused had been booked under Sections 307, 328, 272 and 273 of the IPC by Harike police. The police said spurious milk could cause serious health problems like heart problem, cancer and sometimes even lead to death. It was also called white poisons.Sub-Inspector Sukhraj Singh said Jajj Singh was produced in a court which remanded him in one-day police custody. The police have launched a hunt to nab the other accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-involved-in-making-spurious-milk-busted-1-held-199926
18-01-2021||---||Another case of carjacking at gunpoint in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 17Yet another incident of carjacking was reported in the city on Sunday. An employee of an engineering college and his colleague was robbed by three motorcycle-borne persons at gunpoint.Complainant Santosh Kumar and his colleague Harsimran Singh were returning from Ambala and had reached near Rayya when the incident took place. Santosh said he stopped his car on the roadside to answer the call of nature. He said as they were about to sit in the car, three bike-borne persons with their faces covered stopped near them. Santosh said the accused took out a pistol and pointed at them. He said the accused snatched keys of the car and wallet of his colleague, which contained Rs 3,000. He said the trio fled towards Amritsar.In another incident, a snatcher was nabbed when he and his accomplices tried to rob a worker. Bhupinder Singh, who works as a security guard at BG Textile factory at Nagkalan village, said a worker named Mithu went out of the factory after ending his shift. He said two youth travelling on a motorcycle tried to snatch money from him. He said after Mithu raised an alarm, he rushed towards him and nabbed one of the snatchers.The accused has been identified as Sandeep Singh, a resident of Gopalpura village. His accomplice, Tara of Nagkalan village, fled away on the bike after snatching Rs500 from Mithu. The police have registered two separate cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-case-of-carjacking-at-gunpoint-in-amritsar-199927
18-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar Police arrest gangster Sunny Yama||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 17The police have nabbed notorious gangster Ranjodh Singh, alias Sunny Yama, along with his four accomplices on Saturday. The police have also recovered a brand new MPV (Innova Crysta) and a revolver from his possession. The accused were produced before the Duty Magistrate, who remanded him into police custody.Other occupants of the vehicle have been identified as Taljit Singh, alias Jimmy, and Chanpreet Singh of Sudarshan Nagar, Narinder Singh of Ghanupur Kale and Gurpreet Singh of East Mohan Nagar.Vallah police station SHO Sanjiv Kumar said the accused could not produce any documents related to the weapon and vehicle in which they were travelling.According to police, a team headed by Assistant Sub-Inspector Prem Singh laid a naka near Vallah bus stop.The ASI said they got a tip-off that occupants of a vehicle heading towards Verka Chowk were carrying weapons.He said on being stopped, driver of the MPV first slowed down the vehicle and then suddenly stepped up acceleration. The ASI pushed barricades ahead of the vehicle and arrested its occupants.The vehicle was being driven by Yama, a resident of Fairland colony, on Fatehgarh Churian road. Yama has around 12 criminal cases registered against him.The police recovered .32 bore revolver and seven live bullets from his possession. Cops also recovered 20 live cartridges from the possession of Narinder. Investigations revealed that they had procured the weapon from Sukhpreet Singh of Khandwala, who also has a couple of criminal cases registered against him. The ASI said they have registered a case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.Youth assaulted, 4 bookedA youth was allegedly kidnapped and assaulted on January 13. The victim has been identified as Gurjit Singh, a resident of Kotli Amb village, falling under the jurisdiction of Ajnala police station.The accused have been identified as Major Singh, Hardeep Singh and Sandeep Singh of Kotli Amb village and an unknown person.Gurpal Singh, cousin of the victim, stated to the police that on January 13 he and Gurjit were returning to their native village from Ajnala on separate motorcycles.He said Gurjit stopped near the village to answer the call of nature and a car stopped near him. Gurpal said before they could understand anything, the accused started assaulting Gurjit. He said they bundled Gurjit in the car and sped away towards Harad Khurd village.He said he immediately called Gurjit’s father Harpal Singh and started looking for his cousin. Gurpal said they found Gurjit in unconscious state on the roadside around 1 km away. He said they immediately rushed him to the Ajnala Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-arrest-gangster-sunny-yama-199928
18-01-2021||---||ASI nabbed in drug seizure case in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 17The Amritsar (city) police have arrested Assistant Sub-Inspector Kuljit Singh on Sunday in connection with pilfering of 1-kg smack from the malkhana of the Government Railway Police (GRP), which later found its way into the hands of drug peddlers.The incident had come to the light when the police had nabbed two peddlers with the contraband on November 9 last year.The GRP had booked ASI Kuljit and the then Station House Officer, Sukhwinder Singh Malhi, on the charges of fraud, criminal conspiracy and under the NDPS Act on December 21, 2020.The CIA Staff had nabbed Vinod Kumar, a resident of Maqboolpura, and Raj Kumar, alias Tita, of Ram Tirath road, for allegedly possessing 1 kg of smack on November 9, 2020. A case under Sections 21, 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against them.Their interrogation revealed that they had procured the contraband from Kuljit for Rs 85,000. Following this, the police had nominated Kuljit.Taking a serious note of the incident, the GRP formed a special investigating team headed by the AIG-rank officer to probe the matter.The preliminary probe was conducted by Parveen Kumar Kanda, SP, Bureau of Investigations. A case under Sections 409 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 59 of the NDPS Act was registered against Sukhwinder and Kuljit. Later, they were placed under suspension.Now, a special investigation team headed by DSP Aswani Kumar Atri has been formed to probe the case further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-nabbed-in-drug-seizure-case-in-amritsar-199916
