19-01-2021||---||Come forward, set example for juniors, senior docs urged||Amritsar, January 18After getting a lukewarm response from health workers, the Health Department has asked senior officials to get vaccinated and set an example for their juniors. The department has also asked health administrators to personally motivate the employees, especially program officers, so that junior staff gets motivated to receive the vaccine dose.The district Health Department has stepped up efforts to encourage and motivate its staff, especially senior doctors, so that the confidence of workers in the Covid-19 vaccine can be built. The move has helped the department in increasing the number of volunteers for getting the injections. The department stated that a total of 120 health employees received the vaccine on Monday.However, on the first day of the vaccination drive on January 16, the department had reported only 79 volunteers. While reiterating that the vaccine is completely safe and no major side-effects have been reported by employees who received the injections so far, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the number of vaccine takers would rise further in the coming days.“Some people may hesitate initially but with time everybody knows that immunity against the virus is the best option,” he said, adding that senior officials of the department were also getting the vaccine so that their juniors could be motivated.Earlier, the employees’ association at the Civil Hospital also demanded that senior bureaucrats and politicians should get the vaccine so that others were encouraged. Many media reports questioning the competency and efficacy of the new injection had resulted in creating a suspicion in the minds of employees.District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said, “The process is being streamlined and people are coming forward to get the injection. Health employees are also being made aware of the need for vaccination. Health workers have been at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19 and the government has honoured their services by choosing them for vaccination in the first phase. The district would get more stocks of the vaccine in the coming weeks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/come-forward-set-example-for-juniors-senior-docs-urged-200501
19-01-2021||---||Women protest against farm laws||Amritsar, January 18On a call given by the Joint Farmers’ Front to observe Mahila Kisan Diwas, a large number of women on Monday participated in a protest organised against the three controversial agricultural laws and demanded its immediate repeal.The protest was held at Deen Dayal Upadhya Market located on Bhandari Bridge here. The women participants from different organisations took out a protest march that passed through various bazaars. They raised slogans against the Central Government for passing the three controversial laws that led the farmers to agitate on Delhi borders.Speaking on the occasion, various women leaders pointed out that for the past 55 days, farmers belonging to different farmers’ organisations have been sitting on a dharna at Delhi border. They were joined by elderly people, women and children in the bone-chilling weather. They said around 100 farmers had lost their lives during the agitation.Nevertheless, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his coterie did not pay any heed to their genuine demand of repealing the law. They said the struggle would continue till the government repeal the laws. They said they would continue to support the farmers.Among those who addressed the gathering included Dr Kanwaljit Kaur, Daswinder Kaur, Jaswinder Kaur, Advocate Kanwaljit Kaur, Kulwinder Kaur and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-protest-against-farm-laws-200502
19-01-2021||---||Lending shape to his thoughts||Manmeet Singh GillTribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 18With an IQ (Intelligence Quotient) index of merely 50, Deepak Bhami’s IQ falls in an extremely low category. Subjected to ridicule because of the incapacity, he endured a flood of problems right from the childhood facing abuse from his peers and society in general. Having studied in a school for special needs, Deepak has managed to pick up some social skills which greatly helped him to go about the ways of the world.The landscape of his world changed when he had turned to sculpting four years ago to lend voice and form to his thoughts. The 32-year-old had recently been honoured with the state award by the Indian Academy of Fine Arts. Deepak had also won numerous medals and accolades in athletics during the school paralympics events such as athletics and shot put. However, his dreams of becoming a sportstar were cut short by an accidental knee injury. Deepak these days engages in cycling.His elder sister, Tina Bhami, is herself into sculpting and her artworks have been displayed in various exhibitions. Deepak said he was inspired by her. “Earlier, I was into painting and murals but presently I have been devoting my time to sculpting.” He also loves collecting broken items and making pendants out of these. “He never disposes anything and does not even let us do that,” reveals Tina.Aware of the fact that financial independence is equally important than pursuing an art, he plans to set up a stall where he could sell decorative items made by him. His family feels that the government should do more for people with special needs. He said he planned to go ahead with the plan in coming months.“A middle-class family has limited resources. The government should initiate a programme for vocational training of persons with special needs so that they can live an independent and honorable life,” said Tina adding that a majority of people have become sensitive towards the likes of her brother. “But still it is not a perfect world and there is always scope for improvement,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lending-shape-to-his-thoughts-200503
19-01-2021||---||Woman, minor boy die in sleep, hubby fighting for life||Amritsar, January 18A woman and her minor son died of suffocation in Khuh Korian in the walled city area here on Monday, while her husband is fighting for life in the hospital. They were sleeping in a closed room with a burning coal furnace.The victims were identified as Rajina (21) and Razaan (4). Her husband Afzal (24) was admitted to the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for treatment and his condition is stated to be serious. They were residing on the second floor of the house.The incident came to light when Tinku, the owner of the house, woke up in the morning and heard Afzal coughing very badly. He went up and broke open the doors of the room, which was filled with smoke. While Rajina and Razaan had died, they rushed Afzal to the hospital, where his condition was still critical.Assistant Commissioner of Police Parvesh Chopra said Afzal, who originally hails from West Bangal, used to work as goldsmith. He has been living in the house for the past four months. Due to severe cold conditions, they might have kept an earthen furnace with burning coal in the room, which had no ventilation. As smoke coming out of it started accumulating inside the closed room, the victims ended up inhaling poisonous gases.He said on the statement of victim’s brother Afsar, the police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The bodies were sent for the post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-minor-boy-die-in-sleep-hubby-fighting-for-life-200504
19-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||A garden with a riot of colours||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 18A retired banker, Charanjit Singh Bagga’s house is nothing short of a nature’s abode. Adorned with hundreds of flowers, his 900 square yard house in the Hukam Singh Colony is a sight for sore eyes.Take a NoteA variety of plants such as carnations (22 plants), penzes (10 plants), gerberas (six plants), cynerarie, marigold, verbena, bonsai, bird of paradise and many others present a refreshing site.The entire roof of his house is covered with over 500 pots with flowers. Exuding the look of a nursery, his garden presents a colourful sight. A multitude of ferns add beauty to the interiors of his house.Having retired from the Central Bank of India over 20 years back, his childhood hobby of gardening became his full time passion.He is helped by his wife Gajinder Bagga, who retired as head of the English Department of Khalsa College and his daughter Minna Bagga, who is a lecturer of Clinical Nutrition of Dietician at SR Government College for Women. Originally hailing from Gujranwala, he had migrated to the city before the Partition.Charanjit Singh is also a proud plant parent of a special variety of rose which is used for making perfume. He also propagates roses and provides cuttings to even Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana. Edward Rose, which is locally called Such Gulab, is one such rare variety. He grafts all plants and also conducts research work in propagation of carnation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-garden-with-a-riot-of-colours-200505
19-01-2021||---||All-women car rally flagged off from Gobindgarh Fort||Amritsar, January 18Launching the first-ever National Road Safety Month celebrations by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, an all-women car rally was flagged off from Gobindgarh Fort by members of FICCI FLO, Amritsar chapter, here on Monday.Leading a campaign, ‘India Against Road Crash’, FICCI along with NGO Drive Smart Drive Safe has started a collaborative initiative by bringing together more than two dozen dedicated organisations, institutions, administration and authorities to collectively fight deaths on Indian roads through awareness, training and self-enforcement.The rally, led by five teams comprising women, will travel to Kanyakumari, creating road safety awareness while they drive across the length and breadth of the country. Leading the rally, Garima Avtar, who is an avid car rallyist, said road rage was a serious issue. “In our country, we report a high number of road rage cases and many young lives are lost to this menace. Yet we fail to take this matter seriously and do not consider road safety an important habit to adopt. Through this rally, we aim to change the attitude against the issue.”The rally will adopt multiple methods of road safety practices, including improving safe driving response, risk mapping and speed control as these women drive across the distance.Meeta Mehra, Chiarperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar, said, “The pandemic has made everyone to realise the value of life. And our country has high mortality rate in road accidents that can be avoided if we are aware and safe on road and behind the wheel. The rally aims to create awareness regarding road safety and engage people across the country in forming a network of responsible citizens.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-women-car-rally-flagged-off-from-gobindgarh-fort-200506
19-01-2021||Amritsar||Safe drive, save life: Road safety month begins with rally||In order to mark the 32nd National Road Safety Month, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill on Monday flagged off a traffic awareness rally from his office here.Around 70 cops on 35 bikes participated in the rally. It passed through different roads and bazaars of the city, including Kitchlew Chowk, Session Chowk, Ram Talai, Mahan Singh Gate, Chitta Gummat, Ram Bagh Chowk, Hall Gate, Bharawan Da Dhaba, Sikandri Gate, railway station and canal office and culminated at traffic police office here.The Police Commissioner said that during the month-long awareness programmes, the traffic police would hold seminars and distribution of pamphlets at various chowks to make people aware of the traffic norms. Reflector tapes would be pasted and free pollution check-up camps would be organised. He said the traffic police had also planned to honour the commuters abiding by the traffic norms by distributing roses.He said a rally would be held at the Bhandari Bridge with the help of several NGOs to make people aware of the importance of wearing helmets while driving. He said a first-aid training camps for auto-rickshaw drivers would also be organised.He added that Good Samaritan certificates would be given to those who would help the accident victims, besides awareness rally would also be held from the entrance gate of Guru Nanak Dev University. A free medical camp for the Police Lines employees and their family members would also be organised.The Police Commissioner urged the people to follow the traffic norms in order to make the city roads safe for commuters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safe-drive-save-life-road-safety-month-begins-with-rally-200507
19-01-2021||---||Beware! Robbers are on the prowl||Amritsar, January 18Snatching and robbery incidents continue to haunt the residents of the holy city as two more such cases were reported here.Iqbal Singh, a resident of Manuke village was looted by armed persons near Pingalwara on the Main GT road here on Saturday night. He said he was returning to his company named United Agro Industry after distributing cattle feed to the clients at different places on his tempo. He was carrying cash worth Rs 59,000. He said when he reached near Pingalwara at Manawala on the main GT Road, an SUV intercepted him.He said three occupants of an SUV bundled him in their vehicle. He alleged that they thrashed him and even snatched the bag containing the cash. Later, they dumped him on the roadside. The police have registered a case while further investigations were under progress.Meanwhile, two unknown persons snatched gold ornaments from a couple near Bal village here on Sunday. The suspects took him to a secluded place on the pretext of giving them lift on his bike. Victim Dalip Singh, a resident of Adliwal village, stated to the police that after getting medicines from the Military Hospital, he along with his wife Surjit Kaur was waiting for a bus near Kitchlew Chowk. He said two unknown persons came on two bikes and asked them about their destination.He told them that they were going to Adliwal village. They said they were going to Rajasansi town and would therefore drop them at a turn near Adliwal village. He said they sat on their motorcycle. When they reached near Bal village, the suspects turned their bikes on a kutcha road and snatched earrings of his wife besides two gold rings and fled towards the city. The Airport police have registered a case in this regard. There has been no breakthrough in the case so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beware-robbers-are-on-the-prowl-200508
19-01-2021||---||SAD releases first list of candidates||Amritsar, January 18The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday released the first list of its seven candidates for the Majitha Nagar Council polls to be held on February 14.Bikram Singh Majithia, former cabinet minister and Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, MLA and SAD observer, released the first list.Tarun Abrol, a former president of the Majitha Nagar Council (MNC), got the ticket from ward number 12, Salwant Singh Seth, also a former president of the Majitha Nagar Council, got the ticket from ward number 10, Paramjit Kaur, daughter-in-law of Nanak Singh, ex-president of MNC, from ward number five, Jaswinder Kaur from ward number seven, Narinder Nayyar from ward number eight, Des Raj from ward number 11 and Suman, wife of Subhash Chander, from ward number 13.Majitha said the list of candidates for the remaining wards would be released soon. He recalled the electorates that the Akali Dal fought for the rights of all sections of the society, including the farmers.He said on the other hand the Congress had failed in all departments of governance and in the name of development all its promises had been proved false.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-releases-first-list-of-candidates-200509
19-01-2021||---||Youth booked for sexually harassing, stalking girl||Amritsar, January 18The Tarsikka police have booked a youth for allegedly stalking and sexually harassing a girl. He was identified as Sarabjit Singh of Chak Sikander village in Tarn Taran area. The police have registered a case against him while no arrest has been made till now.The victim sated to the police that she had met the accused around three years ago at Hazoor Sahib. She said he tried to make advances towards her which she had refused. She said Sarabjit’s cousin was married in her village and he started visiting her regularly. She said he somehow got her mobile number and started chatting with her. She said he developed an affair with her and during this he clicked several pictures with her. She said around six months ago she broke relationship with him. However, the accused continue to stalk and harass her but she did not tell anyone about this. She alleged the accused also threatened her of dire consequences. She said in the meanwhile she got engaged with a boy and her marriage was fixed for January 26. She alleged the accused forwarded her pictures with him to her fiancé following which her marriage broke. The police have registered a case under Sections 354-A, 354-D and 506 of the IPC against Sarabjit Singh and raids were on to nab him, said the police authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-for-sexually-harassing-stalking-girl-200513
19-01-2021||---||BBK DAV College for Women bags top position||Amritsar, January 18BBK DAV College for Women has been awarded the Best Institution Award-2020, as part of the International Educational Institution Awards 2020, organized by Patanjali College of Yoga and Research Centre, recognised by Yoga Alliance International and affiliated to International Yoga Federation. The award was received by Principal Pushpinder Walia via online mode on December 20. Besides India, institutions from other countries such as Singapore, Thailand, Mexico, Argentina, Hong Kong and USA also participated in this award function.BBK DAV College for Women won for its achievements in yoga, sports and was the sole winner of the same in Punjab. The Principal thanked the organising committee for this prestigious award and also gave the assurance that the college would continue to contribute in yoga and sports events with utmost zeal and commitment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bbk-dav-college-for-women-bags-top-position-200551
