20-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||New software plunges Amritsar MC into financial loss, panel may probe||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 19After adoption of new software by the Municipal Corporation (MC) to collect property tax, the residents are reportedly unable to get their tax history details. The office-bearers of the MC raised the issue at recently held General House meeting to check the flaws of software adopted by the Public Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) in all urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state.Raman Bakshi, Senior Deputy Mayor, claimed the MC witnessed financial loss due to flaws in newly adopted software. On the directions of PIDB, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) had adopted the new software being managed by the Local Bodies Department on August 14, 2020. Earlier, the MC had been using software of a private firm.“The old software used to ask to submit receipt of last fiscal before depositing the return of current year. Any defaulter, who has pending amount of previous years, was not able to pay the current year tax in old system. Now, the new software allows depositing tax of current year without verifying that tax payer’s history details. It is a major flaw which led to financial loss to the civic body,” said Bakshi.Apart from this, the tax calculation for multi-storey commercial buildings is also faulty. The Mayor claimed that instead of Rs3 per sq ft, it’s collecting Rs6 per sq ft for second or third floor of a building owned by a single owner.Hakam Singh, in-charge of Citizen Facilitation Centre, said, “The private company handed all the consumer data to the MC before we adopted the new software of PIDB. There was a provision in old software that tax payer can download previous years receipt. The tax payer can pay tax yearly. The new software doesn’t allow access to previous receipts.”Pardeep Rajput, Nodal Officer for property tax, said, “Manually, we don’t accept current year’s tax without getting the previous year’s receipt from tax payer. There might be issue with online payment. We scrutinise self-assessments of all the online tax payers at the end of fiscal year. If the General House constitutes committee, we will check the flaws and report it to the committee”. However, Bakshi stated that the MC has yet to constitute inquiry panel. The MC officials should take the matter seriously to avoid litigations.2nd week of Syal festit with emotions, and on the other hand we have many poets describing the unparalleled horrors of war through verse. While English poets like William Butler Yeats, Wilfred Owen and Robert Southey have written very powerful and poignant poems against the war, our own poets like Kaifi Azmi and Javed Akhtar have also written a lot of songs and poems that give a different perspective of war,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-software-plunges-amritsar-mc-into-financial-loss-panel-may-probe-201030
20-01-2021||---||Rice mill owner, family booked for Rs 13-cr fraud||Amritsar, January 19The Amritsar (rural) police have booked a rice mill owner (Bala Pari India Basmati Rice Mill) along with his son and daughter-in-law for allegedly defrauding as many as 28 commission agents (arhtiyas) to the tune of Rs13.45 crore.The accused have been identified as Ashok Sachdeva, his son Tushar Sachdeva, daughter-in-law Ridhi Sachdeva, all residents of Kitchlew Chowk, and Mandeepakpal Singh of Dalam village.The case was registered following a preliminary probe in the complaint submitted in September 2019.Jaspal Sharma, a commission agent and resident of Ajnala, said the matter pertains to year 2014-15. He said Tushar, who was one of the partners, procured Basmati worth Rs1.52 crore from him. He said he paid back only Rs7 lakh of the total amount. Similarly, the rice mill owners procured Basmati worth Rs99 lakh from Satinderpal Singh, another commissioner agent.Sharma said the rice mill owner duped as many as 28 commission agents in a similar fashion who had jointly filed a complaint in this regard. All commission agents work at Harsha Chhina grain market.Sharma said later, Ashok became a guarantor and issued cheques to the commission agents and promised that they could encash the same by March 2017, else he would sell his property (9 acres) located on Tarn Taran Road to them and did an agreement (Bayana) in this connection.Assistant Sub-Inspector Agyapal Singh, Investigating Officer, said efforts were on to nab the suspects while further investigations were underway. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (conspiracy) of the India Penal Code has been registered against them while no arrest has been made to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rice-mill-owner-family-booked-for-rs-13-cr-fraud-201031
20-01-2021||---||Sorry, restroom is out of order!||Amritsar, January 19A set of four toilets raised at the Moran Wala Chowk in Ram Bagh area has been lying locked since it was constructed nearly two years ago prompting people to continue urinate outside, thus causing the surroundings to stink.These toilets are located on the prime commercial location with a road across leading to the Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT).Gurpreet Singh, running a butcher shop, says locked toilet set being used meant that there is no provision of cleaning and water. “This made entire surroundings unhygienic and was casting a negative impact on the footfall of customers,” he adds. Earlier, the Covid-19-induced lockdown and later precautions had brought down the income to zero. Now, unclean surroundings are nudging the prick.Notably, the entire area serves as a food market ranging from fresh farm vegetables, meat, poultry, fish, pickles and various others.Babloo is another shopkeeper who earns his livelihood nearby. He said the patch is so prime and bustling with commercial activity that the flow of traffic barely stops at midnight. The traffic is to be revived early in the morning as people with luggage and their belongings head towards the ISBT. He asserted that the sewerage lines of the stretch needs to be replaced as it used to clog immediately after opening of tap in the toilets. Before the construction of new toilet utility an open toilet set used to exist there.When contacted, councillor of the area Rajbir Kaur, said the process of handing over the toilet set to a new contractor was underway. “Once it is over the washrooms would be opened for public,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sorry-restroom-is-out-of-order-201033
20-01-2021||---||Nagar kirtan taken out to mark parkash purb of 10th Sikh Guru||Amritsar, January 19A nagar kirtan to mark the 354th ‘Parkash Purb’ of 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh was organised by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday.The nagar kirtan started from Akal Takht after Giani Jagtar Singh, additional head granthi of Darbar Sahib, performed ardas.Led by the Panj Pyaras (the five beloved ones), the procession moved through different markets of the city where devotees organised langar. The band and gatka performers also joined the procession. Residents showered flowers on the procession to pay their respect to the 10th Sikh Guru.Bibi Jagir Kaur, chief, SGPC, said Guru Gobind Singh’s entire life is a lesson for the humanity. She said Guru Gobind Singh sacrificed his life fighting evil in society.Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) also organised a nagar kirtan from its headquarters, which culminated at Darbar Sahib. Students and faculty of the institute run by the CKD participated in the procession.Nirmal Singh, chief, CKD, said they organised the annual processions as a part of its dharma parchar programme. He said people should try to live life as per the principles laid down by the religion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-taken-out-to-mark-parkash-purb-of-10th-sikh-guru-201034
20-01-2021||---||DEO: Make optimum use of Educare app in classrooms||Amritsar, January 19As the Education Department released datesheet for board classes, the government schools in the district have started the preparations to help students with extra classes. With the shift to online education, the extra classes being offered by schools is an attempt to fill gaps left behind in completing the syllabus and clearing the concepts.DEO Satinderbir Singh has also asked the school heads to implement innovative methods to make use of the Punjab Educare application to help students prepare for board exams. The department has also installed LED projectors in schools to ensure that students learn from the digital application. “In order to help students prepare for ensuing board examinations, the school heads and teachers should sensitise students to the app’s utility with the help of LED projectors available in the classrooms in schools,” said Satinderbir Singh.Divulging details, he said the teachers of the government schools could made students aware of the use of Punjab Educare app in their respective classes. “The school teachers can download the Punjab Educare app by connecting their mobile phones to smart LED or projector via Wi-Fi. It would help them have access to revised syllabus, question banks, daily assignments, model question papers, practice sheets of different subjects as well as latest updates to ensure meticulous and micro planning with regard to the preparation for the annual examination,” he said. The district has around 50 digital classrooms in 25 schools with LED projectors installed and more schools are likely to get similar digital classrooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deo-make-optimum-use-of-educare-app-in-classrooms-201035
20-01-2021||---||Australian High Commissioner pays obeisance at Darbar Sahib||Amritsar, January 19Australian High Commissioner Barry O’Farrell paid obeisance at Darbar Sahib on Tuesday. During his visit Barry O’Farrell said he was happy to visit this holy place. He also lauded the services rendered by the Sikhs for humanity.The High Commissioner of Australia, before visiting Harmandir Sahib, saw Sri Guru Ram Das Ji’s langar (community kitchen food) being prepared and also performed a symbolic langar service.He expressed happiness over the fact that thousands of people as sangat (congregation) were eating langar at the same time.Barry O’Farrell showed keen interest in learning about the history of Sri Darbar Sahib and other shrines as well as the Sikh tradition, from the Information Officer Jaswinder Singh Jassi.Meanwhile, manager of the information centre of Darbar Sahib, Mukhtar Singh and Information Officer Jaswinder Singh Jassi honoured the Austrlian High Commissioner with Guru’s blessing Siropao (robe of honour), a set of religious books and a golden model of Harmandir Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/australian-high-commissioner-pays-obeisance-at-darbar-sahib-201036
20-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||When luck and hard work combine||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 19Things changed completely for Jagroop Singh when Covid-induced lockdown was imposed last year. Working as a guide in pre-Covid era, he was earning a handsome amount of Rs 40,000 per month. Though pandemic caused an irreversible damage to him, it did not dent his indomitable spirit as he started a hardware shop on the Amritsar-Attari GT Road.Even after easing of restrictions, there was no scope of arrival of international tourists to keep him employed. Keeping this in mind, the 27-year-old looked for a new venture. “I approached one of my relatives for his support in establishing the hardware profession. Though it requires two to three years to learn the nuances of the trade, his continuous support helped me in hiring a shop.”Thanks to the construction activity on the GT Road and surrounding villages, he conveniently found a customer base. He is being approached by customers looking to install billboards and display boards in the area. It proved to be a win-win situation for both the customers and as well as Jagroop. They no longer needed to travel to Chheharta, about 8 km away, to procure the hardware, while Jagroop got employment.Father to a toddler, he feels that this challenging situation prompted him to look for a new way out. He has been looking forward to expanding his business. Currently running his shop single-handedly, he is planning to employ two more persons to assist him at the shop.Entrepreneurship has surely enabled him to become an employer from a job seeker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-luck-and-hard-work-combine-201037
20-01-2021||---||SGPC plans courses to spread awareness on Sikhism, history||Amritsar, January 19SGPC has announced to organise refresher courses as well as and Gurmat (teachings of the Sikh Gurus) training camps for students in several educational institutions.Apart from inculcating Sikh religious history and Gurbani to the students in the schools and colleges, the religious teachers will also connect the staff of educational institutions with the Gurmat.A letter has been issued by the director education to the educational institutions.It is notable that 15-day refresher courses have been conducted in the Gurdwaras managed by the SGPC to inculcate Gurmat in the employees.Under the programme, these courses have now been made compulsory even in educational institutions as well.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “One of the objectives of the educational institutes is to spread Sikhism. It has been decided to conduct refresher courses for the employees of the educational institutions and Gurmat training camps for the students. In addition, daily religious classes will continue as earlier.”She said it had been made mandatory to attach a brief history as well as historical photographs in the name of the concerned Guru or personality in whose name, a school or college has been established.“This will create awareness among students and staff about the history of religion. The arrangements would also be made to celebrate the historical days in the educational institutions in the form of sangat (congregation) and to make students visit various historical Gurdwaras,” she said.She said several activities related to Sikh history such as Gurbani kantth competition (reciting memorised Gurbani), turban competition, historical painting competition, kavishri competition (poetry), Sikh dress competition, Gatka (Sikh Martial Arts competition, etc, are being organised to spread awareness among the masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-plans-courses-to-spread-awareness-on-sikhism-history-201039
20-01-2021||---||Restore old pay scale: Vets urge state govt||Amritsar, January 19The Punjab State Veterinary Officers’ Association (PSVOA) on Tuesday held a meet and demanded withdrawal of a letter issued by the Finance Department on January 2021 to reduce the pay scale of newly recruited veterinary officers.The meeting was held here under the chairmanship of state chief, Dr Sarabjit Singh Randhawa.Members of the association said with this move, basic salary of veterinary officers would be reduced from Rs 56,100 to Rs 47,600. Dr Randhawa said the government must restore the old pay scale as per provisions of the 7th Central Pay Commission as written in appointment orders. He said the Supreme Court of India and the Punjab and Haryana High Court have already given pay parity to veterinary officers equal to medical officers.He said veterinary officers had been on the frontline throughout the pandemic to ensure uninterrupted supply of milk, meat and chicken to people. “Dairy, poultry and livestock businesses were not disrupted due to the efforts of veterinary officers,” he said.Dr Randhawa said bird flu scare was looming large and veterinary officers were again at the forefront. Instead of boosting morale of veterinary officers, the government has reduced pay and demoralised them.The association said if pay parity of veterinary doctors was not restored, they would be forced to protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restore-old-pay-scale-vets-urge-state-govt-201040
20-01-2021||Our Correspondent Tarn Taran||Protesters burn NIA effigy||The farmers and other activists of different organisations on the 105th day of the dharna being staged at the Usman Toll Plaza burnt the effigy of the NIA on Tuesday against issuing summons to the leaders.Sukhwinder Singh, leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, and other leaders of the different organisations while addressing the protesters said that the just to discourage the agitating farmers Union Government was issuing summons to the leaders of the agitating farmers, transporters, journalists, social activists and others through the NIA. The speakers warned the Union Government of rescinding the three laws. The leaders called the Acts as anti-farmer so they would not allow it to be implemented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesters-burn-nia-effigy-201041
20-01-2021||---||Family demands justice, wants action against erring policemen||Amritsar, January 19Family members of a teenager, who committed suicide around seven months ago after being humiliated by the police, were running from pillar to post to seek justice. The aggrieved kin demanded registration of an FIR against the erring cops.Ankit (18), hanged himself on June 15, 2020. In the suicide note, Ankit alleged that cops ‘placed’ condoms in his scooter while he was going to market. He wrote that the policemen sought money and harassed him.Earlier, family members had protested against the police following which Assistant Sub-Inspector Sham Sundar and Assistant Sub-Inspector Davinder Singh were placed under suspension.Surinder Kumar, father of the deceased, alleged that some police personnel were sheltering the accused cops.Surinder today approached veteran BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla and sought her intervention in the case.Earlier, too, following her intervention, the then Secretary, Punjab Government, Satish Chandra, had marked a probe to the then Chief Administrator. Amritsar Development Authority, Palavi Chaudhry. In her probe, she had concluded that the cops should have restricted themselves to enforcement of laws rather than engaging in moral policing. She had recommended the departmental action against the cops.She had also pointed out that the family members also failed to provide mental and emotional support to the deceased. Advocate Kuldeep Bawa said the family had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court following the incident, which has sought report from the Police Department. The court has fixed February 12 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-demands-justice-wants-action-against-erring-policemen-201042
20-01-2021||---||Woman accuses father-in-law, husband of rape||Amritsar, January 19 A woman has accused her husband for allegedly raping her after divorcing her. She also alleged that her father-in-law used to keep a bad eye on her.The accused have been identified as Ajmer Singh (husband) and Sawinder Singh (father-in-law), both residents of Kazikot village.The complainant stated that she got married to Ajmer in 2009. She said soon after the marriage, her husband started threatening her. She said she divorced her husband in the court two years ago and was so perturbed with this that she did not informed her parents.She alleged that for the last two years, her husband did not let her go and was forcibly making physical relations with her. The police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 509 of the IPC against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-accuses-father-in-law-husband-of-rape-201043
20-01-2021||---||2nd week of Syal fest treasures North-East stories & war poetry||Amritsar, January 19Majha House continued with virtual edition of Syal festival after kicking off last week. This time the web session featured Easterin Kire, a well-known writer from Nagaland, who currently lives in Norway. Easterine’s writings mostly reflect upon the lives of people hailing from his homeland and North-East at large. She talked about memories and their different varieties and also detailed her writings based upon those memories. “I feel that we perceive memories in many ways like our personal, family and community memories. The ones we easily accept as our memories are sometimes inherited to us. At times, when we do something, like a new work, our mind points to something, it indicates towards our family or community memories,” she said. Easterine also spoke about how her early life and intent to preserve the literary legacy of Nagaland prompted her to turn into a writer. The second session for this week was with Major General Hemant Kumar Singh who shared about the poems associated with war. In the backdrop of Army Day that was celebrated on January 15, he said that poetry has defined war with contradictions. “On one hand we have so many poets writing about war in a beautiful manner, associating it with emotions, and on the other hand we have many poets describing the unparalleled horrors of war through verse. While English poets like William Butler Yeats, Wilfred Owen and Robert Southey have written very powerful and poignant poems against the war, our own poets like Kaifi Azmi and Javed Akhtar have also written a lot of songs and poems that give a different perspective of war,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2nd-week-of-syal-fest-treasures-north-east-stories-war-poetry-201044
20-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Pandemic batters tourist guides||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 19Unlocking most of the activities notwithstanding, around 25 tourist guides continue to remain out of work due to non-arrival of international tourists in the city.These guides have not got any financial support from the Centre or the state government. In compelling circumstances, they have been forced to look for other avenues.Jaswinder Singh, a guide, said he used to earn around Rs 30,000 per month. “It was enough to take care of a small family. The Covid-19 induced lockdown brought everything to a halt while kitchen, power and medical expenses remain intact,” he said.Anil Sharma, another guide, has a similar story to share. “I am now taking tuitions to meet monthly expenses. I am waiting for the international air travel restrictions to ease so that footfall of tourists increases in the city.”Gurinder Singh Johal, a senior member of the Amritsar Guide Association, said, “Share of foreigners was around 10 per cent out of the total tourists visiting the holy city. These tourists used to be our main customer base as only five per cent of domestic tourists opt for guides.”He said though tourists were coming to the holy city, but most of them were from northern India who don’t hire guides.Johal added that domestic tourists coming from southern, eastern and western parts of the country prefer guided tours to learn Punjabi culture, cuisine and places.The pandemic totally destroyed the tourism sector globally and the holy city was no exception. Lakhs of jobs were lost and numerous countries managed to safeguard interests of its citizens, but in India tourist guides had been left at the mercy of God, said Johal.Guides rued that the state government and the Tourism Department did nothing to protect their interests.They appealed the Centre and the state government to reopen the Jallianwala Bagh and commence Beating Retreat ceremony at Attari-Wagah border to increase flow of tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-batters-tourist-guides-201045
20-01-2021||Amritsar||101 yrs on, ‘official’ list of 492 Jallianwala martyrs out||Over a century after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, an official list of 492 martyrs has been revealed amid a debate over its authenticity.The list has been uploaded on the Amritsar administration’s website. The relatives of martyrs have been asked to submit documents to ascertain their antecedents. Today, 11 persons submitted relevant documents, claiming to be the descendants of the martyrs.Confusion over exact numberA state-level function has been scheduled to honour the martyrs’ kin on January 25 at Anand Park in Ranjit Avenue where a separate memorial would be unveiled.The administration has appealed to the public to approach the Deputy Commissioner’s office by January 22 if they have information about the martyrs’ kin. Besides, all MLAs, councillors and sarpanches have been approached with the list.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said efforts were being made to ascertain the list’s genuineness. “We are trying to reach out to the kin of the martyrs. It was quite a cumbersome process to identify all, given the fact that the list didn’t have proper contacts and addresses,” he said.However, confusion over the number of deaths and the uncertainty over their names remains with multiple lists projecting different figures. Historian VN Datta, who authored the pioneering work on Jallianwala Bagh (1969), has mentioned that around 700 persons were killed.His daughter and associate professor Nonica Dutta, Department of Historical Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, said her father had zeroed in on this estimate on the basis of local police records. Quoting Dutta’s research, she said at the meeting of the Imperial Legislative Council held on September 12, 1919, Congrerss leader Madan Mohan Malaviya had stated 1,000 persons had been killed in the massacre. “My father had also questioned both the official and Congress estimates. There is no clarity on the number of martyrs to date,” she said.The list of the dead and injured prepared by the British then for the purpose of awarding compensation has several discrepancies. Lying at the DC’s office, the list has 501 individuals with many marked as “unidentified”. The list was pruned to 492, as several serial numbers were left blank.A recent study by the Partition Museum Trust put the number at 547 with the names of 45 not known. A board in the precincts of the Jallianwala Bagh earlier put the death toll at 379 and around 1,500 injured. This was published by the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust. Also, it was inscripted at the martyrs’ well from where 120 bodies were recovered later on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/101-yrs-on-official-list-of-492-jallianwala-martyrs-out-200778
