21-01-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 3 held in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 20The city police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang of robbers here by arresting three of its members. The police recovered weapons, stolen mobiles and bikes from their possession. The accused have been identified as Jashandeep Singh, alias Jashan, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, and Malkeet Singh, alias Baba.The police recovered two 315 bore pistols, one 12 bore pistol, four cartridges, two sharp-edged weapons, one scooter, motorcycle and a mobile. Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective), said acting on a tip-off, Ranjit Singh Dhaliwal, SHO, Gate Hakima police station, along with a police team nabbed the accused. The accused were wanted in a robbery case at Fateh Singh Colony on December 8 in which they looted Rs 2.25 lakh. They had also robbed a liquor vend on December 22.During preliminary investigation, the accused confessed that they had constituted a gang and used to rob commuters on gunpoint. There are eight criminal cases against the gang members.The police have registered a case under Section 379B of the IPC and the Arms Act.Phishing attack: Man duped of Rs 2.78 lakhA local resident was duped of Rs 2.78 lakh on Wednedsay. The victim, Sahbaaz Walia, works at an IT firm in Pune. In his complaint to the police, Walia stated that he was in the city and around 6.30 pm, he ordered a pizza from a multi-national app. “Due to some technical issue, the order got cancelled. I forwarded a request to refund the money. I got a call for refund. The caller asked me to contact on another number. When I called on another number, I was told that a link has been sent on my registered mobile number. The caller asked me to download the app inorder to get the refund. When I downloaded the app, I received a message that Rs2,78,500 has been debited from my account,” he said. The police have registered a complaint and initiated the inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-3-held-in-amritsar-201556
21-01-2021||The state Election Commission has released the election schedule keeping in view the notification issued by the Local Government Department||Political heat ahead of civic body elections||Ghar Ghar Rozgar Empowered herKiranpreet Kaur, a resident of the border area of Khalra village got a job under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ scheme of the state government. Kiranpreet Kaur a matriculate, belongs to a modest family and has been earning Rs 8,000 monthly after securing a job under the scheme. Resham Singh, father of Kiranpreet, is a shopkeeper. He was unable to bear the expenses of the higher education of Kiranpreet. She visited the office of the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE) in Tarn Taran where she got her name registered. Kiranpeet Kaur was selected for the post of the wellness adviser. The district administration’s move was a step towards empowering women.Can’t dodge this pothole!The administration has failed to fix a large pothole in the middle of the Chabal-Amritsar bypass in Tarn Taran. The locals had been witnessing several accidents for the past many years. Deep Arora, Sukhwant Sukha Fruitwala, Manjinder Singh, Satnam Singh, Charan Singh Rickshaw Puller locals said they had requested the authorities to repair the road many a times but they failed to address their demands. Residents have appealed to the officials concerned to take stock of the road which poses hurdle to commuters even during monsoons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/political-heat-ahead-of-civic-body-elections-201468
21-01-2021||---||Gurpurb celebrated at Amritsar Khalsa College||Amritsar, January 20The 354th Prakash Purb of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Sikh Guru and founder of Khalsa Panth was celebrated with religious fervour and devotion at Khalsa College campus here on Wednesday. As per the traditions established by Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC), lectures on teachings and philosophy of Guru Gobind Singh were held and kirtan recitals by the students of Khalsa College of Nursing (KCN) were performed. They recited hymns from Gurbani and verses in the praise of the revered Guru.The gurdwara complex was decorated tastefully with buntings and flowers. The teachers, students and staff members took part in the ardas (prayers) following the bhog ceremony of Akhand Path and later the langar (community kitchen) was served. KCGC honorary secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina gave the message to the youth to follow the philosophy of Guru, which he said was most relevant in the present strife-torn world.Dr Inderjit Singh Gagoani, a prominent historian, gave a detailed account of the life and teachings of the Guru who stood for righteousness, peace, brotherhood and communal harmony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurpurb-celebrated-at-amritsar-khalsa-college-201469
21-01-2021||---||Mayor: Negligence of solid waste management firm won’t be tolerated||Amritsar, January 20Senior officials of the Municipal Corporation held a review meeting with health wing official and representatives of solid waste management company Averda. During the meeting, they briefed on sanitation and waste management in their allotted areas and Chief Sanitary Inspectors of the Health Department discussed the difficulties being faced by them.Addressing the meeting, Mayor Karamjit Singh said, “City’s sanitation system and timely garbage collection is an important responsibility of the MC. There are some shortcomings that need to be rectified for proper sanitation”.He said that if there was any negligence on the part of the solid waste management company, the sanitary officers should report it to their competent authority so that appropriate action can be taken against the company.The Mayor said that the MC was committed to provide proper sanitation to the people of the city and efforts were being made to regularise garbage collection. The MC is making every effort to keep the city green and clean. He said that in order to maintain cleanliness, modern machines worth crores of rupees have been deployed on the city streets, which should be monitored regularly and the major roads of the city should be kept clean.Health Officers Dr Ajay Kanwar and Dr Yogesh Arora, chief sanitary inspector of the group and representatives of Avatar Company were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-negligence-of-solid-waste-management-firm-wont-be-tolerated-201470
21-01-2021||---||CM to lay stone of Jallianwala memorial in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 20Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will lay foundation stone of a memorial dedicated to 100th anniversary of Jallianwala Bagh massacre at Anand Park in Ranjit Avenue area.Sanjay Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Tourism and Culture, visited the site on Wednesday to review the preparations alongwith adviser Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Improvement Trust Chairperson Dinesh Bassi and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal. Kumar said the memorial would come up in the memory of martyrs and efforts would be to include soil of houses or villages of the martyrs.The district administration has released a list of 492 martyrs on the basis of its records. But, if kin of martyr has any claim, they can contact the Deputy Commissioner with evidence by tomorrow to get the name registered, he said. Meanwhile, the process was on to certify the credentials of the martyrs mentioned in the list.Dhillon said the event got delayed in the wake of the pandemic. “Soil will be brought from the house of every martyr by their family members or panchayat. We are trying to make family of every martyr a part of this programme,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-to-lay-stone-of-jallianwala-memorial-in-amritsar-201461
21-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Drug addict found dead||Tarn Taran, January 20A drug addict, Gurpinder Singh (30), a resident of Gunowal Havelian (Bandala), died under mysterious circumstances. His body was recovered from Rakh Sheron village, on the outskirts of the village, on Tuesday. The kin of the deceased identified his body at the Civil Hospital. Tejinder Singh, his younger brother told the police that Gurpinder Singh was killed by Gurlovedeep Singh of Rakhsheron village as both used to consume drugs together. He alleged that Gurlovedeep Singh disposed of the body after killing him. A case under has been registered against Gurlovedeep Singh by the Sarhali police under Sections 304 and 201 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-addict-found-dead-201466
21-01-2021||---||Farm stir: Demand for mink blankets, unstitched suits up||Amritsar, January 20Prolonged farmers’ agitation has generated demand for mink blankets and unstitched ladies suits, offering much needed respite to local manufacturing industries battling the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns.Seasonal industries and manufacturers of shawls, tweeds, blazer and blanket have undergone twists and turns due to back-to-back troubles of Covid-19 induced lockdown, travel restrictions, farmers’ stir and railway blockade.Industrialists involved in manufacturing of shawls, tweeds, blazers and blankets claim to have suffered losses as the sale evaporated for these reasons and stocks are lying in godowns.SK Wadhwa, a blanket, tweed and blazer manufacturer, said sale of mink blanket, a synthetic blanket, was terrific for the participants taking part in the ongoing farmers’ stir against three controversial farm laws. “It saved the losses incurred during the lockdown and travel restriction period,” he said. The demand for woollen and shoddy blankets was not visible in the market.The sale of tweed, which is widely used in Kashmir valley for wearing phiran, a cloak worn by men, women and children to escape harsh winters and jackets, was encouraging as harsh and prolong winter season emanated the demand. Since the schools are closed this winter so demand for blazer is absent as the fabric is primarily used in coats. Battling the effects of Covid-19 pandemic, city-based woollen industry, known for manufacturing shawls, blankets, tweed and blazers, has been relying on the upcoming winter season to come out of the crisis.Piara Lal Seth, a shawl manufacturer, said the demand generated during the festival season in November had encouraged manufacturers and stockists to delve in trade. However, the prolonged farmers’ agitation evaporated the demand as they did not spend in buying luxury winter item shawls.He said there were about 500 looms involved in shawl manufacturing. Of these 400 were pressed into manufacturing uncut ladies suit, indicating that the demand rose from the women’s who had participated in the agitation in large number.Salesmen from the Kashmir valley who sell locally manufactured shawls, stoles, tweeds and blazer in different parts of the country did not return to the holy city this year probably due to absence of train connectivity. They used to sell these materials right from Punjab to as far as West Bengal. Earlier, order booking and summer holiday periods were frittered away as these had coincided with the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-stir-demand-for-mink-blankets-unstitched-suits-up-201459
21-01-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: Two fall prey to virus in Amritsar district||Cong announces 13 candidatesAmritsar: Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, who is the Congress’s election observer from the Majitha Assembly constituency, released first list of candidates for ensuing nagar council elections on Wednesday. This development came, after the SAD released its first list of candidates. Handing over the list to Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, he announced that the party would win all the 13 wards. The candidates include Poonam, Kuldeep Singh, Sukhmeet Kaur, Bir Singh, Jasbir Kaur, Paramjit Singh, Pardeep Kaur, Rajesh Kumar, Madhu Bala, Pardeep Singh, Kewal Singh, Neeraj Sharma and Jagjeet Kaur. TNSSocial worker red flags HRIDAYAmritsar: A social activist complained to the Central Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) against alleged embezzlement of funds in non-schedule works conducted under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) in the city. SS Sharma raised concern over the works conducted on various sites under the HRIDAY project. Sharma alleged that cracks have developed on the walls of the Ram Bagh Gate. “I suspect embezzlement of funds in non-schedule items by one of the then executive officer. I have written to the CVC in this regard. I have demanded third party inquiry for works conducted under the HRIDAY. The involvement of senior officials of the MC should be also probed,” said Sharma. “The CVC has recognised my complaint and initiated the investigation,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-two-fall-prey-to-virus-in-amritsar-district-201467
21-01-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Money no deterrent for January 26 tractor parade||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 20It will be an arduous journey of 18 hours from Amritsar to the national capital, covering over 400 km, and some farmers will be able to afford travelling in their tractors for the parade to be held on January 26, while some won’t!Rattan Singh Randhawa, District President of Jamhoori Kisan SabhaThe mood is upbeat in villages. Everyone wants to join the protest, but sometimes people have financial constraints. The announcement is just to make sure that nobody is forced to stay back for lack of moneyBut they have all the backing they need from farm unions, who have announced to give Rs5,000 for fuel. A huge cavalcade of tractor-trailers would meet at the Golden Gate on January 23. The large caravan would proceed to Delhi after paying tributes to the great freedom fighter — Subhas Chandra Bose — on his birth anniversary.Rattan Singh Randhawa, district president of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said: “Preparations are under way in villages for the January 26 tractor parade and people are carrying out rehearsals of the event in their villages. We expect that a large cavalcade will leave for Delhi.”They said they plan to reach well in advance, so that they get time in case hurdles are created on the way at the last moment. While most of the farmers are making their own arrangements by pooling in money, farmers’ organisations said there were many marginal and small farmers who cannot contribute financially and need help.“The mood is upbeat in villages. Everyone wants to join the protest, but sometimes people have financial constraints. The announcement is just to make sure that nobody is forced to stay back for lack of money,” said Randhawa, adding that the announcement has been made by all organisations and philanthropists are helping for the cause.The Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leader said they have sent 24 jathas to Delhi so far. “One jatha left for Delhi on Wednesday and it had five trailers. Ours is the one of 32 farmer associations and everyone is working.” Randhawa said a trailer can comfortably ferry around 12-15 persons.Lakhbir Singh Nizapura, president, Vegetable Growers’ Association, said rehearsals were under way in most of the villages, as discipline during the tractor parade was of foremost concern. He said farmers were being made aware about the important aspects such as staying in their row and not creating traffic jams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/money-no-deterrent-for-january-26-tractor-parade-201454
21-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers set out for Delhi march||Tarn Taran, January 20Jathas of thousands of farmers with hundreds of tractors left for Delhi to take part in the proposed 26th January national level ‘tractor march’ against the three controversial farm laws introduced by the Central Government.The Acts are being condemned globally and the call for the march was extended support by the international-level organisations too. There was great enthusiasm among the farmers at the time of departure and the participants had decorated their tractor-trollies making all necessary arrangements to brave rain and cold. Farmers from more than 500 villages of the district have left for Delhi. The farmers from border areas as far as from Sarai Amanat Khan, Gandiwind, Chabal, Sursingh, Bhikhiwind, Khalra, etc gathered at Harike to leave for Delhi. Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Satnam Singh Manochahal and other leaders of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, while addressing the occasion condemned the Union Government for not resolving the issue.The farmers left with the ration and other required material. Ranjit Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran, donated Rs50,000 to the farmers for diesel at the time of departure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-set-out-for-delhi-march-201455
21-01-2021||---||Amritsar city colleges to resume offline classes from today||Amritsar, January 20City-based colleges have geared up to resume offline classes from January 21, but with some relaxations for students. The government’s order has come at a time when most institutes have either already announced schedule for exams or were in process to do so. Maintaining that the move would come as a relief for students, principals of prominent colleges term it an ‘eventual move’.“We knew that colleges, too, will be opened for offline classes. The decision has brought some relief to students, who need guidance to prepare for practicals and exams. Now, students can either come to college or opt for online classes,” said Dr Pushpinder Walia, Principal, BBK DAV College. The college was operational for students who wanted assistance in academics.DAV College, too, is set to call students. “We expect students to come for practical classes as people are still apprehensive about the move. Outstation students have been given relaxation as most of the syllabus was completed online. We will run parallel online classes for a few more days until students start attending regular classes,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, Principal, DAV College.The transition from online to offline studies in between the examination process would not be quite easy. “Considering that a lot of students of our college had gone back to their native places, we will be commencing with regular classes from February 1. We have a lot of students from Nepal and other neighbouring countries and they will need time for travel and lodging. Also, we have been conducting online exams for all semesters except for the first year. Therefore, we expect resumption on offline classes with some delay,” said VK Banga, Principal, Amritsar College of Engineering and Technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-city-colleges-to-resume-offline-classes-from-today-201457
21-01-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana: Designed for poor, but beyond their reach||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 20With the detection of frauds in the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY) and Ex- Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) for ex-servicemen by a few private hospitals, questions have been raised on the benefits of these schemes for the poor.The foremost challenge for the ignorant and the poor beneficiaries of the scheme is the absence of knowledge about the intricacies of the AB-SSBY scheme. While the scheme requires beneficiaries to approach government facilities for most of the treatment packages, it allows treatment at private hospital in case the particular treatment or the specialist for the same is not available at a government hospital. The scheme also allows the beneficiaries to directly approach private hospitals in case of emergencies and for some other packages.For a patient admitted under the scheme, the private hospital is bound to charge as per the rates fixed by the government. “In case a beneficiary reaches the private hospitals, they try to project that the treatment facility is not available under insurance scheme as they know that bill under insurance would be less than what they could charge if the patient is admitted otherwise,” said Jaswant Singh, a social activist. Absence of proper documents required by the beneficiaries is also a hurdle in the way of getting the benefit of the scheme.A causal look at the scenario indicates that the system is actually working in the favour of fraudulent hospitals instead of the actual beneficiaries. However, the figures with the Health Department reveal that a total benefit of Rs53 crore has been received by the beneficiaries under the AB-SSBY scheme.“It cannot be said the entire system has been hijacked by the money-minded authorities. Certainly there are a few loopholes. But there are checks and balances too. Without these, the recent frauds could not have been detected,” said a senior official, while advocating that stringent punishments for the frauds in health schemes for the poor should be given so that it proves as a deterrent.Civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the district had a total of 87 empanelled hospitals under the scheme. Out of these, 10 are in the government sector and remaining in private sector. “The scheme is a big help for the poor families as it provides a free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh,” he said, adding that some issues crop up from time to time which are addressed by the government agencies.Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima YojanaAyushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY) is the flagship state health insurance scheme for the beneficiaries in the state of Punjab. This scheme will provide financial protection to 75 per cent population of Punjab. The scheme provides an entitlement-based cashless health insurance cover of Rs5 lakh/ family/year. Cashless and paperless treatment can be availed at government & empanelled private hospitals.Benefits availableThe scheme will ensure cashless medical treatment benefit of upto Rs5 lakh for 1,396 different ailments. The covered ailments include heart surgeries, cancer treatment, joint replacement procedures and the treatment in accidental cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ayushman-bharat-sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-designed-for-poor-but-beyond-their-reach-201458
21-01-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Cremated 30 virus victims, yet no R-Day honour||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20At a time when the fear of Covid-19 forced families abandon their deceased kin, a patwari based in the Sultanwind area of Amritsar came forward to perform the last rites.Kartar Singh Lehari cremated as many as 30 bodies last year. Though people hailed him as a fearless person, someone who kept humanity over his own life, the 51-year-old patwari feels let down by the government, which had promised to honour him.His name does not find mention on the list of those to be commended on Republic Day. “I did what I did for humanitarian reasons, not for some reward. But it hurts when you are promised something but denied,” he says. It was in April last year that Kartar took upon himself to cremate the body of Padma Shri Nirmal Singh Ragi, when he died after contracting the virus. Since then, he cremated the bodies of many such victims. He would first counsel the people not to abandon their loved ones, but when they still expressed reluctance, he would do the needful. “Of the 30 people I cremated, I paid for the last rites of 19. The then Amritsar DC had promised to recommend my name for an award,” he claimed.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Amritsar DC, said the file recommending the name of Kartar Singh was sent through a wrong channel. “It remained pending with the Additional DC. I am examining the matter and will try my best to do the needful,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cremated-30-virus-victims-yet-no-r-day-honour-201471
