22-01-2021||Amritsar||Verification of 22,500 licence holders begins in Tarn Taran||The Tarn Taran police have started verifying the details of as many as 22,500 arms licences issued by the district administration over the years. The police got the data of the arms licence holders from the district administration in the regard. There are four cases regarding the seizure of fake arms licences registered with the Tarn Taran police during the last four years which are still pending.Recently, a case under the Arms Act had been registered by the Tarn Taran police. Three months ago, the police had got specific input that Karwinder Singh Cheema, an employee at the Deputy Commissioner’s office, in connivance with Mani, a resident of Pandori Gola village, had prepared over 200 fake arms licences on the basis of fake documents in the last few years.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said there were 17 gun houses in Tarn Taran and the antecedents of each and every arms licence holder would be verified thoroughly. He said they had got the records of 22,500 arms licence holders from the Deputy Commissioner’s office.“We have deputed gazetted officers to check the records of these gun house and each arms licence holder,” said Nimbale. The police believe that over 700 arms licences might be fake.The first case of fake arms licence was registered with the Tarn Taran police in 2016 which was still being probed by the special investigating team formed by the then Tarn Taran SSP. Karwinder was the prime suspect in this case also.The case was registered following investigation carried out by a Deputy Commissioner of Police (Amritsar) at that time. The DCP had pointed out that over 400 arms licences were reportedly fake and in many of them the police could not trace the licencees. Terming it a matter of national security, he had recommended the registration of an FIR and further investigation.After the case was registered, an enquiry was marked to the then AIG (Crime), Amritsar. He had allegedly given a clean chit to Karwinder Cheema. However, this report was not accepted by the Director Bureau of Investigation as the matter pertained to national security and asked the Tarn Taran SSP to probe the case thoroughly. Following this, an SIT was formed to probe the case.Another case was slapped by the Vigilance Bureau, Amritsar, after a fire gutted the records in the arms licensing branch at Tarn Taran. A report from Powercom officials had revealed that the fire did not erupt due to a short circuit as was alleged. The VB was also investigating a complaint of fake arms licences.Another case was registered with the Patti police station in June 2020 wherein five weapons and four fake arms licences were recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/verification-of-22-500-licence-holders-begins-in-tarn-taran-201906
22-01-2021||Amritsar||Rehearsal for tractor march in full swing||Farmers of numerous villages rehearsed for the tractor march scheduled on the Republic Day in Delhi.The march started from Fatehpur village and moved through Nwa Pind, Khazala, Boparai, Nath Di Khooi, Mehta Chowk, Baba Bakala, Rayya, Khalchian, Tangra, Jandiala, Mannawala, Vallah, Chappa Ram Singh and culminated at Fatehpur Rajputtan.Farmer leaders, Bhupinder Singh Tirathpura and Gurbhej Singh Saidolehal, said the objective of the rehearsal was to prepare drivers for the big event. “Drivers are being trained to follow lane driving. Nobody is allowed to overtake vehicles and complete discipline is required,” said Tirathpura.He said drivers were being taught to communicate with each other while driving safely and follow instructions of the leaders. He said volunteers would be helping throughout the march.During the march, farmers shouted slogans against the Centre and demanded that the controversial laws be repealed. The union leaders outrightly rejected the Centre’s offer to put on hold the laws for next 18 months. They said the government was trying to end the protest by spreading lies.The march was organised by the Vegetable Growers’ Association and the All India Kisan Sabha. Gurbhej Singh said tractor-trailers would gather at the Golden Gate by 10 am on January 23 from where they would move together. He said around 1,000 tractors were expected to leave for Delhi on January 23.Meanwhile, the kisan unions had announced to provide Rs 5,000 for diesel to ensure marginal farmers also join the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rehearsal-for-tractor-march-in-full-swing-201907
22-01-2021||Amritsar||After initial hesitation, 336 health workers inoculated||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the district is gradually picking up pace with senior doctors coming forward. The district health authorities reported that 336 health workers were inoculated on Thursday. Only 78 health workers had opted to get the dose on the first day of the drive on January 16.Later, the Health Department stepped up efforts to encourage health workers. As a result, a gradual increase in number of beneficiaries has been witnessed.District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said a total of 902 injections have been administered to health workers so far. He added that in the first phase, these would be made available for health workers.Dr Sukhpal said employees of many private hospitals were also being inoculated. He said none of the persons who received the dose has reported any adverse impact of the injection. He said the second dose would be given after 28 days.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the Covid-19 vaccination was completely safe. He said employees should not hesitate from getting inoculated. He added that in the coming days, the drive would further pick up pace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-initial-hesitation-336-health-workers-inoculated-201909
22-01-2021||Amritsar||Robbers behind murder of groom’s dad in Jandiala: Cops||The interrogation of the five robbers arrested by the Tarn Taran police following an hour-long encounter revealed that they were involved in a case in which a groom’s father was shot dead in Jandiala area here around 10 days ago.They were also involved in two carjacking instances reported in the last two weeks. Gaurav Toora, Superintendent of Police, Amritsar rural, confirmed the development.On Monday, the Tarn Taran police had arrested Jagjit Singh Jaggi of Naushehra Pannuan, Gurpreet Singh Fateh of Bhullar, Gurjinder Singh of Manakpura and Sukhwinder Singh of Gandiwind Dhattal village while one of their accomplices, Gupreet Singh Gopi, was killed in an encounter.Toora said it was Gopi who had fired at Salwinder Singh (50) of Fatehgarh Sahib when he along with other members of the family was returning after solemnising his son’s marriage. He was in the car when unidentified persons shot him dead. He said when the accused tried to snatch the car from Salwinder, he brandished them his sword following which he shot him.Around after an hour of the incident, the accused snatched a car (i20 car PB-08-EA-0326) from head constable Jaspal Singh of the Punjab Armed Police who was going to meet his daughter who was married to a resident of Bandala village here. He said he was carrying Rs 1 lakh. The police have also recovered the car.On January 16, they snatched a car from an employee of an engineering college located in the Manwala area and his colleague was looted by three motorcycle-borne persons at gunpoint. The complainant, Santosh Kumar, and his colleague Harsimran Singh were returning from Ambala and the incident took place when they reached near Rayya.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the police had recovered five vehicles, including an SUV, which was looted by them from an NRI couple at gunpoint near Mianpur village falling under the Sarai Amanat Khan village. They accused had confessed to over 30 robberies in the border belt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-behind-murder-of-grooms-dad-in-jandiala-cops-201911
22-01-2021||Amritsar||Man held with 500-gm heroin||The Tarn Taran police on Thursday nabbed Jaspal Singh, alias Jagga, of Dhun village falling under the Khalra police station for allegedly possessing 500 gm of heroin. A case under Sections 21-C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against him.In a statement issued here on Thursday, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said that a patrolling police party intercepted Jaspal Singh 1-km ahead of the Dhun village. According to the police, he tried to slip away, but the police team caught hold of him. During search, the police confiscated the contraband from his possession.He said the accused was produced in a court, which sent him to police remand for further interrogation to ascertain the source of the contraband besides unearthing his forward and backward links. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-500-gm-heroin-201912
22-01-2021||Want to know what a village life in Punjab in past felt like? If yes||Pure Punjabi: Want to know what a village life in Punjab in past felt like?||Creating scenes from the bustling village life in Punjab with beautiful mud houses, lassi being churned in clay pots, men busy in animated discussions on their charpais, ‘Sadda Pind’, a Punjabi culture living village museum spread across 12 acres, is a happening tourist spot in Amritsar. Designed and built on the concept of giving first-hand experiences to visitors, Sadda Pind has been attracting domestic as well as international tourists, who want to take in the authentic culture, colours and flavours of Punjab in one place.Being here, one can experience the old world charm of Punjab through cultural performances, folk dances, local handicraft, songs, stories, and of course, cuisine. Local artistes, weavers and folk performers have been employed to give live experiences to visitors with performances, including baazigars, gatka, giddha, bhangra, kikli being performed throughout the day. The destination also showcases common places as the dak ghar, the barat ghar and the village haveli. It also offers stay with limited rooms built inside the premises for people who want to experience the hospitality of a Punjabi village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pure-punjabi-want-to-know-what-a-village-life-in-punjab-in-past-felt-like-201913
22-01-2021||Amritsar||Two injured in firing; 11 booked||1 death, 12 new cases in districtAmritsar: With one more death due to Covid-19 on Thursday, the toll in the district has increased to 575. The deceased has been identified as Samar Kumar, a 48-year-old from Inderpuri (Kot Khalsa). The district health authorities have also reported 12 new positive cases with which the total count of infections has increased to 14,907. The new cases include seven influenza-like-illness cases and five contacts of positive patients. The district has reported 24 new recoveries with which the total count has gone up to 14,224. The district at present has a total of 109 active cases. TNSCong Sewa Dal organises yatraTarn Taran: Workers of the Congress Sewa Dal organised a yatra in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws in the town here on Thursday. Adesh Agnihotri, district head of the Sewa Dal, led the yatra. Leela Verma, state organiser of the organisation, was the chief guest. Leela Verma called upon people to come in support of the farmers’ agitation. She said the three controversial farm laws were totally against the interests of the farming community. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-injured-in-firing-11-booked-201949
