23-01-2021||Batala-based Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar||Not losing gift of gab after getting the jab!||Respecting smugglers, Gurdaspur cops styleThe Gurdaspur cops stumbled upon a new phenomenon which was alien in the border areas earlier. Acting on a tip-off, SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal formed a special team of detectives to nab heroin smugglers. They tasted success a week later but were amazed to find that two Nigerians had infiltrated into Gurdaspur without valid papers. The duo was engaged in smuggling of the white powder from Delhi and had even made several local contacts in the town. This powder made its way to the border belt where it was sold at three times the rate at which it was procured from Delhi. The foreigners were identified as Mense and Justin. However, what took the cake was the fact that the cops addressed the smugglers as Mr Mense and Mr Justin in the press note. This obviously accorded them an aura of respect which, in any case, was never the motive of the cops. Later, when the SSP realised that his officers were giving undue respect to the smugglers, came another press note in which the ‘Mr’ was removed. For the record, the cops seized 400 gram of pure grade heroin from the Nigerians valued at Rs 2 crore in the international market. “The two have disclosed during questioning that many of their ilk were into this business, particularly in the border villages. We have now formed as many as eight teams which are fanning out in Dorangla, Behrampur and Dinanagar,” said Sohal.Opening the gateway of learningDinanagar School Principal Upma Mahajan has done Gurdaspur district proud by winning the ‘Bhishma-The Determination Award 2021’. The prize was given by the All India Principals Association (AIPA) at a function held in Mohali on January 16. She was given the award under the category ‘community outreach programme in border areas.’ AIPA brings together private school principals on a single platform from all over the country. Mahajan heads the Sumitra Devi Arya Senior Secondary School in Dinanagar. She made her students fan out in border areas, particularly in villages located near the International Border (IB), where they exhorted parents to send their wards to schools to make sure they become better human beings in life. They also created awareness about diseases, cleanliness and mental health problems. “Education is one thing which no one can take away from you. It actually breeds confidence and confidence breeds hope. Hope, in turn, breeds peace. People in border areas, where literacy rate is extremely low, do not know what education actually means. My students took part in the community outreach programme to make villagers aware of the benefits of education. People living near the IB should understand that education is important because it broadens our knowledge and this knowledge then opens our minds to new vistas, new perspectives, ideas, beliefs and cultures,” she remarked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-losing-gift-of-gab-after-getting-the-jab-202387
23-01-2021||---||Employees oppose civic body move to discard old vehicles||Amritsar, January 22Employees of the auto workshop of the Municipal Corporation on Thursday opposed the civic body’s move to discard the worn out vehicles here. Activists of the Municipal Employees’ Youth Federation and the Safai Mazdoor Union said the MC was planning to lay off employees by reducing the number of vehicles.On the directions of the state government, the MC had asked to discard 61 vehicles that are over 15 years old. Union leader Ashu Nahar said the MC should replace the old vehicles with new ones.“We have a total of 123 vehicles. If the 61 vehicles go off the road, how the sanitation work would be done. The MC is handing over everything to the private firms. We have asked them to buy new vehicles. Similarly, the vehicles (of Rs4.25 crore) bought in 2015 were also asked to be discarded. We oppose the MC move.”Mayor Karamjit Singh called a meeting of the union leaders and constituted a four-member committee to address the issues of the employees. The committee comprises Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, councillors Vikas Soni, Mahesh Khanna and Parmodh Babla. “We will meet the committee on Saturday. If the officials do not withdraw their decision, we will go on strike from Monday,” said Ashu Nahar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-oppose-civic-body-move-to-discard-old-vehicles-202369
23-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Chandigarh University starts entrance-cum-scholarship test||Tarn Taran, January 22Chandigarh University (CU) launched a national-level entrance-cum-scholarship test, CUCET-2021, from here on Friday. It offers Rs 33 crore for students to earn.Prof RS Bawa, Pro-Chancellor of the university, said to motivate and give reward to talented students, CU launched the test, which would offer a golden chance to students to earn scholarships worth Rs 33 crore.He said it was an online examination which offered flexibility to students to choose their slot and make them eligible to grab academic scholarship up to 100 per cent in the course of their choice. The test was mandatory for engineering, MBA, pharmacy, integrated law and agriculture programmes while for other programmes the online examination offers an opportunity to grab scholarships, he added.Dr Bawa also inaugurated the online portal https://cucet.cuchd.in/ where students could register for the entrance-cum-scholarship test from today itself.Talking about the status of the university, which was among the 24 ranked university in India, Dr Bawa said the university felicitated 1,200 students to study abroad. He said 182 students from the Majha region bagged campus placements at top-notch MNCs last year (2020). Dr Bawa said Chandigarh University had emerged as the first university of India to have established an academic tie-up with 306 top-ranked universities across the globe and more than 1,200 university students had been provided an opportunity to do internships, semester abroad, part of joint research initiatives at the world’s top universities by the Department of International Affairs at Chandigarh University.He said the university had 30,000 campus students and more than 7,000 students from Punjab were currently studying 135 programmes at the university campus. “Manmeet Kaur, a student of Computer Science Engineering from Amritsar, managed to grab a record five offers from Wipro, Mind Tree, TiVo India Cognizant & Capgemini while another student Abhinandan Saini of the mechanical branch from Pathankot got four job letters.Dr Bawa said the university’s record in the fields of sports and culture, too, was extraordinary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chandigarh-university-starts-entrance-cum-scholarship-test-202371
23-01-2021||---||Recycle, reuse, repeat: Say yes to new wedding mantra||Amritsar, January 22Changed dynamics in the post-pandemic scenario have caused the wedding fashion industry to halt and rewind, shunning the extravagance and embracing responsible, minimalist approach. The first edition of Wedding Asia, a luxury lifestyle fashion exhibition, opened at Hyatt Regency. Taking cue from transformation that took place post Covid-19, subtle tones and minimalism seems to rule the latest trend.Sonia Gohil, a designerWeddings have become an intimate affair these days and so wedding fashion, too, has changed towards more stylised looks but less on extravagance. It is more about fabrics now, with stylish cuts and detailing andless about embellishments. From noted designer Nitin Bal Chauhan’s fusion collection with monochromes and eccentric cuts and embroideries to several upcoming labels presenting soft, subtle hues for wedding season, the post-pandemic fashion seems to be about basics and comfort. Sonia Gohil, designer from Mumbai, who is displaying her collection of stylised cocktail and wedding trousseau, says, “Weddings have become an intimate affair these days and so wedding fashion too has changed towards more stylised looks but less on extravagance. It is more about fabrics now, with stylish cuts and detailing and less about embellishments. From jumpsuits to lehengas with minimal embroideries, the current trend is simple yet high on style.”Recycling and reusing old concepts for weddings, too, has become a thing now. Patiala-based Akash and Ajay Bansal, from their line of wedding swear by it as the hottest trend this season. “We have curated a 45-year-old saree with kutki work (a thread and bead work) to be remade into a lehenga. Similarly, we have revived old heirloom pieces with Kashmiri embroidery and other intricate hand work to be remade into new pieces such as duppattas. A lot of people are demanding recycling of their heirloom pieces and it is cost effective as well,” says Akash.As far as business is concerned, exhibitions are still a better option for designer labels. “Since people are not travelling as much as they used to for wedding shopping, exhibitions work well as they get to see all the wedding essentials at one stop. Also, there are multiple choices from a number of designer labels on display, so you can pick and choose,” says Sonia.Kamaljit Singh, general manager, Hyatt Regency, says that since the target market for coming months would be domestically focused, lifestyle exhibition would offer one-stop destination for people planning on events and weddings. “For a short while, the market would be domestic for weddings, social events. Such events offer multiple options for marketing and are business friendly too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recycle-reuse-repeat-say-yes-to-new-wedding-mantra-202383
23-01-2021||Neha Saini||Filling the cracks caused by Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 22Moving on from the pandemic-induced challenges that the education sector faced, schools in city have commenced classes in a phased manner. Inching towards normalcy, the school education in the country is now moving ahead with new a vision of blended education and mapping the plans for 2021 in the field of school education are a few educators from here.“If the past year was about the sudden shift in education to digital mode, 2021 will be about building the gaps that this abrupt transformation brought about. There is a difference between digital education and blended education and this year will be all about elevating the process into a blended mode, where the students are equally engaged and creative in exploring the online as well as offline mode of learning,” says Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera School. As institutions and schools across the country have commenced resumption of offline classes, Manjot says that students coming to schools after such a long hiatus have to be welcomed with empathy.Echoing similar views is Anita Bhalla, secretary, Sarvodya Schools and Principal, Bhavan’s SL Public School. “Our first priority as educators must be to ensure that along with education, the psychological adjustment for students post-pandemic is also taken care of. The Covid-induced lockdown has had a lot of impact on mental health of children as they were not socially active and were bound to digital media. Counselling sessions by teachers would help them adjust with ease to the new normal.”Rajiv Sharma, Principal, Springdales School, said first and foremost agenda for most schools would be to establish routine in school for in-campus education. “Integrated method of learning must be adopted in a way that it doesn’t compromise classroom teaching and its significance. Building a routine would have to be done with active participation from teachers, parents and students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/filling-the-cracks-caused-by-covid-202384
23-01-2021||Amritsar||Man held with illegal weapon||Display of band, military mightAmritsar: A military equipment and band were displayed by the Flaming Arrow Brigade at New Amritsar Military Station as a prelude to the Republic Day and as a part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations on Friday. A souvenir was presented to War Heroes and war widows were felicitated. The event was attended by 24 veterans of the 1971 Indo-Pak war. An information centre was established for pension related queries and registration of various welfare schemes for ex-servicemen. A medical camp was also held on the occasion. A tank ride was organised for children. TNS14 more contract virus in districtAmritsar: The district health authorities reported 14 new positive cases due to the Covid-19 contagion pushing the total number of positive cases to 14,921 on Friday. Of these, seven were found to be influenza-like illness cases and seven were contacts of positive cases. However, as death due to the contagion was reported today, the death toll remained at 575 in the district. As many as 10 patients recovered which pushed the count of recovered patients to 14,234. At present, the number of active cases stood at 113. TNSArhtiyas to take part in marchTarn Taran: Arhtiyas (commission agents) of the local grain market decided to support agitating farmers and head to Delhi to take part in the tractor march scheduled for January 26. The arhtiyas have decided to shut their shops in the grain market on January 25, 26 and 27. Karnail Singh Deo, chief of the arhtiya association, said they will move to Delhi to take part in the tractor march on their own vehicles .The commission agents termed the agri laws not only anti- farmer, but also anti-society. OCSGPC chief: proud of Simran’s featAmritsar: SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has congratulated Simran Singh Sandhu, a young Sikh of Punjabi origin, on his appointment in the Australian Air Force. Describing the achievement of Simran Singh as a great honour for the community, Kaur said, “Today Sikhs all over the world are achieving exemplary positions. With this the Chardi Kala (rising spirit) of the Sikh community is becoming more evident all over the world”. Simran''s parents went to Perth in 2008. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-illegal-weapon-202388
23-01-2021||---||BJP’s Shwait Malik raises concern over separate Jallianwala memorial||Amritsar, January 22Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader Shwait Malik has raised concern over erecting a separate memorial dedicated to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar. He termed it as a political move by the state Congress which could not contribute towards making the original historical site an ideal place.“Capt Amarinder Singh is going to construct a memorial for martyrs around 5 km away from the Jallianwala Bagh. The Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust was run by the Congress for 70 years and ruined the garden. Congress leaders hardly visit the Jallianwala Bagh. In 2016, I visited the historical garden and it was in need of urgent repairs. There was no arrangement of potable water. The washrooms were not there. The fans were defunct in the gallery. The digital theatre was presenting a poor picture. It was disgusting on the part of the Congress leadership and their trustees (also Congress leaders) to neglect it,” said Shwait Malik.Malik claimed that he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP high command and discussed the issue of poor upkeep of the Jallianwala Bagh. “On my request, former Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Central minister Hardeep Singh Puri and the Cultural Minister visited the garden. The BJP government made a plan to renovate it. We made a 3D digital theatre, installed new fountains, Shaheedi well redeveloped, bullet marks preserved and landscaping were done in the Jallianwala Bagh. We changed its face in one year,” he said.“It is strange that the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab was constructing the memorial 5 km away. Actually, the Congress leadership is trying to avoid the questions of people about the failure of their trust to take care of the Jallianwala Bagh. Capt Amarinder Singh wanted to get political mileage out of it. I am not against the new memorial but oppose the politicisation of the issue,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjps-shwait-malik-raises-concern-over-separate-jallianwala-memorial-202367
23-01-2021||---||Synthetic string leaves college lecturer injured in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 22The synthetic kite string has become a menace as the district administration and the Police Department have failed to check the illegal sale of the ‘killer’ string. Even kite-flying enthusiasts did not desist from using the killer string during this kite flying season.The awareness campaigns have failed to dissuade young kite fliers, most of whom are well aware of the consequences of the synthetic string, commonly known as Chinese string. There have been many instances in the past in which the synthetic string has proved harmful for commuters.The awareness campaigns have failed to dissuade young kite fliers, most of whom are well aware of the consequences of the synthetic string, commonly known as Chinese stringOn Friday morning, an SR Government College lecturer, Srijna Vedi, sustained an eye injury when a plastic string hanging loose from a structure struck her face when she was going to the college on the scooter. She was immediately rushed to hospital and was discharged after a minor surgery.Dr JS Gumber, a prominent eye surgeon, said hers was not the only case. Recently, a man almost lost his eyes when he was going on his bike down the main GT road near Putlighar area a couple of days ago. His eyelids were badly damaged by a synthetic string hanging loose.“I have come across four patients who had sustained eye injuries by the Chinese string,” he said, adding that the Guru Nanak Dev University-Rani Ka Bagh stretch was notorious for this as residents of either side of the road indulged in kite flying.Another stretch that has become dangerous for commuters, especially two wheelers, is a 3-km-long elevated road. The ‘killer’ strings, which can be seen hanging loose here, have led to a number of road mishaps there. During the season many commuters prefer to travel from under the elevated road due to his reason.Jagtar Singh, who goes down the road daily, said, “Nowadays I prefer walking under the elevated road. A couple of days ago, I had a narrow escape when I (riding a bike) suddenly came across a synthetic kite string hanging loose. It would have struck my neck if I had not used pushed it away,” he said.Earlier, another local resident Mohan Arora had sustained serious injuries on his face because of a similar reason.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said awareness about the deadly string was required. “People should not allow their wards to use the killer thread for kite flying,” he said, adding that “the police cannot take punitive action against everyone if a large number of youngsters use the deadly string.” He said everyone should come forward to dissuade youngsters and others from using Chinese string.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/synthetic-string-leaves-college-lecturer-injured-in-amritsar-202362
23-01-2021||---||6 mobile phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, January 22Even as the Punjab Government’s proposal to install 4G jammers inside high security jails was yet to see the light of day, seizure of mobile phones continues unabated at the Amritsar Central Jail.In a surprise search operation on Thursday evening, the jail authorities confiscated six mobile phones from five inmates, including notorious criminals, Kartik Bhatti, alias Ghora, a resident of Gilwali Gate, and Aman Malik, a resident of Kot Mit Singh. The authorities seized two mobiles from Malik alone. He is said to be an associate of notorious gangster, Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, and his accomplice, Bobby Malhotra.According to jail authorities, two mobile phones were recovered from Ajay Kumar, alias Nanu, of Gilwali Gate. A mobile phone was recovered from Ghora while another phone was seized from Parveen Sabharwal, who cheated a number people while posing as a CBI officer.An ‘indigenous’ mobile charger was recovered from the possession of Jaspal Singh, alias Jassa, of Khadoor Sahib.A jail official said all the accused were lodged at room number 3 of barrack number 6. He said the jail authorities got specific input that several inmates were having mobile phones and were using the same for continuing their nefarious activities.He said the search operation was carried out with help of paramilitary jawans.A complaint was lodged with the Islamabad police on the statement of Davinder Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail. The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against them.Three booked for criminal breach of trustA man has accused his son’s in-laws for criminal breach of trust after they sold his car.The accused have been identified as Kabal Singh, his wife Kiran Kaur, and brother Dilbagh Singh, all residents of Dharad village, falling under the jurisdiction of Jandiala police station. Sukhdev Singh (53), a resident of Dheere Kot village, stated in his complaint (submitted in October last year) that his son Akashdeep Singh got married to Gurnoor Kaur of Dharad village three years ago.He said after marriage, Gurnoor went to Canada for studies and they bore all the expenditure. He said in January 2018, his son Akashdeep went to meet his sister Ranbir Kaur, who lives in Australia. He said in March 2018, he also went to Australia.He alleged as there was no other member in the house, they handed over their car to Akashdeep’s in-laws for the time being. He said when they came back, they found that the accused had sold their car to Kirpal Singh of Chogwaan for Rs 5.6 lakh.The complainant said when they asked about the decision, instead of returning car or money, Akashdeep’s in-laws broke the marriage.On January 21, the Jandiala police registered a case under Sections 406 and 120-B of the IPC against the accused. No arrest has been made to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-mobile-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-202364
23-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Will authorities ever deliver?||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, JANUARY 22The demand for more parking lots in the walled city is more than four decades old yet its delivery remains extremely slow.Ambitious Smart City project raised hope for the establishment of more parking lots but the actual delivery time is agonisingly slow. The Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) had chalked out a plan to raise a multi-level car parking at the Khairon market years ago. Even delay in the execution of the plan led to cost escalation yet the project is yet to take off.The city has only a couple to accommodate thousands of vehicles. A large number of tourists visit the city in their private vehicles every day. The Saragarhi car parking is the only major facility for tourists.Haphazard parking is seen in various parts of the city. Markets such as Katra Jaimal Singh, Hall Bazar, Cheel Mandi Ram Bagh, Katra Baghian and Telephone Exchange witnesses traffic jams due to inadequate parking arrangements.Raj Kumar Aggarwal, an architect, says, “The Shastri Market Association had planned the parking lots at Khairon market and at Telephone Exchange way back in 1983-84. “In a communique to Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, he stated that then it was decided that the Market Association and the Municipal Corporation Association (MCA) would share 50 per cent of cost between them. However, successive governments did not implement the plan. Aggarwal was entrusted with the job of designing and supervision.He anticipated that these parking lots would provide relief to people from haphazard parking congestion on roads as traders and visitors would have a safe and hassle-free space to park their vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-authorities-ever-deliver-202389
23-01-2021||---||‘Happy seeder a boon for farmers’||Amritsar, January 22A field day on “Happy seeder sown wheat” was organised by the Farm Advisory Service Centre (FASC), Tarn Taran, at Wara Sher Singh village on Thurdsay. Dr Parminder Kaur said in collaboration with the teams from the PAU, Ludhiana, and allied departments, the field day was held to promote use of happy seeder to avoid stubble-burning.“Around 150 farmers participated in the field day. The farmers were informed about happy seeder, which creates complete inter-row mulch in pressed form simultaneously along with sowing of wheat with more stability and least vibration in standing stubble,” she said.Dr Parminder started the technical session by delivering lecture on disease management in wheat. Dr Paramjit Singh, Director, USF, Kapurthala, delivered a lecture on insect pest manangement in wheat crop and laid emphasis to adopt proper application technology of the pesticides.Meanwhile, many farmers also shared their experience on happy seeder. Vote of thanks was given by Dr Savreet Khehra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/happy-seeder-a-boon-for-farmers-202375
