24-01-2021||Amritsar||IMA shares 2021 goals||Representatives of  the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Amritsar,  shared vision and mission of IMA Punjab and IMA Amritsar for 2021 on Friday. “Right now our immediate objective is to promote Covid-19 vaccination drive by educating the masses and allaying their fears and reluctance to get inoculated. We have already lost 734 doctors in this war,” said state chief Dr Kuldip Singh Arora. “In collaboration with the Rotary District 3070, our priority is cervical cancer vaccination for girls in the bracket of 9-14 years of age. We will also fight against the draconian Clinical Establishment Bill which is anti-doctor and anti-common man,” said Dr Keshave Sudh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ima-shares-2021-goals-202917
24-01-2021||---||DAV management trying to suppress us, allege protesters||Amritsar, January 23 Peaceful protest of teachers under the banner of the Punjab & Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) and DAV Colleges Coordination Committee entered third day against anti-higher education and anti-teacher attitude of DAV College Managing Committee.  Teachers of DAV colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh were forced to move out of the colleges for their dharna-cum-rally as the management put a stay on their protest inside the college premises through the court order.  Dr Raman Jyoti, chief, local unit, DAV College of Education, while addressing the gathering, condemned the dictatorial attitude of the management for choosing the legal route to suppress demands of teachers. The body demanded that the management must implement the requisite benefits to the teachers as soon as possible otherwise the teachers’ body will intensify the struggle.  Their demands include that pays and perks should be given to the teachers working in these colleges who fulfil all the conditions laid down by University Grants Commission (UGC). Dharna was also staged outside BBKDAV College.   Dr BB Yadav, convenor, DAV Colleges Coordination Committee said management is using every means to discontinue the peaceful agitation of the teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-management-trying-to-suppress-us-allege-protesters-202918
24-01-2021||---||AAP conducts motorcycle rally to support farmers||Amritsar, January 23 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) organised a motorcycle rally in support of farmers’ January 26 tractor parade in Delhi here on Saturday. The party activists took out a motorcycle rally from the party office at Bhandari Bridge and proceeded towards Hall Bazaar and then Ward No.37 of the south constituency. The rally was led by state unit joint secretary Ashok Talwar, district president Parminder Singh Sethi and district secretary Iqbal Singh Bhullar. Ashok Talwar said the party supported the tractor parade of farmers and they would be part of the parade in Delhi without the party flag. A large number of farmer activists voluntarily reached Delhi. Parminder Singh Sethi and Madam Seema Sodhi said the Aam Aadmi Party took out a motorcycle rally against the Modi government and for the rights of the farmers in which over 1,000 AAP workers participated. The Modi government had held 11 meetings with the farmers.  Owing to the Modi government’s arrogance, all the meetings proved futile. The BJP would have to pay the price for this attitude. The Capt Amarinder Singh government also joined hands with the BJP government at the Centre.” Sohan Singh Naagi, district office in-charge, Jagdeep Singh, district event in-charge, Vikramjit Vicky, district media in-charge, Vipan Singh, district treasurer, Anil Mahajan and other senior leaders also addressed activists. Iqbal Singh Bhullar appealed to the residents of the district to be a part of the Delhi parade on January 26 so that the government could gauge the strength of people. Similar march held in Tarn Taran The AAP took out a motorcycle rally in support of agitating farmers and the proposed tractor march on the Republic Day in Tarn Taran on Saturday. The rally started from Majha College for Women and ended on Jandiala road. Gurwinder Singh Beharwal said more than 200 volunteers participated in the rally with their bikes. He said a large number of activists were leaving for Delhi to take part in the tractor march. He slammed the Centre for not repealing the three agri laws, which had been condemned by farmers across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-conducts-motorcycle-rally-to-support-farmers-202919
24-01-2021||---||U-16 cricket tourney kicks off||Amritsar, January 23 The Junior League U-16 cricket tournament kicked off on Saturday. The tourney was inaugurated by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. The Mayor announced Rs 1 crore for the Amritsar Games Association to develop a cricket ground. He said Rs 50 lakh would be provided in the first phase to initiate the development works and Rs 50 lakh would be given in the second phase. Rintu said it was a commendable effort of the the Amritsar Games Association to encourage youth towards sports.  He said the Municipal Corporation would also deploy permanent safai sewaks to clean and maintain the cricket ground.  He added that two workers would clean the ground daily until the cricket tournament concludes.  The Mayor encouraged the players to take part in sports as well as for the welfare of society.  Organisers of tournament honoured the Mayor with a badge of honour and a shawl. He was accompanied by ADC Himanshu Aggarwal and Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Kumar Bakshi, among others. Commentators, including Vivek Kumar, Avnish Kumar and Rajan Trikha, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/u-16-cricket-tourney-kicks-off-202920
24-01-2021||Amritsar||Inmates sensitised to cervical cancer||Phulkari CAN conducted a cervical cancer awareness session for more than 200 women inmates of the Amritsar Central Jail today in support with jail authorities. Jail Superintendent, Arshdeep Singh Gill, programme head, Dr Rashmi Vij conducted the session and talked about the simple measures that could be adopted to prevent this curable cancer.  The session was facilitated by the leading criminal lawyer of the city advocate Navjot Chabba. Phulkari CAN President Nidhi Sindhwani said, “This session was a part of several activities organised by the Phulkari CAN to mark January which is internationally celebrated as the Cervical Cancer Awareness month. The month-long activities included the display of a teal monument by Phulkari CAN at  several prime locations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inmates-sensitised-to-cervical-cancer-202921
24-01-2021||---||MC holds meet with sangharsh committee||Amritsar, January 23 Members of the committee, constituted by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, held a meeting with the leaders of the Sanjhi Sangharsh Committee of MC employees to sort out the issue of auto workshop employees here on Saturday.  The committee was led by Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, councillors Mahesh Khanna, Vikas Soni and Parmod Babla. The union leaders, including Vinod Bitta, Surinder Tona, Ashu Nahar, Raj Kumar Raju and Raj Kalyan, participated in the meeting. The committee members listened to the employees’ viewpoints and reserved their decision for January 28. The committee would discuss with the Mayor before announcing its decision. The union leaders raised a question over the MC’s move to discard the worn-out vehicles without providing any substitute. Ashu Nahar, one of the union leaders, said the MC had deployed sanitary inspectors, superintendents and other staff to keep a check on the misuse of vehicles and consumption of fuel. They never constituted any committee for other embezzlement issues but here they want to pressurize class four employees. They claimed that if the MC did not roll back its decision, the union would go on an indefinite strike. “We don’t want to create any problem on the eve of Republic Day, so the next step would be announced on January 28 after the decision of the committee,” said Nahar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-holds-meet-with-sangharsh-committee-202922
24-01-2021||Amritsar||Commuters get roses for following traffic norms||In order to educate commuters about the traffic norms to mark the 32nd Road Safety Month, the traffic education wing of the Amritsar police today handed over roses to those who followed the traffic norms while those violated it were made to read the banners and placards about the traffic rules at Lawrence Road Chowk here on Saturday.  Parminder Singh Bhandal, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, (traffic) was also present on the occasion. He urged the people to follow the traffic rules in letter and spirit for their own safety. The police also distributed pamphlets to the commuters sensitising them to traffic norms.  Bhandal said while on roads, people should behave like responsible citizens. By violating traffic rules, such as jumping red lights and over speeding, they were not only risking their own lives but also endangering the lives of other people. He said the people should also wear helmets which is mandatory as per law.  He said the major cause of road casualties was due to head injuries. People could reduce this number (of casualties in road mishaps) by simply following traffic rules and wearing helmets.  Meanwhile, the police along with the NGO Voice of Amritsar, today pasted stickers on the backside of the vehicles included tractor trolleys, auto rickshaws and horse carts during a camp outside Jahajgarh area near Ram Talai Chowk. The association members including Nita Mehra, Dr Rakesh Sharma, Seenu Arora and Dr Jaspreet Grover, were present.  The association members said the association had printed around 2,000 sticker reflectors which were to be pasted on the backside of the vehicles in an effort to reduce road mishaps during dense foggy season. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commuters-get-roses-for-following-traffic-norms-202923
24-01-2021||---||Security beefed up in Amritsar ahead of R-Day||Amritsar, January 23In view of the Republic Day celebrations and proposed visit of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to lay the foundation stone of Jallianawala Bagh memorial at Ranjit Avenue, the police have strengthened security in the holy city.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill asked his officers to remain in the field and ensure elaborate security arrangements regarding the two events.Around 5,000 cops have been deputed in various parts of the city while permanent barricades were installed at the entry and exit points of the city. As many as 70 patrolling parties have been constituted to increase the vigil in the city to thwart any untoward incident.According to information, more than 100 checkpoints have been set up in different parts and near vital locations in the city.Meanwhile, the Amritsar (rural) police carried out a flag march in different parts of the rural belt, including Majitha, Jandiala Guru, Chavinda Devi village and other places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/security-beefed-up-in-amritsar-ahead-of-r-day-202924
24-01-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||We are agitated, but not aggressive’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 23A large cavalcade of tractor-trailers, buses and cars left for Delhi from the Golden Gate here on Saturday to participate in the January 26 tractor parade being organised by farmers’ associations to oppose the controversial agriculture laws.Farmers from many villages also joined the cavalcade at different points on the GT Road till Beas. Before initiating the march from here, farmers paid tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary.Speaking on the occasion, many leaders said the government is trying to end the agitation by using unfair means. They also reiterated their resolve to remain peaceful and said the government, instead of using malpractices to end the protest, must listen to farmers and repeal the controversial laws.The leaders also hailed the sacrifice of Subhas Chandra Bose. Joining in the protest, Prof AS Sidhu (retd) spoke on the life, struggle and sacrifice of Netaji. He said Bose sacrificed his life while fighting against the communal forces of the country.He said the farmers of the country were not less than freedom fighters and they are fighting to save country from the slavery of the corporate houses.“Netaji’s ideology is even more relevant during the current times, as the government is hell-bent upon destroying the social fabric in society by bringing various black laws in the country,” he said.Leaders including Rattan Singh Randhawa, Parkash Singh, Baldev Singh, Balwinder Singh and Harieet Singh also addressed farmers. “Given the choice, nobody wants an 18-hour long tedious and back-breaking journey. If farmers are responding to the call, it means they are agitated. We are agitated, but we are not aggressive or violent,” said Rattan Singh Randhawa. They said after reaching Delhi they would pitch their tents, get a good night’s sleep and be ready for the tractor parade on January 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-are-agitated-but-not-aggressive-202925
24-01-2021||---||Hopeful of recovery, they are aiming for stronger balance sheets||Amritsar, January 23While a large majority in our country post-pandemic are determined not to sleep empty stomach, 57-year-old Kiran Kanojia, a resident of Pawan Nagar, makes sure that the stray animals are fed and full. Among those who lost their source of livelihood in aftermath of the pandemic, Kiran, who used to earn her living as a dog trainer, found herself dependent on her daughters.“I live with my youngest daughter, who works at a private hospital. I used to earn around Rs10,000 by training dogs but post-pandemic, I lost that job as well,” she shares. Yet, she sets out every day with a bag full of food and bread for stray animals not just in her locality but wherever she finds one. Kiran had also been a volunteer member of ‘Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals’ and had managed to feed stray animals during the lockdown, without missing a day.“I manage to get help from volunteers as well. Mostly, I want them to donate food and eatables for animals rather than money. My daughters, too, help me with this. Despite the hardships, I feel that I must do whatever I can to feed them,” she says.Kiran has been an animal lover since her childhood. “I feel a connection. They need our care and love and it is only humane to feed them. This pandemic has taught us to be more compassionate towards every living being. I used to go door-to-door as well to collect leftovers with which I used to feed these canines. More people need to come forward to help them.”Hear it from stalwarts"Mitigating the cost, enhancing confidence among customers, ensuring a high-level of hygiene and sanitation standards will be the new normal. This will remain a part of the hospitality industry for a long time, but it will take us some years to reach the economic level of 2019."—Jitender Pal Sohal, General Manager, Radisson Blu"The holy city is a pioneer in manufacturing screws. However, only 10 out of the present 200 units are financially capable of switching over to the new technology to meet the quality challenge posed by made-in-China screws. Cold heading machine, each costing Rs 17 lakh, is being imported from Taiwan to mitigate this challenge. We have to technically upgrade ourselves in the constantly changing scenario."— Samir Goyal, an iron and steel industry owner"Solar sector witnessed a dip at the time of Covid-19 in the initial months of lockdown as all projects were put on hold. But several residents and commercial establishments switched to solar power to save high electricity bills. This year is likely to be promising with good investments in the solar power sector."— Sumit Aggarwal, CEO of the Star Power Distribution Private Ltd||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hopeful-of-recovery-they-are-aiming-for-stronger-balance-sheets-202926
24-01-2021||---||Lost job, but compassion still lives on||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 23While a large majority in our country post-pandemic are determined not to sleep empty stomach, 57-year-old Kiran Kanojia, a resident of Pawan Nagar, makes sure that the stray animals are fed and full. Among those who lost their source of livelihood in aftermath of the pandemic, Kiran, who used to earn her living as a dog trainer, found herself dependent on her daughters.“I live with my youngest daughter, who works at a private hospital. I used to earn around Rs10,000 by training dogs but post-pandemic, I lost that job as well,” she shares. Yet, she sets out every day with a bag full of food and bread for stray animals not just in her locality but wherever she finds one. Kiran had also been a volunteer member of ‘Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals’ and had managed to feed stray animals during the lockdown, without missing a day.“I manage to get help from volunteers as well. Mostly, I want them to donate food and eatables for animals rather than money. My daughters, too, help me with this. Despite the hardships, I feel that I must do whatever I can to feed them,” she says.Kiran has been an animal lover since her childhood. “I feel a connection. They need our care and love and it is only humane to feed them. This pandemic has taught us to be more compassionate towards every living being. I used to go door-to-door as well to collect leftovers with which I used to feed these canines. More people need to come forward to help them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lost-job-but-compassion-still-lives-on-202927
24-01-2021||Neha Saini||Narendra Chanchal: A simple man with a heart of gold||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 23“He was fond of singing Bulleh Shah’s poetry and every time he performed on stage, his list of admirers grew by numbers. His simplicity remained with him throughout his journey as an artiste.” Veteran theatre thespian Suresh Pandit, who had worked with late Narendra Chanchal during his days as a struggling singer, remembers his peer fondly. Chanchal passed away on January 22, in Delhi, after a prolonged illness.His demise brought out emotional reactions from senior artistes in city, especially with whom he had worked. “The last time we met was in 2014, when he was in city for his annual jagran programme at Shakti Nagar. We shared a cup of tea and talked about the bygone days,” said Pandit.Between 1964-65, when Chanchal was trying to make his name as a budding singer, he used to compose music and perform in between acts during theatre plays. He worked extensively with Punjabi playwright Gursharan Singh, composing for his plays. “Whenever there was a break in between the acts in a long play, Narendra and Jatinder Kaur, who is a senior actor, used to give singing performances. Both were young budding artistes and had joined the same group. He used to perform ghazals, sufi kalam and popular hindi film songs,” Pandit remembered.For many who were associated with the bhajan legend, it was city’s collective loss. “He started by performing aartis and bhajans in temples as a child. As a youngster, every evening he used to sit with his friends at the nearby halwai shop and sang songs of popular artistes of those times. He was passionate about singing in a way that he never aspired for showbiz, but only appreciation. He helped many others realise their dreams,” shared Ashwini Kumar, Chanchal’s brother-in-law, who is a retired government officer and lives in Namak Mandi.When his talent caught Raj Kapoor’s eye in the film ‘Bobby’, his instant fame made him spend more time in Mumbai. “He was grateful for the film so much that he nicknamed his eldest son Siddharth as Bobby,” recalled Ashwini. Nearly every household in Shakti Nagar (in pic), where his home is, has his photographs and calender. “He used to stroll and meet people in the neighbourhood whenever he used to visit. From young to old, he had a connection with everyone here,” said Vicky Datta, a resident of Shakti Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/narendra-chanchal-a-simple-man-with-a-heart-of-gold-202928
24-01-2021||---||Police solve 2-month-old dacoity case; 1 held||Amritsar, January 23With the arrest of one person, the cantonment police on Saturday claimed to have solved a two-month-old dacoity case in which a textile trader and his family was looted at gunpoint after holding them hostage.The accused was identified as Shami, alias Aman alias Amu, of Ram Nagar Colony in Islamabad area here. He was currently lodged in the Amritsar Central Jail. He was arrested in the dentist Dr Shivangi Arora robbery case that rocked the holy city earlier this month.The dentist, along with her family members, was held hostage at gunpoint at their residence in posh Shastri Nagar locality situated near Lawrence Road here.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma said the police examined the footage of a CCTV installed near the residence of textile trader Devinder Singh Bedi, a resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area near Putlighar. The incident had occurred on November 6.“The CCTV footage hinted at the involvement of Shami in the case,” said the ACP, adding that he was brought on production warrant and arrested. His interrogation helped in cracking the case.Besides, others who were wanted in the case include Dildar Singh of Krishna Nagar, near 22 number railway crossing, Vikramjit Singh alias TT of Mustafabad, Shera of Lahori Gate and his one friend.On November 6, around five armed persons robbed a trader’s family in Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area after holding them hostage. The miscreants gained entry into the house by posing as sewer cleaners. The victim, Devinder Singh Bedi, a textile trader, was at his house along with his wife, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren. The accused reportedly looted jewellery and cash worth Rs 8 lakh from the family. The accused also took away a digital video recorder of CCTV cameras.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt said the accused had decamped with Rs 8.5 lakh, besides gold ornaments from the house. They had left their datar after the crime and also damaged the DVR.He said Shami was arrested by the police in connection with the dacoity at the residence of Dr Shivangi Arora. He said his interrogation revealed that he, along with Dildar Singh, Vikramjit Singh, Shera and his friend had committed the robbery. He said raids were on to nab the other accused who were still on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-solve-2-month-old-dacoity-case-1-held-202929
24-01-2021||Amritsar||12 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Three held with 308-gm heroinTarn Taran: The police have arrested a person with 53 gram of heroin on January 22. The accused has been identified as Jajj Singh Jajj, a resident of Rataul village. Sub-Inspector Satnam Singh, who led the police party said a case under Sections 21(c), 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered against the accused. Meanwhile, the CIA staff confiscated 255-gm heroin and arrested two alleged drug peddlers identified as Balwinder Singh of Chak Allah Baksh village here and Harchand Singh of Naushehra Dhalla village in Tarn Taran. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-202930
24-01-2021||‘I followed doc’s advice stringently’||‘It’s important to stay positive & eat healthy’||A lab technician at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital, Rupinderjit Kaur had given her swab sample for Covid-19 in September as she came in contact with a colleague who had tested positive.“I had done a night shift with one of my colleagues who tested positive. I quarantined myself at home as a precautionary measure and gave my sample. When I tested positive, I called my children to make arrangements for me in a separate room.“My husband, who is also a lab technician, and two children also gave their samples, but thankfully their reports were negative. It was a great relief,” she said.Rupinderjit said he suffered from fever, body ache and mild cough. “It is important to stay positive and eat healthy. I made it a habit to hot drink water,” he said.She said though her report came out negative on the 11th day, she completed 17 days of quarantine. “I was not ready to take any chances. One should follow all health guidelines as these are issued by experts,” she said.Rupinderjit said effects of the viral disease remained long after she was cured. “I used to feel weakness in my body long after I recovered. I used to feel fatigued all the time. The patients should keep a healthy diet even after recovering and increase intake of fruits and fluids,” she said.She said she stringently took medicines prescribed by the doctors. “My symptoms were mild as compared to that of others. But the psychological effect of the disease is similar in everybody's case. In my case, support from my family and colleagues was of great help,” she said.(As told to Manmeet Singh Gill)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-important-to-stay-positive-eat-healthy-202933
24-01-2021||---||Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria faces protest over missing ‘saroops’||Amritsar, January 23Activists of Sikh organisations protesting against the 328 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib from the publishing house of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) held a protest outside the residence of Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria here on Saturday.They protested by holding an hour-long ‘Gurbani Kirtan’ outside the residence of the minister. The activists belonged to the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal and Akal Bunga.Former Darbar Sahib Hazuri Ragi Bhai Baldev Singh Wadala said they were holding a ‘Kirtan Darbar’ in front of the residences of nine Cabinet ministers to impress upon the government to register criminal cases against SGPC officials who were behind the missing ‘saroops’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-sukhbinder-singh-sarkaria-faces-protest-over-missing-saroops-202845
24-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Women returnees from UAE reluctant to file cases against travel agents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 23A majority of the 11 women, aged between 28 years and 50 years, who were repatriated from the UAE after allegedly being duped by travel agents is reluctant to file police cases against them.Hailing from different districts of the state, the women are now demanding their hard-earned money back from travel agents. Their families’ poor economic condition is holding them back from filing cases against the agents.Rajinder Singh, SHO, Airport police station, said the police had not recorded any statement of the Dubai returnees as no one approached them. Each returnee had given between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh to travel agents on the promise of a job.The eight rescued Punjabi women, who returned from Dubai yesterday, had gone to work as a domestic help on a promised monthly salary of Rs 25,000. However, their hopes were dashed when they found 500 women of different nationalities, including the Philippines, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, vying for the job.They were pitted against others, who were better prepared, at the centre of Tadbeer company, involved in arranging house-keeping jobs in Dubai homes.“Sheikhs visited the centre to select maids for household chores but they interacted with only those who had the basic knowledge of English or Arabic.” In this respect, women from Philippines were the most sought-after lot.A widow and mother of two said they were kept at an accommodation guarded by women officials of the company. On specific days alone, they were taken to the centre for hiring and later brought back. They were offered meals — rice and chicken — twice a day. The quantity was barely enough to keep them alive, she said.The women kept asking the officials to send them home if there were no jobs. However, company owner Baba Yasim demanded Rs 1.50 lakh from each for release and return of their passports. Yasim claimed he had paid the amount to Wasim, an agent, who had brought the women from the airport upon arrival.SPS Oberoi, head of Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, said Filipinos were preferred to Indians as the former could work for longer hours and communicate in English or Arabic.Jobless, poorly fed in Dubai||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-returnees-from-uae-reluctant-to-file-cases-against-travel-agents-202847
