25-01-2021||---||NRIs make last-minute efforts to mobilise public for tractor march||Amritsar, January 24The non-resident Indians (NRIs) from numerous villages made last-minute efforts to mobilise public for participating in the scheduled tractor parade to be held in Delhi on the Republic Day.Farmers from rural areas reported that announcements were being made from gurdwaras on the behalf of NRIs who were offering free transportation for people.“Kulwinder Singh (NRI) from our village has offered a bus to those who want to go to Delhi. This will help people, especially women, who want to join the protest as travelling on the bus is comparatively comfortable than in a trailer,” said Mandeep Singh, a resident of Cheema village. He said a bus from their village had left for Delhi on Sunday.Similar announcements were being made in other villages as well. The NRIs have been calling their contacts to join the protest and offering them financial support.Inderbir Singh, who has been living in the US from the last 15 years, said, “I received a request from my friends who stay in Chabal area. I cannot join the protest physically, but I am doing my bit to contribute towards the cause.”Residents, including those not associated with the agriculture sector were heading for Delhi. “We will leave on Monday evening as Tuesday is a holiday. We will return before Wednesday morning and join office,” said Karan, a bank employee, who has prepared to leave with his four colleagues.As youths were going in large numbers, elders seem a bit worried. “What if something bad happens? Youth should follow the advice of elderly leaders as they have experience. People fear that if something goes wrong, the hard-earned peace will be lost,” said Balkaran Singh, a senior citizen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nris-make-last-minute-efforts-to-mobilise-public-for-tractor-march-203310
25-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja---||Flags and stickers in high demand ahead of march||Tribune News Service Amritsar, January 24 Flags and stickers related to farmers’ protest were in high demand in the city. Farmers, who plan to participate in the tractor parade on Republic Day in Delhi, were buying flags in the bulk.  A large number of residents could be seen displaying flags and stickers on their vehicles to support the cause. The market behind Suraj, Chanda and Tara (theatres) has been a favourite among residents to purchase green and yellow flags. One could even design their own flag, logo and slogan. Surinder Singh, a shopkeeper, said, “We prepare flags having a symbol of Khanda. We used to sell a few flags on normal days and the numbers increased during festivals and gurpurbs. Now, more than 5,000 flags are sold every day in the market. All types of flags are in demand. Some prefer flag with bull and cart or sickle in the middle. Some demands green flag with slogan ‘Kisan Mazdoor, Ekta Zindabaad’ written on it.” The Khalsa flag is also in high demand these days. We sold thousands of stickers of “No Farmer, No Food” for displaying on vehicles. Harman Sandhu, a resident of Gumtala village, said, “We will leave for Delhi tomorrow. I purchased 200 flags to support farmers. I have designed my own flag as I am not a member of any farmer union. A few months ago, I was in Delhi and a flag costed Rs 250 there. So, I decided to get it printed from here. We paid Rs35 per flag in the local market. I will distribute flags to farmers heading towards Delhi.”  Narinder Singh, who uses a green flag on his car, said, “I am not going to Delhi, but I support farmers. Thus, I use the flag on my car to encourage others to oppose the agri laws.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flags-and-stickers-in-high-demand-ahead-of-march-203311
25-01-2021||---||Republic Day celebrations to be held in subdued manner||Amritsar, January 24In view of the unprecedented health crisis, the Republic Day celebrations would be held in a subdued manner.The cultural programmes and PT shows, which were earlier organised by schoolchildren, would not be part of the celebrations this year. Only tableau by several government departments would be displayed during the function, which would be held at Guru Nanak Stadium here.In a first, the Health Department would present a tableau on the novel coronavirus and how health officials worked as frontline warriors during their 10-month-long fight against the virus that claimed hundreds and thousands of lives globally.“The tableau would be based on the theme of coronavirus as how the department has stood against the pandemic during these testing times and what has changed after the arrival of the vaccine,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh. He said all the preparations were complete and the main motive behind the tableau is to motivate the people for vaccination.Meanwhile, full dress rehearsals for the 72nd Republic Day celebrations were conducted at Guru Nanak Dev stadium here on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira took salute of the march past parade and unfurled the national flag. Manpreet Kaur Shimar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, led the march past. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal and other officials were present on the occasion.Khaira, who also passed instructions to different officials present there, informed that Sports and Youth Affairs and NRI Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi would be the chief guest on the occasion on January 26. He would unfurl the national flag at 10am. He said like in the past, the PT show and cultural tableau and programmes would not be part of the Republic Day celebrations this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/republic-day-celebrations-to-be-held-in-subdued-manner-203312
25-01-2021||---||Minor raped, youth booked||Amritsar, January 24  A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth at Bhagtupura village falling under the Chatiwind police station here on Friday evening. A complaint was lodged with the police on Saturday following which a case was registered against the suspect, identified as Harmanpreet Singh of the same village. The victim’s mother told the police that at around 10pm on Friday, her daughter was walking in the street after dinner when the accused took her to a nearby vacant house and raped her. He allegedly threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anybody. Following the complaint by the victim’s mother, the police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was yet to be arrested. Meanwhile, the Majitha police have booked Ravi, a resident of Gallowali village, for allegedly molesting a 6-year-old girl. The victim’s mother told the police that her daughter had gone to take milk from the shop on Friday evening. But when she did not return, she went to see her. She said her daughter was crying in the street located on the backside of the shop. She told her mother that the accused sexually harassed her and on seeing her he fled from the spot. The police have registered a case under Section 354 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act. The accused has been absconding since. Teen abduction: Police book accused after a month Tarn Taran: The Chohal Sahib police of Tarn Taran district have recorded the statement of a woman of Karmunwala village, whose teenage daughter was abducted a month ago. The incident took place during the intervening night of December 29-30, when Balkaran Singh of the nearby Rani Walah village abducted her 15-year-old daughter on the pretext of marrying her. The accused has been booked under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC. ASI Lakhbir Kaur recorded the statement of the victim’s mother. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-raped-youth-booked-203313
25-01-2021||---||4 booked for assault, firing||Amritsar, January 24 Three youth fired at a car near Ansal city on the GT Road on January 22. The occupants of the car had a narrow escape and the incident led to panic in the area. Following a complaint lodged by Gurnoor Singh of Meharbanpura village, the police have booked three persons, including Mehtab Singh of Khassan village (Kapurthala), now residing at Bhorsi Rajputa village.Gurnoor stated to the police that on January 22 he had gone to Khalsa College to get some information related to a computer course. He said Mehtab quarreled with his cousin Manmohit Singh at the college gate. The complainant said a passerby got the matter settled.Gurnoor said in the evening, when he along with his mother Harjit Kaur and cousin Gurtaj Singh, was going to take medicine in a car, the accused intercepted them near Ansal city.He said Mehtab, who was having a pistol, was accompanied by three unknown persons. He alleged the accused damaged windows of their car with a baseball bat. The complainant said he sped away from the spot following which the accused fired two bullets at their car.The police have registered a case under Sections 336, 341, 427, 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act against Mehtab and his accomplices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-booked-for-assault-firing-203319
25-01-2021||---||Mayor: Spent Rs 425 crore in 3 yrs on development works||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 24The Congress-led Municipal Corporation (MC) house completed its three years on January 23. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Sunday claimed that they spent Rs 425 crore on the development of the city during last three years. The amount is almost four times the Rs 125 crore spent on development works by the previous group in power. The development works of Rs 100 crore are also in the pipeline and budget has been sanctioned, claims Rintu.Talking about the achievements, the Mayor claimed that the focus of the current MC house was to provide basic amenities like potable water, sewerage systems but sanitation was our priority.“We have laid a 250-km-long potable water supply pipeline and solved the issue of water shortage. Now there is no area in the city where people complain of the poor water supply. The lifting of garbage was the major issue as the previous solid waste management firm was not working properly. We have replaced the firm with an international company, which is doing door-to-door collection, bio remediation and processing. All the sewerage treatment plants are functional. We got open-defecation free plus plus (++) grade from the Central Government,” the Mayor said.However, the MC does not make any significant effort to remove illegal buildings and encroachments. The Mayor claimed that the previous government allowed more than 600 illegal buildings in the city. “We are trying to streamline the things but no illegal building will be allowed. The government dismissed a Municipal Town Planner for committing a wrong. Now we are strict on illegal buildings. As far as temporary encroachments are concerned, we have sent the sites to the government for street vending zones but they have not been approved yet. We are going to outsource a firm to manage encroachments in the city,” said Rintu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-spent-rs-425-crore-in-3-yrs-on-development-works-203331
25-01-2021||How can health infra be upgraded and how can it be made affordable to all? ||Right policies, practical work must for complete overhaul||Awareness regarding schemes neededThe healthcare allocation in the Union Budget 2020-2021 was Rs67,484-cr which looks like a big amount but it is only about 1per cent of the GDP. With the next Budget just around the corner, this number must be increased to tackle any future pandemics. The government has introduced very good schemes like ‘Ayushman Bharat’ which provides an insurance cover of Rs5 lakh per family every year. But such schemes fail due to lack of proper implementation and awareness among people. Such issues need to be addressed on priority to ensure good healthcare for all as healthy citizens lead to a healthy nation.Jatinderpal Singh BatthRight time to revive medical servicesTill the 1970s, the healthcare system in Punjab was healthy enough to provide diagnostic services to the community. Hospitals and dispensaries were adequately manned and functioned almost religiously. The wing expected to provide preventive medical service was visibly active in the field whether rural or urban. School kids were regularly examined for any ailments. Vaccination against seasonal pandemics was a routine thing and the medical and paramedical staff enjoyed genuine respect in society. Pharmacies were there but only to assist the government-run hospitals. No one could imagine drugs being pilfered or stolen. All pre-natal and post-natal requirements were satisfactorily met by government gynaecologists and obstetricians. Caesarian section deliveries were very rare. It may look far-fetched, but ultimately, the same services that the community enjoyed earlier have to be made available now with the positive difference that now the number of hospitals is much more, taking into consideration the privately-run clinics and dispensaries. The only requirement is organising what already exists. And that’s where the rub lies. Who will bell the cat? A genuine political will, a genuine earmarking of funds and judicious allocation to cities and villages can get the results. Health and education should not be run on business lines. They need funds. Mobile connectivity is there to help. Now, the public is ready to cooperate if the results are available. The Covid can prove to be a game-changer.Prof Mohan SinghQuarantine centres lacked amenitiesHealth infrastructure must be upgraded in Covid-19 and other emergencies because in the pandemic period most of the people complained about poor quarantine centres. So firstly, the government should improve quarantine centres. Ward and patient area should have much space, light and an all-round comfortable atmosphere. Wherever possible to promote patient-friendly and healing environment, separate access routes for staff, patients and the public to wards and services should be there. A range of amenities such as choice of food, telephone to improve patient and staff coordination must be there. Environment should be configured a certain degree of cleanliness sufficiently flexible to secure all patients. All of this will help patients to decrease fears in their mind and make them mentally stable in such situations.Dr Rohan MehraEffective execution of govt schemes a mustTo upgrade the health infrastructure, firstly mental health and psycho-social support should be made available to all workers. To upgrade the health emergencies there must be community preparedness, medical material management, distribution system, emergency public information system, non-pharmaceuticals interventions and fatality management systems. Importantly, neither patients nor services should be constrained by a physical environment, but the environment should be configured to be fit the purpose with a high degree of cleanliness. There must be effective implementation of government schemes, allocation of funds, provision of basic health facilities should be a part of fundamental right, working on the ESIC needs streamlining, increase investments in health sectors, build more affordable government hospitals, encourage mobile clinics, organise free regular check-up camps, make them aware of healthcare policies, affordability in treatment specially in medicines, educate on health insurance schemes, setting up healthcare access task force with local hospitals and other community. Awareness seminars with the help of different NGO’s and healthcare workers could do the needful.Ankur GuptaSet aside budget for research purposesThe first step to improve infrastructure is to increase the budget allotment for medical research so that more hospitals and research centres can be opened. Measures should be taken to ensure the allotted sum is used in a transparent manner. The government hospitals need to be made more clean and hygienic and all viable precautions should be installed and made full use of. Eco-friendly sanitisation tunnels should be introduced.Gurpratap KhairahA new category of hospitals requiredI think government should increase health budget and make treatment affordable to everyone and to upgrade health infrastructure. The government should open mohalla clinic in every ward of the councillor ensuring each and every person gets free health check-up and treatment. The government should increase salaries of medical officers and specialist doctors so that more doctors prefer working in government nursing homes as compared to private hospitals. The government should construct a separate category of hospitals under special category like ‘infectious diseases hospitals’ which only deals with controlling and treating communicable viral and bacterial diseases. Every citizen of India must have a compulsory free health insurance minimum up to Rs3 lakh connected to their bank account.Dr Naqsh ThakurPvt, govt hospitals must work in tandemThe private sector plays a significant role in delivering healthcare services to people in developing countries. By some estimates, more than one-half of all healthcare – even to the poorest people – is provided by private doctors, other health workers and other non-state actors. The government needs to find ways to work with the private sector to accelerate progress toward high-priority health objectives. Household decision-makers in developing countries often choose private providers because they respond more to patients’ needs or preferences. People value the convenience, flexible payment plans, and ease of access to healthcare providers and drugs at private health homes. They also value the closer locations and more responsive services. India’s public expenditure on health as a percentage of the GDP is far lower than countries classified as the ‘poorest’ in the world. India’s public expenditure on health now stands at 1.28 per cent of the GDP, but even then, it is way lower than the average expenditure of poor countries. The viral diseases are going to define how medical and surgical sciences are going to be practised in future. Since the explosion HIV, HCV, HBV, swine flu and now Covid, the habitat flora of surgical patients is changing. We will need to develop dedicated and specialised viral units in hospitals which will exclusively cater to these patients in a perfect isolation. The human resource department for such dedicated units will also need to be developed. This way a normal patient who is not infected with deadly viruses will be able to avail treatment. Remember it’s this latter subset of patients which suffered the most because the whole attention as well as the resource was diverted to Covid.Dr Rakesh SharmaForm Disaster mgmt health servicesWith health emergencies occurring repeatedly in recent times, the present healthcare infrastructure structure needs updation. Since the present infrastructure is inadequate in handling, a separate disaster management health services be formed. It should have a nodal headquarter manned by personnel drawn from Army Medical Corps. It should have stocks of life saving drugs and equipment to handle the situation. State units should enrol volunteers of NGOs, private hospitals to assist and work under the nodal headquarter in case of need.Anil VinayakHear the wailing of govt hospitalsIt is needless to mention that the health system in our nation is not upgraded and people do encounter various afflictions in health sector. The administration should make some strategies to facilitate the masses. I am falling short of words to articulate my thoughts. Honestly, government hospitals are in deplorable condition and maintenance is the crying need of the hour. On the contrary, private hospitals are in an excellent condition since they are too costly. Therefore, a commoner cannot afford the expenses of private hospitals. In this age, people succumb to a few maladies and government agencies should pay proper heed to this.Saahil HansRight policies will strengthen itIt has been rightly said that the health of people is the foundation upon which all their happiness and powers as a state depend. We have the health infrastructure and the services but the only problem is that they are not functioning in an optimal manner. Because of this, a healthy future cannot be achieved without putting the health and the well-being of the people at the forefront of the lifecycle unless the existing health infrastructure is upgraded drastically to cope with the Covid-19 and Avian flu like emergencies. Since good health is essentially beneficial to economies and societies, it is pertinent to see how the system across the country is struggling to maximise the health of people. The need of the hour is to address on priority basis the stresses and shortcomings of our health system to make people healthier and resilient to future. Hence, investment in public and private health infrastructure is of paramount importance if significant health and economic dividends are to be reaped. With right policies health infrastructure can be strengthened to wake it from the deep slumber into which it has slipped. ‘Health for all’ has so far remained a mere slogan. If it has to transpire the government and community will have to work in tandem on various fronts to make healthcare accessible to all without any discrimination. Research infrastructure in the departments of community medicine in various institutes should be strengthened. Gaps in enforcement, monitoring and evaluation should be plugged. Training facilities for public health specialists should be provided overcoming the lack of financial and material resources. The Health Ministry should embark on innovating schemes through public-private partnerships to revitalise the health infrastructure. The health system should be equipped with both reserve capacity and agility to provide high quality universal health coverage. Besides, population stabilisation is a must for ensuring a qualitative life for all the citizens along with the upgradation of the health infrastructure the government should provide minimum amenities to encounter the future emergencies like good housing, proper sanitation, access to affordable healthcare, access to potable water, proper drainage and sewerage, monitoring the functioning of the gigantic medical centre network and generation of awareness by all possible means.Tarsem S BumrahMore govt medical colleges neededCentral and state governments took all the necessary steps to control the spread of coronavirus in the country. But these were short-term measures and now it is time to make a long term strategy to tackle avian flu like diseases in future. Before we go for healthcare we must put a glance at medical education in the state. The first government medical college in the state was established in 1864 at Lahore and shifted to Amritsar in 1920, second government medical institution started at Patiala in 1953 and third and last in 1973 at Faridkot. Just imagine no government medical college in the state was established since almost half a century! Whereas number of medical colleges in private sector have come up charging a hefty tuition fee and making it a money-making business instead of missionary work to serve the poor. So, the first step should be to increase seats in existing government medical colleges and also establish more institutions in public sector. In the pre- Independence days we were having an exclusive hospital for infectious diseases named ‘Infectious Diseases Hospital’, located near present bus stand at IDH Market named after it. Here is a time to revive such exclusive hospital for infectious diseases as per the pattern of exclusive eye, ENT, TB, cancer, mental hospital already in existence in the city as government undertakings. All most all over the world healthcare system is in public sector, whereas we are opening this sector to private entrepreneurs, whose only aim is to make money. I wish to quote Adam Smith: ‘Businessmen seldom meet together, even for merriment, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices’. So, strengthening the government healthcare system is the only solution to the problem.Harsh N JoharIt is all about the budgetEmergencies such as Covid need strategies to build emergency medicine and critical care infrastructure across the country in public health system by creating sufficient dedicated, fully equipped manpower in different zones of a state. This will require significant increase in health Budget, especially for emergency and critical care infrastructure so as to improve public health system and social health making it affordable to all sections of society. India spends meager amount of GDP on health (1.5 per cent) in contrast to above 10 per cent by developed nations. Critical care medicine has a crucial role in emergencies which can be utilised maximally in pandemics by phone triage, home testing , telemedicine OPD, thus decreasing visits to hospitals leading onto early identification of disease thereby preventing further spread. This requires training in emergency medicines, critical care, pulmonology, infection control, safe testing and isolation protocols which helps in creating better teams to tackle such situations. These training be made part of basic nursing and medical courses, making mandatory time-bound clinical postings in emergency/CCM centres which will produce a well-trained manpower. These centres may be made autonomous bodies to make a healthy working environment which will retain trained, experienced manpower.Dr Monika GuptaComplete overhaul of system requiredTraining of paramedics and interventionists, their life-saving equipment handling capability as well as compatibility in bulk surpassing the routine shortage is a prerequisite to deal with any life-threatening situation. Coordination of a collective dedicated body of doctors, administration, social, political and religious heads for preventive discipline and mobilising the funds in a short notice is the need of the hour. The availability of duty and tax-free subsidised equipment and kits to the hospitals should be a priority. Mass insurance of the masses (calamity insurance) should be made mandatory with a compulsory peanut contribution clubbed with electricity/house tax bill. Last but not the least, personal, institutional and financial security to hospitals to deal with the situation without fear since mortality and its repercussions by the society are not affordable to the sensitive psych and morale of the health providers!Dr Gurkirat S AulakhPractical not paper work requiredVirus infections, bacterial infections, microbial infections, etc are our future challenges. I think we should take it positively. But with this, it’s necessary to find developments in research. As we know our county is a growing one and we are better than others but still more research fellowship, research projects in universities should be carried out, both at national and state level. We need more awareness for every type of situation in future. As we all know that people in remote areas are oblivious of knowledge of such things, so government should begin awareness lectures through Health Department with the help of sarpanch. Research scholars should also be appointed for awareness camps. Our government should need practical work more as compared to paper work.Jatinder Vir SinghQUESTIONNow that the Covid vaccination drive has started and fresh cases are on the decline, should parents send their children to school as the Punjab Government has allowed resumption of classes from Class V onwards?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 28).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/right-policies-practical-work-must-for-complete-overhaul-203334
25-01-2021||Amritsar||Now, download Voter ID-cards||Two held with 255-gm heroinAmritsar: CIA staff nabbed two alleged drug peddlers with 255 gm of heroin on Saturday. The contraband was reportedly smuggled from across the Indo-Pak border. Those arrested were identified as Balwinder Singh of Chak Allah Bakhsh village, who is now residing at San Sahib Road falling under the Chheharta police station, and Harchand Singh of Naushehra Dhalla village in Tarn Taran. He is now living in a rented accommodation in Anmol enclave located on Ram Tirath Road here. The police seized a mobile phone and a bike from their possession. They were held at a checkpoint set up along San Sahib Road. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered by the Chheharta police. According to the police, Balwinder had close contacts with Pakistan-based smugglers and they had got a drug consignment smuggled recently. They were brought on police remand for further interrogation. Balwinder had a case registered under the NDPS Act against him earlier also. TNSCar mows down 39-year-old manTarn Taran: Pargat Singh (39), a resident of Plasaur village, was mowed down by a rashly driven car on late Saturday night. The victim was on his bicycle and was heading to his fields when a car hit him from the front. The victim who suffered serious injuries on his head was rushed to the Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Meanwhile, driver of the car managed to escape from the spot. ASI Rajpal Singh, Investigating Officer said they were trying to identify the driver of the car. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC against the driver of the car. OC700 litres of lahan seizedTarn Taran: The Sarhali police have seized 700 litres of lahan from Shakri village on Saturday. Cops said 400 litres of lahan was recovered from the residence of Meva Singh and 300 litres from the house of Rinkoo Singh. The accused somehow managed to escape from the spot. The duo was booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-download-voter-id-cards-203335
25-01-2021||Amritsar||Upset over laws, farmer attempts suicide, critical||Perturbed over Centre’s refusal to repeal the three farm laws, a farmer today attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. He was admitted to a private hospital at Chheharta.Jasbir Singh of Khussopur village had returned from Delhi protests a fortnight ago and participated in a dharna staged outside the residence of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik here.Bhindi Saida police station SHO Ajaypal Singh said Jasbir had been put on a ventilator and his condition was critical. Jasbir’s family claimed he was upset at the Centre’s stance on the farm laws, he said. Meanwhile, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee today cremated a farmer, Ratan Singh Kotli, at his native Kotali Dhole Sah village near Kathunangal here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/upset-over-laws-farmer-attempts-suicide-critical-203259
