26-01-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Covering 430 km to reach Singhu a challenge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 25The 18-hour-long journey from the city to the Singhu border protest site on tractor-trailer is not a cakewalk as most people think. This was revealed by some farmers who took the tedious and back-breaking journey recently.As large numbers of farmers have left for Delhi to take part in the tractor parade on Tuesday, a section of the protesters revealed that covering the 430-km-long journey till Singhu was a challenge.Owing to a heavy rush on the route these days due to mass movement of vehicles (especially tractor-trolleys), the farmers have to spend around extra four to five hours in traffic jams. They revealed that heavy traffic jams near the Sonipat bridge and near Eastern Peripheral Express (EPE) were a daily occurrence these days.Yadwinder Singh Bhullar, former secretary of the Ajnala Bar Association who reached Singhu on Tuesday morning, said, “It took us 12 hours to reach Singhu. We had to park our car 10 km away from the stage as the roads were chock-o-block.Another farmer Balbir Singh Numberdar from Borsi Rajputtan village said, “You cannot have a wink of sleep through the journey. My body pained for two days after reaching Singhu. Those who feel that farmers are having a gala time at the protest sites cannot imagine how painful and arduous the journey is.” Balbair Singh has been at the protest site since November 25 and has not visited his home even once.At an average speed of 25 km per hour, the tractor drivers have to drive very cautiously and maintain a distance between the vehicles going ahead and following them. “The braking system of a tractor is not like the one installed in a car. Moreover, with trolleys attached to tractors, it becomes very difficult to stop the vehicle all of a sudden in case of an emergency,” said Bobandeep Singh, a young farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covering-430-km-to-reach-singhu-a-challenge-203869
26-01-2021||Gurbaxpuri ---||Women add the X-factor to farmers’ protest||Tarn Taran, January 25 There was a time when women dared not attend mass gatherings beyond their own villages in such a big number. However, every political party and many mass organisations had formed their women wings but the present position to attend the women en-masse from villages to the country’s capital for months together was seen for the first time in history of the trade union.  The farmers’ stir has overwritten the past figure — and history — of any assemblage of women in the country for a cause.  Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, has attributed the contribution of women to shape what the agitation has ballooned into today, gaining support from people globally. “The participation of women workers from village level to the Delhi morcha remained remarkable than the male number till date,” he said, adding that more mature suggestions were given by the women leaders to maintain peace and remain firm on their stand which the national leadership of the kisan morcha has followed duly. At the initial stage of the present agitation about four months back, as many as 51 women workers presented themselves for court arrest in Tarn Taran and the number varied in other districts. Around 6,000 of women farmers have participated. There was hardly any village in the district left without their cooperation. The women jatha under the leadership of Rupinder Kaur Marimegha and Seema Sohal of ASHA workers, state leader, attended the morcha for days together. Many more women jathas under the banner of each farmer organisation, political party and other mass organisations have also taken.  There were days when only women workers participated in the demonstrations and speakers, too, were the women. They organised demonstrations in the area with remarkable attendances. The women wing of organisations like the ASHA workers, anganwadi workers, mid-day meal workers and the other employees outfits, too, extended their support staging dharnas from time to time.  Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind a, trade unionist, said the role of women in the present farmers agitation had created history. “Women usually used to take part in the dharnas just for a few hours owing to household work and obligations,” he said. Baljinder Kaur, another trade unionist, added that the present farmer agitation had made women more aware politically. “It has developed our political knowledge,” said Baljinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-add-the-x-factor-to-farmers-protest-203870
26-01-2021||---||‘1 lakh to be hired to fill 20,000 vacancies’||Amritsar, January 25 With an objective to provide employment to one lakh youth this year, the process has been initiated to fill 20,000 vacancies, said Charanjit Singh Channi, Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister, during a virtual meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at Rajasansi Nagar council on Monday.  He said the previous SAD-BJP coalition government had ignored the employment to youth. After the formation of this government, 70,000 jobs were offered and loans were arranged for 1.17 lakh youngsters to help them become self-reliant.  He said employment bureaus were established in each district after the adoption of ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar’ Scheme.  He also said the government, in league with the Union government, would establish a cell for facilitating the youth of Punjab to go for higher studies overseas. He stated that this would protect the gullible youth from falling in the net of unscrupulous agents.         Channi handed over blankets and baby kits to mothers of five newly-born mothers and felicitated three mothers under the Pradhan Mantri Matri Vandana Yojana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-lakh-to-be-hired-to-fill-20-000-vacancies-203871
26-01-2021||---||Snatchers target two Amritsar residents||Amritsar, January 25Two miscreants snatched a purse from a woman, identified as Poonam Sharma, who works at Metro Shopping Mall located on the Amritsar-Attari bypass road here on Sunday. Later, they were arrested by the police.The victim told the police that after her duty she was returning home at Verka. She said she alighted from an auto rickshaw near the Verka milk plant and called her husband to pick her up. She said when she was going on foot near the milk plant, two persons came on a bike and snatched her purse containing a mobile phone and other important documents.The police said a case under Section 379-B of the IPC was registered and started investigation. During the probe, the police zeroed in on Malkiat Singh and Shamsher Singh of Gurdaspur who were later nabbed by the police. The police recovered the bike used in the crime and further investigation was on. More recoveries are likely to be made during their interrogation.Meanwhile, Chitranch Chaurre, a student of the Indian Institute of Management, was looted by unknown bike-borne persons here on Sunday. He was strolling near Hotel Radisson Blue when unknown accused snatched his expensive One+ 7 mobile phone and fled from the spot.Salwinder Singh, investigating officer of the case, said the footage of the CCTV cameras installed near the crime spot was being analysed, besides putting the mobile on surveillance to identify the suspects.A case under Section 379-B of the IPC has been registered in the regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatchers-target-two-amritsar-residents-203872
26-01-2021||---||Ex-serviceman duped of Rs 90L, 28 booked||Amritsar, January 25The Beas police on Sunday booked 28 persons for allegedly duping an ex-serviceman, Savinderpal Singh of Kapurthala, of Rs 90 lakh on the pretext of doubling the amount by investing in different policies.The case was registered after over two and a half years of probe by the crime against property wing of the Amritsar rural police.The complainant had lodged a complaint with the police in May 2018. In the complaint, he alleged that the accused withdrew his money from different bank accounts for investing in various policies for doubling the amount.Kamalmeet Singh, SHO, Beas police station, said a case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act had been registered.Those booked were identified as Suresh Rawat of Karnal, Rohan of Panipat, Manish Kumar of Kurukshetra, Vikas Kumar of Bhojpur in Bihar, Soma Devi of Himachal Pradesh, Yogesh Sharma of Panchkula, Rahul Kaul of Zirakpur, Neeraj Devi of Ghaziabad, Sukhwinder Singh of Dhilwan, Suman Sharma of Dwarika, Imran Khan of Rasulpur, Mukesh of Mohali, Sohan Singh, Meenakshi, Ram Ratan Sharma, Gurmit Chawla, PS Cheema, Jasbir Pathania, Bikramjit Singh Randhawa, Dr Deen Dayal Sharma, Lakshami Vilas, Jaswant Singh, Ashwani Kumar and five other unknown persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-serviceman-duped-of-rs-90l-28-booked-203873
26-01-2021||---||‘Celebrating the ones who feed us’||Amritsar, January 25Poems were sung and a drama was also staged to mobilise support for protesting farmers, during a programme titled, ‘Celebrate the People Who Feed Us!’ held here on Sunday.Organised by the Majha House, it was attended by students and members of the civil society. Prolonged farmers’ stir, demanding repeal of three new farm laws became a part of the narrative of the contemporary Punjabi poetry in its varied forms such as jugani, mirza and boliyan.Guru Nanak Dev University Prof Sarbjot Behal penned a jugani, highlighting the plight of farmers. Similarly, Dr Arvinder Pal Singh Chamak composed Mirza, which highlights the shared common culture of farmers hailing from two Punjabs, one in India and another in Pakistan. Farmers from Pakistan’s Punjab had stood in solidarity with Indian farmers both of whom believe that service to the world is their religion, said Dr Chamak.A panel of six youths debated on farmers’ problems, prospective solutions and negative impact of farm laws on agriculture, already beset with high input cost and dwindling income.Four young poets, Sayyad Ludhianvi, Parminder Singh, Manpreet and Lovepreet narrated the poetry in Punjabi in support of the farmers. A play was also staged on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrating-the-ones-who-feed-us-203874
26-01-2021||---||New voters sensitised to the importance of voting||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 25Students of Government High School, Abdal (Amritsar), took out a rally to commemorate ‘National Voters Day’. The students, holding placards, sensitised the community, especially new voters about the importance of the Right to Vote.Staff members Rajwant Kaur and Jaspal Kaur also took the initiative to organise a seminar of students who attained 18 years of age, with an aim to sensitise them to getting the votes prepared as well as the judicious use of Right to Vote. Headmistress Deepika Dean said educational institutions could play a vital role to educate the society about the importance of exercising their franchise.In another function, a video addressed by the Election Commissioner of India was screened on voter awareness. A short film made by Harinder Sohal to create awareness among the voters was also screened. As per the instructions received from the Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, 16 children with special needs, who had secured first position in the district level competitions were awarded Rs 500/ - and certificates. Apart from this, 26 students who secured positions in the cometitions conducted at Punjab and district level were honoured with certificates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-voters-sensitised-to-the-importance-of-voting-203877
26-01-2021||---||Next to knock your socks off are – our young guns!||Amritsar, January 25Whether creating Punjabi version of popular revolution song ‘Bella Ciao’ or rendition of ‘Jugni’, the farmers’ movement has been getting support in form of protest art aplenty. Hosting an afternoon of music and art form in their support, students from city expressed their solidarity through theatre, poetry and a photo exhibition.‘Students for farmers’ was led by Harpeet Singh, a literature scholar from GNDU. With presence of senior artistes from city, including Arvinder Chamak, Gurinder Makana and Dr SS Bahl, the event was dedicated to give a platform to youth, to document the movement through their sensibilities.‘Jugni’, a genre of narrative used in Punjabi folk written by Dr SS Bahl, which is dedicated to farmers, began the proceedings of the day. Over 200 students, most of them upcoming poets, writers and artistes, attended the event. “The youth of Punjab, until now, was being portrayed through a narrative that only talked about drug abuse and foreign dreams. But this movement has unveiled a parallel picture, where the young have led the movement through knowledge and awareness. Through our event, we wanted to extend an opportunity by giving platform to young voices of creative dissent,” said Harpreet Singh.Among several performances were plays like ‘Kisan Kaun Ne’ that talked about how the three farm laws will impact traditional farming. Supnandan, sufi singer, recited a poem of resilience that the entire farmer movement has been about. A photo exhibition by artist Gurinder Makana, who went to Singhu border to capture the movement through his lens, was also put up at the event.Noted journalist and activist P Sainath, sent a special message to the ‘students for farmers’ event on behalf of ‘nation for farmers’, a nationwide umbrella forum that supports the movement. In his message, he said that students have turned out to be the most significant pillar of support for mass movements since 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/next-to-knock-your-socks-off-are-%E2%80%93-our-young-guns-203878
26-01-2021||Our Correspondent ||Students bring laurels||Tarn Taran, January 25Students of the local Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School brought laurels in the ‘Talent on Guard’ competition organised here by the CKD institute of Management and Technology recently. The students bagged the first prize in waste management and in rangoli competition. Ranjit Bhatia, principal of the school, that the winners in the waste management competition were Pallavi, Sukhmandeep, Kiran and Simran. She added that Robindeep stood first in the rangoli competition. Harjit Singh, president of local committee Chief Khalsa Diwan and school member-in-charge and Gurinder Singh, member of the school committee, congratulated the winners and guided them how they could maintain a balance between their studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-bring-laurels-203881
26-01-2021||---||2 DSPs from Amritsar awarded  CM’s medal||Amritsar, January 25 Deputy Superintendent of Police Harwinderpal Singh posted with the State Special Operation Cell here has been awarded with the Chief Minister’s medal for outstanding devotion to his duty which would be given at the state-level Republic Day function to be held in Patiala.Earlier, he was awarded the President’s Police Medals for meritorious services — one on the Independence Day in 2013 and the other on Republic Day in 2020. He was also awarded as many as six DGP’s Commendation Discs for his excellent services.He is among the seven cops who were awarded the same.Since the constitution of the State Special Operation Cell, a counter-intelligence wing of the Punjab Police, he was instrumental in the seizure of many drug hauls and arrest of notorious drug peddlers. He played a key role in busting terrorist module in the region.DSP Arun Sharma, posted with the Special Task Force wing of the Punjab Police here, was also awarded the Chief Minister’s medal for his devotion to duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-dsps-from-amritsar-awarded-cms-medal-203882
26-01-2021||Amritsar||Six honoured for helping accident victims||In order to educate the citizens to help the victims during road mishaps which could help save many precious lives, the city police on Monday honoured several local residents with Bhai Ghaniya Ji Sewa Samman for helping accident victims.A program was organised to honour them in order to mark the 32nd National Road Safety Month. Parminder Singh Bhandal, ADCP (Traffic), honoured Dev Pandey, Vicky Bhatia, Gupreet Singh, Rajiv Kumar, Davinder Kumar and Abhishek Malhotra.Speaking on the occasion, he pointed out that it was an endeavour of the Punjab Police to motivate the people for helping the victims of accident. He said it has been observed many lives could be saved if they get timely treatment or first aid before reaching hospitals for treatment. “The people should not be afraid that they would face harassment by police in case they would help the victims,” he said, while adding that people would not harass anyone. In fact they would honour such people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-honoured-for-helping-accident-victims-203886
26-01-2021||---||18 fresh cases reported in Amritsar distrct||Amritsar: The district health authorities have reported 18 new positive cases on Monday after which the total count has increased to 14,694. The new cases include 12 influenza-like-illness cases and six contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 16 patients, the recovery count too has increased to 14,269. No death was reported on Monday. The toll due to the disease stands at 575 so far and there are 120 active cases. TNSDurgiana temple donates Rs1 croreAmritsar: Cabinet Minister OP Soni, on behalf of Durgiana Committee and Shri Lakshami Narayan Sewa Dal, handed over a cheque for over Rs 1 crore as contribution to raise a temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya (of Uttar Pradesh) during a ceremony held at the Durgiana temple here on Sunday. Ramesh Sharma, president of the Durgiana Committee, former cabinet minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla and others were present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/18-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-distrct-203887
