28-01-2021||---||Govt school students honoured by American India Foundation||Amritsar, January 27 A special event was held to honour the winners of the recent coding competitions conducted by the American India Foundation (US-based NGO) for leading the way in choosing their subject in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.  Satinder Bir Singh, District Education Officer (Sec), inaugurated the IBM programme being run by the American India Foundation (Project Implementation Agency) in government schools. Under the programme, the top-12 students from eight schools who had won the coding competition in the district were given certificates. Parminderjit Kaur, programme officer of the foundation, said in order to rouse students’ interest in coding in the district, HT Coding was taught through Kodathon’s online platform. “After the students crossed six stages on the online platform, the 12 who cleared the qualifier round secured positions at the top 50 marks were awarded today,” she said.  The Education Department has launched a mission ‘Each one Ask one’ to increase the enrollment in the government schools and to extend the facilities being provided by the government in the schools. An awareness rally was organised by the staff under the leadership of Poonam, headmistress, Government High School Budha Theh. Reaching door to door during the rally, Poonam said the Punjab Government was converting the government schools into smart schools by equipping them with modern technology. Also, for the intellectual and mental development of the students the department has provided free education for Classes VI to VIII, free uniforms and books, lunch, smart classrooms, preparation classes for competitive examinations and sports equipment.  In addition to this English Booster Club, e-content based education, online education, mission 100 per cent are also being worked on to make the students proficient in English language. During the awareness rally, she said that 15 kids were enrolled in government school, who were previously studying in private schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-school-students-honoured-by-american-india-foundation-204460
28-01-2021||Neha Saini||Remembering the times when Punjab was undivided||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 27The ongoing Syal festival this week held two back-to-back events, both celebrating eminent personalities, whose contribution to the political and cultural history of Punjab remains invaluable. The Majha House organised two programmes of Sanjha Punjab in the third series of the fest – first one celebrated the works of popular Urdu poet Nasir Kazmi and other was talking about the legacy of Faqir brothers of Lahore.In the first event, talks about the life and poetry of the popular Urdu poet Nasir Kazmi reigned supreme. The event was attended by Nasir Kazmi’s son Basir Kazmi virtually from Lahore. Born in Ambala in 1925, Nasir migrated to Pakistan after the Partition, “But he always remembered his home town through his ghazals and writings,” shared his son. Sharing olden memories, Basir said he was a very loving and caring father and an immaculate writer. “He was such a proud poet because he had the ability to express deeply, without using heavy words or complicated language. The simplicity with which he used to touch upon some of the most burning issues of his time is what made him unique,” he added.Gurupadesh Singh, who has done the English translation of Nasir’s ghazals, said that his favourite time was night and would enjoy long walks alone in the night and it finds mention in most of his ghazals. “His ghazals have been sung by famous singers such as Noorjahan, Iqbal Bano and Ghulam Ali,” he said.The second event revolved about the history and legacy of three muslim brothers – Aziz-ud-Din, Imam-ud-Din and Nur-ud-Din – who were members of the Sikh court in Lahore during Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s reign. Talking to Pakistani historian, author Fakir Aijazuddin, whose book ‘The Resurrected Faqirs’ traces the history of the three brothers of Faqir family who became trusted ministers in maharaja’s court.Fakir, in conversation with Indian diplomat Navtej Sarna, said his ancestors faced challenging situations in the court as they were muslims, yet they cemented their place through skills and wisdom. They became his close loyalists. “The book is not just an account of three brothers, but also reveals the dealings of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s court and Sikh history,” said Aijazuddin, from Lahore via video-conference.“It would be wrong to say that the court of the Maharaja belonged to the Sikhs because it was actually the court of the whole Punjab which included Dogri, Sikhs, Hindus, Muslims and everyone contributed to the king’s court,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remembering-the-times-when-punjab-was-undivided-204461
28-01-2021||---||Union Govt should not forget contribution of farmers: Sodhi||Amritsar, January 27Cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi while reiterating the state government’s stand in favour of repealing the three agri laws said the Centre should not forget the contribution of farmers of Punjab in the Green and White Revolutions.Sodhi unfurled the Tricolour on the 72nd Republic Day, which was celebrated with gaiety and patriotic fervour at Guru Nanak stadium.He also led the gathering to observe a two-minute silence in memory of those who died during the two-month long farmers’ protest.He recalled that there was a time when the government used to go out begging grains to feed its citizens. At that point of time, farmers of Punjab, who roughly form two per cent of the entire country’s population, took a lead and filled the national granary.Most of the soldiers joining the defence forces and defending frontiers of the country come from this social milieu, yet the BJP-led Central Government was reluctant to listen to demands of farmers.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill along with MLAs were also present.The chief guest honoured families of freedom fighters along with achievers from different fields. He also distributed tri-cycles and sewing machines to needy persons. Parade Commander Dr Manpreet was given a memento.Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, Indian Institute of Management, Amritsar, unfurled the Tricolour on the campus and laid stress on the need to be more responsible in conduct. Prof Mukesh Kumar, chairperson, Public Relations, enunciated how the Constitution had served as a tool fulfilling the aspirations of millions of citizens of this country and had been instrumental in ensuring freedom.Prof Harpreet Kaur, chairperson, Alumni Relations, addressed the students and urged them to reflect on the purpose of this celebration as the nation celebrated its democracy.The NSS wing of Amritsar Group of Colleges celebrated Republic Day on January 26 by practising the Covid-19 guidelines. Principal Dr Vijay Banga hoisted the national flag. Bhavan’s SL Public School and DAV College also organised the functions to celebrate Republic Day.Push to sports infrastructure||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/union-govt-should-not-forget-contribution-of-farmers-sodhi-204462
28-01-2021||Strap||Police nab gang of robbers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 27The police have nabbed two persons for robbing bags from four-wheelers after puncturing their tyres on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Vishal, alias Kali, a resident of Veer Enclave on Bypass road, and Kuldeep Singh, alias Sherry, a resident of Ram Pura near Chatiwind.Jaspal Singh, Station House Officer, Cantonment police station, said they acted on a tip-off and nabbed the accused. He said the duo was wanted in several robbery cases. The SHO said they have identified their third accomplice, Gagan, a resident of Sultanwind road.He said, “The accused used to track a car with a bag on rear seat and throw nails on the road to puncture the tyres. Later, they used to follow the car on a motorcycle and inform the driver. As the driver used to stop to replace the tyre, the accused used to flee with the bag.”On January 15, the accused stole a bag containing Rs 6 lakh from Ajay Kumar, a resident of Defence Enclave.Cops identified the accused with the help of CCTV footage. The police personnel claimed that the accused confessed their crime during interrogation. Cops said the stolen bag was with Gagan, who would be arrested soon.The police had registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-nab-gang-of-robbers-204465
28-01-2021||---||Nagar kirtan marks Baba Deep Singh’s birth anniversary||Amritsar, January 27On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Shaheed Baba Deep Singh, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday decorated and carried out a nagar kirtan (religious procession) from Sri Akal Takht Sahib. On the occasion, panj pyare (five beloved ones), nishanchi (flagman) Singhs were honoured with siropas (robe of honour) by Giani Jagtar Singh head granthi Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Sahib.Giani Jagtar Singh also carried and placed Sri Guru Granth Sahib in a golden palanquin.Representatives of various religious societies were also present in large numbers during the nagar kirtan.Apart from this, gatka and band parties also participated in large numbers, while dignitaries and sangat set up various langars. The sangat gave hearty welcome to nagar kirtan at Chowk Ghanta Ghar, Jallianwala Bagh, Lakkar Mandi, Sultanwind Gate, Water Tank, Swaran House, Golden Cloth Market, Sultanwind Road, Tej Nagar Chowk, Bazar Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Kot Mahna Singh to Tarn Taran Road, and other places.In nagar kirtan, additional head granthi of Sri Akal Takht Sahib Bhai Malkit Singh, senior vice-president of SGPC Surjit Singh Bhitewad, junior vice-president Baba Buta Singh, general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka, chief secretary SGPC Harjinder Singh, interim committee member Navtej Singh Kauni, Amrik Singh Shahpur, member Bhai Rajinder Singh Mehta, Bhai Manjit Singh Bhurakohna, Bhai Ram Singh, Harpal Singh Jallah, secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, and other officials were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-marks-baba-deep-singhs-birth-anniversary-204466
28-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Teen abducted, one booked||Tarn Taran, January 27Gurwinder Singh, a resident of Naurangabad village, has been booked under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC for allegedly abducting a teenage girl from a nearby village. The victim’s mother in her complaint to the Sadar police alleged that the accused on the night of January 6 abducted her teenage girl and lured her on the pretext of marriage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-abducted-one-booked-204467
28-01-2021||---||Farmers take out bike rally to support tractor parade||Amritsar, January 26Hundreds of activists belonging to different farmer organisations took out a motorcycle rally on Tuesday (January 26) to show solidarity with their counterparts in Delhi.The rally passed through various bazaars and roads of the city before culminating at Putlighar Chowk where they raise slogans against the Central Government. They said the government had adopted an adamant attitude.They said the farmers had been holding a dharna at Delhi borders for the past two months. They claimed that the laws would jeopardize the future of the farming community.Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said the Central Government was working at the behest of corporate houses and did not have any interest in uplifting the economic status of farmers.Randhawa said around 150 farmers had died so far since the start of the agitation. Farmer leaders Mukhtar Singh Muhawa, Balwinder Singh Dudhala, Balbir Singh, Manjit Singh Basarke, among others, were present in the rally.Meanwhile, members of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee also organised a tractor rally. The rally started from the Nizzarpura Toll plaza and passed through 25 villages before culminating at Amritsar. Over 400 hundred tractors participated in the rally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-take-out-bike-rally-to-support-tractor-parade-204469
28-01-2021||Strap||When Delhiites showered petals on farmers during R-Day march||Box: Youngsters offer ride on bikesSome youngsters brought their scooters and bikes to transport farmers who wanted to return to the base camp at Singhu as it started growing dark and tractors were still stranded in the jam. Manmeet Singh GillTribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 27Most social media platforms and television channels are just focusing on acts of violence indulged in by a section of protesters during the tractor parade on January 26, but on the other hand, the unmatched bonhomie shown by Delhi residents and restraint exhibited by a large section of protesters are not being telecast by them. Marching from Singhu as an unending cavalcade of tractors crossed Kundli, thousands of residents of Delhi were standing alongside the roads to cheer farmers. While some showered flower petals, others offered water and bread. Many more raised slogans in support of the farmers and waved at them as they crossed.People, including small children and elderly people, were seen standing on roadsides. Most of the farmers, especially elderly people, stood on their trolleys with folded hands to express their gratitude for the love showered on them by residents of Delhi.In a rare show of solidarity, Muslim and Hindu teenagers were seen distributing water from the same stall. “As we watched the first tractor pass by, one among us said that at least we can offer water to farmers. We pooled money and brought water pouches as they are not as costly as mineral water bottles,” said a teenager while he was throwing water pouches towards trolleys.Some families and young children, carrying water buckets in one hand and steel glasses in the other, were seen standing alongside the road. By the time, the farmers had walked 15 km on foot and travelled another 10 km on tractors, it was noon and tractors were struck in a traffic jam stretching up to several kilometres, some youngsters distributed breads.Some youngsters brought their scooters and bikes to transport farmers who wanted to return to the base camp at Singhu as it started growing dark and tractors were still stranded in the jam. Back at Singhu, thousands of tractors were still waiting for the jam to clear so that they could take the route to participate in the parade.While farmer leaders called off the parade at 6pm, a long queue of tractor trolleys till Sonipat was still waiting for the jam to clear. As the reports of violence dampened the general mood at the camp, an elderly person said, “If our youngsters had shown a little more restraint, the entire world would have been in awe of us. Now most television channels would show violence only and all good that happened here would remain a mystery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-delhiites-showered-petals-on-farmers-during-r-day-march-204470
28-01-2021||Amritsar||3 deaths, 18 new cases in Amritsar district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-deaths-18-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-204471
28-01-2021||---||NGO for extending ‘Bullet Train Project’ to city airport||Amritsar, January 27After National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) allotted Aarvee-GSL Associates as the surveying company to prepare the final alignment design, including an aerial LiDAR survey, for the DPR in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab for the ambitious 465-km-long Delhi-Chandigarh-Ludhiana-Amritsar high-speed “Bullet Train Project”, city-based NGO Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) has urged the government to extend it to Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport.It has urged the Ministry of Railways to consider starting and termination alignment for the DPR study of the bullet train to the airport to further bolster the connectivity. The NHAI has already decided to connect the city airport with the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway.In a communique to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, NGO secretary Yogesh Kamra said if this technological marvel high-speed bullet train was linked with the airport, it would become an intermodal point where air-road-train transfer all could happen seamlessly.“More than 120 airports in the world already have rail connectivity and further 300 airports are building the same for future,” said Kamra, who is also a member of the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC).This would provide many benefits like ease of travel, no wastage of time and reduction in pollution, besides connecting major cities of the state — Mohali, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Chandigarh, etc — via a safe, fast all-weather integrated transportation infrastructure.It would also bring respite to road commuters as the connectivity would provide easy access to all parts of the city though the proposed outer ring roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-for-extending-bullet-train-project-to-city-airport-204472
28-01-2021||Two government elementary schools (GES) of Palasaur village are in need of attention from the Education Department with immediate effect for the overall better performance of their village schools. These are GES Palasaur Kalan and GES Kasur Nallha (Plasauar). While the former is situated in the heart of the village with a space of mere 90’ x 90’ where as many as 500 children study||A little help would be great for schools||We are watching youThe district police announced the checking of the Jandiala Road of Tarn Taran with the help of drones to keep a close vigil on the activities of the anti-social elements on Republic Day celebrations. A day prior to Republic Day the Tarn Taran police had deployed heavy force as a rehearsal, Balwinderjit Kaur, a resident of the town, stated that she was returning home after withdrawing Rs20,000 from a bank when suddenly two motorcycle-borne youths appeared from nowhere and wrested the bag from her. This happened amid the drones’ watch – omit the drones from the scene and the outcome could have been much worse.Good job SGPC!The residents of the area have lauded the decision of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to give due recognition to the sacrifices of Baba Hazara Singh Aladinpur and Baba Hukam Singh Kot Vasao (Pakistan) recently. The duo was the first martyr of the Gurdwara Reform Movement (Gurdwara Sudhar Lehar) who laid down their lives in 1921. The move was launched to liberate gurdwaras from the managements of the mahants. The SGPC acting on the decision taken weeks back, had housed the portraits of these two martyrs in the Central Sikh Museum, Amritsar a few days prior. The native village of Baba Hazara Singh is Aladinpur, which was located just 2 km away from Tarn Taran. Kot Vasao village, the native village of Baba Hukam Singh was situated in Pakistan. The locals constructed a Gurdwara Baba Hazara Singh Baba Hukam Singh, Aladinpur, decades back. Besides housing the portraits of both the martyrs in the Central Sikh Museum, the SGPC was organising a two-day ‘gurmat samagam’ dedicated to the centenary day of their martyrdom in Aladinpur village on January 27 and 28. Owing to mismanagement of the gurdwaras by mahants, Gurdwara Sudhar Lehar was started by the Sikh masses in 1920. The followers of the Sudhar Leher decided to march towards the Darbar Sahib, Tarn Taran, in the early 1921. The Sikh sangat came from far-off areas in Tarn Taran and in a peaceful way managed to enter the Darbar Sahib despite obstructions installed by the armed men of the mahants. They attacked on the group with their traditional weapons like lathis, swords in which both died. The recent efforts of the SGPC had managed to attract the Sikh masses towards importance of the history of the place and the martyrdom of these two bravehearts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-little-help-would-be-great-for-schools-204473
28-01-2021||Amritsar||Awareness against drug abuse: SGPC honour for runner Manoj||Manoj Kumar of the Indian Youth Sports Club, Delhi, was honoured by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for his mission of spreading awareness against drug abuse. With a view to spread the message of drug-free India, Manoj started a run from Attari to Delhi on Republic Day. As he reached the Golden Temple to pay obeisance, he was acknowledged by the SGPC.Olympian Brig Harcharan Singh (retd) praised Manoj and hoped that he would succeed in his mission.Manoj said he was expecting to finish his journey at the India Gate on February 6 (covering a distance of 60 km daily). “The purpose of running from Attari border to Delhi is to motivate youth to stay away from drugs. I appeal youth to join sports and raise their voice against social evils to create a better society,” he said.Brig Harcharan said, “The SGPC is doing a good job in taking sportspersons forward in the field of sports. Along with creating awareness among youth about their religious duties, this is also a movement against social evils.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/awareness-against-drug-abuse-sgpc-honour-for-runner-manoj-204475
