29-01-2021||---||Three robbers held with illegal weapons||Amritsar, January 28The Amritsar (rural) police claimed to have nabbed three robbers, who had fired at a police party at Gharinda on January 14. The police have recovered two country-made weapons along with two bullets and a stolen motorcycle from their possession.The accused have been identified as Akashdeep Singh alias Sundi; Balwinder Singh, alias Bikram, alias Bikka of Hussainpura in Attari; and Sahib Singh, alias Sabu of Khandwala.On January 14, an exchange of fire took place between the police party and two unidentified persons near Kahangarh police chowki in Attari. Around 15 rounds were fired from both sides. The police personnel chased the accused for 5 km, but they somehow managed to escape in a car.The accused were also involved in a firing incident in Chheharta in which a youth, Sunny Kumar, was shot at. They had snatched a scooter falling under the jurisdiction of Kamboh police station and a car on December 19, 2020, from Faridkot at gunpoint.Senior police officials said the accused were wanted in numerous criminal cases in different parts of the state.A fresh case under Sections 379, 411 and 473 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-robbers-held-with-illegal-weapons-204748
29-01-2021||Neha Saini||Violated? Don’t hestitate to contact Sakhi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 28The Sakhi scheme was launched by the Ministry of Women and Child Development and Department of Social Security in 2015, with the aim of providing social assistance to victims of violence in the family, community, workplace, private or public places. Under it, women, including victims of domestic violence, molestation, acid attack, as being non-human trafficking and sexual exploitation, though any class, age discrimination, can seek help and assistance from the Sakhi centre, with an objective to provide integrated support and assistance to victims.CaseloadMore cases of domestic violence reported from urban centres than rural sector in districtThirty cases of sexual assault reported till date and 50 per cent cases of sexual assault reported at Sakhi fall under POCSO20 per cent increase in case of domestic violence in city during the lockdownIn the district, the Sakhi — One Stop Centre (OSC), was established in 2019, with centre administrator and counsellor at Civil Hospital. Since then, the centre has been running operations from a single room on the third floor of the hospital, providing all kinds of help to the victims.“After the country’s collective conscience was shaken by the Nirbhaya case, the Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD) formulated a centrally sponsored scheme for setting up OSC, a sub-scheme of umbrella scheme for National Mission for Empowerment of Women, including Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Yojana. Called Sakhi – One Stop Centre, we facilitate immediate, emergency and non-emergency access to a range of services, including medical, legal, psychological and counselling support under one roof to fight against any forms of violence against women. Since, a major stigma is still attached to cases of violence against women majority of victims do not wish to go to police directly to report their case. That’s where we come in,” said Preeti Sharma, centre administrator, Sakhi centre in district.So far, the centre has registered 258 cases out of which 233 have been disposed of. “Ninty per cent of the cases we get are of marital discord and domestic violence. The centre reported increased cases of domestic violence, especially mental violence, during the lockdown. We were running round the clock services at that time, in collaboration with women help desks set up by the police and administration to reach out to maximum victims,” she added.Preeti said working through the lockdown they had undertaken rescue missions and rehabilitation as well. “We had received a distress call from a woman who wanted to go to her husband’s home in Gurdaspur, but her parents were forcing her to divorce. Due to the lockdown, she could not go to him. We intervened and provided psycho-social counselling to her family. We have also given video counsellings to men during the lockdown in cases of marital discord.”Recently, the centre also took immediate action and provided psychological counselling to a 7-year-old child facing sexual assault. The child was raped by her cousin while living with her grandparents and was brought to the centre by members of her family. “The trauma for the child was too much, so we had to reach out to her very carefully. Immediate priority was counselling and making her comfortable to talk about the incident. Medical tests and legal action under POCSO were done with the help of police department,” shared Preeti.Stressing on the need for awareness regarding child safety and women rights, Preeti, who worked as gender specialist in Tourism Department before this, said that cases of sexual assault, are most difficult to deal with. “In case of a marital rape, the victims are not ready to accept that they have faced assault. We have to work in tandem with the Police Department, health officials, legal cell and self-help groups to create awareness regarding rights and laws.”Preeti Sharma said in addition to this centre, the District Programme Officer and Office Child Development Project Officer at block level can be contacted for help. Sakhi– One Stop Centre is at Civil Hospital, room No. 13 and can be contacted on 0183-2545955.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/violated-dont-hestitate-to-contact-sakhi-204749
29-01-2021||---||Covid vaccination drive picks up pace in Amritsar district||Amritsar, January 28After initial hiccups, the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the district has picked up pace and a total of 5,183 health workers have been given injections so far. The district health officials said the number of volunteers from among the health workers has grown exponentially in the last one week.10 new cases in distA total of 4,281 volunteers have come forward to get injections in the last seven days. District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said, “The vaccination drive has been going on smoothly.” He said at present, 800 to 900 health workers are being given injections every day.In the first phase of the vaccination, the health workers at government and private hospitals are being given injections on a priority basis. He said in the next phase, the injections would be available for other frontline workers.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the vaccination was going on at 29 centres in the district. He added that special arrangements were being made to immunise the health workers at private hospitals.The district had received over 20,000 vaccine doses after which the drive had begun on January 16. During the first few days, the response towards the injections was slow and only 78 volunteers had opted to get vaccinated on the first day.Dr Charanjit Singh said the initial hesitation was over and health workers were encouraged. He added that no adverse affects of the injections had been reported by any of the health workers who have received the first dose. The vaccine, which is given in two doses, requires administration of the second dose 28 days after the first one, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-in-amritsar-district-204750
29-01-2021||Gurbaxpuri---||Kisan unions undeterred, to continue agitation||Tarn Taran, January 28 Even though the top leadership of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has come under the radar of the Centre over the the Red Fort incident, the members of the KMSC continued to hold the fort in the district. Protesting farmers were not ready to vacate Usman toll plaza, which had been under their siege since October 5.  Darshan Singh Alawalpur, a member of the KMSC, on Thursday said they would continue the agitation as long as the Centre does not revokes the three controversial agri laws. Members of the KMSC said the Delhi incidents were pre-planned by the Union Government in order to defame peaceful agitators and disrupt the protests on Delhi borders.  Satnam Singh Manochahal, a senior leader of the KMSC, said all arrangements had been made to send next Jatha of farmers to Delhi on February 6. He said the 15-day period of the Jatha, which was sent earlier would come back. Meanwhile, Satnam Singh Pannu and Sarwan Singh Pandher, chief and general secretary of the KMSC, were booked by the Delhi Police regarding incidents on Republic Day. Representatives of the All India Kisan Sabha, Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kot Budha), Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee and various other unions on the directions of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said hundreds of activists would go on hunger strike on January 30 at Gandhi Municipal Park against the brutality of the Centre on farmers during tractor rally in Delhi. Activists of the All-India Kisan Sabha organised a rally in Chabal against the repression on farmers in Delhi. Prithipal Singh Marimegha said the Centre cannot force the three agri laws on farmers through oppressive tactics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-unions-undeterred-to-continue-agitation-204751
29-01-2021||---||Sand mining: Eight held; two earth movers, 3 boats seized||Amritsar, January 28The rampant illegal sand mining has been going on unabated in Tarn Taran district. On Thursday, the police seized six tractor-trailers, two earth movers and three boats, besides other equipment used for excavating sand.Around 50 cops led by three DSP-rank officials raided the spot. In total eight persons were arrested in separate cases. In area falling under Sadar Patti police station, cops confiscated five sand-laden trailers and nabbed seven persons.Similarly, in area falling under the jurisdiction of Khemkaran police station, the police raided seven different pits and confiscated two-sand pullers from the spot. Six separate FIRs were registered against nine persons while one person was held by the police.Another raid was conducted in Vairowal police station area. Cops seized three boats, an earth mover and other equipment. The police nominated seven persons and eight unknown persons in two separate FIRs.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said raids would continue and stringent measures would be taken against those indulging in illegal sand mining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sand-mining-eight-held-two-earth-movers-3-boats-seized-204752
29-01-2021||---||DAV College teachers' strike enters 4th day||Amritsar, January 28Teachers of DAV College, BBK DAV College, DAV College of Education under DAV Coordination Committee, who have been sitting on strike for past four days called the assurances from the DAV management as fake. They have been demanding payroll benefits according to the guidelines laid by the UGC and the protest has been going on since four days now. The principals of these colleges have taken stay orders from the court, due to which the teachers are organising dharnas outside the premises. Coordinator of the coordination committee, Dr BB Yadav said that the obstinate attitude of the management is forcing them to continue strike. “Since September 2018, there have been about 11 meetings. No solution was found in any meeting. Every time the management is adopting the policy of ignoring our demands and only taking up the matter that concerns them. Under the Career Advancement Scheme, teachers’ allowances have been pending for past three years. There is still time for the management to come forward and meet the union to find some solution.”Addressing the rally, DAV unit head of BBK DAV, Dr Seema Jaitley said that many teachers are not getting promotions due to management’s mistakes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-college-teachers-strike-enters-4th-day-204754
29-01-2021||---||One shot dead, another hurt over land dispute||Amritsar, January 28 Exchange of fire between two armed groups over land in Chamiary village resulted in death of a person and injury to another.The deceased has been identified as Jagtar Singh, a resident of Batala. The injured has identified as Kuldip Singh, who has been admitted to a hospital.Pargat Singh of Chamiary village said land of a local gurdwara was taken on a contract by former patwari Rupinder Singh, alias Rubi. He said now, they wanted to take the said land on a lease. Pargat said on Thursday, Rubi along with Harpreet Singh, Gagandeep Singh Golu and Kuldeep Singh, barged into his house and started firing indiscriminately. Pargat said a bullet hit Jagtar, who died on the spot.Ruby alleged Pargat had ruined his crop earlier and he had filed a complaint with the police. He alleged Pargat fired at them and as a result, Kuldip sustained injuries.Ravinderpal Singh, SHO, Ajnala police station, said the matter was under investigation and a case has been registered in this regard. He said the political rivalry between the two groups was a reason behind the incident. The police have sent the body for the post-mortem and started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-shot-dead-another-hurt-over-land-dispute-204756
29-01-2021||---||Woman hangs self; husband booked, held||Amritsar, January 28 Tortured by her husband for not being able to bear a child, a woman ended her life by committing suicide in Mohkampura area here on Monday. However, the incident came to light when the family members lodged a complaint with the police yesterday. Accused Sohan Singh, a resident of Preet Nagara area, falling under Mohkampura police station, has been arrested. A case under Section 306 of the IPC has been registered with the Mohkampura police on the statement of deceased’s brother Sandeep Rawat. The complainant alleged that his sister Jyoti Rawat, victim, had called her on his birthday. He alleged that at around 1pm, they got a call from Kundan Singh, father-in-law of the deceased, informing them that she had hanged herself from the ceiling fan and committed suicide. They had taken her to a private hospital. On reaching the hospital, they got to know that Jyoti had expired. The police initiated action. However, later, Sandeep said he once received a WhatsApp message from Jyoti in which she alleged that her husband was subjecting her to torture for not bearing a child but he did not tell his father about this. He alleged that she committed suicide due to harassment by her husband. The police have registered a case and arrested the accused Sohan Singh. Further investigations are under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-hangs-self-husband-booked-held-204759
