30-01-2021||Amritsar||Students excel in innovation||Unidentified Man run over by trainTarn Taran: An unidentified person aged around 25 years was run over by a train near Sangrana Sahib-Bhagtawalan railways station. The Government Railways Police (GRP) has sent the body for the post-mortem. Assistant Sub-Inspector Jaswant Singh of the GRP said a report under Sections 174 of the CrPC has been lodged in this regard at a local police post. OCFocus on training, says Lt Gen BawaTarn Taran: Lt Gen Navtej Singh Bawa (retd) on Friday addressed students at NDA preparatory institute of Nishan-E-Sikhi. He asked them to remain focused on their training and studies. “With better educational standards, one can get best professional post, which in return can provide good socio-economic standard in life,” he said. He told students about hierarchy of society and motivated them to achieve better social standards. The institute is being run in collaboration with environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, who heads the Kar Sewa Sect, Khadoor Sahib. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-excel-in-innovation-205444
30-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Youth clubs garner support for farmers||Tarn Taran, January 29Youth clubs in villages have come forward to make farmers and other sections of society come out in support of the farmers’ agitation.Members of the Baba Basta Singh Sports Club, Kairon, organised a tractor march in different villages on Friday. Gurjant Singh, president of the club, said the march was started from Kairon village and people came forward in support of the agitating farmers, cutting across their personal, political and religious affiliations. Sarwan Singh, resident of Lauhuka village, said the youth clubs of other villages too were active in spreading awareness among farmers.Farmers, under the banner of Bharti Kisan Union (Ekata Ugrahan), burnt the effigy of the Union Government for its suppressive tactics. Jasbir Singh Gandiwind, Jagbir Singh and other leaders of the organisation, while addressing the farmers asked them not to get misled by the propaganda of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-clubs-garner-support-for-farmers-205427
30-01-2021||The cynosure of all eyes in the Republic Day parade was the women contingent of the Gurdaspur police. The squad was taking part on the explicit instructions of SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal. Later||Superwomen!||Are we clear?Politicians these days have their hands full discussing the farmers’ protest in New Delhi. Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, too, dwelt on the issue at length in a marathon but emotional speech delivered by him as chief guest at the Republic Day parade. Later, while speaking to The Tribune, he compared the agricultural reforms carried out by China in the mid-80s to those which are all set to be carried out in India 40 years later. He enlightened one and all with his knowledge of the Chinese agricultural economy. He started by saying that there were a lot of practical difficulties in implementing the Chinese model and “this facet was deliberately being ignored by the policymakers sitting in New Delhi.” He claimed that Chinese policymakers first created the incentives and institutions before bringing in reforms. “In the mid-80s, they slowly started bringing in reforms but first they constructed factories to ensure that the displaced small and marginal farmers could get jobs. They then scientifically reduced the scope of government procurement while, at the same time, expanded the role of private traders. In India, the laws were being foisted on farmers without adequate safety nets. It is significant to note that China had more favourable initial conditions when agriculture was opened to private players. The country had an edge over India be it health, education and growth of the power sector. And that explains why despite the economic restrictions imposed on the Chinese rural population, the country could achieve a sustained growth rate once the reforms came in,” he noted. He ended his extempore by saying: “Notwithstanding the logic that greater play of free markets will improve outcomes for farmers, it was unreasonable to expect that peasants of Punjab and Haryana to give up on the safety of MSPs overnight. Ideally, the government should have built up a case for reforms and then given farmers time to adjust to market forces.”In ‘Deep’ watersThe spotlight, albeit for all the wrong reasons, during the tractor march held in Delhi on Republic Day was on Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu. Gurdaspur knows the man very well because he was hyperactive during MP Sunny Deol’s poll campaign in 2019. If anybody had to approach Deol for his comments on any subject, this man would be the first port of call. He was Deol’s eyes and ears throughout the campaign and would often convene meetings of BJP leaders in the four main cities of the constituency –Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Dinanagar and Batala. Last month, when the agitation commenced alongside Delhi’s borders, the MP’s office used the social media to tell the world that they had already disassociated himself from Sidhu who has acted in some Punjabi films produced under the banner ‘Vijayata Films’ headed by Dharmendra. Pankaj Joshi, the MP’s PA in the constituency, has claimed that the photographs of Sidhu, Deol and PM Narendra Modi which have gone viral on social media sites were actually taken before the MP had even started his campaign. “These pictures were taken after Deol was announced as the BJP candidate. At that time he had not even visited the constituency. Only his candidature was announced following which a meeting was organised with the PM in Delhi. On December 6 last year we told everybody that we have nothing to do with Sidhu. This was after he had started using the MP’s name to further his political agenda,” maintained Joshi. So much so, it was on Sidhu’s instructions that the local leadership found accommodation for Deol and his entourage at village Nawapind Hundal on the banks of the UBDC canal near Dhariwal after the latter had expressed a willingness to stay away from the crowds during his campaign. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/superwomen-205428
30-01-2021||Amritsar||24 booked in Ajnala murder case||The Ajnala police have booked around 24 persons on charges of murder and attempt to murder and under the Arms Act in connection with the firing incident at Chamiary village that claimed the life of a person while leaving two injured here on Thursday.Among those booked were identified as Harpreet Singh, Gagandeep Singh, Sukhdayal Singh, Kalu, Mukha and Manu, all residents of the same village. No arrest has been made so far as the accused have been on the run since the incident. A land dispute is stated to be the reason behind the firing.An exchange of fire between two armed groups over land at Chamiary village resulted in death of a person and the other person getting injured. The deceased was identified as Jagtar Singh, a resident of Batala, and the injured as Kuldip Singh, who has been admitted to a hospital.The complainant, Pargat Singh, told the police that at around 4pm on Wednesday, the accused entered his house by jumping over the wall and started indiscriminate firing at him. Harpreet Singh shot at his servant Jagtar Singh (37) killing him on the spot while some other accused fired in the air. He said his daughter-in-law Sachanpreet Kaur was also injured as splinters of bullets hit her. He said his pet dog was also injured by the accused.The opposite group claimed that they were attacked by Pargat Singh in which Kuldip Singh sustained injuries.Ravinderpal Singh, SHO, Ajnala police station and investigating officer in the case, said on Pargat Singh’s statement, the police had registered a case under Sections 302, 307, 452, 323, 429, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the accused. He said raids were on to nab the suspects. He said the postmortem on the body would be done after identification of the victim and arrival of his family members from Batala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24-booked-in-ajnala-murder-case-205429
30-01-2021||---||Yet another Amritsar resident falls victim to phishing racket||Amritsar, January 29In yet another incident, a local resident fell victim to the phishing racket and lost his hard-earned money to swindlers on Wednesday.This time swindlers duped the victim, identified as Surinder Kumar, a resident of New Pawan Nagar, on the pretext of helping him in getting the amount (Rs 3,660) that was fraudulently withdrawn from his account.Surinder Kumar told the police that on Republic Day, Rs 3,660 was debited from his account. He came to know about this next morning and immediately got an online complaint registered in this connection. He said he got a call (79082-26887) from an unknown person who said that he was speaking from the RBI consumer forum and wanted to help him in getting the amount back. He said after the call, he found that Rs 4 lakh was debited from his two accounts.A case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 66 of the IT Act had been registered against unknown persons and further investigation was under progress, said Parveen Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station here.Only on Wednesday, the police had registered a case against unidentified persons for defrauding a local resident, Asha Bhatta, after her bank account was hacked and Rs 3.21 lakh was debited from her account. The incident occurred on January 9 following which a complaint was lodged and now a case has been registered.On January 24, the Beas police booked over 25 persons on similar charges after they duped an ex-serviceman, Savinderpal Singh, of Rs 90 lakh on the pretext of doubling the amount by way of investing in different policies.The case was registered following over a two and a half years of probe by the crime against property wing of the Amritsar rural police.The victim lodged a complaint with the police in May 2018. He alleged that the accused withdrew the cash from his different bank accounts for investing in various policies for doubling the amount.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said though investigation in these cases was under progress and efforts were on to identify the fraudsters. Moreover, people should also be alert while sharing their bank details with unknown callers. He said banks issued guidelines from time to time to their clients for not sharing their details.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/yet-another-amritsar-resident-falls-victim-to-phishing-racket-205430
30-01-2021||---||Army officer booked for 
Rs 3-lakh fraud||Amritsar, January 29The Amritsar (rural) police have booked a serving Lieutenant Colonel on the charge of fraud after he allegedly duped a number of residents on the pretext of getting them recruited in the Army. The accused has been identified as Baljit Singh, a resident of Ram Tirath road.The complainant, Sanjiv Singh (18) of Kaironangal village, alleged that the accused duped him of Rs 3 lakh after promising him a job in the Army in 2017.Sanjiv said Baljit was a Major and posted at Khasa Cantonment when he took Rs 4 lakh from him. He said though he refunded Rs 1 lakh, but he failed to return the remaining amount.The case was registered following investigation carried out by the Superintendent of Police (Punjab Bureau of Investigation).Sanjiv alleged the accused duped as many as 22 persons of Rs 46 lakh on the pretext of providing jobs. Sanjiv alleged that with the said money, he procured properties on Ram Tirath and Loharaka road.He said around five police complaints were still pending against Baljit. Sanjiv said it took him around two years to get the case registered against the accused.Investigating Officer ASI Baldev Singh said he was yet to see the contents of an FIR as he received the file yesterday. He said the case was registered following a probe by an SP-rank officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-officer-booked-for-rs-3-lakh-fraud-205431
30-01-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, five held||Amritsar, January 29With the arrest of five persons, the Amritsar rural police on Thursday claimed to have busted a gang of robbers. With their arrest, the police have solved around five robbery cases that took place in the city and its adjoining areas.Those arrested were identified as Sapahia alias Sahi alias Ali of Thathian near link road Wadala Kalan, Amritsar, Sahwali alias Safh Ali alias Billa (at present living in Gagerewal village of Tarn Taran), Saif Ali alias Saffu of Sehora village in Pathankot, Bashir alias Gaphia of Alia chak village in Dinanagar and Mohammad Hussain alias Azad of Kandolu in Doda of Jammu and Kashmir. Sapahia and Sahwali, both originally hailed from Baggan village in Kathua (Jammu and Kashmir).In a statement issued here, the police said on January 8, a goods carrier carrying furniture was looted in Mattewal area. Harmeet Singh of Jagdish Nagar in Dugri (Ludhiana) had told the police that he was to deliver the furniture loaded from Ludhiana to Guru Nanak Furniture House at Chawinda Devi village here. He said at around 4.20am, he reached Mattewal drain where a car (without registration number) in which five persons were sitting overtook his Bolero Maxi Truck and stopped it and took away all furniture.While Mohammad Hussain was lodged in Jammu jail in connection with a kidnapping and rape case, the remaining four accused were arrested by the police. Abhimanyu Rana, ASP, Majitha, said Mohammad Hussain was brought on transit remand and produced in court which sent him to three-day police custody.He said Azad, who was the mastermind of the gang, had already spent time in the Ludhiana and Patiala Central Jails in robbery cases. Accused Sapahia alias Sahi was also booked in a murder case registered by the Tarsikka police in 2018. He was currently on bail in the case. A couple of cases of stealing of buffaloes were also registered against him in Dinanagar and Phagwara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-five-held-205418
30-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Farmers set to leave for Delhi in hordes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 29The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which has a large following in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts, said only 30 per cent of their activists came back after taking part in the tractor march on Republic Day.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, who had been camping on borders in Delhi, said the BJP’s supporters tried to intimidate farmers at Singhu border today on the lines of Gazipur border.He said the objective of the BJP’s workers was to provoke them as a large number of police personnel were deployed by the Centre to take action. He said more groups were getting ready to join the stir. He said farmers from Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar were set to leave for Delhi.Gurbachan Singh Chabba of the KMSC said activists from the two districts were at the forefront to ensure support for the protesters. He said volunteers were collecting ration in their tractor-trailers and they were prepared for a long haul. Chabba said the KMSC would burn effigies of the Central Government for three days from February 1.Rattan Singh Randhawa, general secretary, Border Area Sangharsh Committee, said a large number of residents of 232 border villages from the state had visited the protest sites in Delhi at least four times. He said more groups were ready to take part in the stir once again.He said their activists would sit on a hunger strike at Bhandari railway overbridge from tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-set-to-leave-for-delhi-in-hordes-205419
30-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||A self-taught gardener, roof is the limit for him||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 29It took almost a year for Yogesh Aneja to refurbish his terrace garden in the newly constructed house. A tea trader by profession, he believes that putting in a minor effort everyday yields magnificent results and he does exactly that.He did not hire any gardener for maintaining his beautiful garden. Now, with the change of season, he is preparing to add more plants to his two-storey terrace garden. He also preserves seeds of the floral plants to prepare saplings during every season.“I let my creativity lose during the lockdown period. I used artificial grass at the rooftop instead of growing natural grass and used the same to my advantage,” he said.“Due to unavoidable circumstances, I had to renovate my house and it was really painful to dismantle the old terrace garden,” Aneja said, while adding that after reconstruction, he decided to create new garden on his terrace.It is a combination of floral and plants that presents a colourful sight, he said.“I use river soil, sand and manure to make the potting mixture. In fact, it is the right time to give manure to plants to boost its soil quality by pushing essential nutrients so that it help in the healthy growth for the upcoming flower season in March,” Aneja said.Besides different variety of floral plants, including petunia, gazania or African daisies, pency, dehlia, marigold and roses, he has various fruit trees such as mango, kinno, chiku, gauva, seedless grapevine and papaya. He also has mint, lemon, tomato, brinjal, green chilly, broccoli and spinach. “My little garden defines my love for mother nature,” said the avid nature lover. He also made spaces for birds in his garden.Seeing his love for plants and nature, even the district administration took his help for beautifying Amrit Anand Park during its development phase and historic Rambagh garden near legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh statue.Spreading the message of saving and nurturing environment, Aneja also volunteers in helping people build terrace gardens themselves. He said people needed to create green spaces in whatever possible way they can.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-self-taught-gardener-roof-is-the-limit-for-him-205420
30-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Sewer project sees the light of day after 14 years||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 29The Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board claimed to have completed a sewer project funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) after a delay of around 14 years. The project had been initiated in 2007 and was proposed to complete in 2014.Officials of the Sewerage Board claimed that sewer lines constructed under the JICA project had been handed over to the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC), but Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that the process of taking over was underway.“We took control of only those sewer lines, which are functioning properly. The Sewerage Board has been asked to make all the lines functional. We have spent money in removing the shortcoming in sewer lines,” he said.In April 2017, the then Local Bodies Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, along with MP Gurjit Singh Aujla and other Congress leaders inspected the project and expressed dissatisfaction over its slow pace and quality of work.Sidhu found numerous flaws in the project and marked a Vigilance Bureau probe and ordered third-party inspections. However, no inquiry report has been submitted to date.The government proposed to construct a 461-km sewer line in the city under the JICA. A total of 45,000 households got sewer connections and two sewerage treatment plants were built.According to information, a number of urban localities were still facing major issues with sewer lines due to faulty work. Residents around Tung Dhab drain claimed that the issue of polluted drain has not been addressed.Pankaj Jain, Executive Engineer, Sewerage Board, said, “Sewer lines constructed under the JICA project have been handed over to the MC. If there is an issue with any line, civic body should inform us. All the lines are now functional.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sewer-project-sees-the-light-of-day-after-14-years-205421
30-01-2021||---||Amritsar girl shines at Mrs India World contest||Amritsar, January 29City-based doctor and now a beauty queen, Dr Anupreet Kaur has bagged the title of 1st runner up at Mrs India World 2020-21 pageant. Hailing from a family of doctors, she is wife of Dr Shahbaz Singh, director, Amandeep Hospital.Dr Anupreet will represent India on a global platform along with Mrs India World winner Navdeep Kaur from Orissa and second runners up wing commander Shruti Chauhan from Maharashtra.A student of DAV Public School, Dr Anupreet is an accomplished Kuchipudi dancer as well. “It’s a moment of great pride to have shared the stage with several accomplished women and win the pageant,” she said. Having worked hard to achieve her goals, Anupreet said she aimed to empower women and enthuse confidence in them to display their real beauty and wisdom.Standing five feet and four inches tall, she was told several times to take a shot at the glamour world. “I never really took it seriously and when virtual auditions for the pageant were organised due to Covid-19, I thought of trying my luck,” she shared. She was among the 56 semi-finalists shortlisted from the country. “It has been a life altering experience for me,” she says. Dr Anupreet has also bagged the title of Beyond Beauty India 2020-21 at the pageant.She credited her success to her family members. “It was only due to the love and support of my family, specially my husband that I was able to win. Constant endeavours, a positive frame of mind throughout the competition and adapting to the fashion industry were the key elements that helped me win the competition,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-girl-shines-at-mrs-india-world-contest-205422
30-01-2021||Amritsar||Bitter truth: He is striving to stay afloat||Sanjeev Kumar, a fruit seller, is struggling to establish his business in the market for the past six months. Like many others, he has been trying his best to survive post lockdown.  Earlier, Sanjeev used to work with a catering service firm. Lockdown rendered him jobless, so Sanjeev initiated his own work of selling the fruits. Now, he starts his day early in the morning and reaches the fruit market around 6.30 everyday. He then brings the fruits from the wholesale. Rest of the time is spent arranging them on the cart.  “The fruit is a perishable commodity. It is necessary to sell it till evening otherwise we have to suffer losses. We take great care to satisfy our customers,” said Sanjeev. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bitter-truth-he-is-striving-to-stay-afloat-205423
30-01-2021||---||Calendar released to mark 400th birth anniv of Guru Teg Bahadur||Amritsar, January 29 Guru Nanak Dev University Vice-Chancellor Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu on Friday released a calendar and a documentary based on “Spiritual Journey of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib”, dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of the Ninth Sikh Master. The documentary has been made by lawyer and nature photographer Harpreet Sandhu.  The calendar has pictures (taken by Sandhu) of gurdwaras and significant historical places, including Guru ka Mahal (Amritsar), Vayah Asthan (Kartarpur in Jalandhar district), Bhora Sahib (Baba Bakala), Thara Sahib (Amritsar), Guru Ke Mahal (Bhora Sahib in Sri Anandpur Sahib), Thara Sahib (in Sri Anandpur Sahib), Sis Ganj Sahib (Chandni Chowk in Delhi), Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib (Delhi), Bibangarh Sahib (Ropar), Sis Ganj Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib) and Gurdwara Akal Bunga Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib). The pictures present the spiritual journey of the Ninth Sikh Guru from his birth till martyrdom. The Vice-Chancellor (VC) said the work by Harpreet Sandhu would help spread the preachings of Guru Teg Bahadur and his message of peace and universal brotherhood.  “The visuals promoting the historical gurdwaras related to the Ninth Sikh Guru in the form of a calendar will be of interest for the Sikh community and others,” he said. Governor VP Singh Badnore had also acknowledged Harpreet Sandhu’s work at an event held at Punjab Raj Bhavan, Chandigarh, earlier this month. Harpreet Sandhu, who had been busy making the documentary for the past year, said he travelled to these historical places to trace the life history of Guru Teg Bahadur.  “The documentary talks about these important places of worship and how they symbolized the milestones of Guru Teg Bahadur’s life and his journey to lead the humanity. I have collaborated with several people, including Padma Shri poet Surjit Patar, in preparing this documentary and it was released online on January 19, 2021.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/calendar-released-to-mark-400th-birth-anniv-of-guru-teg-bahadur-205424
30-01-2021||Amritsar||540 get jab, 18 +ve cases in Amritsar||The district health authorities reported 18 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 15,024 on Friday. Of these, 12 were found to be suffering from influenza like illness and 6 were contacts of positive cases. A person succumbed to the virus, taking the total number of deceased in the district to 579.The number of total recovered patients is 14,317. The active cases stand at 128. Besides, 540 persons were vaccinated in district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/540-get-jab-18-ve-cases-in-amritsar-205425
30-01-2021||Our Correspondent||RMPI activists protest outside DSP’s office||Tarn Taran, January 29Activists of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) staged a day-long dharna outside the office of Bhikhiwind Deputy Superintendent of Police against the alleged police atrocities. Women workers of the RMPI also participated in the dharna.Arsal Singh Sandhu and Balwinder Kaur of the RMPI alleged that the police was being used as a tool by those in power to oppress innocent people. Daljit Singh Dialpur and Dharam Singh Patti alleged that the police personnel in order to appease their political bosses were committing atrocities on innocent masses.Baldev Singh Pandori and Chaman Lal Darajke of the RMPI said the Bhikhwind police and cops deployed at Kaccha Pakka police station were not entertaining aggrieved residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rmpi-activists-protest-outside-dsps-office-205426
