31-01-2021||Neha Saini||Homestays, budget hotels hope to see light soon||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 30It’s business as unusual for the hotel and hospitality industry in Amritsar that is facing a double blow due to pandemic and farmer agitation. The city is a major international tourism destination but the pandemic-induced lockdown and its economic repercussions have been like a punch in the gut for the hotel industry. The average footfall falling down drastically, the survival for budget hotels and homestays, that were popular with NRI and foreign tourists, now depends mostly on domestic tourists. Most of them preferred low-budget accommodations at bed and breakfast inns, guest houses, homestays and budget hotels.As per insiders, year 2021 doesn’t change much, at least for the time being. “The business in 2021 has to revolve around domestic tourists. Last year was very bad and it’s going to take at least six more months for business to revive. Post-lockdown the bookings or homestays and budget hotels have been 20 per cent of what it used to be. The new business model focuses on resource management and utilising reserves,” shares Amrik Singh Chatha, owner, Amritsar Homestay Cottage situated near Sadda Pind.While 80 per cent of budget hotels and homestays in the walled city area remained shut, without any scope for reopening in current situation, the business is hinging hopes on domestic tourists. “Earlier, majority of domestic tourists from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir, used to stop over in Amritsar for an average two-three days. Now, those who travel to Amritsar do not stay overnight. Also, a lot of tourists from south and states like West Bengal and Gujarat, used to come during this time to visit Golden Temple and Wagah border. With borders closed and train services suspended, tourist’s inflow is not there. Any scope for 2021 will only happen after a solution is sought to the farmer agitation and train services revived,” said Satnam Singh Kanda, chairman, Hotel Association Walled City.Although, there has been a shift in preference tilting in favour of homestays over hotels whatever percentage of tourists are visiting city are choosing homestays due to safety concerns. Offering homely services and environment, they are also a sustainable option as they are usually family-run. “Homestays are hanging by as a safe option as it only caters to a small group of people with limited staff that are mostly family members running the establishment,” says Manek Singh, who runs a homestay in Ranjit Avenue. He has been getting an average of two-three bookings a month post-lockdown.How was it last year?"The business in 2021 has to revolve around domestic tourists. Last year was very bad and it’s going to take at least six more months for business to revive." — Amrik Singh Chatha, owner, Amritsar Homestay Cottage, near Sadda Pind"Earlier, a majority of domestic tourists from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir, used to stop over in Amritsar for an average two-three days. Now, those who travel to Amritsar do not stay overnight. "  — Satnam Singh Kanda, chairman, Hotel Association Walled City||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/homestays-budget-hotels-hope-to-see-light-soon-205867
31-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||So, would you like to try it on?||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, JANUARY 30A city-based factory is manufacturing deluxe shirts which are sold between Rs20,000 and Rs75,000 per piece in retail to first-world countries on demand.Considered among the world’s costliest shirts, mostly sold in Europe and the US, a majority of these are single needle and manually sewn shirts. So, no automation is involved. Its clientele include veteran cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, the football team of Netherlands, sports, Hollywood and Bollywood stars, industrial tycoons who frequent Savile Row, a market in London celebrated for selling bespoke men apparel.The factory is registered under the brand name ‘100 Hands’ in the Netherlands.It is being run by brothers Akshat Jain and Ankit Jain. Akshat, MBA graduate from Rotterdam School of Management, had gone to study in the Netherlands in 2006. He married a Dutch woman named Varvara and settled there and subsequently floated the company.Headquartered in the Netherlands, the company has its only manufacturing unit on the outskirts of the holy city, being looked after by Ankit. “Manufacturing was started with five tailors and now it has 140 employees, including 40 tailors, 20 experts for manual stitching and 10 work as cutters and pattern masters.”Material worldMaterial and accessories are imported from known brands of different countries. Premiere segment interlining and thread are imported from Germany, buttons are hand-rolled in Italy and these are made of mother of pearls, pashmina and cotton fabric from Italy, Switzerland and the UK and denim from Japan. Shirts from these materials are already being manufactured in these developed nations. However, what stands out to locally manufactured shirts is minute care being taken at every stage of its preparation.Being a bespoke shirt manufacturing unit, the work starts by preparing body graphs of the customer. Many individual traits are taken care of even before stitching. Hence, patterns specifically designed for that person is prepared. It offers a unique wearing experience and to develop that it takes a lot of time. Not only stripes or pattern are matched on shirts from all sides, including front, back, shoulders, sleeve, and 360 degree waist. Not all well-known regular brands go into such specifics.For this, Ankit says that there is a huge production loss and not only it is time-consuming and number of people employed are huge in comparison to the production can be achieved. “Despite employing 140 persons the unit is manufacturing between 60 and 70 pieces per day,” he revealed.A shirt is not entirely made on a machine and many parts of it are hand-made like button holes, each of them take at least 45 minutes to be prepared. Otherwise on a machine it can be done in minutes. He claims that most of the luxury brands go for 16 to 18 stitches per inch (SPI) while his company does 23 to 25 SPI. Starting retail price of a shirt from this factory is Rs20,000 and highest is at Rs75,000. The Jain family has been in the yarn business for the past 160 years and Akshat and Ankit are the sixth generation who preferred to diversify.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/so-would-you-like-to-try-it-on-205868
31-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Kin seeks MEA help to bring back 36-year-old’s body from Italy||Tarn Taran, January 30Residents of Khara village here have urged the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to make arrangements to bring back the body of Darshan Singh (36) of the village who died in Italy about a week ago.Family left poorer to get citizenship there. The family had to sell all land (two acres) so that Darshan could settle there and now with his death, the family has been left landless.Sawinder Singh Gill, leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, said on Saturday that Darshan Singh died on January 26 in Italy under mysterious circumstances. According to the information received from Italy, the postmortem on the body was done on Saturday, but there were some tedious formalities to be completed to bring back the body to his native village.Sawinder Singh said Darshan Singh had gone to Italy about 15 years ago and had to face great hardships to get citizenship there. He said the family had to sell all land (two acres) so that Darshan could settle there and now with his death, the family had been left landless.Kabal Singh, father of the victim, has also sought immediate help from social organisations and the MEA to bring back the body of his son to the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kin-seeks-mea-help-to-bring-back-36-year-olds-body-from-italy-205869
31-01-2021||---||Farmers pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Amritsar, January 30Farmers and other sections of society observed fast on the 73rd death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi here on Saturday. The farmers observed fast on a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha.The event was organised under the banner of the United Kisan Morcha. Speaking on the occasion, farmer leaders stated that the government was dancing to the tunes of corporate houses and did not care for the majority of the population.“The farm laws were rushed through Parliament and sentiments and aspirations of the farming community were ignored. Despite over 170 farmers died during the protest, the government was still trying dirty tactics to end the protest instead of resolving the issue,” said farmer leader Rattan Singh Randhawa.Baldev Singh Bel said, “The enactment of these laws is not only unconstitutional but also a brazen attempt to disregard the existing constitutional institutions and destroy the very foundation of our socio-economic structure.” He said the repression of pro-people organisations, prominent citizens, false cases against the farmer leaders under UAPA, use of violence and killing of a young farmer from UP on January 26 and attempts to forcefully evict farmers from the protest sites were some of calculated moves to muzzle the voice of farmers of the country.The speakers strongly condemned the government and expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers who were determined to force the government to repeal these black laws.Prof Jagrup Singh Sekhon gave a call to the conscientious citizens of the country to join hands to defeat the communal and fascist forces in the country which were hell bent on destroying the social fabric of society. “The need of the hour is to stand with the farmers and ensure the safety and security of the citizens in the country,” he said. Among others who addressed the gathering included advocate Kamaljit Kaur and Mukhtar Singh Mohawa.Sanyukat Kisan Morcha, hundreds of workers of farmer, labour, employees and trade unions observed fast on “Sadbhavna Divas” marking the 73rd death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi at the local Gandhi Municipal Park here on Saturday.Bant Singh Brar, state president of the AITUC, Mangat Ram Pasla, national-level trade union leader, Harbhajan Singh, Daljit Singh Dayalpura, farmers’ leader Pirthipal Singh Marimegha, Nachhatar Singh Jodha, Satnam Singh Johal and Rajinder Kaur were among other leaders of different organisations. Workers of the Jamhooi Kisan Sabha, the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab (Kot Budha), the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, the All-India Kisan Sabha along with workers, youngsters, women and trade unions also observed fast. Workers of the controversial Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, did not observe “Sadbhavana Divas”.The leaders said the Union Government wanted to crush the farmers’ agitation. They appealed for repealing the controversial farm laws as these were not acceptable to the farmers and other sections of society. They alleged that these farm laws were introduced and enacted for the benefit of the corporate sector ignoring the well-being of the farmers and poor sections of society.The leaders alerted the farmers and others to the nefarious designs of divisive forces which wanted to derail the present agitation. They said there was no question of withdrawing the ongoing Delhi morcha which was garnering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-205870
31-01-2021||---||Man found murdered||Amritsar, January 30A man, identified as Jassa Masih of Manwala village, was found dead at his residence here on Saturday. The incident came to light when he did not respond to the phone calls of his son living in Kuwait.His son, Yusuf, then called Balraj Singh, the deceased’s neighbour, and asked him to see him. He said when he went into the house; his neighbour found him dead and immediately sounded an alert. The police have registered a murder case against some unidentified persons.His post-mortem was conducted at Government Medical College here. His body was later handed over to the family members, said Sub-Inspector Harpal Singh, investigating officer, adding that further investigation was on.He said Jassa Masih lost his wife around six months ago, while his younger son also died three months back. His daughter Suman was married at Raipur village here.Balraj told the police that Jassa was living alone here. He said he got a call from Yusuf around 3.40 pm, who said his father was not picking up his call. He said as he went into his house, he saw the outer gate and lobby door open.He stated to the police that he found Jassa fallen near bed with a rope around his neck.He said he rushed outside and called Azad and Dilbagh. They untied the rope and tried to revive him, however, he had died.Harpal said a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against him and the postmortem examination report was awaited in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-found-murdered-205871
31-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Rising fuel prices upset common man’s budget||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 30Fuel prices reached a new all-time high as petrol was sold at Rs 87.61 and diesel at Rs 78.40 in the market on Saturday after rates were hiked recently. High fuel prices triggered a rise in the cost of other commodities of daily use.Citing the rise as unjust, residents expressed their resentment for the government which has failed to rein in galloping inflation. Highest ever petrol and diesel prices were followed by hike in grocery items, cooking oils, construction material such as iron and steel. Residents have expressed a concern over the rising expenses as their income has already taken a hit after the Covid outbreak.Navpreet Singh, working in a multi-national company, said, his income was reduced by 25 per cent after the unlocking of the lockdown. However, his everyday expenses have been witnessing a rise every week. He said despite paying hefty amounts of tax already, a common man is being made to pay tax on each item procured from the market, separately.Ravinder Sultanwind, a social worker, said it is difficult for a common man to lodge protests. Opposition at the Centre has neither raised its voice nor held a protest to wake up the government on this matter. While corporate houses are being feted by giving relaxation in taxes and other cash support during the lockdown, people were burdened with hike in prices of mustard oil, vegetable, refined oils, cereals and pulses. The essential items, contributing to the food basket, recorded a rise ranging from 10 to 30 percent in the recent past.Cooking oil is being sold between Rs 130 to Rs 140 per litre. Similarly, the prices of other cooking oils, including soya, rice bran, palm, cotton seed, vegetable increased by 20 to 30 per cent. Spiraling prices of several food items have aggravated the problem for people belonging to lower income groups.Omkar Goyal, President of All India Retailers Federation, said: there was no plausible reason for such a price rise. He stated that the authorities have been devising policies in the favour of a few business houses. Government has failed to make efforts to check black marketing, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-fuel-prices-upset-common-mans-budget-205872
31-01-2021||---||Dangling high-tension wires pose threat to residents’ lives||Amritsar, January 30 Residents of numerous areas in the city have been living under constant fear of dangling high-tension wires.   Aggrieved residents said many accidents, some even resulting in deaths, had occurred in the last few years due to loose wires.  Local of New Dashmesh Nagar in Jaura Fatak under Ward Number 25 of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation said their area councillor had promised them that dangling wires would be relocated, but nothing has happened to date. Ajay Kumar, a resident, said, “For decades people are living in fear as high-tension wires hang overhead. An accident can occur any time.” He said the work to relocate electricity poles should be initiated at the earliest. Another resident, Sarwan Singh, said whenever they contacted the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials and asked them to shift poles, they reverted that residents had to bear the expenses.  “As expenses are massive, people cannot bear them. Instead, the government should get the work done.” The problem of high-tension lines also exists in New Dashmesh Nagar, Indira Colony, Mohakampura and Azad Nagar among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dangling-high-tension-wires-pose-threat-to-residents-lives-205873
31-01-2021||---||Musical extravaganza enthrals audience||Amritsar, January 30Presenting a soul stirring jugalbandi of fusion music with jazz and qawwali, singer Shibani Kashyap and sufi qawwals Nizami Bandhu performed at a concert hosted by FICCI FLO on the Friday night.Entertaining the audience with popular songs such as Sajna Aa bhi Jaa, Chandni Raatien and Jugni, Shibani also performed several jazz numbers as Nizami Bandhu’s led by Ustad Chand Nizam performed their ever popular Kun Faya Kun from Rockstar.An evening dedicated to the purist music, the artistes’ collaboration asserted that the progression of fusion music in country is leaning towards preserving the traditional genre. “Fusion music must allow the genre of music being amalgamated to stand out on their own as well. While majority of musicians are eager to go commercial, I believe that the purists must keep preserving the traditions, whether classical, Hindustani or Sufi music,” said Ustad Chand Nizam.Echoing the same sentiments, Shibani said, “I have always believed in purist music and there are only few artistes in the country, including AR Rahman, who have been able to successfully carry out fusion of various genre of music and stuck to originality. Today’s music is more about dance numbers than being food for soul. But then good music still stands out,” she said. Excited over her first collaboration with Nizami Bandhu, Shibani said though she loved performing Sufi music, sharing stage with stalwarts such as Ustad Chand Nizam has been gratifying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/musical-extravaganza-enthrals-audience-205874
31-01-2021||---||Polio vaccination drive begins in dist today||Amritsar, January 30 The district administration is gearing up for the three-day national pulse polio drive in the district from January 31. The drive is aimed at administering polio immunisation drops to around 3,05,285 children below the age of five years.  After a meeting of the district task force for eradication of polio, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshi Aggarwal said preparations made for three-day drive have been reviewed. He expressed satisfaction over the preparations being made.  Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh, District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh, Dr Karan Mehra, Dr Madan Mohan and other health administrators were present on the occasion.  Sharing the details of the arrangements, Dr Charanjit Singh said 1,444 booths would be set up on January 31 in different areas. For February 1 and 2, the department has constituted 2,888 teams which would visit 5,46,555 teams in a door-to-door campaign and administer drops to children who were not immunised on the first day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/polio-vaccination-drive-begins-in-dist-today-205875
31-01-2021||---||Six of family booked for duping youth||Amritsar, January 30  The Rajasansi police have booked six persons, including two woman, for cheating Ranjit Singh of Dudhrai village on the pretext of marrying him and settling in Canada.  Those booked have been identified as Pallavi Kochar, her father Deepak Kochar, mother Kusum and their relative Banty and his son Rahul, all residents of Tilak Nagar in West Delhi and Manjit Kaur of the Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area here.  Complainant Ranjit Singh told the police that around two years ago, the accused promised to get him married to Pallavi and permanently settle them in Canada.  He said his family trusted them and in September 2018 they got married in the presence of their family members at Dudhrai village.  He said they bore all expenses of the marriage and even gave her gold jewellery. He alleged that they opened a joint bank account and deposited Rs19.16 lakh in it for settling Pallavi in Canada. He said the accused withdrew the amount from the bank, thereby cheating him. The complaint was lodged with the police in August last year, while the case was registered following a probe conducted by an SP-rank official of the Punjab Bureau of Investigation.  After taking legal opinion of the district attorney, a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against them, said investigating officer ASI Major Singh.  Hardev Singh, brother of the victim, said after returning to Delhi, the family lodged a false complaint of dowry against his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-of-family-booked-for-duping-youth-205876
31-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Teachers come out in support of farmers||Tarn Taran, January 30 Teachers of Gandiwind block observed fast and held a dharna at Government Senior Secondary School, Gandiwind, here on Saturday. Addressing on the occasion, Balkar Singh Valtoha, state leader of the Government School Teachers’ Union, strongly condemned the repressive attitude of the Union Government.  He said the Union Government seemed bent on abolishing the federal system of the country by way of which the powers of the state government too were being scrapped by the Union Government.  He said farmers were victims of government repression. After suppressing the farmers’ agitation, employees and other sections of society would be victims of government repression.  He cautioned the Union Government that as the farmers’ agitation was getting support from all over the country so it was not easy to quash their protest easily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-205877
31-01-2021||---||Attempt to encroach upon prime property of civic body||Amritsar, January 30 The estate wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation on Friday restricted a religious sect from attempting to encroach upon its prime commercial property near gurdwara Shahidan Sahib. Officials claimed that the sect had tried several times to encroach upon the property. A couple of weeks ago, the sect members asked for a passage to supply building material to gurdwara Shahidan Sahib. “We gave the permission, but the sect is trying to grab and widen the passage by claiming their ownership on the property,” said Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia. Officials claimed that the prime property was leased out to local residents. After the lease ended, the matter reached the court. In November 2018, the court gave its decision in favour of the MC and asked them to take the possession of land under the Punjab Public Premises Act. Later, lease holders moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court and got a stay. “Some persons forged documents and laid their claim on the property. We have asked the Revenue Department to demarcate the land. Meanwhile, members of the sect are attempting to grab the land. I have written to senior officials”said Bhatia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attempt-to-encroach-upon-prime-property-of-civic-body-205878
31-01-2021||---||Vehicle lifter nabbed with five bikes||Amritsar, January 30  The city police have arrested a vehicle lifter identified as Mohan Singh, a resident of Varnala village, falling under Valtoha in Tarn Taran area. The police recovered five stolen bikes from his possession on January 29.  According to the police, he was intercepted at a checkpoint near Skatari Bagh area, while he was travelling on a motorcycle from Tarn Taran road to the Chatiwind chowk. When the police team signalled him to stop, he tried to flee, leaving the bike behind. However, the cops chased and arrested him.  During the preliminary investigations, he was identified as Mohan Singh, but he could not produce the documents of the bike. He later confessed that he had stolen the bike from the city a few days ago.  His interrogation led to the recovery of four more motorcycles. The police said further investigations were under way and more recoveries were likely to be made from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vehicle-lifter-nabbed-with-five-bikes-205879
31-01-2021||Amritsar||One dies, 11 test positive in Amritsar district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-11-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-205882
