01 September 2020||New Delhi,||GDP falls 23.9% in first quarter||The Indian economy saw its worst contraction in decades, with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) shrinking by a record 23.9% in the April to June quarter in comparison to the same period last year, according to data released by the National Statistical Office on Monday. The contraction reflects the severe impact of the COVID-19 lockdown, which halted most economic activities, as well as the slowdown trend of the economy even pre-COVID-19. Economists expect this to contribute to a contraction in annual GDP this year, which may be the worst in the history of independent India. “The Indian economy is in a deeply vicious cycle, where demand is contracting so heavily, while the capacity to neutralise this contraction has also contracted equally because of the tax revenue contraction. Therefore, I don’t see GDP returning to positive territory for six quarters until the second quarter of next year,” said D.K. Srivastava, chief policy advisor at EY India, and a member of the Advisory Council to the 15th Finance Commission. He expects annual GDP to contract 5%-7% in 2020-21, noting that the last contraction of the economy occurred in 1979-80, when GDP shrank 5.2%. There have been four other instances of minor contraction between 1965-68, and 1972-73, but this year is likely to be the worst since Independence, said Dr. Srivastava. Agriculture was the only sector which recorded a modest growth of 3.4% in year-on-year terms. All other sectors saw contraction, with the steepest fall of 50% in construction, and the trade, hotels, transport and communication services category shrinking 47%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gdp-falls-239-in-first-quarter/article32492151.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Unlock 4: Public events, with a cap of 100 people, allowed from Sept. 21||Social, political, religious, cultural congregations and entertainment and sports events with only 100 people would be allowed from September 21 under the new set of Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the State government on Monday. People at such gatherings should mandatorily wear face masks and maintain social distance. There should be thermal scanning, and hand wash and sanitiser should be provided. Metro rail services will resume after consultations with the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and the Ministry of Railways, from September 7. While schools, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed till September 30, online classes and distance education would continue, according to norms issued for September, based on the guidelines by the Union Home Ministry on Saturday. Research scholars and students of technical and professional institutions that require laboratory work will be allowed to visit the premises, according to guidelines issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. From September 21, students from Class 9 to 12 may be allowed to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones, on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers, subject to written consent of their parents and guardians, the guidelines said. Online teaching In areas outside the containment zones, the district administration, from September 20, may permit up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff in schools for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work. For this, the departments of Health and Family Welfare and Primary and Secondary Education would issue the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). The number of people allowed at weddings will be increased from 50 to 100 from September 21. Similarly, for funerals the number will be 100 from 20. Cinemas, swimming pools, and entertainment parks will continue to remain closed in September in the State. However, open theatres can be opened from September 21. International air travel would continue to remain suspended except those allowed as special flights. The new guidelines stated that outside the containment zones, Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike, urban local bodies, and other bodies will not be allowed to impose localised lockdowns without consulting State and Central governments. The new guidelines clearly stated that outside the containment zones, Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), urban local bodies, and other bodies will not be allowed to impose localised lockdowns without consulting State and Central governments. There will be no restrictions on the movement of people and goods within the State and also between States. People aged above 65, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those with multiple health problems have been advised to stay at home. In containment zones, the BBMP and district authorities should take strict steps to contain spread of the disease. Only essential services would be allowed in containment zones. Seating capacity allowed in bars Regularising the Union government’s SOP on preventive measures to be taken in restaurants to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Excise Department issued an order, allowing only up to 50% seating capacity in pubs, bars, restobars for dine-in services. Encouraging takeaways instead of dine-in, the SOP states that maintaining social distancing of a minimum of 6 ft when queuing up for entry and inside the restaurant should be followed “as far as feasible”. “Seating arrangements to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. In restaurants, not more than 50% of seating capacity to be permitted,” the SOP says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unlock-4-public-events-with-a-cap-of-100-people-allowed-from-september-21/article32492185.ece
01 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Minor fishing port built at Rs. 30 crore is of little use to traditional fishermen||A sum of nearly Rs. 30 crore spent on building a minor fishing port at Koderi village in Byndoor taluk of Udupi district appears to have gone almost waste as traditional fishermen cannot make use of the jetty (fish landing point) and fish auction yard that were suitable for deep sea fishing vessels. On the other hand, deep sea vessels, namely, trawlers, purse seine boats, cannot enter the port as the river channel of Yedamavinahole on the banks of which the port was built, was not properly dredged. Even otherwise the depth of the river was insufficient for large boats. Krishna Kharvi, a traditional fisherman from Madikal near Uppunda, told The Hindu that fishermen cannot unload the catch at the minor port as the jetty was on a higher pedestal, three-four metres from the river, for traditional boats. Consequently, they were unloading fish a little up on the river bank from where the catch was loaded onto trucks by traders. A large amount spent on the construction has completely gone waste, he regretted. Another fisherman, Raju Kharvi from Koderi, said that the auction yard and other facilities at the minor port too are of no use as fishermen do not unload the catch at the port. The area is mostly used to store net and other equipment of fishermen, he said. Local demand Funded partially by the Union government, the project was executed by the State Fisheries Department in 2014-15. A senior official who was associated with the project told The Hindu that there was demand for fish landing facility for deep sea vessels when the project was planned. Once the planned dredging and extension of the breakwater was completed, large vessels could make use of the port, he said. Another 100 m long jetty suitable for traditional boats was built on the eastern bank of the river at Koderi, he said and admitted that port does not have any other facility, including an auctioning yard or a storing place. However, Raju Kharvi differed with this and said that minor ports were meant for traditional fishing boats and not for deep sea vessels. The department succumbed to pressure from vested interests to build the fish landing point to suit larger vessels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-fishing-port-built-at-rs-30-crore-is-of-little-use-to-traditional-fishermen/article32492368.ece
01 September 2020||Kolkata,||2,993 new cases take West Bengal’s tally to 1,62,778||West Bengal on Monday recorded 2,993 new cases of COVID-19, taking its tally to 1,62,778. The State also recorded 52 deaths, taking its death toll 3,228. Of the latest victims, 10 were from Kolkata and 13 from North 24 Parganas district. The death toll in Kolkata has now climbed to 1,290, while in North 24 Parganas it has surged to 739. With more people being discharged than those testing postive on Monday, the recovery rate has increased to 82.49%. An analysis of how the number of COVID-19 infections and deaths increased in August shows that the number of infections and deaths have more than doubled. On July 31, the total number of infections were 70,188 and the deaths stood at 1,581. The recovery rate was much lower at 68.92%, which has improved in the past one month. The total number of samples tested on July 31 was 8.74 lakh, which has also increased significantly. However, the number of people who died in Kolkata as on July 31 was 760, which has increased to 1,290 on August 31. The deaths in North 24 Parganas have also seen a spike. On July 31, the deaths in the district due to COVID-19 was 341, which has increased to 739 on August 31. A total of 42,239 samples were tested across the State in the past 24 hours, taking the number of samples tested so far to 18.87 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2993-new-cases-take-west-bengals-tally-to-162778/article32492452.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||PLA aggression blocked at Pangong Tso||In an escalation of the ongoing standoff on the disputed boundary in Ladakh, Chinese troops carried out aggressive moves on the night of August 29 to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Tso and those attempts were thwarted, the Army said on Monday. Responding to this, China accused the Indian Army of “illegally crossing the line” on August 31 at two points — at the south bank of Pangong lake and near the Reqin mountain pass (near Rezang La) — and “blatantly provoked and caused tension on the border”. “On the night of August 29/30, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo,” the Army said in a statement. Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the southern bank of Pangong lake, and undertook measures to strengthen Indian positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground, the Army said. A Brigade Commander-level flag meeting was held at Chushul to resolve the issues, the Army said, adding that it was committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity through dialogue, but also equally determined to protect territorial integrity. The Army did not share any details to maintain operational security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pla-aggression-blocked-at-pangong-tso/article32492152.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Power disruptions leave citizens miffed||At a time when people are spending more time at home than ever before, many parts of the city are reeling under power cuts. Though there is no shortage of power generation in the State, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (BESCOM) said that disruptions in supply are because of an ongoing project of taking all 6,000-odd km of 11kV power lines underground. This project, likely to be completed over the next one-and-a-half years, will improve quality and reliability of power supply, officials said. BESCOM Managing Director Rajesh Gowda admitted that there were some issues in power supply that were the result of the ongoing project of underground cabling. He said work was under way in at least 58 sub-divisions in the city. Though the tenders for the project had been floated and approved long ago, work began only recently. “We took up the capex work in June. We were supposed to have started in April, but owing to lockdown restrictions and realising that many people would be working from home, we put it off by a couple of months,” he said. Mr. Gowda also said issues such as overhead lines snapping owing to wind and heavy rains or electricity poles being damaged will be eliminated with the completion of the Rs. 5,400-crore project. However, with people working from home and online classes facing disruptions, complaints are pouring in from B.T.M. Layout, Ramamurthynagar, Akashnagar, Srinivasnagar, H.S.R. Layout, Immadihalli, and Malleshpalya, among others. Pradeep D., entrepreneur and resident of Studio Layout, T.C. Palya, said apart from frequent disruptions, the residents have to grapple with voltage fluctuations. “Every time we complain, a docket number is assigned. But what happens after this,” he asked, and added that his wife, a teacher, had resorted to going to school to take online classes as power supply was unreliable at home. In Chennammanakere Achukattu, residents complained about frequent power cuts through the day. Meenakshi B., a resident, said that following downpour on Sunday night, supply was disrupted for many hours. “This is expected. However, through the day, there are unscheduled power cuts. If it is a scheduled cut, we can at least be prepared. Unless residents have UPS with good backup, work from home is very difficult,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-disruptions-leave-citizens-miffed/article32492182.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases drop in TS due to fewer tests||A drop in COVID-19 cases on Sunday was observed in Telangana as comparatively less number of tests were conducted. From August 25, over 60,000 tests a day are being conducted in the State and between 2,700 and 3,100 cases are recorded in a day. However, on Sunday, 37,791 samples were tested and 1,873 people tested positive for coronavirus. From a little over five weeks, comparatively less number of tests are conducted on weekends (particularly on Sundays), barring on August 23, resulting in less number of cases on one day a week. The new 1,873 cases include 360 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 180 from Karimnagar, 129 from Rangareddy, 103 from Khammam. Nine more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 827. Of the new cases, 1,293 were asymptomatic and 580 were symptomatic. Of the 37,791 people tested on Sunday, 17,006 were primary contacts and 5,290 were secondary contacts, which comes up to 59 %. This piece of information is mentioned in daily media bulletins issued from August 30. Incidentally, same percentage of primary and secondary contacts were tested on Saturday too. In the past one week (August 24-30), a total of 3,97,461 tests were performed and 18,872 cases were detected in the State. It is from this week that the State Health department has further increased the number of tests in a day. Active cases Out of the total 1,24,963 cases recorded from March 2 to August 31, the active cases are 31,299 while 92,837 have recovered and 827 died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-drop-in-ts-due-to-fewer-tests/article32492389.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,||CM mourns Pranab’s death||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed deep shock over the death of former President Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee. The Chief Minister said on Monday that it was unfortunate that the best efforts put in by doctors for the past few weeks to save the ailing former President did not succeed. He recalled Pranab Mukherjee’s backing for the Telangana issue. Pranab Mukherjee, who headed the high-power committee on separate statehood issue, had the distinction of signing the formation of Telangana State Bill. “The former President used to say that there was justice in the demand for separate Telangana. He bestowed special praise on me saying that very few leaders have the rare opportunity of seeing the movement launched by them reaching its goal and that I am privileged to have that rare opportunity and greatness,” Mr. Rao recalled. He referred to the book The Coalition Years authored by Pranab Mukherjee and said Telangana statehood issue too figured in the book. He visited the Yadadri temple complex and appreciated the renovation works going on at the site. The Chief Minister paid rich tributes to the departed soul personally and also on behalf of the people of the State. He conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-mourns-pranabs-death/article32492399.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Money from drug mafia used to topple coalition government: Kumaraswamy||Close on the heels of an ongoing investigation into the alleged nexus between the drug mafia and the Kannada cinema industry, the former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday alleged that money from “drug mafia, betting, and dance bars” was used to topple the coalition government that he led as CM. Similar charge in 2018 He made a similar charge in 2018, when as Chief Minister he asked police officials to probe “kingpins” collecting money from “these mafias” to poach MLAs to topple his government. However, nothing came out of that probe. The allegation drew a sharp rebuttal from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, one of the Congress MLAs who defected to BJP bringing down the coalition government, hit back at Mr. Kumaraswamy asking him to watch his words. “The BJP is a strong ideological party and would never resort to such foul means. The very allegation shows how he [H.D. Kumaraswamy] thinks,” he said. Talking to presspersons on the recent drug bust by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which has opened a can of worms as many Kannada film personalities were allegedly the clientele, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that even he had worked as a Kannada film producer and had not come across the use of drugs in the industry. ‘Take stringent action’ “But I would request the police to take stringent action against those involved, irrespective of their influence,” he said. It was in this context he made the allegation that money collected from “drug, betting and dance bar mafias” was used to poach MLAs, hinting that some elements of the BJP, which toppled his government, were in collusion with such “mafias”. “When I asked the city police to act, some of those kingpins ran away to Sri Lanka to escape action,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/money-from-drug-mafia-used-to-topple-coalition-government-kumaraswamy/article32492183.ece
01 September 2020||Mumbai,||State govt. issues fresh guidelines for Unlock 4.0||The Maharashtra government on Monday released new guidelines for its Mission Begin Again to unlock activities, allowing inter-district movement without e-pass from September 2. According to the new State guidelines, hotels and lodges can operate at 100% capacity, while private offices can operate at 30% staff capacity. A separate standard operating procedure (SOP) will be issued for the functioning of hotels and lodges. The State government has also allowed passenger movement by private bus/mini-bus operators.  For State government offices, group A and group B officers are required to have 100% attendance. For other groups, 30% staff is required in municipal corporations of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), while the limit is set at 50% in the rest of the State. The government has, however, decided not to restart Metro services, despite the Centre giving clearance for it in its guidelines for Unlock 4.0. Apart from this, the State has also decided not to open school and colleges till September 30, while promoting online education. BJPs demand rejected The State has not given permission for any cultural, social, religious, political or academic congregations. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been demanding that temples in the State be reopened. However, the government has not accepted this demand. Cinema halls, swimming pools, theatres and malls will also continue to remain closed. The State government has clarified that local administration will decide on categorising containment zones and decide on keeping non-essential activities open in these areas. VBA chief enters temple Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar on Monday declared that his agitation for the reopening of temples across Maharashtra was “successful” as the State government has promised him that places of worship will be opened in the next eight to 10 days. Mr. Ambedkar, however, warned that the VBA would launch an agitation again after 10 days if the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government fails to keep its word. He said, “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has made the right decision. I thank him for acknowledging the sentiment of the people and promising to reopen temples.” Mr. Ambedkar said the government permitted him and 14 of his supporters to enter the Vitthal-Rukmini temple for darshan after they arrived at the temple. Despite the district administration suspending State Transport bus services and deploying a formidable security shield to discourage assembly near the temple premises, VBA activists, warkaris (devotees) and volunteers streamed into Solapur since morning. The police had a hard time ensuring physical distancing as agitators threatened to break through the barricades erected outside the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-unlock-40/article32492492.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. rejects Centre’s options for GST compensation||Displeased with both the options proposed by the Union Finance Minister for GST compensation to States, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edapaddi K. Palaniswami on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to agree to a mechanism in which the Centre would raise the required funds as a loan and lend it to the GST Compensation Fund against future cess receipts. “Our stance has consistently been that the Centre has a moral and legal obligation to pay the compensation for the shortfall in GST collections. The argument that States borrowing for what is essentially a Central obligation is a seemingly better optical arrangement does not appear to be a strong or valid reason,” Mr Palaniswami contended. He requested Mr. Modi to direct the Finance Ministry to revisit their stance in the matter. Under both the options suggested by the Centre, the States were required to borrow from the market to make good the shortfall in compensation due, which he argued was administratively difficult to implement and more expensive. “Whether the Centre borrows or the States borrow, for rating agencies and others who monitor the macro-economic indicators, it is the overall general government deficit and borrowing that is relevant,” he contended. The net impact of the Centre’s proposed two options was to reduce the overall resources available to States in 2020-21 quite substantially to the extent of about 1% of GDP amounting to nearly Rs. 2 lakh crore, he said: “This will really hurt spending by States on many crucial COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 related expenditure.” The AIADMK government, which is an ally of the BJP also insisted that the PM should ensure that the States get their full dues of the compensation in the current year itself, and reduce neither the compensation payable nor the already announced and committed additional borrowing permissible to States of 2% of GSDP under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat stimulus package under any circumstances. Mr. Palaniswami also requested the PM to direct the Finance Ministry to provide a formal and categorical assurance that any spillover of the compensation due would be paid in the period after March 31, 2022. He also requested the relaxation of the conditionalities attached to the permission to be accorded by the Centre to States to borrow under Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme. No compensation has been released for the shortfalls in revenue collection since April 1, 2020. As on date, a total sum of Rs. 12,250.50 crore was due to Tamil Nadu as compensation for the shortfall in GST collections. Pointing to the expenses incurred due to COVID-19 in the State, Mr. Palaniswami said considerable additional expenditure of nearly Rs. 7,000 crore has already been incurred towards upgrading health facilities, providing medical supplies and towards relief measures for the most affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-rejects-centres-options-for-gst-compensation/article32492269.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State-wide comprehensive land survey from January 1||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered that a comprehensive survey of lands should be taken up across the State from January 1, 2021, on the basis of inputs gathered from the BhuSeva pilot project implemented at Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district, and completed in two years. In a review meeting on building a database of land transactions that is exhaustive and also tamper-proof, at his camp office on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said efforts should be made to make rectifications immediately if possible, and necessary training given to surveyors by the above date. Mr. Jagan suggested that marking stones should be uniquely designed and extensive publicity be given to the exercise in order to take the views of all stakeholders into account and further improve the system.  Purification of records Officials told the Chief Minister that the purification of records would solve farmers’ problems to the maximum extent and they would be able to protect their rights. Mobile tribunals were proposed to be set up to redress the farmers’ grievances on the spot. Decentralisation Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the officials concerned that the services rendered by the sub-registrars should be made available in the village secretariats in due course of time to take the Stamps and Registration and Revenue Departments closer to people. Officials told him that the data collected by rovers would be directly incorporated into the computerised databases without any manual interface. As many as 52,866 cases were pending disposal in the revenue courts while a special drive was under way to settle 79,405 disputes under the webland system. Deputy Chief Minister and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (CCLA) Neerabh Kumar Prasad, Commissioner of Stamps and Registrations Siddharth Jain and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-wide-comprehensive-land-survey-from-jan-1/article32492084.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUPATI,||Deputy CM Narayanaswamy urges judiciary to support good governance||At a time when the government is facing legal hiccups pertaining to various schemes, Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy has sought support of the judiciary in implementation of the programmes intended to benefit the larger sections of the society. Several welfare schemes including the allocation of house sites to the poor have been subjected to judicial scrutiny with a number of petitions being filed in the High Court. “I mean no offence by making this open appeal to the High Court, which should be treated as a request to ensure good governance,” Mr. Narayanaswamy told The Hindu.  Referring to the YSRCP’s poll manifesto, Mr. Narayanaswamy described it as a roadmap for development which was pitched much before the elections. Legal impasse “People vote for the promises made in the manifesto, the political will and the capability of a party that makes the promise. When a government is elected, the manifesto is deemed to have the people’s authorisation and is hence unquestionable,” he explained. It was in this context that the Deputy Chief Minister appealed to the High Court to “treat the implementation of the promises made in the manifesto as sacrosanct for the YSRCP, before accepting petitions intending to cause legal impasse and throw administration haywire”. Dig at opposition parties “The opposition parties are hell-bent on disturbing governance and leaving no stone unturned to harm the interests of the people. It is hence for the High Court to decide whether to allow such petitions for hearing or let the government fulfil its promises,” Mr. Narayanaswamy said. He further said that the YSRCP government would overcome any obstacle to help all deserving beneficiaries realise their dreams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deputy-cm-narayanaswamy-urges-judiciary-to-support-good-governance/article32492144.ece
01 September 2020||Kolkata,||Lockdown in State’s containment zones extended till Sept. 30||The West Bengal government on Monday issued a notification stating that total lockdown will be extended in the containment zones of the State till September 30. The development assumes significance as it comes a day after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) released a set of guidelines pertaining to Unlock 4.0. “In consideration of the current COVID-19 situation, lockdown in the containment zones stands extended up to 30/09/2020,” West Bengal’s order No. 285-CS/2020 signed by Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said. The notification also said a total lockdown will be observed in the State on the three dates announced earlier. “As already announced, State-wide complete lockdown shall be observed on Monday, September 7; Friday, September 11; and Saturday, September 12,” the notification said. No schools, colleges Schools, colleges, cinema halls, swimming pools and parks will remain closed till the end of September, the order added. The State government has already relaxed restrictions on incoming flights from six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Ahmedabad and Chennai — which were suspended in July and August. Metro services to resume The West Bengal government notification also said Metro railway services will operate in a graded manner from September 8. Over the last few days, there have been meetings between officials of the West Bengal government and Metro officials over resumption of the services. Chief Public Relations Officer of Kolkata Metro Indrani Banerjee said that they are waiting for a Standard Operating Procedure from the Ministry of Railways on operation of the trains. Ms. Banerjee also said a token for one ride will not be issued to passengers but passengers can travel using smart cards. Metro Officials also said there will be fewer trains, and measures will be taken to prevent crowding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-in-states-containment-zones-extended-till-sept-30/article32492450.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Six States forge unity on GST compensation||Six State governments, including Telangana, on Monday bounced back the Centre’s offer made to them to borrow loan and meet their GST compensation in view of shortfall in collections due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At a video conference of Finance Ministers, Telangana apart, West Bengal, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Punjab governments, arrived at a consensus that the Centre should borrow loan instead of asking the States to do so and pay them the compensation. The governments also rejected the two options put forward at the recent GST Council meeting, asking them to borrow the Rs. 97,000-crore shortfall arising out of GST implementation or Rs. 2.35 lakh crore which is their compensation requirement in the current year due to faltering of collections. Addressing a press conference after their meeting, Telangana Finance Minister T. Harish Rao expressed unhappiness that the Centre was, by both options, trying to pay to the States a compensation of only Rs. 1.65 lakh crore while the dues to them towards compensation was Rs. 2.35 lakh crore and Rs. 65,000 crore from levy of cess. The GST Act was clear that the compensation was to be met in full if the growth rate of States was below the threshold level of 14%. In the name of ‘Act of God and coronavirus’, the Centre was denying them Rs. 1.35 lakh crore. There was no scope for denial of compensation due to natural calamities or COVID in the legislation. The same was the view expressed by the Attorney General of India. Mr. Harish Rao warned the Centre that it had no option but to pay the compensation in full either on legal or moral grounds. He wondered that the Centre conveniently deposited the surplus in cess distribution to the Consolidated Fund of India in the last three years of GST implementation, but now asked the State governments to bear the loss. Revenues generated by levy of cess should go to States as their matter of right. Double standards “Telangana government will not agree to the double standards at any cost,” he remarked. Telangana suffered a revenue loss of 34%, amounting to Rs. 8,000 crore, in the last four months due to the pandemic. On the other hand, the State contributed to the national exchequer Rs. 18,032 crore towards cess, but got back only Rs. 3,200 crore. Mr. Harish Rao recalled that Telangana was hesitant to join the GST regime when it came into force in 2016-17 as its growth rate was 22%, which was 8% above the threshold level. Had it not joined, the State would have been richer now by Rs. 25,000 crore. It joined the regime for the national cause to ensure tax liberalisation and attract investments. Telangana opposed GST even when it was conceived in the UPA government because the then regime ditched the State in the share of Central Sales Tax to the tune of Rs. 3,647 crore. On the other hand, the NDA government offered to pay to better performing States even when the cess fund was less. So, both governments undermined the rights of Telangana. The Centre enjoyed free hand in raising resources through increased borrowing limits, cess or tax revenue but condemned States to borrow and get less from cess. This was totally unacceptable, he said and added that the six States had decided to launch legal battle, if needed, in the ends of justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-states-forge-unity-on-gst-compensation/article32492395.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||With 73k infections in week, active cases cross 1 lakh||In a record number of infections, the State has for the sixth consecutive day reported more than 10,000 infections in a day as of Monday morning. With this, the State now has over a lakh active COVID cases, which is second highest tally in the country after Maharashtra. It now has 1,00,276 active cases. Earlier, in the first week of August, over 10,000 cases were reported continuously for five days. During the past one week, 73,132 infections and 601 deaths were reported in the State. During the same period 61,698 patients recovered from the disease. Testing In the month of August, the State detected 2.93 lakh COVID infections against 17.71 lakh samples tested. At least 16 persons in every 100 tested were infected as the positivity rate was at 16.59% in August. According to the Health Department's COVID bulletin, 10,004 new infections and 85 new deaths were reported in the past day. The overall infections tally went up to 4,34,771 and the death toll inched close to 4,000 mark reaching 3,969. As many as 8,772 patients recovered in the past day and the overall recovery rate went up to 76.02% with a total 3,30,526 recoveries till date. So far 37.22 lakh samples were tested and the tests per million ratio is at 69,717. Meanwhile, four districts reported over a thousand new cases. East Godavari continued to report highest single-day tally at 1,383 cases and seven deaths. The new cases and deaths reported in districts are as follows: West Godavari (1,142 and 7), Nellore (1086 and 12), Srikakulam (1,023 and 4), Anantapur (973 and 7), Chittoor (936 and 9), Kurnool (686 and 6), Visakhapatnam (634 and 6), Vizianagaram (540 and 1), Prakasam (524 and 9), Guntur (498 and 7), Kadapa (420 and 8) and Krishna (159 and 2). Krishna district remains the only district with less than 20,000 infections. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (59,403), Kurnool (44,745), Anantapur (41,128), West Godavari (37,106), Visakhapatnam (36,694), Chittoor (36,649), Guntur (35,761), Nellore(30,680), Kadapa (26,119), Srikakulam (24,078), Prakasam (22,830), Vizianagaram(20,399), Krishna (16,284).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-73k-infections-in-week-active-cases-cross-1-lakh/article32492146.ece
01 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Dharmasthala’s elephant calf named Shivani||The birth of an elephant under the care of Manjunatha temple administration in Dharmasthala for the first time was celebrated in a grand manner. The temple conducted a naming ceremony for the female calf on Monday. The elephant born on July 1 was named Shivani, in the presence of many who had come to witness the ceremony. Its mother Lakshmi and its grandmother Latha were with the calf on the occasion. All the three elephants had been specially decorated for the ceremony. The calf decorated with balloons enjoyed the special occasion by playing with water stored in a plastic bucket, for sometime. The temple had arranged a feast of fruits, vegetables, sugarcane for all the three elephants to make the ceremony meaningful. Speaking to media persons on the occasion, D. Veerendra Heggade, Pattadhikari, Dharmasthala, said that Lakshmi had been sent to Bannerghatta Biological Park two years ago for conceiving. ‘Gaja Seve’ The “Gaja Seve” is being traditionally practised in Dharmasthala during the temple festivals and processions for many years now. Earlier, the temple had elephants Bharata, Shankara and Gange which were part of the temple fairs and processions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharmasthalas-elephant-calf-named-shivani/article32492370.ece
01 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra COVID-19 tally nears 8 lakh mark with 11,852 new cases||Maharashtra reported 11,852 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 7,92,541, of which 1,94,056 cases are active. With 184 new deaths, the total death toll has reached 24,583. The case surge was almost offset by a nearly matching number of recoveries, as 11,158 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries till date to 5,73,559. Less samples tested After two consecutive surges of over 16,000 cases in a day, the relatively low surge today has to be viewed in the context of lower samples tested – only 54,000, as compared to the daily average of over 70,000. Of the 184 deaths recorded, 143 are from the last 48 hours, while 32 deaths have occurred last week. The remaining nine deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, said State Health Department authorities. “Of 41,38,929 laboratory samples tested thus far, 7,92,541 (19.14%) have returned positive. Over 54,000 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate stands at 72.37%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate had marginally reduced to 3.1%. Pune reported over 2,000 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,75,105. The district, however, reported its lowest fatality surge in two months - just nine deaths, which took the death toll to 4,069. As per the district administration, the number of active cases in the district had risen to 34,800 while the recovery rate had reduced marginally to 76.99%. Mumbaireported 1,179 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,45,805, of which 20,551 are active. With 32 deaths, the city’s death toll has risen to 7,658. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Thane reported 428 new cases, taking its total case tally past the 46,000-mark, while 19 new deaths saw its fatality count rise to 1,483. Navi Mumbai reported nine deaths and 304 fresh cases to take its death toll to 641 and its total case tally to 28,778. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a huge surge of 801 new cases and 15 deaths. The district’s total case tally has now reached 28,042 of which 11,701 are active while the total death toll has climbed to 730.  The upsurge of fresh cases continued unabated in the three ‘sugar belt’ districts in western Maharashtra. Kolhapur reported 516 new cases, taking its total tally to 22,479 of which 6,782 are active while 19 new deaths saw the district’s death toll rise to 646. Neighbouring Sangli reported an even higher surge of 747 cases, which the district’s total case tally to 13,272 of which 5,268 are active. Six fatalities saw the district’s death toll climb to 427. Satara district reported 422 cases to take its total case tally to 13,963 of which 5,297 are active. Seven deaths today took its cumulative death toll to 340. Nashik, a major virus hotbed in north Maharashtra, reported a massive spike of 895 fresh cases as its total tally reached 39,835, of which 11,614 are active. With three new deaths, the district’s total death toll has risen to 867. The adjoining district of Jalgaon, too, saw a big spike of 606 fresh cases and 11 new deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 27,434 of which 7,382 are active, while the death toll has now climbed to 828. Nanded district in Marathwada reported 274 new cases and eight deaths. Its total case tally has risen to 7,167 of which 3,581 are active while the death toll stands at 225. Dr. Awate said currently 13,55,330 persons across Maharashtra were in home quarantine, while a total of 35,722 were in institutional quarantine facilities.  Over 54,000 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate stands at 72.37% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-nears-8-lakh-mark-with-11852-new-cases/article32492491.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court seeks Tamil Nadu’s response to Vedanta’s appeal||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Tamil Nadu government on an appeal filed by Vedanta Ltd. challenging the Madras High Court’s rejection of its plea to re-open the Sterlite plant in Thoothukudi. The court, however, refused to stay the High Court verdict. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman asked the lawyers to argue their plea for interim relief when the case comes up next for hearing after four weeks. Senior advocate Aryama Sundaram and advocate Rohini Musa said the factory, which had been closed for over a year-and-a-half, was in a “terrible shape”. They sought an interim relief to allow personnel into the premises for a check-up. “The factory is in dire straits,” Mr. Sundaram said. “We are not going to do anything today,” Justice Nariman responded. Mr. Sundaram said the court should protect the appellant from any “coercive steps” from the Tamil Nadu government. “We will issue notice to the State,” Justice Nariman replied. The plant was closed in May 2018 following an order by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board over pollution concerns. Protests against the plant saw 13 people die in police firing. ‘A retrograde step’ Mr. Sundaram contended that the High Court decision on August 18 to keep the plant closed was a “retrograde step”. He said there was no notice or complaint of pollution prior to the closure of the plant. In February last year, the Supreme Court had set aside the National Green Tribunal’s decision to re-open the plant. The tribunal had directed the TNPCB to pass fresh orders of renewal of consent and issue authorisation to Vedanta Ltd., which owns the plant, to handle hazardous substances.  The plant was closed in May 2018 following an order by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board over pollution concerns   The plant was closed in May 2018 following an order by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board over pollution concerns. Protests against the plant saw 13 people die in police firing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-tn-response-to-vedantas-appeal/article32492283.ece
01 September 2020||MADURAI,||Man seeks compensation for son’s incarceration after acquittal||A petitioner from Theni district on Monday moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking appropriate compensation from the State for keeping his son in illegal custody for over nine months even after he was acquitted in a murder case. Justice R. Pongiappan ordered notice to the State on the petition filed by Rathinam from Andipatti, who sought appropriate compensation from the State for the negligence of the officials. The case was adjourned till September 22. The petitioner said that his son Chokkar remained in Madurai Central Prison even after the High Court had acquitted him in a murder case after setting aside the life sentence awarded by the trial court. He said that Varushanadu police had arrested his son in 2011 and named him second accused in the murder case. The Additional District and Sessions Judge, Theni, in 2016 sentenced him to life imprisonment, the petitioner said. Aggrieved by the order of the trial court, the first accused, Mayilraj, preferred an appeal against the verdict before the High Court. Though his son had not preferred an appeal, the High Court set aside the sentence awarded to both the accused and acquitted them in 2019. Though the first accused was released from prison, the petitioner said, his son was languishing in jail for over nine months. Only after an advocate, K.R. Raja, brought this to his notice that he realised the negligence on the part of the officials and sent a representation to them. It was only after the representation was sent to them on July 14, 2020, the prison authorities released his son, he said. The dereliction of duty on the part the authorities had resulted in his son suffering mental agony, he said and sought compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-seeks-compensation-for-sons-incarceration-after-acquittal/article32492463.ece
01 September 2020||Kolkata,||State asks universities to conduct final exams between Oct. 1 and 18||The West Bengal government on Monday asked State universities to conduct final semester college and university examinations between October 1 and 18. A senior official of the higher education department, who attended a virtual meeting between Vice-Chancellors and Education Minister Partha Chatterjee earlier in the day, said that it was unanimously decided that the final semester exams would be completed between October 1 and 18 in the backdrop of a Supreme Court order on the issue. The Supreme Court on August 28 had said that States and universities cannot promote students without holding final-year exams by September 30. However, a State has to approach the UGC if it cannot conduct exams by September 30, the apex court had said. The modalities of the exams, online or offline following COVID-19 protocols, would be decided by the university concerned in consultation with stakeholders, the official said. The meeting also decided that final semester results for arts and science streams of Jadavpur University, and Presidency University, which had already been announced on the criteria of 80:20 assessment, will not be valid and the two universities would have to conduct the exams as well, he said. The two reputed institutions along with another State-run university had followed the July 6 advisory on evaluation and 80:20 pattern of previous semester performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-asks-universities-to-conduct-final-exams-between-oct-1-and-18/article32492455.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ex-President Pranab Mukherjee passes away||Former President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, passed away on Monday after developing a lung infection at the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital here, where was admitted for brain surgery. He had also tested COVID-19 positive. He is survived by two sons and a daughter. Condoling his demise, President Ram Nath Kovind said Mr. Mukherjee had endeared himself to people across the political spectrum. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he had left an “indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation”. The Centre has announced a seven-day state mourning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-president-pranab-mukherjee-passes-away/article32492157.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||SC imposes Rs. 1 fine on Bhushan for contempt||The Supreme Court on Monday punished civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan with a “nominal” fine of Rs. 1 for committing criminal contempt by “scandalising the court”. “By showing magnanimity, instead of imposing any severe punishment, we are sentencing the contemnor with a nominal fine of Rs. 1,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra said. Mr. Bhushan, in a press statement, said he reserved his right to file a review but would pay the fine to an institution he holds in high esteem. The court said an “appropriate sentence” and not a mere warning was required as Mr. Bhushan had showed an “unjustifiable insistence” to not express regret.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-imposes-rs-1-fine-on-bhushan-for-contempt/article32492153.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Only tuition fee can be charged during lockdown’||The Delhi government on Monday reissued the order that no charges except for tuition fees will be demanded from parents of schoolchildren during the lockdown period. The Directorate of Education had first issued the order on April 18. It reiterated the instructions after receiving a number of complaints from parents that many private unaided recognised schools of Delhi had started charging the fees under many other heads in contravention of the order. The government said that if any school had taken any fee other than tuition charges during the lockdown, the extra payment will have to be refunded or adjusted immediately. The government order stated that the act of schools charging fees under other heads was not only a clear violation but also an inhumane act on their part keeping in view the prevailing pandemic conditions. The order also said that some schools have started charging full fees claiming the lockdown was over. “This position as claimed by private unaided recognised schools is not correct as unlocking stages are still going on in a phased manner. Hence, complete lockdown is yet to be over.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-tuition-fee-can-be-charged-during-lockdown/article32492323.ece
01 September 2020||Mumbai,||Final year exams to begin from first week of Oct.||Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant on Monday said final year university examinations will be held from first week of October. “As we had said earlier, to ensure safety of students’ mental and physical health, we have decided to let them appear for exams from home,” Mr. Samant said. An online meeting of a committee, chaired by Mr. Samant, comprising vice-chancellors, was held at Mantralaya on Monday. “We appeal to students and parents to not worry as exams will start from first week of October and students can appear from home,” the ministe said. The meeting of the committee to finalise the mode of examination will be held on September 2. While announcing that directions have been given to complete the entire process of examination and declaration of results by October end, by following all guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC), Mr. Samant said the deadline can be extended till November 10. “This extended deadline is for varsities where there is a surge in COVID-19 cases or those with technical problems,” he said, adding that a decision on exams for students with backlogs will be taken by following UGC guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/final-year-exams-to-begin-from-first-week-of-oct/article32492490.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe landing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safe-landing/article32492180.ece
01 September 2020||Kolkata,||Police Day on Sept. 8||The observance of Police Day on September 1 has been rescheduled to next week. The State will instead observe a holiday on Tuesday to mark “respect to the departed soul of former President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, a glorious son of Bengal”. The State Home Department in a tweet said, “GOWB is keeping all government and government aided offices and institutions closed tomorrow- 1st September. If the funeral takes place on another day, then that day too shall be observed with similar solemn respect. While 1st September remains Police Day, the observance will be on 8th September.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-day-on-sept-8/article32492448.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/helping-hand/article32492453.ece
01 September 2020||Kolkata,||State to boost road transport services for JEE, NEET examinees||With suburban and other scheduled trains not in operation, the West Bengal government has said State transport undertakings will start services from early morning and increase frequency of buses from Tuesday to ensure smooth transportation of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) candidates. Services of WBTC, NBSTC and SBSTC will be available from 5 a.m. onwards on all routes of Kolkata, Howrah, Barasat and Baruipur, the transport department said in a notification. The Transport Director has also asked all regional transport offices in the State to ensure that maximum number of buses are in service on examination days. The Regional Transport Authority at Kolkata has asked private bus, auto and taxi operators to provide additional service from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. on examination days, it said. Joint Council of Bus Syndicates general secretary Tapan Banerjee said frequency of private buses in the city and districts will be increased to cater to the needs of the examinees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-boost-road-transport-services-for-jee-neet-examinees/article32492454.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe landing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safe-landing/article32492397.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/helping-hand/article32492322.ece
01 September 2020||Srinagar,||PDP leaders seek nod to meet Mufti||Four Peoples Democratic Party leaders — Ghulam Nabi Lone, A.R. Veeri, Khurshid Alam and Aijaz Mir — on Monday approached Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Chowdhary with an application seeking a meeting with party chief Mehbooba Mufti, who remains in detention since August 5 last year. “Despite being detained under the draconian Public Safety Act at her residence, Ms. Mufti has certain legal rights that cannot be violated. Apart from legal aid and medical facilities, these also include visitations at least twice a week as per the Constitution,” the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pdp-leaders-seek-nod-to-meet-mufti/article32492324.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Indrajit Lankesh questioned||Filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh, who appeared before the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Monday, was questioned by the officials of the Anti-Narcotics Wing for over five hours. The police recorded his statement via video and also took a written statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indrajit-lankesh-questioned/article32492186.ece
01 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Unscientific dredging||Fishermen in Koderi and surrounding fishing villages in Byndoor taluk of Udupi district said that the Fisheries Department had undertaken dredging in the Yedamavinahole river channel in an unscientific manner. Krishna Kharvi, a fisherman from Madikal near Uppunda, said that before undertaking dredging, the river channel’s banks have to be secured through stone revetment. Otherwise, soil from the river bank gets continuously eroded due to waves generated during the movement of boats. However, no such revetment was constructed in the port area and the river bank was continuously getting eroded thereby resulting in fresh silt accumulation, he said. There was a need to extend the existing breakwater by another 150 m as it was insufficient to facilitate smooth entry and exit of traditional fishing boats to and from the port, Mr. Kharvi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unscientific-dredging/article32492366.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/helping-hand/article32492494.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature’s fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/natures-fury/article32492290.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Wet weather likely over many parts of T.N. this week||Wet weather is on the cards this week for many parts of the State. Several interior parts are likely to get light to moderate rainfall over the next three days. This will come as a respite to places that experienced dry weather conditions last week. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, several interior and southern parts of the State received moderate to heavy rainfall. Marandahalli in Dharmapuri district and Rayakottah in Krishnagiri district recorded 7 cm of rainfall, the day’s highest. Officials of the Meteorological Department said heavy rain is likely to occur in one or two places in districts such as Salem, Erode, Nilgiris and Namakkal till Wednesday. Chennai, which experienced high humidity levels, is likely to receive thunderstorms on Tuesday. The city saw an increase in temperature because of dry weather conditions. A north-south trough running along the Tamil Nadu coast and convective activity, which follows an intense period of heat during daytime, would trigger thunderstorms over the State, they added. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, said the monsoon trough was moving towards the foothills of Himalayas. Whenever a monsoon trough moves away, thunderstorm activity gets more active over the southern peninsular region. “We expect another upper air circulation to sustain the rainfall activity. The maximum temperature in Chennai may decrease later this week.” On Monday, the city recorded 36 degree Celsius, which is slightly above the normal day temperature. The Meteorological department forecasts a cloudy sky and the maximum temperature to be around 36 degree Celsius in Chennai. Some areas may experience light rain till Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wet-weather-on-the-cards-for-many-parts-of-tn/article32492279.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe landing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safe-landing/article32492155.ece
01 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||State to enact law based on Gujarat model||Karnataka will shortly come up with a Special Investment Region Act, along the lines of legislation enacted by Gujarat, and declare Dharwad, Kalaburagi, and Shivamogga as special investment regions, according to Jagadish Shettar, Minister of Large and Medium Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-enact-law-based-on-gujarat-model/article32492188.ece
01 September 2020||BENGALURU,||State’s prison occupancy above capacity||The overall occupancy rate of the State’s prisons is just over their capacity, at 101.4 occupants to a capacity of 100 inmates. But it is lower than the national average of 118.5, according to data from ‘Prison Statistics India - 2019’, released recently by the National Crime Records Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-prison-occupancy-above-capacity/article32492189.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Discharge rate is 72% in State||Three weeks after the new discharge policy came into force in the State, the discharge rate of COVID-19 patients who recovered has been rising. According to the data as of August 30, 72.1% of the 3.35 lakh patients were termed as “recovered”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/discharge-rate-is-72-in-state/article32492190.ece
01 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Ajay Maken meets partymen in Jaipur||All India Congress Committee general secretary Ajay Maken, recently appointed in-charge of Rajasthan, met party leaders, office-bearers and Ministers here on Monday to evolve a consensus in the party in the aftermath of a month-long political turmoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ajay-maken-meets-partymen-in-jaipur/article32492327.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Prima facie evidence against Narwal: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday said there was prima facie evidence against Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal, arrested in connection with north-east Delhi riots, after perusing the case diary supplied by the Delhi police. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said the police have “been able to get indicative materials”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prima-facie-evidence-against-narwal-hc/article32492328.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: panel wants Facebook as co-accused||Prima facie, Facebook seems to have played a role in the Delhi riots that broke out earlier this year, said Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony on Monday. The panel also said Facebook India officials will be issued notices to appear at its next meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-riots-panel-wants-facebook-as-co-accused/article32492326.ece
01 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Many dists. report more discharged patients||The districts of Belagavi, Dharwad, Davangere, Haveri, Bagalkot and Vijayapura saw more number of COVID-19 patients getting discharged from designated hospitals when compared to the fresh cases of pandemic being reported on Monday. In Belagavi district, 331 patients were discharged against 154 new cases and five deaths and in Davangere, 371 patients were discharged and 257 new cases and six deaths were reported. In Dharwad, the number of discharged patients was 296 and new cases was 279 apart from nine deaths. In Vijayapura, 112 patients were discharged and 84 and three deaths were reported, while in Haveri, there were 105 discharged patients, 63 new cases and five deaths. Gadag reported 178 new cases, one death and 100 discharged patients, Uttara Kannada reported 86 new cases and one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-dists-report-more-discharged-patients/article32492365.ece
01 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Heavy rain: 5,000 shifted in Gujarat||As heavy rain continued to lash various parts of Gujarat on Monday, 5,000 people were shifted to safer places in Bharuch and Vadodara districts after several villages were flooded due to the rise in the level of the Narmada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-5000-shifted-in-gujarat/article32492495.ece
01 September 2020||Mumbai,||Activists are being persecuted, says lawyer||Advocate R. Sathyanarayanan, who is is representing four of the 12 accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, says it is a clear case of persecuting human rights activists for their stellar work. He says the term ‘urban naxal’ is a bogey created to divert the attention of people towards non-existent issues so that the real issues that plague our polity gather dust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/activists-are-being-persecuted-says-lawyer/article32492497.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,||108 ambulance fleet gets first woman pilot||Veeralakshmi Muthukumar, 30, is now behind the wheel of an ambulance, becoming the first woman pilot in the 108 ambulance fleet in the State. “In fact, I did not know I was the first woman ambulance pilot until I joined today,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/108-ambulance-fleet-gets-first-woman-pilot/article32492465.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,||5,956 persons test COVID-19 positive||As many as 5,956 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 4,28,041. While there was a marginal dip in fresh infections in Chennai, cases surged in Coimbatore and Salem. As many as 6,008 persons were discharged after treatment on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5956-persons-test-covid-19-positive/article32492230.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,||Screening mandatory for those entering T.N.||Passengers entering Tamil Nadu from other States and countries by air, rail, road and sea will have to undergo mandatory screening for COVID-19 and 14 days of quarantine upon arrival, according to guidelines issued by the State government on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/screening-mandatory-for-those-entering-tn/article32492233.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,||T.N. rejects Centre’s GST compensation offer||Displeased with options proposed by the Union Finance Minister for GST compensation to the States, Chief Minister Edapadi K. Palaniswami urged the Centre to raise the required funds as loan and lend it to the GST Compensation Fund against future cess receipts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-rejects-centres-gst-compensation-offer/article32492232.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Learned so much from Pranab, says Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday condoled the passing away of former President Pranab Mukherjee. In a letter to Mr. Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha, Ms. Gandhi said while he had been ailing for some time, his death had come as a great “shock” to her. She described Mr. Mukherjee as an “integral and prominent part of public life, the Congress party, and the Central government for over five decades”. “His life over the past 50 years mirrored 50 years of the history of India for, he played a crucial role in both shaping the course of events and participating in them,” Ms. Gandhi wrote, recalling her own memories of working with him, stating that she “learned so much from him”. The Congress party will be flying its flag at half mast at the party headquarters for the next seven days as a mark of respect to Mr. Mukherjee. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, “With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former president Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I join the country in paying homage to him.” In a statement, the Congress said: “The Congress party condoles the passing away of Shri Pranab Mukherjee, former President of India. A statesman, leader, parliamentarian and visionary, Shri Mukherjee served in many capacities in the party and in the government ministries in his long career over nearly 50 years.” “This loss is irreparable. The nation is going to miss him. The Congress party is going to miss him,” the party said. Condolence messages poured in from senior Congress leaders reminiscing about their times with Mr. Mukherjee with many remembering his “phenomenal memory,” calling him an “encyclopedia” in politics and constitutional affairs. Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said: “With his passing away, not only the Congress, but the entire political spectrum of this country has lost a lifelong and a valiant soldier...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/learned-so-much-from-pranab-says-sonia/article32492109.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘1,000 sq km now under China’||About 1,000 square kilometres of area in Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is now under Chinese control, intelligence inputs provided to the Centre suggest. China has been amassing troops and fortifying its presence along the LAC since April-May. Twenty soldiers were killed on June 15 in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in violent clashes with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops. A senior government official told The Hindu that from Depsang Plains to Chushul there had been a systematic mobilisation by the Chinese troops along the undefined LAC. The official revealed that in Depsang Plains, from patrolling point 10-13, the scale of Chinese control of India’s perception of the LAC stood at about 900 sq. km. About 20 sq. km in Galwan Valley and 12 sq. km in Hot Springs area is said to be under Chinese occupation, the official said. In Pangong Tso, the area under Chinese control is 65 sq. km, whereas in Chushul it is 20 sq. km, the official said. The standoff at the China border continues even after several rounds of diplomatic and military level talks. A partial disengagement commenced after Special Representatives (SRs) Ajit Doval and Wang Yi, tasked to hammer out a solution to the boundary dispute, spoke on July 5. Buffer zones However, as per the agreement, Indian troops also moved back from their existing positions leading to creation of buffer zones at all the disputed sites. Chinese forces are occupying a considerable area from Finger 4 to 8 near Pangong Tso (lake). The distance between Finger 4-8, the mountainous spurs abutting the lake, is about 8 km. The stretch was patrolled both by India and China till May and India considers it to form part of its perception of the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1000-sq-km-now-under-china/article32492121.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||August rain exceeds forecast||August rainfall has been nearly 26% more than what is normal for the month. On July 31, the India Meteorological Department (IMD), as part of its monthly update to the monsoon forecast, said that August — usually the second rainiest month after July — rainfall would actually be 3% lower than usual. However, India ended up with 327 mm of rain in August instead of the normal 258 mm. This was largely due to torrential rain in central India, which has received nearly 495 mm instead of the regular 307 mm — a 61% surplus. Southern States The southern States together have also received 35% more rain — 256 mm instead of the regular 188 mm. The net result of a munificent August has been that overall monsoon rainfall from June 1-August 31, or the monsoon so far, has been 9.8% more than normal. In its most recent update, the IMD had said that it expected the monsoon to be 104% of the Long Period Average of what is normal for the second half of the season. A senior IMD official admitted that August rainfall was well outside the IMD’s forecast window. “August has been exceptional for a few reasons. There were nearly five rain-bearing low-pressure systems that formed in the Bay of Bengal and brought a lot of rain to central India and even beyond to north and northwest India. Secondly, the cool conditions in the Central Equatorial Pacific are also favourable for monsoon,” Mrutunjay Mohapatra, Director-General, IMD, told The Hindu . The occurrence of such systems could not be forecast 7-10 days in advance. “These are called intra-seasonal variations. And we have been issuing warnings on their occurrences and the likelihood of heavy rains,” he added. Monthly update The IMD is expected to issue a monthly update on the monsoon later this week for September, the last monsoon month and responsible for about 17% of the total monsoon quota of 88 cm. In July too, the IMD’s estimate was off the mark. On June 1, it forecast rains in that month to be 103% of its normal. India ended up with a shortfall of 9.7% mainly due to central India and northwest India registering shortfalls of as much as 25%. However, excess rains in June meant that the July rain deficit was partially offset. The IMD’s monthly forecasts have an inbuilt error window of 9%. But both the August and July forecasts fell outside their margins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/august-rain-exceeds-forecast/article32492131.ece
01 September 2020||Guwahati,||Naga groups seek accord review||The Working Committee of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) has sought a review of the Framework Agreement (FA) the Centre had signed with the rival Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M), in August 2015. The NNPGs comprise seven rival factions of the NSCN (I-M) and older armed groups. ‘Content tweaked’ The NSCN (I-M) had in the second week of August released the FA after accusing Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi of tweaking its content to put the Naga political issue “under the purview of the Indian Constitution. The outfit also said the agreement was based on shared sovereignty between India and the Naga domain. In a statement on August 30, the NNPGs said the FA had erased a “greater part of Naga history and struggle” by stating that the “Indo-Naga political conflict” had started around 1955-56. Seeking to know whose political conflict the FA was about, the NNPGs said the six decades mentioned accounted for a fraction of the conflict and was tantamount to dismissing a “people’s political journey” in an “abject manner”. The conglomerate said that “after five years and much secrecy”, the FA “reflects lack of Naga people’s consultation and participation prior to signing”. ‘Why Nagaland?’ The NNPGs also wondered why the FA referred to ‘Nagaland’ instead of ‘Nagalim’, the greater sovereign Naga homeland envisaged by the NSCN (I-M). Nagalim includes all Naga-inhabited areas around Nagaland, including in Myanmar. “If the FA was signed under Nagalim, no response would have been necessary due to the fact that the usage of Nagalim is confined to NSCN (I-M) members alone and their interpretation would have been irrelevant. To them, Nagaland denotes the present geographical area of the Indian State of Nagaland,” the statement said. “They discarded Nagaland and coined Nagalim in their political vocabulary to propagate a different narrative. However, suddenly on the eve of signing the FA in 2015, they found the beautiful, blissful God-given Nagaland more profound and document-worthy in place of the discomforting Nagalim,” it added. The NNPGs also alleged that the NSCN (I-M) was seeking from the Centre the permission to make the Intangki Reserve Forest near Nagaland’s commercial hub Dimapur as their resettlement and rehabilitation area as part of the solution to the Naga peace process. “Any consideration of any part of the reserve forest as a bargaining chip for rehabilitation shall not be acceptable at any cost,” the NNPGs said, adding that they were on the same page as all other Naga civil society groups on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naga-groups-seek-accord-review/article32492339.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana testing dips again, logs 1,873 new cases||COVID-19 was detected in 1,530 more persons in Kerala on Monday, taking the cumulative cases to 75,385. The number of people being treated in hospitals stood at 23,488. Seven more deaths which occurred earlier in the week were confirmed as having been caused by COVID-19 by the Health department, and the toll was put at 294. Three of the deaths were reported in Thiruvananthapuram, two in Kozhikode and one in Kollam. of those who passed away was from Kanniyakumari. Of the 1,530 new cases, 1,396 cases, or 91%, were locally acquired infections, including 29 healthcare workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 221 cases, Ernakulam 210, Malappuram 177 Alapuzha 137, Kollam 131, Kozhikode 117, Pathanamthitta 107, Kasaragode 103, Kottayam 86, Thrissur 85, Kannur 74, Palakkad 42, Wayanad 25 and Idukki 15 cases. The number of samples tested in a day were 18,027. Andhra Pradesh, for the sixth consecutive day, reported over 10,000 infections on Monday. The State had 1,00,276 active cases, the second highest after Maharashtra. During the past week, 73,132 infections and 601 deaths were reported. During August, the State detected 2.93 lakh infections from 17.71 lakh samples. The positivity rate was 16.59% in August. The Health Department said, 10,004 infections and 85 deaths were reported on Monday. Four districts reported over a thousand new cases. East Godavari continued to report the highest single-day tally at 1,383 cases besides adding seven deaths. A total of 6,495 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Monday. Positive cases stood at 3.42 lakh, while Bengaluru Urban added 1,862 cases. The Health and Family Welfare department recorded 113 COVID-19 deaths. The number of tests conducted on Monday dipped to 43,132, including 13,056 rapid antigen tests. 5,956 test positive in TN Another 5,956 persons tested positive for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Monday, taking the State’s overall tally to 4,28,041. While there was a marginal dip in fresh coronavirus infections in Chennai, the cases surged in Coimbatore and Salem with 589 and 497 (including one imported case) persons testing positive for COVID-19 respectively. With the discharge of 6,008 more persons, a total of 3,68,141 persons were discharged till date. The State’s toll increased to 7,322 with the death of 91 persons (56 in government and 35 in private hospitals) across the State including 19 in Chennai and 14 in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 26-year-old woman from Chennai who died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on August 29 due to systemic hypertension, diabetes, respiratory failure, disseminated tuberculosis and COVID-19. Three persons aged in their 30s and did not have co-morbidities succumbed to the infection. This included a 31-year-old man who died at RGGGH due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 on August 29, 11 days after admission.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-cases-continue-to-soar-at-over-10000-a-day/article32492097.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Advocate pulled up for entering hearing without authorisation||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday pulled up an advocate for entering a videoconference hearing by obtaining without authorisation the login identification number and password from another advocate. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi took serious exception when the advocate requested the Bench to urgently hear a petition related to admissions to postgraduate medical and dental courses. As the advocate said that she had sent the petition via email around 9.30 a.m. on Monday and requested the Bench to take up a hearing in the interest of students as the regular Bench was not available, the Chief Justice asked her how she got the link (login ID and password) for joining that videoconference. When she said that she got it from another advocate, the Bench asked her to disclose the identity of that advocate, and she did so. The link containing the login ID and password to join a videoconferencing hearing is sent onlyto the advocates whose cases are listed before a particular court, and they were not authorised to share the link withanyone else. Though the Bench, in the interest of students, asked her to disclose the number of the petition, she said she could not give the number as she had come out of her office for better Internet connectivity. On enquiring with the Registrar (Judicial), the Bench noticed that there was no request sent for an urgent hearing of the petition in another email sent at 11.30 a.m. It then gave 30 minutes for the advocates to send a proper email.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/advocate-pulled-up-for-entering-hearing-without-authorisation/article32492193.ece
01 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala FM chairs meet of States on Centre’s GST dues||Opposition-ruled States will take a united stance to secure the eligible Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation from the Centre. A meeting chaired by Kerala Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Issac and attended by the Finance Ministers of Punjab, Delhi, Chattisgarh, West Bengal and Telangana on Monday also decided to reject the two options for Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation mooted by the Centre in the GST Council meeting on August 27. Dismissing Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s theory of an unforeseen “act of God”, the Finance Ministers’ meeting noted that the States are eligible for GST compensation, and a 14% increase annually in the GST from the base year has been assured. Dr. Issac said the meeting was of the unanimous view that the Centre should take loan and provide GST compensation to the States. “The compensation should be provided to the States through the Cess Fund. The GST council should decide on collection of the cess till the repayment of loan to be availed by the Centre.” The Chief Ministers of the six States will convey the stance on GST compensation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This will keep the issue alive outside the GST Council, Dr. Issac said. The Finance Ministers’ meeting, held through video conference, also decided to launch a campaign in the State to check the stance of the Centre on the payment of GST compensation. Dr. Issac said another meeting would be held within three-four days. Kerala was the first State to reject the two options and to press for the Centre availing loan to pay GST compensation to the States. Dr. Issac had said the proposals would lead to financial loss to the State. Moreover, the State could take only 3% of the its income as loan. The first option was a special window to the States, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, for borrowing Rs. 97,000 crore at a reasonable interest rate. The hsecond option was to borrow the entire Rs. 2.35 lakh crore shortfall under the special window. Addressing a press conference after the meeting, Telangana Finance Minister T. Harish Rao expressed unhappiness that the Centre was, with both options, trying to pay to the States a compensation of only Rs. 1.65 lakh crore, while the due to them towards compensation was Rs. 2.35 lakh crore and Rs. 65,000 crore from levy of cess. The GST Act was clear that the compensation was to be met in full if the growth rate of States was below the threshold level of 14%. In the name of “Act of God and coronavirus”, the Centre was denying them Rs. 1.35 lakh crore, Mr. Rao said. There was no scope for denial of compensation due to natural calamities or COVID-19 in the legislation. Mr. Rao warned the Centre that it had no option but to pay the compensation in full either on legal or moral grounds. He said that the Centre had “conveniently deposited the surplus in cess distribution to the Consolidated Fund of India in the last three years of GST implementation, but now asked the State governments to bear the loss”. ‘Double standards’ “Telangana government will not agree to the double standards at any cost,” he remarked. Telangana had suffered a revenue loss of 34%, amounting to Rs. 8,000 crore, in the last four months due to the pandemic. On the other hand, the State had contributed Rs. 18,032 to the national exchequer crore towards cess, but got back only Rs. 3,200 crore.    (With inputs from Hyderabad bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-fm-chairs-meet-of-states-on-centres-gst-dues/article32492089.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||For the crisis man, the end of a long walk||“I like long walks,” Pranab Mukherjee said in 2012 as Union Finance Minister, noting that the Rashtrapati Bhavan had huge lawns. That was a public alert to his own party, the Congress, that he had set his eyes on the prime real estate in the national capital. As the chief troubleshooter for the UPA-1 and the UPA-2 until then — at one point, he was heading more than 50 Groups of Ministers — he was the “other PM”. The real chair of power, the prime ministership, eluded him, though it had come tantalisingly close more than once. Having traversed the deceitful maze that New Delhi is since 1969, Mr. Mukherjee knew where power flowed from. He became the 13th President of India in 2012. And the long walks continued even after he left office in 2017, until August 9, when he walked 8 km — four in the morning, four in the evening. He also wrote his diary as he had done every day for decades. If his memoirs, a series of books, are anything to go by, they talk a lot without revealing much — a lot of secrets have perished with him. Unless his diaries have preserved them for posterity. His ability to keep secrets was one reason that endeared him to Indira Gandhi, who nominated him to the Rajya Sabha in 1969, when he was only 34. “Of all the things that goes into his head, only the smoke comes out,” she had told about Mr. Mukherjee, then a pipe smoker. He gave up smoking along the way but by then he had collected 500 pipes. Rajiv Gandhi cut him out of his inner circle in 1984 — somewhat similar to the manner in which Rahul Gandhi has now cut out advisers of his mother Sonia Gandhi. “Most things said about him weren’t true,” Rajiv said later about how he was wrongly advised on Mr. Mukherjee. A raconteur who could tell not only about British parliamentary precedents but also pick up random newspaper reports such as about competitive eater Rappai of Kerala who could clean off copious amounts of food, Mr. Mukherjee had everything at his fingertips. When he was not talking, he was reading — either files or books. Recounting precedents perhaps cost him the trust of Rajiv. When they were airborne from Kolkata to Delhi on October 31, 1984 after Indira Gandhi’s assassination, he told Rajiv that the most senior Minister was sworn in as the Prime Minister when Prime Ministers died in office twice earlier. Mr. Mukherjee said he never demanded the post for himself — an account corroborated by P.C. Alexander, a confidant of both Rajiv and Indira. He wrote that his conventional ways were one reason Rajiv did not develop a liking for him. Rajiv was for market economy and computers. Nuclear deal with U.S. Mr. Mukherjee was the Finance Minister in the early 1980s, and the grip over economic actors that he gained would remain handy for the rest of his life. He held three of the four big portfolios — Defence, Finance and External Affairs. He signed the nuclear agreement with the U.S. in 2008. As the key interlocutor of the UPA with its allies on the issue, he carried the Left along until the last milestone. After the Left withdrew support to the government, the Samajwadi Party came to its rescue. His knowledge and short temper intimidated all his interlocutors. He managed the two critical relationships, with Ms. Gandhi and Manmohan Singh, with sagacity and sensitivity. As Finance Minister, he signed the appointment of Dr. Singh as RBI Governor in 1982. But unlike Natwar Singh, who could never achieve a working relationship with the ‘accidental Prime Minister’ and burned his own career in the process, Mr. Mukherjee put on the act of being the constant number two until he seized the title of the First Citizen. But he completely messed up one relationship — with Cabinet colleague P. Chidambaram. By then he was a prisoner of his own advisers. A Bangla cultural aficionado, the former President was extremely popular in Bangladesh also. He maintained close personal ties with Sheikh Hasina. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee did not like him for his affinity to the State’s Left leaders and for other reasons, and she opposed his nomination as presidential candidate until the last moment. The Left supported him in the contest. Mr. Mukherjee’s ability and willingness to offer counsel to others extended to non-Congress leaders, including Narendra Modi when the latter was the Gujarat Chief Minister and after he became the Prime Minister too. Congress leaders have not been treated kindly by Mr. Modi but “Pranab da ” was an exception. Mr. Modi remained a regular visitor of Mr. Mukherjee; Ms. Gandhi too occasionally dropped in, the last time in January. Bharat Ratna In 2018, the Government of India announced the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of the country, for him. Around the same time, he addressed a gathering of the RSS in Nagpur, in a stunning reincarnation of a man who had never let his intense religiosity impede his secular vision. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had pleaded with him to address the organisation’s conclave as President, but Mr. Mukherjee waited until after he left the office. He made a speech to RSS volunteers on nationalism that had a Rashomon effect on listeners — it was an endorsement of Hindutva nationalism and a critique of it at once. One could take what one wants. His daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee, a Congress politician, had warned him: “The speech will be forgotten, visuals will remain and those will be circulated with fake statements.” His picture on the RSS stage, flanked by its leaders in uniform, will remain part of his legacy and the history of India’s evolution. He had walked far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-the-crisis-man-the-end-of-a-long-walk/article32492101.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||7 States account for 70% of COVID-19 cases||Seven States have contributed to 70% of the COVID-19 cases reported in 24 hours and of these, Maharashtra has recorded the highest case load of almost 21%, followed by Andhra Pradesh (13.5%), Karnataka (11.27%) and Tamil Nadu (8.27%). Uttar Pradesh with 8.27%, West Bengal with 3.85% and Odisha with 3.84% are the other States, said the Union Health Ministry on Monday. “Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka also account for about 50% of the deaths added in the last 24 hours due to COVID-19, with Maharashtra leading with 30.48%. The Union government is regularly engaging with States/UTs that are reporting a spurt in cases and those with higher fatality rate. They have been advised to undertake aggressive measures to ensure higher testing, effective clinical management to lower fatality and save lives,” said the release. It said 43% of the cumulative number of cases are recorded in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, while Tamil Nadu has contributed 11.66%. The Ministry has also decided to deploy high-level Central teams to Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha that have seen a sudden surge. The Central teams will support the States’ efforts in strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of the positive cases and guide them in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis. “Each of the multi-sectoral teams will comprise an epidemiologist and a public health expert,’’ said the Ministry. Of these four States, Uttar Pradesh has the maximum number of active cases, followed by Odisha (27,219), Chhattisgarh (13,520) and Jharkhand (11,577). The Ministry also said that from a single test in one lab in Pune in January 2020, the daily testing capacity has been scaled up to more than 10 lakhs in August. “The cumulative tests have crossed 4.23 crore on Monday; 8,46,278 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-states-account-for-70-of-covid-19-cases/article32492125.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Pranab Mukherjee’s association with Karnataka||Pranab Mukherjee, who served as the 13th President (2012-17), visited Karnataka several times and inaugurated several important projects and provided assent to a couple of important bills passed by the State legislature. During the BJP government headed by Jagadish Shettar, Mukherjee inaugurated the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, a building of the State legislature, in Belagavi on October 11, 2012. H.R. Bhardwaj was the Governor of the State then. Pranab Mukherjee flagged off the Green Line of Namma Metro phase in Bengaluru in the presence of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, then Union Minister and current Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and former Union Minister late Ananth Kumar on June 17, 2017. Mukherjee then said the country was lagging behind in the execution of urban infrastructure projects compared to Europe and the U.S. He inaugurated the centenary celebrations of University of Mysore on July 27, 2015. On the same day, he also inaugurated the centenary celebrations of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry at the Banquet Hall of the State Secretariat. Chief Minister Siddaramaian, Governor Vajubhai Vala and former Union Minister M. Veerappa Moily attended the programme. Mukherjee, who arrived on a two-day visit to the State, cut short his tour and returned to Delhi on July 27, 2015, following the death of former President APJ Abdul Kalam. Mukherjee was scheduled to attend the second convocation of Central University of Karnataka in Kalaburagi and a function at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences Bangalore on July 28, 2015. The former President was recipient of many awards, including Bharat Ratna. He was honored with D. Litt by Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belagavi, in 2012. He gave his assent to two important bills passed by the State, including granting 24% reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and a bill which allowed Kambala buffalo races,, a cultural tradition in coastal parts of the State. The Siddaramaiah government passed the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pranab-mukherjees-association-with-karnataka/article32492196.ece
01 September 2020||KADAPA,||Rare Renati Chola era inscription unearthed||A rare inscription dating back to the Renati Chola era has been unearthed in a remote village of Kadapa district that has kindled interest among the fraternity of archaeology and history. Found engraved on a dolomite slab and shale, which are part of a fragmentary pillar recently excavated from the fields of B. Sivanarayana Reddy, a farmer of Chinnadudyala village in Muddanur mandal, the inscription was first identified by Vasudeva Reddy, a student of M.A. History and Archaeology, Yogi Vemana University, who gave the details to his Assistant Professor Ramabrahmam Vellore. Going by the language and characters, the inscription was written in archaic Telugu, which was readable in 25 lines — the first side with 11 lines and the remaining on the other side. It was assigned to the 8th Century A.D., when the region was under the rule of the Chola Maharaja of Renadu. “The inscription seems to throw light on the record of a gift of six marttu s (a measuring unit) of land gifted to a person Sidyamayu, one of the Brahmins serving the temple at Pidukula village,” Dr. Ramabrahmam told The Hindu . He had, in fact, contacted the Director of Epigraphy, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Mysuru, for assistance in deciphering the content. The last lines are indicative of the priority given to morality in those days. “It says the people who safeguard this inscription for future generations will acquire the status of conducting Aswamedha Yaga, and those destroying it will incur sin equivalent to causing a death in Varanasi,” said Dr. Ramabrahmam. The inscription has been shifted from the spot to be preserved in the State Archaeological Museum at Mylavaram in Jammalamadugu mandal, in the vicinity of the famed Gandikota project. Pat for department Appreciating the department for the finding, YVU Vice-Chancellor Munagala Suryakalavathi sought proposals for a University Grants Commission project for further research in this region .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rare-renati-chola-era-inscription-unearthed/article32492081.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ban on international flights extended till September 30||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday extended the ban on scheduled international flights by another month until September 30. The order though will not apply to cargo operations as well as specific chartered and scheduled flights approved by the DGCA on selected routes, according to the aviation safety regulator’s circular. International flight operations have been suspended for more than five months. The ban was imposed in India from March 22. However, Air India’s repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat Mission have been on since May, and the government has also entered into bilateral agreements with at least eight countries — the U.S., the U.K., Canada, France, Germany, the U.A.E., Qatar, Maldives — for a small number of scheduled commercial flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-international-flights-extended-till-september-30/article32492133.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Merit-based immigration system in the works: Pence||With just over two months to go for the elections, U.S. Vice-President Mike Pence told potential Indian immigrants that there would be a merit-based immigration system if there is a second term for the Trump administration. “… I would just say to anyone looking on and people coming and taking opportunities at our great colleges and universities, is that we want to grow together and they should have no doubt about that. We’ve had challenges with our immigration system in the United States, particularly along our southern border. President Trump has been working to secure our border. We’ve made historic investments in border security. We’ll continue to do that,” Mr. Pence told John Chambers, Chairman of the U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), at the Forum’s leadership summit. “But we’re also going to fix our broken immigration system once and for all. And as the President and I have spoken many times, part of that second term agenda is going to be, it’s going to be the kind of immigration reform that’s built on the principle of a merit-based immigration system. We want …it’s what India wants is … we want the people to come to this country that are ready to participate, ready to contribute as people from India have done, as people in the United States have done in India,” he said. The Trump administration has temporarily suspended new green cards for those outside the U.S. as well as H1-B visas (temporary skilled worker visas), most of which go to Indians each year. Mr. Pence said that President Trump wanted to deal with China and other countries from a position of strength and that American strength first came from its economic and military strength but also from the strength of its relationships. In this context the U.S.-India relationship — which as per Mr. Pence had got stronger under Prime Minister Modi and President Trump — “will strengthen the hand of those of us that want to see a future of freedom in the Indo Pacific.” The Vice-President’s comments were made hours after the Indian Army said the Chinese troops had tried to change the status quo in Eastern Ladakh. ‘Future of freedom’ “As we stand together more closely for security in our economies, we believe that that will only strengthen the case for a future of freedom,” Mr. Pence said. He said the U.S. wanted a good relationship with every country including China. He also said the India-U.S. relationship was important in its own right (i..e, not just in the context of China). “We’re going to continue to stand firm with our allies in the region like India and we’re going to continue to stand strong for America’s values, America’s strategic interests or American jobs and American workers in that relationship. And all we do, uh, with India and strengthening all the ties with India only strengthens that case,” Mr. Pence said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/merit-based-immigration-system-in-the-works-pence/article32492137.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Take petitions on inter-State water dispute to SC’||Telangana High Court on Monday adjourned to today (Tuesday) two writ petitions challenging Andhra Pradesh government’s action to go ahead with Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation scheme without securing permissions from the departments concerned. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the petitioners to approach the Supreme Court since the matter pertained to inter-State water dispute. “How can this High Court deal with the issue here...this matters needs to be adjudicated by the honourable Supreme Court,” the bench observed. The bench explained about some petitions relating to water disputes between different States which were resolved by the apex court. The Rajasthan HC had suggested that a water dispute between Punjab and Rajsthan States be referred to the Supreme Court, the bench said. The counsels for the petitioners contended that under Article 226 (2) if actions of other States affect a particular State, the HC of the latter can intervene and pass orders. They said that they were seeking enforcement of the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act. The bench said people can directly approach the Supreme Court under Article 32 if there was any violation of fundamental rights. The matter would be heard again today. The counsels sought time till Tuesday to secure opinions of the petitioners on the point of approaching Supreme Court. The matter would be heard today again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-petitions-on-inter-state-water-dispute-to-sc/article32492400.ece
01 September 2020||Bhopal,||Rice stocks withheld by M.P. due to ‘substandard’ samples||The Madhya Pradesh government is inspecting rice stocked across its depots after the Centre requested it to withhold them until further investigation and re-categorisation after it found samples from two districts “unfit for human consumption” and recommended action against those responsible. The State Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection was now inspecting stocks State-wide along with teams of Food Corporation of India, the department’s Principal Secretary Faiz Ahmed Kidwai told The Hindu . Report soon “Nearly 75% of the stocks had been inspected and we will get a report within a day or two. The inspection is being undertaken across all depots and stocks have been withheld,” he said, at a time when thousands are increasingly dependent on fair price shops for nutrition in view of the lockdown-induced joblessness. When asked if the government had acted against officials responsible in Balaghat and Mandla districts, where 32 samples were found to be substandard, Mr. Kidwai said it would be decided after the report came in. “It has been six-seven days since the stocks were withheld,” said Tarun Kumar Pithode, the Department Director. “It is being inspected whether storing the paddy in the open caused the situation, the miller supplied substandard stocks, and so on.” Deputy Commissioner (Storage and Research Division), Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Vishwajeet Haldar, on August 21 had written to Mr. Kidwai pointing out the analysis reports of all the 32 samples were found to be not just beyond the below rejection limit as per the uniform specifications issued by the Ministry but also beyond the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act (PFA), 1954, standards as per the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. He sought an action taken report at the earliest. “The stocks are found to be unfit for human consumption and in the categories of Feed-1 which is meant to be suitable for livestock feed (such as goat, horse, sheep); Feed-II which is suitable for cattle feed and Feed-III, which is suitable for poultry feed as per the guidelines for the issuance/disposal of the stocks,” Mr. Haldar noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rice-stocks-withheld-by-mp-due-to-substandard-samples/article32492337.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘A father figure and mentor’||An outpouring of mourning from across the aisle at the passing of a political leader is a testament to statesman-like qualities, but with former President Pranab Mukherjee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s very personal expressions of grief pointed to a special relationship that the two had forged over the years. A relationship that was encapsulated in Prime Minister Modi’s letter at the time when President Mukherjee demitted office. Mr. Modi wrote: “... three years ago, I came to New Delhi as an outsider. The task before me was huge and challenging. In these times you have always been a father figure and a mentor to me. Your wisdom, guidance and personal warmth have given me greater confidence and strength.” Mr. Mukherjee had later commented that the letter had “touched his heart”. This letter was just one of the several that Mr. Modi had written about Mr. Mukherjee’s role as a “mentor and guide” to him. Aides who wish to remain anonymous said that even after Mr. Mukherjee retired from office, Mr. Modi would call on him periodically; sometimes the two would meet without anyone present. Mr. Mukherjee, never one to mince words when push came to shove, was not always amenable to everything that the government did but his views never led to friction between the Prime Minister and the Rashtrapati Bhavan, as had sometimes happened in the past. Whether it was the railroading of legislation via the ordinance route in 2015 with 10 ordinances being cleared or his calls for the “preservation of space for legitimate criticism and dissent” in several of his addresses as President, Mr. Mukherjee made sure his voice was heard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-father-figure-and-mentor/article32492106.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nation mourns ‘scholar par excellence and statesman’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has compared Mr. Mukherjee to a father figure in his life as he moved to Delhi from Gujarat as Prime Minister, said India grieved Mr. Mukherjee’s passing. “India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society,” Mr Modi said. President Kovind said, “In his five-decade-long illustrious public life, he remained rooted to the ground irrespective of the exalted office he held. He endeared himself to people across political spectrum. As the First Citizen, he continued to connect with everyone, bringing Rashtrapati Bhavan closer to the people. He opened its gates for public visits. His decision to discontinue the honorific ‘His Excellency’ was historic,” said President Kovind. Mr. Mukherjee’s son and former Lok Sabha MP, Abhijit Mukherjee, announced his father’s death on Twitter stating that despite the best efforts of doctors and prayers of ordinary Indians throughout the country, this had come to pass. The hospital said in a medical bulletin in the morning that Mr. Mukherjee had gone into septic shock due to the lung infection. Mr. Mukherjee, born in 1935 in Mirati in West Bengal, first became an MP in the Rajya Sabha in 1969 on a Congress nomination. Close to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, Mr. Mukherjee held many ministerial positions, including Defence, Finance, and External Affairs before he was elected President in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nation-mourns-scholar-par-excellence-and-statesman/article32492111.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Justice Mishra refers to 2018 press meet held by SC judges||The Supreme Court on Monday re-kindled the ghosts of past, invoking the memory of an unprecedented press conference held jointly by four its senior most judges in January 2018 to complain of practices in the court which, according to them, threatened judicial independence and the future of democracy. “We hope it was the first and the last occasion that judges have gone to the Press,” a three-judge Bench, led Justice Arun Mishra, observed in its judgment punishing civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for contempt. Mr. Bhushan had referred to the January 12, 2018, presser held by Justices J. Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B. Lokur and Kurian Joseph (all of whom have since retired). Justice Gogoi, who was judge number three at the time, went on to become the Chief Justice of India when the incumbent, Justice Dipak Misra, demitted office. The judges had indicated then that the allocation of the Judge Loya death case to a Bench led by Justice Mishra was the immediate trigger for the press meet. The Justice Mishra Bench later recused itself from the case. The ripples of the “extraordinary” press conference had lasted for months. The judgment on Monday, authored by Justice Mishra, pointed to an internal mechanism to deal with grievances against judges. This mechanism is intended to protect the dignity of “sufferer judges”. Judges cannot take to the public forum to answer allegations made against them. This handicap, imposed by their code of conduct, however, causes them “suffering till eternity”, the judgment said. “Truth can be the defence to the judges also, but they are bound by their judicial norms, ethics and code of conduct,” the judgment said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-mishra-refers-to-2018-press-meet-held-by-sc-judges/article32492113.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Estimates not surprising as govt. did nothing to stop slide’||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Monday said the provisional estimates for the first quarter of April to June didn’t come as a surprise as the Narendra Modi government “did nothing” to stop the slide. Most parts of the first quarter had seen a freeze in economic activity under the lockdown beginning March 25 because of the pandemic. “The GDP reduces by 24%. The worst in independent India’s history. Unfortunately, the govt. ignored the warnings,” former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said in a separate tweet and tagged his own video of March 17 in which he predicted “an economic tsunami and large-scale devastation”. “The estimates do not come as a surprise to us. They should be a matter of surprise to the government that was seeing ‘green shoots’ on several days during the first quarter. They should also be a matter of shame to the government that did nothing — literally nothing — to cushion the fall by taking suitable fiscal and welfare measures. But we know that the Modi government has no shame and will not acknowledge its mistakes,” Mr. Chidambaram said at a virtual press conference. He started the press conference by observing a minute’s silence in the memory of former President Pranab Mukherjee and recalled his contribution to the nation. Asserting that the Congress had asked the government to take pre-emptive measures, he said: “Our pleas fell on deaf ears. The country, as a whole, is paying a heavy price... It is only the Modi government that is nonchalant and uncaring. The government peddled a fake narrative but that narrative has been exploded today by the CSO estimates. The only sector that has grown is agriculture, forestry and fishing at 3.4%. The Finance Minister who blamed an ‘Act of God’ for the economic decline should be grateful to the farmers and the gods who blessed the farmers”. He said the GDP contraction by a whopping 23.9% means “about one quarter of the gross domestic output as on June 30, 2019 has been wiped out in the last 12 months”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/estimates-not-surprising-as-govt-did-nothing-to-stop-slide/article32492117.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India, China must reach equilibrium’||India and China need to reach an understanding, given both their growth stories, said External Affairs S. Jaishankar, speaking to an American think tank on Monday. He called for a “modus vivendi” (agreement to coexist) between the two Asian powers. In comments made hours after the Army announced another “provocative” attempt by Chinese troops to change the status quo at the Line of Actual Control, Mr. Jaishankar, who made no reference to the ongoing tensions between the two countries, said India remains “cognisant” of China’s rise. “If you have two countries, two societies, a billion people each, it is very important they reach some kind of an understanding or equilibrium between them. This is a practical world. If a country is going to get more powerful, you will see its influence in areas and geographies we have not seen before. We are going to see activities and capabilities we have not seen before. We see that from China and in some areas, they will see it from us,” said the External Affairs Minister, speaking to former U.S. Ambassador to India Timothy Roemer at the U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum’s (USISPF) annual leadership summit . “I say in my book, this modus vivendi is extremely consequential for both countries and the rest of the world,” he added, referring to his book, The India Way , due to be released this Saturday. When asked if India’s “challenge from China’s aggressive behaviour” would result in more strategic closeness with the U.S., as well as the signing of more defence agreements, foundational agreements between the militaries and more engagement with the Quadrilateral (Quad) when Indian and U.S. Defence and Foreign Ministers meet for the “2+2” dialogue in October this year, Mr. Jaishankar said bilateral ties were not related to any “one country”. “We see [India-U.S. ties] not tailored to one situation or focused on one country. This is not a short-term issue. This is about India and the U.S. coming together, saying we think alike in so many ways and our interests are so similar in so many domains, and asking what can we do to secure the world and make it a better place,” he told Mr. Roemer. Mr. Jaishankar said India-U.S. defence ties could be increased if U.S. businesses choose to invest in Indian manufacturing where the government has announced an import ban on 101 items including weapons, platforms, and equipment. Pointing to more flexible investment rules, he said the Indian defence market constituted a “great opportunity. He also told USISPF members that India and the U.S. now enjoy a level of political trust that didn’t exist “in the past”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-must-reach-equilibrium/article32492119.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP flays Cong. over donations to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday launched a sharp attack on the Opposition Congress, stating that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation had received funds from dubious sources, including absconding businessman Mehul Choksi, controversial preacher Zakir Naik, Financial Technologies (India) Limited’s Jignesh Shah, and Yes Bank’s Rana Kapoor, who is currently in the dock. At a press conference in New Delhi, party spokesperson Sambit Patra said that the RGF had received amounts varying between Rs. 10 lakh (from two companies associated with Mr. Choksi) to Rs. 9 lakh (from Yes Bank and Kapoor), and around Rs. 50 lakh from Mr. Naik from an account that was under the scanner under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Mr. Shah’s company, which is connected to the National Spot Exchange Limited scam, also donated Rs. 50 lakh. “The donations to the RGF were no coincidence, but a conspiracy. The first revelation is Mehul Choksi, who had donated to the RGF and is involved in the Punjab National Bank scam,” said Mr. Patra. Mr. Patra said Mr. Choksi’s donations came from two companies — Navtan Estates, a paper manufacturing company that had done no business between 2012-13 and 2013-14 but received Rs. 47.28 crore, and a second chunk of over Rs. 24 lakh from Geetanjali Gems. A sum of Rs. 10 lakh from Navtan Estates was donated to RGF in 2013-14. The government has set up an inter-ministerial group to go into the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-flays-cong-over-donations-to-rajiv-gandhi-foundation/article32492140.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Congress demands criminal probe against Facebook India||The Congress on Monday demanded a criminal investigation into the affairs of Facebook India and reiterated its demand to set up a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to probe allegations against the social media company on interfering with India’s electoral process. The party reacted to a fresh expose by the Wall Street Journal in which Facebook (FB) India’s public policy head, Ankhi Das, has been mentioned as being biased towards the ruling BJP. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury; Praveen Chakravarty, chairman of Congress Data Analytics team and Rohan Gupta, the party’s social media head, said FB India’s “interference is an assault on India’s electoral democracy”. “The Indian National Congress demands a joint parliamentary committee investigation immediately. A criminal investigation into the affairs of Facebook India and the people named. All pending approvals and licenses for Facebook and WhatsApp to be put on hold until the investigations are completed. Suspension of Facebook India’s leadership team with immediate effect until the conclusion of the investigations,” Mr. Chowdhury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-demands-criminal-probe-against-facebook-india/article32492142.ece
01 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Twin murders trigger CPI(M)-Cong. standoff||The murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) workers in Venjaramoodu on Onam eve has triggered a violent stand-off between the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the district. A gang waylaid Mithilaj, 30, a member of the DYFI in Thevalakadu, and Muhammad Haq, 24, CPI(M) branch member, Kallinmukhan unit, at Thembanpadu late on Sunday and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons as they were returning home on a motorbike. A senior police officer said political vendetta is suspected be the motive. However, there could also be personal reasons, he said. The State police have detained six persons in connection with the murders. But law enforcers have not revealed their identity or political allegiance. The CPI(M) has accused the Congress leadership of having orchestrated the mafia-style hit-and-run street murders. Police have been deployed in strength in the area to prevent tit-for-tat violence. They have also stepped up patrolling in Kannur, Thrissur and Kozhikode districts, which had witnessed political violence in the past. The incident provoked CPI(M) workers to march to the office of the Public Service Commission, where two Congress legislators, Shafi Parambil and K. S. Sabarinathan, were on a sit-in dharna to spotlight the Government’s “apathy” towards jobless youth. The police broke up the ensuing scuffle and arrested and removed opposing party workers, including the MLAs, from the spot. Police also prevented a belligerent DYFI march to the official residence of the Leader of the Opposition, Ramesh Chennithala, at the Cantonment House here. Special probe team Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned the twin murders and announced a special team to probe the case. He said the police would bring to light the plotters and the assassins. He posted pictures of the DYFI men on his Facebook account. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan slammed the Congress, accusing the party of ushering in Onam by spilling the blood of CPI(M) workers. The party will observe September 2 as “black day.”  Cong. condemns killings Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullapally Ramachandran and Mr. Chennithala condemned the killings. They said Congress did not endorse politics of murder. CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan and Minister for Tourism and Cooperation, Kadakampally Surendran, visited Venjaramoodu and paid their respects to the DYFI men. They accused senior Congress leaders of having a conspiratorial role in the murders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twin-murders-trigger-cpim-cong-standoff/article32492091.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Get tested for your own good: Naidu||Parliamentarians, their family members and their personal staff should get tested for COVID-19 in their own interest and to avoid any risk of possible infection for others, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu said at a review meeting ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. Mr. Naidu held a meeting with the Secretaries of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “All employees and staff of the Secretariat, including security personnel and mediapersons covering the proceedings of the House, should also get tested. This applies to the personal staff of the Ministers as well,” he said. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, according to a statement from the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, suggested that the MPs should get tested within 72 hours of the commencement of the session and those coming from different parts of the country should wait for the results before undertaking travel. Those testing positive on arrival in Delhi should quarantine themselves and those testing positive during the session should not attend the House. All members are to use masks at all times on the Parliament premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/get-tested-for-your-own-good-naidu/article32492126.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Indrajit Lankesh gives evidence in drug case||Film-maker Indrajit Lankesh, who appeared before the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Monday, was questioned by the officials of the Anti-Narcotics Wing for over five hours before recording his statement. Sources said Mr. Lankesh handed over details such as video clip, photographs and other material to corroborate his claims about the involvement of many film industry members in the drug racket. The police have videorecorded his statement and also taken a written statement. Later, Mr. Lankesh told the media that he stands by his earlier statements. “Though many people have vented their ire on me for speaking about the drug menace in the industry, I have not sought police protection,” he said, adding that instead, he had requested them to probe in detail. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said: “We will inquire into it and take appropriate legal action. We appreciate that he came forward to give us information. We request others also to share any information and support us in our fight against drugs.” Meanwhile, NCB officials intensified investigations to track down the peddlers who were in touch with the three accused who were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indrajit-lankesh-gives-evidence-in-drug-case/article32492087.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||2G case: CBI, ED move HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate moved the Delhi High Court on Monday seeking early hearing on their appeals challenging the acquittal of former Union Telecom Minister A. Raja and others in the 2G spectrum allocation cases. They have sought early hearing of the appeals which are listed for October 12. The pleas came up before Justice Brijesh Sethi who asked the agencies to serve all the respondents with a copy of their applications. The court listed the early hearing applications for September 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2g-case-cbi-ed-move-hc/article32492098.ece
01 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Resume physical courts or face stir, says Bar Council of N-E States||The Bar Council of Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim has asked the Gauhati High Court and its five-member panel to resume physical courts at all levels from September 1 or face a stir. The Bar Council resented the “unilateral” decision for extending the existing system of virtual courts till September 5. The Gauhati HC had on August 11 constituted this committee comprising five judges for examining the feasibility of resumption of physical courts after the district Bar Associations underscored the fiscal hardships faced by the legal fraternity. The committee was formed “for taking decisions for opening the courts or imposing restrictions on court functioning of the Gauhati High Court as well as the outlying Benches and subordinate courts of Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh.” It held a meeting with the Bar Council and other stakeholders on August 17. “After suggestions from different stakeholders for resumption of physical courts at the earliest, the committee said it would communicate its decision by August 22. As instructed by this panel, the Bar Council had on August 21 submitted some modalities for reopening the courts,” said Hafiz Rashid Ahmed Choudhury, chairman of the Bar Council of five Northeastern States. “But without communicating its decision to the stakeholders, the committee unilaterally issued a notification on August 21 and extended the virtual court system till September 5,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resume-physical-courts-or-face-stir-says-bar-council-of-n-e-states/article32492336.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||JEE (Main) from today||Amid rising COVID-19 cases in the State, as many as 43,894 candidates are expected to write the JEE (Main) exam - a gateway exam for admission to the Indian Institute of Technologies (IITs) - in the State from Tuesday. The exam will end on September 6. The Computer-Based Test (CBT) will be conducted at 33 exam centres in 13 towns and cities including Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi, Bidar among other cities here. Overall, 8.58 lakh students are expected to attempt JEE (Main) in 660 cities across the country. Speaking to The Hindu, an office-bearer for JEE (Main) exam said that the National Testing Agency (NTA) had ensured that more than 99% candidates were assigned the cities of their first choice for centres. “NTA has also increased the number of centres to ensure social distancing is followed. JEE (Main) candidates will be seated in alternate seats in order to ensure proper social distancing is maintained inside,” the representative said. The official also said that outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates will be staggered so that there is no rush. “Entry to exam centres will begin from 7 a.m. and the exam will begin at 10 a.m. This time we have done away with the thumb impression and have bar codes on the admission card,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jee-main-from-today/article32492191.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||PLA aggression blocked at Pangong Tso||A defence source said movement by PLA troops was noticed in the Chushul sector and Indian Army repositioned its troops as a precaution to foil any misadventure. “We occupied locations which were on our side and in that process pre-empted the Chinese,” the source added. There was no physical clash, a second defence source said. There is already massive build up of troops in the area by both sides. It is learnt that few hundred PLA troops climbed on top of two mountains near Chushul and had retreated later. It looks clear that PLA action is now moving to South Bank as North bank of Pangong has been secured, a source with knowledge of the matter said, adding it could also be a diversion from Depsang Plains where construction by PLA is on in full swing and their excavators continue to build roads. The spokesperson of the PLA Western Theatre Command, Colonel Zhang Shuili said the moves by Indian Army had “undermined the consensus reached” at the diplomatic and military talks. “This move by the Indian side seriously violated China’s territorial sovereignty and severely undermined the peace and stability of the Sino-Indian border area,” a statement said. It also said China was “strongly opposed” to it and “solemnly requests the Indian side to immediately withdraw its illegally crossing troops strictly control and restrain the front-line troops, earnestly abide by its commitments, and avoid further escalation of the situation.”  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said, “Chinese border troops always strictly abide by the LAC. They never cross the line. Border troops on the two sides have been in close communication regarding the issues on the ground.” The standoff in Ladakh has been ongoing since early May and several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have failed to end the impasse. China has undertaken massive mobilisation along the LAC and PLA troops have built structures inside Indian territory at several locations. Accident near Karu Capt. Dikshant Thapa passed away on August 30 in an accident near Karu after an infantry vehicle toppled from a trailer on to him, an Army source said. While loading a BMP, the civil truck rammed the trailer due to which it toppled and the officer died on the spot, the source said adding that this was unrelated to the action in the South Bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pla-aggression-blocked-at-pangong-tso/article32492092.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||SC imposes Rs. 1 fine on Bhushan for contempt||He showed no remorse for causing harm to an institution which he belongs to, the order said. “Lawyers are supposed to be fearlessly independent and robust but at the same time respectful to the institution,” Justice Mishra, who authored the 82-page sentencing verdict, observed. Mr. Bhushan was convicted on August 14 in a suo motu contempt action for his tweet of a picture of the Chief Justice of India astride a high-end bike while the court was in “lockdown” and another about the functioning of the court in the past six years. He followed this up by filing an over 100-page reply in his defence, criticising the court of “surrendering to a majoritarian executive acting in tyranny”. When asked to apologise, he issued two statements, in one of which he said he neither asked for the magnanimity or mercy of the court but would “cheerfully” submit to any punishment. He had refused the advice of Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal to express regret and take this reply off the record. “When the senior-most functionary in the legal profession of the stature of Attorney General was giving an advice to express regret and withdraw the wild allegations, a lawyer of such a long standing was expected to give due respect to it. Even our request made to him has gone in vain. Thus, we feel that the simple issuance of warning is not going to suffice in the instant case,” Justice Mishra said. The court ordered him to pay the fine by September 15, failing which he would, by default, undergo a simple imprisonment of three months and a ban from practising in the apex court for three years. The court said it was up to the apex lawyers’ body, Bar Council of India, to “suspend the enrolment” of a lawyer convicted of contempt, that is, “if it so desires”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-imposes-rs-1-fine-on-bhushan-for-contempt/article32492093.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||GDP falls 23.9% in first quarter||Manufacturing shrank more than 39%, while mining and quarrying dropped 23%. On the expenditure side, private consumption fell 26.7%, while investments, as reflected by gross fixed capital formation plunged 47%, and exports contracted almost 20%. Government final consumption expenditure grew 16.4%. “The major burden on the economy is the contraction you are seeing in private final consumption, which has a weight of almost 60% in the GDP. If 60% of demand is growing negatively, the task is formidable, because unless this is turned around, nothing will happen,” said Dr. Srivastava, adding that the real situation may be somewhat worse as three-fourths of the economy is in the informal sector, which is largely not captured in GDP data. “The investment outlook is very bleak and may fall further. Consumption indicators are improving sequentially, but continue not on a year on year basis,” said D.K. Pant, chief economist at India Ratings, an arm of the Fitch group, adding that all four quarters of the year will remain in negative territory. “The government has so far focussed on supply side only, but unless they are willing to spend to spur demand side, the next year will also be dire.” Fellow economist Pronab Sen agreed that the government needed to step up its own expenditure. “Expecting people to draw down their savings indefinitely won’t be enough as much of the poor and middle class may have already wiped out their savings. The government can borrow from the market or the RBI (Reserve Bank of India) and I don’t understand their reluctance to do so. Is the government willing to let the economy go down the tube because they want to shore up their fiscal deficit numbers?” he asked. He expects a 10%-12% contraction in annual GDP, although he felt that the last quarter of the year may show some modest growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gdp-falls-239-in-first-quarter/article32492094.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will pay Rs. 1 fine, but reserve the right to seek review: Bhushan||Civil rights lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan on Monday said he would “respectfully pay the fine” of Rs. 1 imposed on him by the Supreme Court for committing criminal contempt, but would “reserve the right to seek review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy”. Addressing a press conference after the sentencing, Mr. Bhushan said he had already said in his statement to the court that he was there to “cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen”. “Therefore, while I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment,” he said at the press conference organised by Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reform and Swaraj Abhiyan. Mr. Bhushan said he had always had the greatest respect for the Supreme Court, which he said was the last bastion of hope. He added that his tweets were not meant to disrespect the court or the judiciary, but were intended to express his anguish “at what I felt was a deviation from its sterling record”. “The issue was never about me versus the Supreme Court, much less me versus any honorable judges. When the Supreme Court of India wins, every Indian wins. Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and it harms every Indian,” he said. He said the case had become a watershed moment for freedom of speech. He thanked those who spoke in support of him as well as his legal team, senior advocates Rajeev Dhawan and Dushyant Dave in particular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-pay-rs-1-fine-but-reserve-the-right-to-seek-review-bhushan/article32492102.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||World leaders pay glowing tributes||Bangladesh will always remember the contribution of Pranab Mukherjee to the Liberation War of 1971, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said in a message on Monday. She was joined by the President of Nepal, K.P. Sharma Oli, and the President of the Maldives, Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, among others who remembered the former President of India for his contribution in strengthening India’s diplomatic ties. “During my years in exile spent in India during the aftermath of the assassination of Father of the Nation Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Pranab Mukherjee always helped us. He looked after me and my younger sister Rehana in those difficult days and stood by us. He continued to encourage me and assisted me after I returned to Bangladesh,” said Ms. Hasina. “He was our guardian and a family friend,” Ms. Hasina added. The leadership of Nepal also paid rich tributes to Mr. Mukherjee, with Prime Minister Oli remembering his contributions to “strengthening Nepal-India relations in different capacities of his public life”. “In his demise, Nepal has lost a great friend,” Mr. Oli said. Ambassador of China Sun Weidong expressed condolences and said, “He has made contributions to the development of China-India relations which we will always cherish.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/world-leaders-pay-glowing-tributes/article32492104.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||FB removed accounts of supporters: Trinamool||The Trinamool Congress alleged on Monday that Facebook and Whatsapp removed accounts of its supporters in the run-up to a pre-announced event to mark the Foundation Day of the party on August 28. Its Parliamentary party leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, said in a letter to Facebook that he had raised the matter after the general elections in July last year during the motion of thanks to the President’s address in the Upper House, pointing out the collusion between those working in Facebook India and the BJP. “The NDA also had a hidden partner, non-disclosed allies. Facebook’s senior management in India are de facto campaign managers for the BJP, Facebook’s Delhi office is virtually its extended IT cell. Facebook censored anti-BJP content,” Mr. O’ Brien had said in his speech at that time. ‘Party vindicated’ In his letter to Facebook, he said he had hoped that Facebook would take remedial action after his speech. After the recent articles in The Wall Street Journal and Time magazine highlighting the link between the BJP and Facebook, the Trinamool, he said, stands vindicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fb-removed-accounts-of-supporters-trinamool/article32492135.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No MCI quota for in-service candidates’||A five-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court on Monday held that the Medical Council of India (MCI) cannot devise a quota for in-service candidates in postgraduate medical degree or diploma courses in any State. The Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra said MCI is a creation of a statute under Entry 66 of List 1 of the Constitution. The council’s role is to coordinate and determine the standards of medical education. However, separate but concurring judgments authored by Justices M.R. Shah and Aniruddha Bose said States can devise a separate channel of entry for in-service doctors. “State has the legislative competence and authority to provide for a separate source of entry for in-service candidates seeking admission to postgraduate degree/diploma courses in exercise of powers under Entry 25, List III,” Justice Shah wrote. Candidates should serve at least for five years in rural, hilly regions after obtaining their PG degrees through this channel .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-mci-quota-for-in-service-candidates/article32492134.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||State mourning for 7 days||The Centre on Monday announced a seven-day state mourning on the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee. “As a mark of respect to the departed dignitary, seven days’ state mourning will be observed throughout India from August 31 to September 6,” a statement by the Union Home Ministry said. “During the period, the national flag will fly at half mast and there will be no official entertainment. The date, time and venue of the state funeral will be intimated later,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-mourning-for-7-days/article32492110.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Leaders mourn Pranab||Several prominent personalities condoled the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee. Governor Vajubhai Vala in a message said: “He was a seasoned politician and parliamentarian. Nation is indebted to him for his economic and strategic contributions. A towering personality and great statesman.” “In a political career spanning five decades, he held several key positions such as Defence Minister, Finance Minister, External Affairs Minister, and Deputy Chairman of Planning Commission. He was a visionary and was aptly known as one of the best parliamentarians and statesmen of India. He will be remembered for his contribution to the development of the country,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said in his message. Several Karnataka Ministers have also mourned the death of the former President. Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda said: “We had a long association spanning over decades. I had always admired the way he combined his sharp intellect with hard work. May his soul rest in peace.” Former External Affairs Minister S. M. Krishna said: “He was a great visionary, an efficient administrator, and a guiding force.” “Deeply saddened by the demise of the former President and senior Congress leader Pranab Mukherjee. His contribution to our country shall always be remembered,” tweeted Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leaders-mourn-pranab/article32492194.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Pravritti and Nivritti||Scriptures define two fundamental spiritual paths, the Pravritti marga or the way of the world for householders, and the path of renunciation and devotion for realised souls. Both paths are meant to lead to the final goal of salvation. This concept is symbolically conveyed in the Bhagavata Purana when the process of creation is described in detail, pointed out Sri Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. The first stage of creation is known as primary creation when the Divine Will stirs Prakriti into action and the fundamental categories become manifest in conjunction with the forces of Time, Kala, Karma and Swabhava, Nature. Then Brahma is ordained by the Supreme Lord to continue the rest of creation. Brahma first creates the five modifications of evil. These are Tamas, not being aware of one’s own nature, Moha, association with the sense of I and Mine, Maha-moha, desire for enjoyment, Tamisra, anger when enjoyment is thwarted, Andhatamisra, total loss of oneself in worldly enjoyments. Brahma feels dissatisfied at having brought forth these sinful creations. Then he creates the group of four sages known as the Kumaras, and commands them to multiply the species. These mind-born sons of Brahma, the sages Sanaka, Sananda, Sanatana and Sanatkumara are realised souls at birth and hence are not able to obey Brahma’s orders to beget progeny. Being naturally inclined towards renunciation, they take to ascetic life or the path of Nivritti. Then Brahma creates sages such as Marichi, Atri, Angiras, Vasishta, and others who exemplify the Pravritti marga, that is, they act in accordance with Brahma’s wishes to propagate the human race. They show the importance of the four Purusharthas, dharma, artha, kama and moksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pravritti-and-nivritti/article32492129.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was on Monday discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi. The Minister was admitted there on August 18 for post-COVID care. Earlier on Saturday, AIIMS said the Union Minister had recovered and was likely to be discharged soon. “Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, is admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post-COVID care. He has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time,” the AIIMS said in a statement. On August 2, Mr. Shah, 55, announced on Twitter that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and was under medical care at Medanta Hospital. He was discharged after he tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-discharged-from-aiims/article32492114.ece
01 September 2020||Srinagar,||Traffic from Kashmir to Leh halted||Civilian traffic from Kashmir valley towards the Union Territory (UT) of Ladakh’s Leh was restricted on Monday, in the wake of fresh military confrontation between India and China in the region. Several Leh-bound vehicles, including trucks carrying essentials, were stopped on Monday morning at Manigam and Sumbal areas in Ganberal district, both access routes to Sonamarg which connects the Kashmir valley with Ladakh, according to the drivers.  A Ganderbal district officer told The Hindu that the road was also closed due to the inclement weather. However, sources said Army convoys were allowed to head for Leh, which is fast emerging as a flashpoint between the two countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/traffic-from-kashmir-to-leh-halted/article32492115.ece
01 September 2020||Srinagar,||7 injured in grenade attack in Baramulla||Seven civilians were injured as suspected militants launched two grenade attacks in two separate locations in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday. A police spokesperson said militants lobbed a grenade around 1.15 p.m at an Army convoy near the Azad Gunj bridge area of Baramulla. “The grenade exploded on the road and resulted in injuries to seven civilians,” the police said. All the injured were shifted to a hospital. In a separate incident, suspected militants attacked a police post with a grenade in Baramulla’s Sopore. An official said another grenade attack took place near a bus stand in Sopore town. “It seems the grenade was fired from a grenade launcher,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-baramulla/article32492122.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||BJP attacking the informal sector: Rahul||The Narendra Modi government had launched a planned attack on India’s informal economy, and the nationwide lockdown during the COVID-19 pandemic was an example, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Monday in his latest video series. The BJP’s attack on the informal sector was a conspiracy to turn people engaged in this sector into slaves, Mr. Gandhi said. He said Prime Minister Modi wanted to take out the money in the informal sector and cited demonetisation and the flawed Goods and Services Tax (GST) as other examples of the assault on the informal sector. “The economy is facing a recession. But asatyagrahi [believers of untruth] are blaming it on God,” Mr. Gandhi said in a tweet, alluding to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s “Act of God” reference during a GST council meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-attacking-the-informal-sector-rahul/article32492123.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||SC dismisses Vijay Mallya’s review plea||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a review petition filed by fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya against a 2017 verdict of contempt. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit, in a short order, found no merit in Mr. Mallya’s three-year-old review plea against his conviction. The court on May 9, 2017, found Mr. Mallya guilty of contempt for wilful disobedience of its order to come clean on his assets and not disclosing a sum of $40 million he received from British liquor major Diageo Plc following his resignation as Chairman of United Spirits Limited in February 2016. In his original arguments before the court in 2017, Mr. Mallya had said that the $40 million was one among “thousands of transactions” he did and could not be counted as an asset.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-dismisses-vijay-mallyas-review-plea/article32492138.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Water row: ‘KCR colluding with A.P.’||The plans of Andhra Pradesh government to divert Krishna water from Srisailam reservoir by taking up Rayalaseem Lift Irrigation Scheme and enhancing the water drawal capacity of the existing Pothireddypadu head regulator system would leave 29 lakh acres of existing ayacut under various projects in Telangana go dry, Congress Legislature Party leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka has said. By getting the Apex Council meeting initially scheduled for August 5 postponed, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had cooperated with AP in completing the process of tenders for RLS, Mr. Vikramarka alleged||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/water-row-kcr-colluding-with-ap/article32492530.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tracing the transformation of Madras into a medical hub||The healthcare sector in Chennai is being put to the test like never before. Along with a line-up of facilities, the city’s oldest institution, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (then the Government Hospital), dating back to 1664, and its latest addition, the Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate, are in the midst of managing a raging pandemic. Though challenging times lie ahead, Chennai, erstwhile Madras, has seen its healthcare sector grow by leaps and bounds over the decades, turning it into a medical hub. Home to some of the oldest medical institutions in the country, the city’s health infrastructure continues to expand both in the public and private sector. Whether it is complicated cardiac procedures or organ transplants, the city has made inroads into many specialties over the years. Historian V. Sriram notes that it was the government that created the fundamental blocks for healthcare development in Madras. “Till the 1960s and 1970s, there were no private hospitals. We only had some private nursing homes. The hospitals were all government-run and Chennai has had a very long history of having well-known hospitals. We have the Government General Hospital, the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, the Government Royapettah Hospital and Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, which came later. We also had the Institute of Mental Health, the Women and Children Hospital (Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Egmore) and the Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. We have three centuries of healthcare, combined with a widespread presence of ayurveda, Siddha, and much later, homoeopathy. The city has a combination of several platforms of medical treatment,” he said. In the 1980s, the city saw several private hospitals coming up, and this ushered in the privatisation of medical education under the Chief Ministership of M.G. Ramachandran. “Private hospitals would not have come up had there not been government hospitals with excellent doctors. Apollo Hospitals and Sankara Nethralaya came up, and the two institutions set high standards. It is very interesting that the two followed two different models. While Apollo is a for-profit institution, Sankara Nethralaya is a not-for-profit one. But both emphasised on excellence and high standards, that became the benchmark for all other hospitals to follow across India,” he added. The city’s nursing history goes back to the 1880s-90s, he said. Recollecting his journey, Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, the Apollo Hospitals Group, said, “There was a time when we faced a wide demand and supply gap in quality healthcare in India. Critical treatments had to be referred to advanced centres in developed nations with appendages of exorbitant expenses and painfully-long waiting periods. I happened to witness a very young father losing his life in the process of seeking treatment overseas,” he said. Dr. Reddy went on to establish a corporate hospital for the first time in India in 1983. “From there, it was the synergy that Madras lent us in the form of hospitality, quality human resources and means to every other infrastructural necessity that brought forth the healthcare revolution of our country,” he said. Over the years, Chennai has evolved into a medical hub. “Now Chennai has become the mecca of healthcare,” said Amar Agarwal, chairman of Agarwal Eye Hospitals. The hospital has, in the last 60 years of its existence, grown from just a centre to 100 in and around the city and its peripheries. Though the city has been sought out for the skill and expertise of its surgeons, rehabilitative healthcare, which is closely allied to surgery and treatment, took much longer to evolve. The Madras Medical College offered speech therapy as a service and offered courses as early as 1971. Yet, people became aware of the service only when M.G. Ramachandran received it almost a decade later, said former president of the Indian Society of Audiologists S. Manoharan, who trained the former Chief Minister after he lost his speech owing to an ailment. In 1996, when cochlear implants began to be provided to children, the specialty received recognition. Occupational therapy is another evolving specialty. Launched after the Second World War to keep injured soldiers meaningfully occupied, it was the Christian Medical College that launched a course in the early 1990s, said Suresh Devaraj, who is setting up a college on occupational therapy at SRM University-Tiruchi. The city now has around 150-200 clinics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tracing-the-transformation-of-madras-into-a-medical-hub/article32492260.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School fees: High Court summons official||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the School Education Secretary to appear through video call on September 7 and explain the action taken against schools that had collected more than 40% of fees this year in violation of orders passed by the court on July 17. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh insisted on the appearance of the Secretary after expressing his displeasure over the School Education Department not having filed a proper report in the court on the action taken against schools which had flouted court orders. He directed the Regional Director of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in Chennai to inquire into similar complaints received against schools which follow CBSE syllabus and submit a report to the court within a week. The interim orders were passed after advocate M. Purushothaman accused some educational trusts, which run a chain of schools, of having forced parents to pay 100% fees this current academic year unmindful of the COVID-19 situation. One of the parents appeared in person during the virtual hearing and named a couple of schools in the city that had demanded and collected 100% fees. He alleged that the officials failed to take action despite the lodging of specific complaints. While disposing of a batch of cases filed by various associations of private schools and colleges, the judge on July 17 directed them to collect only 40% of fees for now and demand the rest of the amount only after the institutions were allowed to reopen by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-fees-high-court-summons-official/article32492287.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Toll plazas located around Chennai witness congestion||With the State set to open up for renewed economic activity from September 1 after five months of lockdown, toll plazas around the city, especially the Paranur toll plaza near Chengalpattu, witnessed heavy vehicular congestion on Monday. Traffic stagnated for hours together as people, who were held up in different towns due to the COVID-19 restrictions, started making their way back to the State capital. This sudden surge can be attributed to those returning to report to work as the government has allowed most commercial establishments and industrial units to operate fully from the start of this month. Back for work S.R. Ramachandran of Tiruchi, who came in his car, said, “I was running an eatery in Chennai and had to close it down following the lockdown. We left the city three months ago since there was no employment here. As the government has eased restrictions, we are returning with our family from our native places.” Suganthan of Vadalaur said, “The firm I work for is set to resume operations in Ambattur. I decided to come back and left my hometown by car early in the morning and reached the Paranur toll plaza around 8 a.m. Due to the congestion, I encountered bumper-to-bumper traffic up to Tambaram.” Some residents blamed the authorities for not operating inter-district bus services and found it difficult to return. Thirumalai of Thittakudi said, “We could not wait endlessly for the resumption of public transport and had to hire a van to come back to the city. We were told that we would have to spend more on the toll from September 1, so we returned now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plazas-around-the-city-witness-vehicular-congestion/article32492248.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh norms for those entering T.N.||Passengers entering Tamil Nadu from other States and countries by air, rail, road and sea will have to undergo mandatory screening for COVID-19 and 14 days’ quarantine upon arrival, according to guidelines issued by the State government on Monday. Domestic passengers will have to undergo thermal screening and home quarantine for 14 days. If they develop a fever, cough or breathlessness during this period, they will have to visit a health facility. Only symptomatic persons will be subjected to testing and if they test positive, they will be taken to a hospital for isolation. If they test negative but have mild symptoms, they will have to undergo home quarantine, the guidelines said. If a passenger tests negative but is symptomatic, he/she will be taken to a hospital for isolation, and the case will be decided based on medical opinion. However, business travellers visiting Tamil Nadu for a short stay of up to 72 hours are exempted from home quarantine norms.  International passengers  “All passengers entering Tamil Nadu from other countries should have a negative RT-PCR test report, issued not more than 96 hours prior to their arrival in the State. Those who have RT-PCR negative certificates and are asymptomatic will be allowed to go home and remain in quarantine for 14 days,” the guidelines said. As a transitional arrangement, passengers arriving on Vande Bharat flights alone will be provided RT-PCR tests at the airport for a week. Asymptomatic passengers will be sent for home quarantine for 14 days. Where the test results return positive, they will be asked to report to a medical facility for treatment. The guidelines also state that home quarantine will be based on cases being classified as very mild, mild and pre-symptomatic by a medical officer, and such persons should have self-isolation facilities at home and a caregiver available 24x7. All those travelling to the State are mandated to apply for an auto-generated e-pass at https://tnepass.tnega.or g/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-norms-for-those-entering-tn/article32492267.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘An idyllic area with superior infrastructure’||An idyllic residential area with superior infrastructure is how C.R. Balaji, a civic activist and long-time resident of Mandaveli, sums up the area in which he was born and brought up. “Primarily residential, the area was filled with independent, two-storied houses with small gardens. Infrastructure was one of the strong points of the area,” recalled the 53-year old. “Many parts of Mandaveli remained unaffected during the 2015 floods in Chennai, thanks to a superior stormwater drainage system, built decades ago,” Mr. Balaji said. He said around 1950, the City Improvement Trust neatly carved out plots and sold them to prospective buyers, at around Rs. 20,000 a ground. “Those plots are now worth crores,” he said. Sports was something that brought the area together. Mr. Balaji said there were always children playing cricket on the roads and come Saturday or Sunday, residents of the area would make a beeline for the Alphonsa Ground nearby to play football, cricket or basketball. “The P.S. Higher Secondary School Ground near our area used to host cricket league matches that were extremely popular. Most of us who grew up in Mandaveli would go there to see the matches or play cricket,” he added. The ever-bustling Mandaveli bus terminus, even back then, was one of the landmarks of the area. “The presence of the terminus has been useful for us residents. I remember my grandfather used to take a bus to the beach to go for a walk regularly,” he said. Hotel Prakash, opposite the terminus that was closed down a few years ago, was a popular haunt for the residents and visitors to the area, through the years, Mr. Balaji said. The other landmark, he said, was the Mandaveli Post Office building, which was inaugurated in 1907, and was demolished a few years ago. While several streets in Mandaveli at present, are lined with trees, Mr. Balaji said this was not always the case. “Conscious initiatives by residents were undertaken after the 1970s to make the area greener,” he said.  The P.S. Higher Secondary School Ground near our area too used to host cricket league matches that were extremely popular. We would go there to see the matches C.R. Balaji Civic activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-idyllic-area-with-superior-infrastructure/article32492258.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,956 persons test positive for infection in State||As many as 5,956 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 4,28,041. While there was a marginal dip in fresh infections in Chennai, cases surged in Coimbatore and Salem, where 589 and 497 persons (including one imported case) tested positive, respectively. As many as 6,008 persons were discharged after treatment on Monday, taking the total figure to 3,68,141. The State’s toll increased to 7,322 with the deaths of 91 persons (56 in government hospitals and 35 in private facilities), including 19 in Chennai and 14 in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 26-year-old woman from Chennai who died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on August 29 due to systemic hypertension, diabetes, respiratory failure, disseminated tuberculosis and COVID-19. Three persons in their 30s, who did not have any co-morbidities, succumbed to the infection. They included a 31-year-old man who died at RGGGH due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 on August 29, 11 days after admission. With 1,150 new cases, Chennai’s tally climbed to 1,35,597, of which 13,224 are undergoing treatment. Among the northern districts, Chengalpattu recorded 347 cases, while Cuddalore had 307 infections and Tiruvallur 299. Thirteen districts had 100-plus cases. They included Kancheepuram (187), Villupuram (176), Tiruvannamalai (140), Dindigul (129) and Madurai (127). Thirty-one returnees tested positive for the infection. In the last 24 hours, 75,100 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 48,13,147. One more private laboratory — Bose Clinical Laboratory and Xrays, Madurai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, the State has 150 testing facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5956-persons-test-positive-for-infection-in-state/article32492255.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||A plethora of employment opportunities in the sciences||The multitude of opportunities available in the field of science, both in India and in institutions abroad, were highlighted as part of ‘Current and Emerging Career Opportunities in the Sciences’, The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling webinar series, presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology. S.P. Thyagarajan, dean (research) at Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai, spoke about the myriad streams available for higher education and emphasised on the importance of research in selecting a course and college. “For a foreign university, you can get authentic information from embassies or advisory bodies. Also look for country-level and world-level ranks of universities. For Indian universities, look into NAAC scores or NIRF rankings, apart from college websites, to make an informed choice,” he said. Employment opportunities are ripe in new markets such as biostatistics, he pointed out. Sanjay Molur, executive director, Zoo Outreach Organisation, concurred. “Basic sciences like zoology or botany didn’t have many career options a few decades ago but this is changing now,” he said and cited the example of environmental sciences. D. John Thiruvadigal, professor, dean (sciences), SRMIST, stressed the importance of following one’s interests while choosing a career. “The Department of Science and Technology has introduced a programme called INSPIRE for students from Classes VI onward. There is also a Scholarship for Higher Education, where students pursuing science get up to Rs. 80,000 a year.” The speakers also answered questions from the audience on the scope of specific courses within the sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-plethora-of-employment-opportunities-in-the-sciences/article32492243.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||108 ambulance fleet gets first woman pilot||After being a taxi driver in Chennai for three years, 30-year-old Veeralakshmi Muthukumar is now behind the wheel of an ambulance, becoming the first woman pilot in the 108 ambulance fleet in the State. As Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami flagged off new 108 ambulances on Monday, the day marked the beginning of a new journey for Ms. Veeralakshmi. “In fact, I did not know I was the first woman ambulance pilot until I joined today,” she said. Starting to drive four-wheelers in 2015 after obtaining a driving licence, she drove a taxi around the city for three years until she realised that she wanted to do more. “Being a driver, I have no fear of the road. But I did not want to drive only for the sake of income. I wanted to serve people in some way, and hence, wanted to become an ambulance driver,” she added. Following this, she underwent training from June. Familiar with the traffic congestion in the city, one of the main concerns for her was maintaining speed while transporting a patient. “This is all about the golden hour. But I was told not to fear and that the emergency medical technician will be there and take care of the patient. All that I needed to do is to be careful and handle the pressure,” she said. The mother of two children believes in following the rules to the letter. “Accidents occur because of negligence and because rules are not followed. I can handle this because I know the importance of following road rules, and as an ambulance driver, I will pay attention to the road,” she said. M. Selvakumar, State head of operations, GVK-EMRI that operates the 108 ambulance network, said there were one or two women ambulance drivers in the private sector but Ms. Veeralakshmi was the first woman pilot in the 108 ambulance network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-ambulance-fleet-gets-first-woman-pilot/article32492273.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||I-T Department attaches Sasikala’s benami properties||The Benami Prohibition Unit, Chennai, of the Income Tax (Investigation) wing, has attached 65 properties, assessed to be worth over Rs. 300 crore at the time of purchase, belonging to V. K. Sasikala, the jailed aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. These properties had been purchased in and around Chennai between 2003 and 2005, an official said. The properties have been attached under the provisions of the Benami Prohibition Transaction Act 2016. Officials told The Hindu that these properties, collectively spread over 200 acres, were purchased by Sri Hari Chandana Estates Private Ltd., represented by Kaliyaperumal and Sivakumar. The properties are situated in Poes Garden, Alandur, Tambaram, Guduvanchery and Sriperumbudur.  ‘No business or income’ An official said the company had no business or income to purchase these properties and after enquiry by the Income Tax Department, it has come to light that these are benami properties of Sasikala. The properties include a site across Veda Nilayam measuring about 10 grounds (24,000 square feet plot), which was once owned by Binny Mills Limited. Relatives “The directors of the company — Kaliyaperumal and Sivakumar — are relatives of Sasikala. After floating the company, there was neither business nor inflow of money. Investigation revealed that they had invested Rs. 300 crore in buying these properties on behalf of Sasikala between 2003 and 2005. The money was given by her and two are her benamidars,” said an official source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-department-attaches-sasikalas-benami-properties/article32492275.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gaming arcades, children’s play areas to stay shut in malls||When shopping malls reopen on Tuesday, gaming arcades and children’s play areas will still remain closed, going by the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the State government on Monday. Persons aged over 65, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 are “advised to stay home, except for essential and health purposes,” the SOP issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said. The air circulation system in each mall should allow fresh/treated air, with a fresh-air level of more than 50%. For air conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of the CPWD shall be followed, which inter-alia emphasises that temperature settings of all air-conditioning devices be in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius, relative humidity be 40%-70%, intake of fresh air be as much as possible and cross ventilation be adequate, it said. Adequate crowd management should be ensured. Only asymptomatic customers will be allowed in. The SOP can be accessed at: http://bit.ly/SOPsShopping Malls  ‘Business wiped out’ Retailers who have picked up space at malls indicated that they may not start operations immediately. “On weekdays, most of the people visit malls to watch films. They spend two hours before the film and an hour after it in shopping. With theatres shut, this business has been wiped out,” said the CEO of a clothing brand. Retailers said on average, they pay Rs. 3 lakh-Rs. 8 lakh a month as rent. “What is the point of opening shops if no consumers walk in?” asked a retailer. Mall owners and retail experts, however, feel that things will improve once the shops open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaming-arcades-childrens-play-areas-to-stay-shut-in-malls/article32492252.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure aid reaches all persons with disability, legal aid authority told||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority (TNSLSA) to ensure that the COVID-19 relief amount allocated by the State government reached all the eligible persons with disabilities in the State. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha passed the order on a batch of public interest litigation petitions which alleged that the relief amount had not reached scores of beneficiaries though the government had been submitting attractive figures in the court. The Bench ordered that TNSLSA district secretaries could coordinate with the district administration and facilitate the distribution of money within eight weeks. The Bench called for a report after 10 weeks, on compliance of the orders. The orders were passed after taking note of submissions made by Additional Advocate General Narmadha Sampath that the State government had allocated Rs. 13.35 crore to provide Rs. 1,000 each to 13.35 lakh National Identity and Disability Certificate (NIDC) holders. She produced the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the State Commissioner for the Disabled instructing the Collectors to ensure that the relief amount was disbursed at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries after making necessary entries in the NIDC passbooks. Disputing the claim, M.K.S. Sundar, counsel for one of the petitioners, said: “Drawing a brinjal on paper and showing it to me does not amount to serving brinjal sambhar to me.” He claimed that many people had not received cash assistance. Advocate B. Ramasamy, representing another petitioner, said Section 24 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act of 2006 required the State to allocate at least 25% more to the candidates compared to similar benefits accorded to others. However, in so far as COVID-19 relief was concerned, the government had disbursed an amount of Rs. 1,000 to all beneficiaries without any special consideration for persons with disabilities. Therefore, it should be directed to pay more to them, he urged. After recording his submissions, the judges ordered that the issue of paying additional compensation to persons with disabilities could be considered by the government if any money was left in the allocated funds after disbursing the already fixed amount of Rs. 1,000. They said that during similar exigencies in the future, the government should take note of Section 24 of the 2006 Act and carve out an exception by treating the persons with disabilities differently as compared to the others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-aid-reaches-all-persons-with-disability-legal-aid-authority-told/article32492271.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL seeks use of digital signatures||The Madras High Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre as well as the State government to a public interest plea for affixing digital signatures on Government Orders so that the authenticity of the documents need not be doubted. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha ordered notice to the High Court’s Registrar General too since petitioner’s counsel K.P.S. Palanivel Rajan insisted that even judgments and interim orders passed by the court should contain a digital signature. The judges directed advocate B. Vijay to accept notice on behalf of the High Court administration and obtain instructions by September 7 after he said the issue was already under the consideration of the administration and a decision could be expected soon. In his submission, petitioner’s counsel said it had become a norm in recent times to circulate court verdicts as well as government orders through electronic means even for official purposes. The court even orders issuance of notices through WhatsApp and e-mail. Similarly, many Government Orders on public issues were being circulated among the people through social media. However, none of these documents contained digital signatures to prove their authenticity, counsel pointed out. He said the Supreme Court, the Delhi High Court and the Bombay High Court had already introduced the system of authenticating their orders using digital signatures. The Tamil Nadu government, too, uses such signatures on birth certificates and e-tenders. The practice should be extended to government orders and court orders too, he insisted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-seeks-use-of-digital-signatures/article32492276.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focused attention, care help the elderly recover from COVID-19||Thousands of senior citizens who tested positive for COVID-19 across the State have recovered, thanks to focused attention coupled with a customised treatment protocol in government hospitals. Deploying feeding nurses, oxygen staff and geriatric caregivers are among the reasons that aided the elderly patients to return home. Since senior citizens are more susceptible to contracting the virus, the State government issued advisories restricting their movement and access to certain public services. However, a large number of senior citizens got infected, including many who were home-bound but had family members going out for work or other reasons. Despite comorbidities, many patients aged above 60 recovered. The latest is the case of Ganesh, 92, who was admitted in the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital. A priest by profession, he had remained under home quarantine but was presumed to have contracted the virus from a family member. With a history of hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease and renal problems, Mr. Ganesh was discharged on Saturday after being treated for 10 days. A month ago, Soosai, 97, resident of an old age home, was discharged taking the number of nonagenarians who recovered to 11 since April. “Of the 24,000 patients treated/discharged in the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital, 3,900 were aged above 60. We provide focused attention for senior citizens and additional manpower is deployed to take care of their special needs since attenders are not allowed access to COVID-19 Wards. As many as 300 senior citizens aged above 80 infected by the coronavirus were treated and discharged from our hospital so far,” hospital dean P. Balaji said. Designated staff Director of Medical Education M. Narayana Babu said separate staff designated as “feeding nurses” and “oxygen nurses” were posted to COVID-19 Wards to exclusively attend to senior citizens. Another reason elderly people recovery quicker was the fact that they had mild cytokine storms or no such experience, doctors said. The cytokine storm, an aggressive response with the release of a large amount of pro-inflammatory cytokines, was more prevalent in patients aged between 40 and 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focused-attention-care-help-elderly-recover-from-covid-19/article32492245.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gangster attempts to join BJP in Vandalur, flees on seeing police||The BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit, which has come under criticism for inducting history-sheeters into the party fold, faced embarrassment on Monday after a notorious gangster ‘Red Hills’ Surya came to join the party at an event attended by State president L. Murugan at Vandalur but fled on seeing the police. The Chengalpattu district police, who got information of his presence, rushed to the spot. On noticing them, Surya fled in a car, police said. However, six others who were at the venue with knives were nabbed. BJP members staged a protest outside the police station. Party State general secretary K.T. Raghavan told The Hindu that they wanted the police to release two party members who were taken to the police station along with the six persons. “We did not seek the release of the six,” he said. According to police, Surya has more than 50 criminal cases for various offences, including murder, attempt to murder and using explosives. Recently, gangsters Kalvettu Ravi and Sathyaraj had joined the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gangster-attempts-to-join-bjp-in-vandalur-flees-on-seeing-police/article32492238.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commuters divided on using Metro Rail services||After five months, Chennai Metro Rail is gearing up to resume services on September 7 as the State government has given its nod. However, there has been a mixed response from commuters. While some say they are prepared to utilise the service, others are still hesitant. Sources said there would not be much crowding initially, since a majority of the people who previously used the services were not travelling to their offices and were working from home. S. Kumaran, a resident of Vadapalani, said he would not mind using the Metro because the trains would not be crowded. “Most IT employees will continue to work from home and this will go on for a while. So, it will be easier to maintain physical distancing inside the trains.” If crowd regulation and physical distancing were followed properly, they would not mind using the trains, many commuters said. But there are also commuters who are skeptical and do not want to take a chance. Their fear is primarily because the coaches are air-conditioned and also, the worry if stations and trains are disinfected adequately. Swetha, a regular commuter, said she was unsure if it would be safe to travel in the air-conditioned coaches. According to CMRL officials, the stations are disinfected regularly and passengers have no reason worry. They had earlier stated that all necessary arrangements would be made to ensure passenger safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commuters-divided-on-using-metro-rail-services/article32492239.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Devotees wary of entering crowded temples||Even as temples are preparing to allow devotees from Tuesday, many residents are saying they will not enter if their regular place of worship is crowded. “Though I want to visit the temples that I usually go to since they are opening after a long time, I will not enter if there is any crowd. I will wear mask and won’t take vibuthi and kumkum ,” said Iyappan, a resident of Nanganallur. Sangeetha, a resident of Triplicane, said she was wary of going to temples since the number of COVID-19 cases were on the rise. “I am worried and will take some time to go to the temple,” she said. Temples have made arrangements to allow devotees in a single line. At Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore, entry will be on the eastern side and exit on the western side. Darshan at Sri Parthasarathy temple in Triplicane will be allowed between 8 a.m. and noon and then again for another four hours from 4 p.m. Most temples will follow these timings. Devotees aged above 65 and below 10 would not be allowed to enter the temples. Staff would check temperature and ensure everyone sanitises their hands and wears masks. It is estimated that major temples can allow some 100 persons per hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-wary-of-entering-crowded-temples/article32492237.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM condole Pranab’s death||Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and leaders cutting across party lines condoled the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee. Mr. Mukherjee was an outstanding Parliamentarian, statesman-par-excellence and outstanding politician, Mr. Purohit said in his condolence message. He was respected by everyone across all sections of society and all political parties. A glorious era had come to an end, he added. Mr. Palaniswami, who is also the co-coordinator of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, said it was a great loss for the country and recalled that Mr. Mukherjee was a hard worker and an able administrator. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam extended his deepest condolences. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin recalled Mr. Mukherjee’s administrative and negotiation skills to resolve problems and said he always showed keen interest in the development of Tamil Nadu. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri recalled that he worked for India’s progress by serving in various roles as Defence Minister, Finance Minister, Commerce Minister, External Affairs Minister, and so on. PMK founder S. Ramadoss and MP Anbumani Ramadoss, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam founder and Rajya Sabha member Vaiko, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran, DMK MP Kanimozhi, Tamil Maanila Congress leader G.K. Vasan, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan, T.K. Rangarajan of the CPI(M), BJP State unit president L. Murugan, Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam founder Vijayakant and the Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, extended their condolences. Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy condoled the death of Pranab Mukherjee on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-leaders-condole-pranabs-death/article32492280.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film industry heaves a sigh of relief, thanks govt.||The State government’s decision to allow film shootings to resume has been welcomed by the Tamil film industry. While shooting for television projects commenced last month, the Film Employees’ Federation of India (FEFSI) as well as other members of the industry had been urging the government to ease the norms and allow them to begin shooting. “Given the restrictions, production can definitely commence on small and medium budget films. Nearly 80% of the workers can now get back to the sets as well,” said G. Dhananjayan, producer. Mr. Dhananjayan said, however, it would take them at least a week to begin filming in full swing. “There are several norms that need to be followed and we will discuss as well as plan how to carry out work in a safe manner,” he added. Industry bodies such as FEFSI are now expected to brief members of the guidelines in place and their implementation. Director Bharathiraaja, president, Tamil Film Active Producers Council, while thanking the government, has also appealed to it to consider reopening theatres. Campaign on social media With hashtags #Supportmovietheatres and #SaveCinema, several members of the film industry and theatre owners started a campaign on social media, urging the Central government to announce the reopening of theatres. “The multiplex association of India has appealed to the Central government to allow theatres to reopen and function, and we are supporting them. Theatres across the world are opening and we want the same to happen here as well,” said Tiruppur Subramaniam, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association. ‘Ready to follow norms’ “We are ready to follow any guidelines given to us. At present, theatres in other parts of the world have a system in place to check the temperature of the movie-goers, ensure that they are not seated close to each other and schedule shows with at least a one-hour gap to clean and sanitise the theatres,” he said. Producers are keen for theatres to open so that they can start releasing films. With no releases since March, there has been a backlog and only a few projects have gone the OTT route so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-industry-heaves-a-sigh-of-relief-thanks-govt/article32492286.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB ‘awake and responsive’||Popular playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam is “fully awake and responsive” and is actively participating in physiotherapy, a health bulletin said on Monday. He had been hospitalised at MGM Healthcare in August after he tested positive for COVID-19. The hospital said that he continued to remain on ventilator and ECMO support in the ICU, and his current clinical condition was stable. He is being closely monitored by a multi-disciplinary clinical team. In a video message, his son S.P. Charan said, “He is doing some physiotherapy to strengthen his muscles since he has been bedridden for so long. There is good improvement to his health condition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spb-is-awake-responsive/article32492278.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater’s quarry project wins award||Metrowater’s project to store water in abandoned quarries for supply to the city recently won the Award of Excellence in the ‘Innovation in Rainwater Harvesting’ category. The award was presented at the National Water Innovation Summit, organised by the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti along with Elets Technomedia Limited, during an online meeting. The quarries in Sikkarayapuram and Erumaiyur were significant sources of water during the 2019 drought. These storage structures are now being used as buffer sources. Earlier, the water agency’s Koyambedu tertiary treatment plant bagged the Global Water Award ‘20 in the category of ‘Waste Water Project of the Year’ at the Global Water Summit. Similarly, Dial for water 2.0, the online booking service for water tankers, won the Skoch Award-Gold in the ‘Digital India’ category, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metrowaters-quarry-project-wins-award/article32492240.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trio nabbed for burglary near Mangadu||The Mangadu police have solved a house break-in case after scrutinising footage from 100 CCTV cameras and have arrested three suspects. Police said the complainant, S. Prabu, 39, lives in Gerugambakkam. On August 11, he found that his house had been broken into and 20 sovereigns of gold jewellery had been stolen. After examining CCTV footage from 100 units, including those from Maduravoyal and nearby localities, the police apprehended Surya alias ‘Kosuru’ Surya, 20, Vignesh alias Vikki, 19, and a 17-year-old juvenile. The stolen items were recovered from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trio-nabbed-for-burglary-near-mangadu/article32492246.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SPB fully awake and responsive||Popular playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam is “fully awake, responsive” and is actively participating in physiotherapy, a health bulletin on Monday said. He had been hospitalised at MGM healthcare in August after he tested positive for COVID-19. The hospital said that he continues to remain on ventilator and ECMO support in the ICU and his current clinical condition is stable. He is being closely monitored by a multidisciplinary clinical team. In a video message, his son S.P. Charan said “He is doing some physiotherapy to strengthen his muscles since he has been bedridden for so long. There is good improvement to his health condition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spb-fully-awake-and-responsive/article32492316.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Entry into public parks restricted||Entry into public parks will be restricted to 50% capacity to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms. At bigger parks, entry will be permitted only for restricted hours and people will be allowed in batches. Urban local bodies can regularise this by issuing tokens, said the standard operating procedure issued by the government on Monday. “Persons aged over 65, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 are advised not to enter parks,” it said. The SOP can be accessed at:http://bit.ly/SOPsPublicParks The SOP for film and media production can be accessed at: http://bit.ly/SOPsMediaProduction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entry-into-public-parks-restricted/article32492250.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cap on entry at all places of worship||The standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government on Monday has restricted the number of persons allowed inside places of worship to 20, while also advocating a token system in case of bigger temples. Not more than 20 persons should be allowed in an area of 100 sq m or 1,075 sq ft in case of temples and Hindu religious places. In mosques, “prayers should not be offered by standing shoulder to shoulder. A 2 m (6 ft) distance shall be maintained.” In churches, bells and other objects should not be touched by devotees and use of liturgical booklets and hymnals is suspended. The SOP can be accessed at: http://bit.ly/SOPsPlacesofWorship||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cap-on-entry-at-all-places-of-worship/article32492253.ece
01 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Safety measures to be ensured in places of worship||Prominent places of worship in Coimbatore district, most of which remained closed since March, are set to reopen for devotees from Tuesday. Officials at the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said major temples, including the Subramaniyaswami Temple in Marudamalai, Patteeswarar Temple in Perur, Koniamman Temple in Town Hall and Thandu Mariamman Temple on Avinashi Road were set to be reopened. However, multiple COVID-19 precautionary measures as mandated by the State government would be enforced in the temples. Masks were mandatory for all devotees and they would be screened using thermal scanners at the entrances. The devotees would only be allowed for darshan and would not be allowed to stay inside the temples. Physical distancing would be ensured in queues as devotees would stand inside the circles drawn. Devotees would wait in queues in the pathway between two railings to avoid crowding. The priests would not offer prasadams directly to devotees to minimise physical contact, the HR&CE officials said. The temples would be open from 6 a.m. to noon and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.  Mosques Over 100 mosques in and around Coimbatore Corporation limits are set to be reopened on Tuesday. Ashik Ahmed, an administrator at the Athar Jamaath Mosque on Big Bazaar Street, said the first prayer would begin at 5 a.m. at the mosque. “All devotees have been asked to bring their own mats,” he said. Personal distancing and other COVID-19 precautionary measures mandated by the government would be ensured, Mr. Ahmed said. M. Abdul Hakkim, district secretary of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), said senior citizens above 60 years of age and children below 10 years of age had been asked to not offer prayers at mosques. “They are the most vulnerable for COVID-19 and are likely to visit the mosques,” he said.  ‘No decision on churches yet’ An official at the Coimbatore Diocese said no decision to reopen the churches under the Diocese was taken as on Monday. Disinfection works began in some churches on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-measures-to-be-ensured-in-places-of-worship/article32492301.ece
01 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||With all precautions in place, hotels, malls set to reopen in Coimbatore||Shopping malls and hotels here are all set to reopen after more than five months of closure. Prozone Mall on Sathyamangalam Road will be open from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m. on September 1 and from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. from September 2. The mall, with nearly 120 shops, has introduced a new access management system to control the number of visitors. While the food court will also be opened on September 1, the outlets in it will start functioning only in phases. Customers can book in advance their visit to the mall either by downloading ‘scoopsens’ app or by registering with the security at the entrance of the mall. Every visitor should download the Arogya Setu application on their mobile phone. All precautionary measures mandated by the government will be followed. At any point of time, only 3,500 customers will be present inside the mall. Brookefields Mall will reopen on September 4. The food court and the stores will be thrown open for visitors. However, individual stores will open the shutters depending on their level of preparedness. The mall will be open every day from noon to 8 p.m. and at any point of time maximum 3,000 people will be present inside the mall. “Children below 10 years, pregnant women, individuals with underlying medical conditions, individuals above 65 years are advised to avoid visiting the mall,” according to a press release from Brookefields. Use of Arogya Setu app is a must. A web-based app called Park+ will help record customer contact at the entrance and exit points and display the number of visitors inside. Every visitor should scan the “unique mall pass” provided on Brookefields’ Instagram and Facebook pages and displayed at the mall and show it at the entrance and exit. Meanwhile, all hotels in the city will start welcoming guests from Tuesday. The restaurants at the hotels will go ahead with 50% or lesser seating capacity and offer only a la carte service. Most of the branded/star-rated hotels have put in place contact less serving and precautionary measures to ensure safety of the guests. The halls at these hotels will also be available for meetings and programmes though these will be for a restricted number of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-all-precautions-in-place-hotels-malls-set-to-reopen-in-coimbatore/article32492295.ece
01 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Fine-tuning COVID-19 containment strategy will be priority’||Fine-tuning Coimbatore Corporation’s COVID-19 containment strategy would be his priority, said P. Kumaravel Pandian, who on Monday took charge as Commissioner. Mr. Pandian told reporters that he hoped to draw from his COVID-19 containment experience as Deputy Commissioner, Works, Greater Chennai Corporation.  Fever clinics “In my brief interaction with Deputy Commissioner S. Madhuranthagi, I had learnt about the COVID-19 containment strategy in the city. I plan to improve door-to-door survey, strengthen fever clinics and increase the number of lab technicians in those camps to lift swab samples.” In the next two to three days he would have a better understanding and hoped to further improve the civic body’s strategy, he added. ‘Follow precautions’ Mr. Pandian said he wanted the people to scrupulously follow the State Government’s safety precautions like wearing mask, maintaining physical distance and venturing out only if necessary, even though Unlock 4.0 was in place. In response to a question on COVID-19 containment, the Commissioner replied that the Corporation would also create awareness among people so that they did not entertain fear about the infection and respond in more numbers to the fever clinics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fine-tuning-covid-19-containment-strategy-will-be-priority/article32492309.ece
01 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery shops to close down||Retail jewellery shops in the Corporation limits will remain shut for a week from September 1. In a release, B. Sabarinath, president of the Coimbatore Jewellers’ Association, said the decision was taken in an effort to control the spread of COVID-19. About 350 shops will remain closed till September 7. Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers Association also advised its members to stop all business movements and manufacturing activities outside their workshops for a week from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-shops-to-close-down/article32492297.ece
01 September 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||SDPI wants Centre to drop NEP||The Socialist Democratic Party of India (SDPI) cadre staged a protest demonstrations near Anna statue on Monday urging the Centre to drop the New Education Policy. They also demanded that the government shelve the Environment Impact Assessment 2020 draft that proposes to do away with public hearings for industrial projects. The SDPI cadre also demanded that the government stop amendments to criminal law allegedly to criminisalise minorities in the country. Protests were also held in Hosur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdpi-wants-centre-to-drop-nep/article32492318.ece
01 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||127 indigenous cases reported in Madurai||A total of 127 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 14,152. All of the cases were indigenous. While 118 people were discharged from various facilities, the total number of discharged people has risen to 12,931. There are 863 active cases in the district. One person succumbed to the disease, raising the death toll to 358. After 90 persons tested positive on Monday, the total case count in Virudhunagar district stands at 12,712. A total of 145 people were discharged, and the district now has 394 active cases. The number of fatalities in the district rose to 189 after the death of a 65-year-old man at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on August 29. Theni recorded 77 fresh cases of COVID-19 with which the tally moved to 12,676. There were 792 discharges from hospitals and Covid Care Centres. The number of active cases stood at 1,425. So far 141 patients have succumbed to the viral infection. Dindigul had 124 fresh cases and the tally stood at 6,558. The number of people discharged from the hospitals stands at 39. The active cases were 894. As many as 125 people have died of COVID-19 so far. Ramanathapuram has 31 new cases with which the tally moved to 4,718. There were 107 cases discharged from the hospitals. So far 106 had died and the number of active cases in hospitals was 375. Sivaganga had 25 fresh cases and the tally was 4,053. The hospitals discharged 47 people and 248 patients were under treatment. The district had lost 107 people as on date to the viral infection. Southern districts Thoothukudi recorded 111 fresh cases which took the total number of positive cases in the district to 11,409. After 63 patients were discharged from hospitals, 916 patients are undergoing treatment. The district has so far lost 112 COVID-19 patients following the death of a patient on Monday. Tirunelveli reported 106 patients on Monday. With this, the district’s tally moved up to 9,537 and the number of active cases stood at 1,248 after 135 patients were discharged from hospitals. In Kanniyakumari, the district’s infection tally was 9,598 on Monday after 98 new cases were reported. After 261 cases were discharged from hospitals, 1,106 active cases are undergoing treatment. After 80 patients were discharged from hospitals and 94 new cases reported, Tenkasi district had 969 patients and the district’s tally has gone up to 5,416. The four districts witnessed the death of one COVID-19 case each on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-indigenous-cases-reported-in-madurai/article32492484.ece
01 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||After five months’ closure, it is operation clean-up in Madurai||Major temples across Madurai city have been sprucing up their interiors throughout Monday, preparing to receive devotees after the State government’s announcement of COVID-19 lockdown relaxations. The temples will receive devotees after over five months of lockdown. Workers are spraying disinfectant at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, Sundaraja Perumal Temple at Alagar Koil, Koodal Alagar Perumal Temple and several other shrines in and around the city. “We will make six-metre markings all the way from Amman Sannidhi to the Eastern Entrance, which is the only entrance through which devotees are allowed inside. We are also placing barricades across the temple to keep a check on the number of people waiting in queue,” said K. Chellathurai, Joint Commissioner of Meenakshi temple. At the Meenakshi temple, children below the age group of 10, pregnant women, persons above the age of 65 and those with comorbidities will not be allowed, according to a press statement from the administration. “Persons must keep their mobile phones at homes and everyone must wear masks. People will be admitted only after sanitising and after authorities check their body temperature,” according to the press statement. Priests at the temple will not directly provide kumkum and vibuthi . The temple administration will instead distribute them in a safe manner. In all temples, devotees will not be allowed to sit, said a source privy to a District Disaster Management Authority meeting held at the Collectorate on Monday evening. Devotees will be allowed into temples only after a check-up of their body temperature. Barricading will be ensured at all Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department temples, said Collector T. G. Vinay. Police personnel and flying squads will be placed in crowded areas to ensure social distancing, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-five-months-closure-it-is-operation-clean-up-in-madurai/article32492480.ece
01 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Vaigai dam||Water was released from Vaigai dam on Monday to irrigate the first crop of the double-crop areas of Periyar Main Canal ayacut in Madurai and Dindigul districts. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam released water from the dam in the presence of Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar. The Deputy Chief Minister said water would be released for 120 days to irrigate 45,041 acres. For the first 45 days, 900 cusecs of water would be released continuously. In the next 75 days, the release would be based on turn system. The water released from Vaigai dam will benefit 1,797 acres in Nilakottai block of Dindigul district, 16,452 acres in Vadipatti block and 26,792 acres in Madurai North block. Water was released from Periyar dam on August 13 to irrigate 14,707 acres of ayacut in Cumbum valley. A total of 200 cusecs of water is being released for irrigation and 100 cusecs of water for drinking purposes. Mr. Panneerselvam urged farmers to use the water judiciously and take measures to produce high yield and good profits. Theni Collector M. Pallavi Baldev and Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay were present. Cumbum MLA S.T.K. Jakkaiyan, Sholavandan MLA K. Manickam and Usilampatti MLA P. Neethipathi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-vaigai-dam/article32492488.ece
01 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Centre must reconsider decision to disinvest shares of LIC: Madurai MP||The Centre must reconsider its decision to disinvest the shares of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. In a statement, he made an appeal to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman saying the public sector undertaking, which would be turning 65 on Tuesday, had made a significant contribution in nation-building. It had pumped in over Rs. 34 lakh crore in the last 64 years. “It serves as a success model not only for the life insurance sector but for all industries. Starting with a mere Rs. 5 crore in 1956, it increased the capital to Rs. 100 crore to meet the legal requirements and at no point of time it expected the government to infuse capital. Its present assets are valued at Rs. 32 lakh crore. LIC never used the government guarantee even once all these years,” he said. It had spread its wings to the nook and corner of the country. With 42 crore policies, LIC had been enjoying an unparalleled position in the insurance sector. Insurance was all about selling “promises” to policy-holders. Despite having a wider platform of policies, LIC had settled 98% of the claims during 2018-19. In spite of the adverse intervention of COVID-19 pandemic, it settled 95% of the claims. LIC had proved that domestic savings provided the best resource for industrial development. When the Centre approached LIC for infusing funds for railway projects, it was ready to do so and it also gave huge financial assistance for highways, drinking water, bridge, irrigation, power and port development projects. “What else proof does LIC need to show for its magnificent performance. So, the Centre should give up its move to disinvest the shares of LIC, which does not have one single justification,” the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-must-reconsider-decision-to-disinvest-shares-of-lic-madurai-mp/article32492486.ece
01 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Shopping malls now wait for customers to return||Intense cleaning and disinfection activities were carried out in Vishaal de Mal and Milan’em in the city on Monday. According to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the government, gaming arcades and children’s play areas will remain closed in the malls. Theatres will also remain closed. A staff at Vishaal de Mal said that owners of all 72 shops in the mall had been instructed to follow the SOP issued by the government. Foot-operated sanitiser dispensers would be placed in front of escalators and lifts for customers to regularly disinfect their hands. “Lift buttons and handrails would be disinfected frequently,” she added. Chairman of Vishal de Mal R. Ilankovan said prior to COVID-19 days, there would be an average footfall of 5,000 customers during weekdays and 15,000 customers during weekends in the mall. “But, we anticipate that with the closure of the theatre and gaming section, the footfall will reduce. We also think that the number of window shoppers will come down. Nevertheless, we have deployed enough staff to ensure that a minimum distance of six feet is maintained within the mall,” he added. Amar Vora, Director of Milan’em mall, said that reopening of the mall would help in revival of the livelihoods of many shopkeepers and employees, who were financially affected for the past five months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shopping-malls-now-wait-for-customers-to-return/article32492471.ece
01 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||75-year-old woman dies as three of family consume poison||A 75-year-old woman, V. Chellammal of Sedapatti, died after she reportedly consumed poison along with her son V. Ramar (55) and his wife R. Chellammal in the early hours of Monday. The couple have been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital here. The police said that the trio, who were living in a small house in a farm at K. Andipatti, were missing after the house went up in fire on Sunday night. “Local people and firemen put out the flames. However, the trio were missing from the house. Repeated attempts to call Ramar’s mobile phone, which was ringing, failed in the night,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (Peraiyur) T. Mathiazhagan said. Ramar’s two sons, who are married and living separately, also searched for their parents and grandmother. Around 2 a.m. on Monday, Ramar had called his daughter Karupayee and informed her that all the three consumed poison and were lying in a nearby irrigation tank. They were found amidst thorny bushes some 500 metres away from their farm and were rushed to Usilampatti Government Hospital. “The mother died at the hospital,” the DSP said. He added that Ramar’s wife suffered from chronic low blood pressure and used to faint often. The police suspect that the couple and her mother decided to end their lives. Police are also investigating the cause of the fire at the farm house. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-year-old-woman-dies-as-three-of-family-consume-poison/article32492482.ece
01 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Focus on hospitals, industries and markets, says Madurai Collector||Collector T. G. Vinay on Monday said the district administration would focus its efforts on monitoring and containing COVID-19 cases in hospitals, industries and marketplaces following further relaxation of lockdown by the State government. Speaking to The Hindu , the Collector said they anticipated high footfall at Government Rajaji Hospital and private hospitals after resumption of intra-district public transport services. “We have been speaking to the Indian Medical Association and private hospitals to ensure that people are permitted only if they wear masks and maintain social distancing. It is evident that the public will be travelling from rural areas to the city,” he said. Industries must follow the standard operating procedure laid down by the government to prevent of spread of COVID-19 in the units. “We have also met with prominent entrepreneurs and trade bodies and asked them to keep a close watch on employees. If they have symptoms, we have asked them to report to us immediately,” he said. Flying squads were monitoring markets and other public places where crowds could gather. On incoming vehicles to Madurai district, he said COVID-19 tests would be conducted for persons travelling from Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur districts at checkposts in Vadipatti and Kottampatti. “However, a majority of vehicles coming into our district, as we have observed in the recent past, have been predominantly from neighbouring districts such as Theni, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram and Dindigul.” An average of 8,000 vehicles drive through the district borders. “We are not going to increase the number of teams at the borders as it is sufficient. We will increase the number of flying squads that will patrol the city for violation of masking and maintaining social distancing,” he said. “We plan to continue testing a minimum of 3,000 people.” He added that fever camps would be functioning across the district as usual without any scaling down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-hospitals-industries-and-markets-says-madurai-collector/article32492467.ece
01 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hotels gearing up to welcome guests||Hotel and lodge owners of Madurai say the government nod to resume operations from Tuesday will help in revival of business, which have incurred huge losses after being closed down for over five months. President of Madurai Hotel and Lodge Owners Association K.P. Navaneetha Krishnan says there are around 400 hotels and lodges in the district. Of them, only around 10 were permitted to accommodate doctors, frontline staff and travellers during their quarantine period. On Monday, several smaller hotels and lodges, which were not operational for the past five months, could be seen cleaning and disinfecting their premises. The Standard Operating Procedure issued by the government necessitates complete disinfection of the premises, adhering to a minimum of six feet distance and face mask usage by guests and staff. It also emphasises on proper disposal of waste generated by the guests. G. Vasudevan, vice-president, Tamil Nadu Travel Mart Society and proprietor of Fortune Pandiyan Hotel, says minimum contact will be ensured between guests and hotel staff. “Even food will be delivered outside the guest's room and not directly to the guests." A .Ramasubbu, proprietor of Sai Ram Residency, says many small lodges owners are struggling to pay electricity bills, salary for their staff and maintenance charges. “Resumption of services will help not only hotel owners, but also allied service providers,” he noted. The scrapping of e-pass system in the State will help to increase the footfall of guests in the hotel, feels N. Suresh, manager of Naveen Saravana Lodge. “We anticipate more tourists as devotees have been permitted to enter all places of worship.” Mr. Navaneetha Krishnan says online bookings started on Monday and by evening bookings have also been made in a few hotels. “Only if public transport between the districts resume, there will be more footfall of guests in hotels,” he points out. However, it will take more time for business to return to normality, says Mr. Vasudevan. “It is important for hotels and lodges to follow safety precautions and instill confidence among customers,” he adds. But, there is still no permission for functioning of bars attached with hotels, said Assistant Commissioner (Excise) C. Shankaranarayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-gearing-up-to-welcome-guests/article32492469.ece
01 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man seeks compensation to support grandchildren||The grandfather and guardian of two children from Madurai district moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking appropriate victim compensation fund to take care of the children after they lost their parents. Justice G.R. Swaminathan ordered notice to the State in the petition filed by M. Karuthaperiyan from Vadipatti. His son had killed himself in Madurai Central Prison after he was remanded in judicial custody for the murder of his wife. The petitioner, Karuthaperiyan, said his son Vellaiperiyan was in a relationship with one Abinaya and they got married against the wishes of the woman’s parents. With a meagre income, the petitioner said that his son was supporting his wife and two children. Unfortunately, in 2019, following an altercation he had beaten his wife to death. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. A couple of days later, the family was informed that he had killed himself in the Madurai Central Prison, he said. He said that both his grandchildren had lost their parents tragically and without a regular income it was difficult to take care of them. He said that he had no property and was struggling to make ends meet and support the family. He sought appropriate compensation under the Tamil Nadu victim compensation fund for the family so that he can support his grandchildren. With the money, he can provide education to his grandchildren, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-seeks-compensation-to-support-grandchildren/article32492485.ece
01 September 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman’s body found in well||The body of an aged woman was found floating in a farm well at Adakampatti near Padalur in the district on Monday. Police identified the deceased as K. Kamaleshwari (70) of Adakampatti. Police said the woman had left home in the morning to pluck vegetables when she was said to have slipped and fell into the well sustaining head injury. As the woman failed to return home, her son Vivekanandan launched a search and found the body. The Padalur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aged-womans-body-found-in-well/article32492515.ece
01 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry to focus on containment strategy||A meeting chaired by Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday decided to enforce a strategy for COVID-19 containment zones as per the latest guideline issued by the Centre. The meeting decided to drop the earlier plan to enforce lockdown in select areas with high concentration of COVID-19 positive cases. The district administration, based on feedback from the Health Department, would demarcate containment zones at the micro level and restrict the lockdown to containment zones. At present, there are around 72 containment zones, the official said. Meanwhile, Collector T. Arun in an order said only essential activities would be allowed in containment zones. There would be intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and clinical interventions in containment zones, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-to-focus-on-containment-strategy/article32492281.ece
01 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Fall in new cases in U.T.||New COVID-19 admissions in the Union Territory dipped to under 300 in a 24-hour period on Monday after three successive days of reporting in excess of 500 cases. Seven deaths raised the toll to 228. Puducherry recorded six deaths and Karaikal one. Of the 291 new cases detected from testing 1,074 samples, 261 were in Puducherry, 22 in Karaikal, one in the Yanam region and seven in Mahe. The overall tally stood at 14,411, active cases at 4,849 and patients recovered and discharged at 9,334, including 366 who were discharged in the last 24 hours. The fatality rate is 1.58% and recovery rate 64.77%. According to S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, 2,478 patients were admitted in hospitals and 2,371 were in home quarantine. The distribution of cases in home isolation is 2,071 in Puducherry, 156 in Karaikal and 144 in Yanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fall-in-new-cases-in-ut/article32492284.ece
01 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘DMDK to decide on poll tie-up in January’||DMDK leader Premalatha on Monday said her party would decide on an alliance for the next Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu only after convening executive and general body meetings in January 2021. Speaking to reporters in Ramanathapuram, she said the AIADMK government had kept its promises on some issues, while it had not done so on many other issues. The BJP at the Centre too had announced many projects, but had not implemented them, she charged. “People want a change. They do not want to stick to the DMK or the AIADMK any more. A party like the DMDK has a bright chances of forming the government in Tamil Nadu,” she claimed. However, the party would take a call on these finer issues at the appropriate time. Presently, the party was gearing up to face the polls and the cadre were consolidating themselves towards achieving this goal, she added. Claiming that there were invitations from like-minded parties for an alliance, she reiterated that the DMDK cadre were keen on contesting the election on their own. However, all the views and opinions would be discussed only at the party’s general body meeting by its president Vijayakant, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-to-decide-on-poll-tie-up-in-january/article32492481.ece
01 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Action against those violating COVID-19 safety norms’||The Salem Corporation has warned of stern action against those violating COVID-19 safety norms. According to a press release, Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh warned that action would be taken against persons venturing out in public places without wearing masks and against businesses conducting trade violating the safety measures. Businesses were advised to serve customers only by wearing masks, ensuring hand sanitation and physical distancing. The Corporation said cases would be registered against violators under Tamil Nadu Public Health Act 1939 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-those-violating-covid-19-safety-norms/article32492306.ece
01 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 86.50 lakh collected for slain constable’s family||South Zone policemen and officers have contributed generously to help the family of constable P. Subramanian, 28, of Alwarthirunagari police station, who was killed in a country bomb explosion triggered by a history-sheeter recently. Visiting the family at Pandaaravilai in the district on Monday, S. Murugan, Inspector General of Police, South Zone, handed over a cheque for Rs. 86.50 lakh to the valiant constable’s father, S. Periyasamy, as a mark of the department’s solidarity with the distraught family. The amount was deposited in a private sector bank and the family would derive a monthly interest of Rs. 42,420. After the State government announced a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh to the kin of Subramanian, who was killed by an anti-social, Duraimuthu, when a police team tried to nab him near Manakkarai on August 18, police personnel and officers in 10 districts under South Zone donated money to be handed over to the family. There were expectations that the State government would give a solatium of Rs. 1 crore as it did to the family of Inspector Periya Pandian. Pandian was felled by a bullet fired by an Inspector in his special team that went to Rajasthan to arrest a gang suspected to involved in multiple heists in and around Chennai. However, only Rs. 50 lakh was announced as compensation by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy, hours before participating in the burial of the slain constable, announced that the government had sanctioned a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh immediately after getting a preliminary report on the incident. A comprehensive report on the incident would be submitted shortly. The police force in southern districts expected the second report would prompt the government to sanction another Rs. 50 lakh. But it never happened. Hence, they contributed to help the family of Subramanian. Mr. Murugan, before leaving the slain constable’s house, said the Superintendents of Police in South Zone had adequately been instructed to take all possible precautionary measures while arresting criminals to avoid such incidents. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-8650-lakh-collected-for-slain-constables-family/article32492476.ece
01 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Close down liquor outlet, says BJP||Urging the district administration to close down a TASMAC-run liquor shop at Thenthirupperai, BJP cadre submitted a petition to Collector Sandeep Nanduri here on Monday. The petitioners said the shop was opened twice before and had to be closed following stiff resistance from villagers. In the third attempt, it had been opened on Tiruchendur – Tirunelveli bypass road. If it was not closed, a fast would be observed in front of the shop, the petitioners said. Ration shops Members of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) submitted a complaint elaborating irregularities in ration shops in Thoothukudi, Kovilpatti, Tiruchendur, Udangudi and Vilaathikulam. The shops did not display the stock of essential commodities. The cardholders could not get all the products in one visit as the sales personnel asked them to come again for one or other product. The district administration must ensure that all essential commodities were sent to the shops in one go every month. Moreover, the cardholders should be given the essential commodities free of cost till next February in the wake of the pandemic and given the monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000, the AIDWA said. Other complaints Naam Thamizhar Katchi cadre led by party’s district secretary V. Senthilkumar submitted a petition seeking action against a school for collecting exorbitant tuition fee besides refusing to give admission to students under Right to Education Act. Members of a caste outfit submitted petition to the Collector seeking action against the Inspector of Police of Sattankulam police station, Sub-Inspector and other policemen for torturing one C. Martin on August 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-down-liquor-outlet-says-bjp/article32492489.ece
01 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur see a rise||Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts had the highest growth rate of COVID-19 cases among the central districts according to data released by the State Department of Health and Family Welfare. Meanwhile, Pudukottai, Tiruchi and Karur have recorded a negative growth rate, which indicates that there has been a drop in COVID-19 cases. According to the data, calculated from July 4 to Aug 28, the district with the highest weekly case growth rate reported was Tiruvarur with 38.3%. This meant that the district recorded the highest increase in the number of recorded COVID-19 cases over the stipulated time. Meanwhile, Nagapattinam recorded a 20.3 % increase, Perambalur 19.0%, Thanjavur with 7.9% and Ariyalur with 9.6%. Some districts also showed negative growth - Pudukottai recorded - 19.6%, Tiruchi - 9.4% and Karur - 8.2%. The percentage of weekly tests conducted was on upward climb across all districts in the region, but data showed that Perambalur district recorded the highest increase in weekly testing rate with 62.9% increase from July 4 to August 28. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur recorded a 39.5% increase, Ariyalur saw a growth of 34.8%, Nagapattinam 32. 2%, Karur 23.0%, Tiruchi 3.3%, Thanjavur 2.7% and Pudukottai 2.3%. Among the central districts, Perambalur and Tiruchi had the lowest positivity rate of 7.1%. Positivity rate is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus among the total number of people who have been tested. While Perambalur recorded a peak of 13.7% positivity rate between August 7 and 13, Tiruchi recorded a high of 10.2% in form July 10 to 16, both districts had recorded a drop in positive cases recorded since. However, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur saw a peak in cases over the last few weeks in August, therefore recording a positivity rate of 13.8% and 25.8% between August 21 to 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagapattinam-tiruvarur-see-a-rise/article32492528.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||After long halt, intra-district TNSTC bus services set to resume today||Intra-district public bus services are all set to resume on Tuesday after a gap of two months with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation authorities making all arrangements for operation of its buses ensuring adherence to the government guidelines. The services, which resumed with restrictions in June after a gap of over two months when the lockdown was clamped in late March, were suspended later that month in view of the spread of the viral infection. Consequent to the State government's announcement on Sunday, the public transport services are set for resumption from Tuesday. Senior TNSTC officials in Tiruchi and Pudukottai regions said that the plan is to operate about 50% of the corporation buses within the respective districts. The TNSTC Tiruchi region encompassing Tiruchi, Perambalur and Ariyalur district has a fleet of 930 buses, while the Corporation's Pudukottai Region has a total number of 383 buses. Ahead of the resuming the services from Tuesday, the TNSTC buses were disinfected on Monday in the respective depots. The TNSTC, Tiruchi region, has a total number of 13 depots with 10 of them in Tiruchi district; two in Ariyalur and one in Perambalur. The number of depots in Pudukottai region was nine with seven depots in Pudukottai district alone and one each in Tiruchi and Thanjavur district. The bus drivers and conductors have been communicated about the resumption of services from September 1, said the officials. The officials say although all the buses in their fleet were ready for operation the initial plan was to operate 50% of the services on the day of resumption to ascertain the ground-level situation and act accordingly. The drivers and conductors have already been provided with masks, gloves and sanitisers. In Pudukottai, face shields have also been provided to the drivers and conductors additionally, says a senior TNSTC official adding that seating arrangements inside the vehicles would be made to ensure personal distancing. In Tiruchi region, the bus drivers and conductors would soon be provided with face shields as a protective measure, another senior official said. The services would resume from the early hours on Tuesday and the buses would be operated within the jurisdiction of the respective district and head back. Passengers would be insisted to wear mask before boarding vehicles, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-long-halt-intra-district-tnstc-bus-services-set-to-resume-today/article32492511.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Major religious places of worship also to open||After a gap of over five months, major religious places of worship in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the region are set to reopen for public worship on Tuesday. The authorities have put in place a set of measures to ensure personal distancing inside the places of worship and comply with the detailed standard operating procedures suggested by the State government. Officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) have initiated various measures inside various temples in view of the decision allowing public worship from September 1. Markings have been made at the famous temples here such as the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Arulmigu Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram, Sri Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple, Tiruvanaikoil and the Rockfort Sri Thayumanaswamy Temple to ensure personal distancing within the temple premises. Officials say devotees not wearing mask would not be allowed inside the shrines. In some shrines barricades have been put up to regulate movement of devotees. Devotees would be allowed only through the south gopuram at the Srirangam temple, said a HR & CE official. Similarly, the devotees would be allowed only through the main entrance of the Tiruvanaikoil temple, another official said adding that sanitisers would be kept at the entrance for the devotees to use it for their hands. At Samayapuram temple, the HR & CE authorities have planned to screen all devotees using thermal scanners as a precautionary measure. The authorities have planned to conduct a 'Vigneswarar' pooja and other rituals in the early hours on Tuesday prior to allowing the devotees. “The devotees would be allowed in such manner ensuring personal distancing to offer worship to the main deities and keep moving,” said an official adding that they had not fixed any cap in respect of the number of devotees to be allowed on a day. The HR & CE officials have briefed their staff about the measures to be taken once the shrines were allowed for public worship from Tuesday onwards. Similarly, devotees would be allowed at the major churches in Tiruchi for the service by strictly following the protocol laid down by the State government . All the mosques and dargahs in Tiruchi district would be open for devotees to offer their worship. “Personal distancing would be ensured at mosques and devotees have been asked to wear mask. Sanitisers would be kept at the entrance of mosques,” said K. Jaleel Sulthan, Tiruchi district Government Khazi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-religious-places-of-worship-also-to-open/article32492513.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cab operators hope for better business with lifting of e-pass restriction||The State government’s decision to do away with the e-pass system for intra-State travel has opened a ray of hope for the revival of business, which was severely hit since the imposition of nationwide lockdown on March 24, for cab operators. Though the State government introduced an e-pass system soon after the imposition of lockdown to facilitate the people to carry out emergency travels such as for medical treatment, attending marriages or funerals, it had been a difficult task for many, including genuine travellers, to get e-pass. The travellers would not only have to provide their personal details but also the details of cabs and the drivers to get e-pass. They had to get e-passes separately with the Collectors of both inbound and outbound districts. In the initial stages, the authorities followed stringent norms to issue e-pass. Even after the State government relaxed the rules for allowing cab operators to carry passengers within the district recently, most of the cab operators remained idle as the people tend to hire taxis mainly for travelling long distances. The cab operators, who were unable to repay their dues and get fitness certificates from the transport authorities for the last five months, resorted to a protest in front of the Collector Office here a few days ago, demanding the abolition of e-pass system. Similar protests were held in different parts of the State too. Days after their protest, the State government has done away with the e-pass system for inter district travels. Though the lifting of e-pass system in the State except for hill stations will come to effect from Tuesday, it is said that several cabs including vans had already begun carrying passengers to different parts of the State on Monday itself. “It is definitely a relief for us. Traffic on highways has already increased with taxis and other vehicles carrying passengers. It indicates we will pick up business gradually,” said S. Mahesh, a car owner in Srirangam. However, the insistence of getting e-pass for travelling to Kodaikanal and Ooty and inter-State trips have not gone well among the cab operators. “Our 20% of trips are mainly for carrying tourists to hill stations. We will not get trips until the lifting of the e-pass system to hill stations too,” says Sakthi, a tourist van owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cab-operators-hope-for-better-business-with-lifting-of-e-pass-restriction/article32492521.ece
01 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||657 new positive cases and 10 deaths in central region||The central districts on Monday recorded 657 fresh COVID-19 cases, a slight dip compared to the cases reported on Sunday’s tally of 754. Meanwhile, 10 deaths- four in Pudukottai, two each in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur and one each in Tiruvarur and Tiruchi were recorded in the region. In Pudukottai a 64-year-old woman with pre-existing conditions including breast cancer and diabetes, a 68-year-old woman suffering from uremic encephalopathy and chronic kidney disease, a 65-year-old with no existing ailments and a 45-year-old man suffering from renal disease and acute pulmonary edema succumbed to the infection. In Nagapattinam, a 40-year-old man and a 85-year-old woman succumbed with comorbidity of acute respiratory distress syndrome to the viral infection. A 58-year-old woman with no comorbid conditions and a 77-year-old man who had suffered a cerebrovascular accident and a history of coronary kidney disease and diabetes died in Thanjavur. Meanwhile, an 84-year-old from Tiruvarur and a 55-year-old woman from Tiruchi with comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension died. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of fresh cases among the central districts on Monday with 125 cases. Among them were a policeman in Thanjavur town, a sub-inspector of police, a staff nurse at the Government Raja Mirasudar Government Hospital, and a doctor posted at a primary healthcare centre. More than half of the patients were identified through the various fever camps held across the district. Tiruvarur recorded 113 new cases, among which many were local index cases and contacts of those who had tested positive earlier. Of the 105 who tested positive in Nagapattinam were 43 patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses, 31 local index cases with known contact or travel history, nine travellers from other districts and three antenatal mothers. In Tiruchi, 95 patients tested positive, many of who were primary contacts, local index cases, frontline workers and residents from existing containment zones. Meanwhile 92 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 15 from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged. In Pudukottai, 86 patients tested positive, many of whom were local index cases. Among the 75 positive patients in Ariyalur, 24 hailed from Ariyalur block, seven from Thirumanur, nine each from Sendhurai and T. Palur, eight from Andimadam and 19 from Jayankondam blocks. Meanwhile, 47 new cases were reported in Karur, while 10 new cases were reported in Perambalur. Of the 10 in Perambalur, two each hailed from Perambalur and Veppanthattai blocks, five from Veppur and one in Alathur block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/657-new-positive-cases-and-10-deaths-in-central-region/article32492529.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Hotels are ready for guests||Hotels in Tiruchi are set to open for guests from Tuesday after a gap of more than five months. The hospitality sector, which was eagerly waiting for the resumption of business after the abrupt closure of hotels, resorts, home stays and lodges on March 23 following the imposition of lockdown in view of the spread of COVID-19, has largely welcomed the decision of the State government. Shortly after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami made the announcement on Sunday, hoteliers began cleaning operations at the hotel premises by summoning housekeeping staff members. Hotels, which had put their employees on notice after the closure of their business, have asked them to return to their jobs. Most of the online travel agencies have also become active, and resumed booking for their clients. The tour and travel agents functioning in Tiruchi are also looking resume hotel bookings. According to industry sources, there are about 100 hotels in Tiruchi, providing employment to nearly 1,000 persons. Nearly 40% of them are located in Central bus stand and Central bus stand areas. “The State government decision is a big relief for the industry, which was hit hard by the lockdown measures for the last 5 months. But, things are not easy and we may have to wait for a longer period to return to normal business,” said S.A. Mubashir, Joint Secretary, Tiruchi Tourism Federation. However, industry players expect that bookings will gradually pick up in cities like Tiruchi, which have a history of attracting a mixed group of travellers. As far as Tiruchi is concerned, 40% of travellers are pilgrims and the remaining 60% are commercial and business travellers. With the festive season set to begin shortly, it is said that the pilgrim tourists would book rooms gradually. “With the closure of business completely for a longer period, we have incurred heavy losses on various fronts. But, we have to forget the past and look forward for a good future,” said V. Prabu of Hotel High Point at Cantonment. Mr. Mubashir added that the occupancy rate in the hotels would be just 30% to 35% in the next few months. Most of the hotels in Tiruchi had already put in place well established safety precautions in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure while admitting overseas returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-are-ready-for-guests/article32492509.ece
01 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Reopen Gandhi Market at the earliest: traders||Urging the State government to take urgent steps to reopen the Gandhi Market in the city, the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has threatened to launch a State-wide agitation if the issue was not resolved soon. Alleging that a public issue litigation has been filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court by an individual for his selfish interests, the Peramaippu urged the authorities to take steps to vacate the interim injunction granted by the court against the opening of the Gandhi Market till the disposal of the petition. After a consultative meeting of representatives of 27 associations, representing various traders groups of Gandhi Market, here on Monday, A. M. Vikramaraja, State president of the Peramaippu, said the organisation would take up the issue with the Chief Minister. In a statement explaining the decisions taken at the meeting, Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary of the Peramaippu, traced the genesis of traders opposition to the move shift them to the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on the outskirts of the city. At the planning stage and even during construction of the new complex, the authorities said that it was a separate complex of the Agricultural Marketing Department and it was in no way connected with any move to shift the Gandhi Market. Subsequently, when the authorities tried to project it as an alternative to the Gandhi Market, traders launched a series of protests and even threatened to boycott the 2016 Assembly polls. The traders were then assured that the market will not be shifted to Kallikadi and the same was reiterated during an official meeting conducted by senior officials of the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business about six months ago, Mr. Govindarajalu claimed. In the meanwhile, an individual has filed public interest petition in the name of an organisation seeking the shifting of the market to further his own personal interests, Mr. Govindarajalu alleged. The government should take to the court’s notice the true intent of the individual and get the injunction vacated, he said. “At a time when even Koyambedu market is to be opened soon, the continuation of the temporary market at G. Corner grounds where there is no shelter has to be viewed as an anti-trader action,” Mr.Govindarajalu said. The government also had a duty to take steps to reopen the Gandhi Market by vacating the interim injunction by stating before the court that it had dropped the plan of shifting the Gandhi Market, he said. The meeting, decided to meet the Ministers from the district Vellamandi N.Natarajan and S. Valarmathi, and the Collector to press the demand. If the issue was not resolved, traders will be forced to launch an agitation by closing all vegetable markets across the state, Mr. Govindarajalu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-gandhi-market-at-the-earliest-traders/article32492518.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private buses will not take to the roads today||Private bus owners operating stage carriers in the State have decided not to resume services on Tuesday, stating that restricted operations would not be economically viable. The State government has allowed bus services within districts from Tuesday. However, the Federation of Bus Operators’ Associations of Tamil Nadu on Monday said its members had decided not to resume services until inter-district operations are allowed with full seat occupancy. The 2,000-odd members of the federation operate about 4,600 stage carriers on mofussil and town routes in the State, except in a few districts like Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. Federation secretary D.R. Dharmaraj appealed to the government to allow inter-district operations as per route permits and with unrestricted seat occupancy. “About 70%-80% of our services are on inter-district routes. Operating within the districts will not be financially viable,” he said. Private buses on town/city routes too will not hit the road as restricted occupancy will make their operations unviable, Mr. Dharmaraj said. Though there are still no clear guidelines, operators assume that they will be asked to adhere to the earlier directive of operating with 60% occupancy. “It is practically not feasible for the crew to restrict or prevent passengers from boarding buses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-buses-will-not-take-to-the-roads-today/article32492261.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AI Express to operate more repatriation flights||Air India Express has announced its schedule of repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat Mission from Tiruchi to different overseas destinations and back for the month of September. Air India Express services are to be operated in order to bring back Indians by these repatriation flights that would be operated on different dates from various countries. As per the schedule announced by the airline, the flights from Tiruchi would be operated to Dubai, Sharjah, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Abu Dhabi, Doha, Muscat and Kuwait. On September 1, the airline would operate flights to Dubai and Sharjah from here and return back. The Air India Express had earlier operated several flights under Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indians stranded abroad in view of the suspension of international services due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ai-express-to-operate-more-repatriation-flights/article32492514.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Resumption of bus services within districts brings partial relief to industries||Resumption of bus services within the district will bring in only partial relief for the fabrication sector in Tiruchi that depends substantially on manpower from Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts as well, according to industry representatives. “There is indeed a possibility for workers to come in two-wheelers from other districts. But, daily commuting by two-wheelers will not be economically viable even for employers in the present situation, leave alone workers,” according to Rajappa Rajkumar, president of BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSSIA). The restoration of bus services within districts has meant an improvement in manpower availability from 20 % to 50 %. A complete remedy for manpower shortage will remain elusive if the inter-district bus services are not restored, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. Resumption of bus services within the districts does not suit the fabrication sector in the region since there is active movement of workers from the neighbouring districts to Tiruchi, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association R. Ilango pointed out. The manpower movement used to be ideal at the time of previous relaxation of bus services when zones encompassing clusters of districts were formed for public transport. At present, there is a need for movement of workers between Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts to suit the fabrication industries in Thuvakudi. Likewise, a provision must be made for movement of workers between Tiruchi and Pudukottai for the benefit of industries in at Mathur, Mr. Ilango said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resumption-of-bus-services-within-districts-brings-partial-relief-to-industries/article32492508.ece
01 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Former panchayat chief accused of caste-based discrimination||The Untouchability Eradication Front, on Monday, sought action against the former president of Kolumanguli Village Panchayat for allegedly threatening the present panchayat president, a Scheduled Caste woman. A statement signed by the Front’s district president R. Kumar and district secretary C. Nandagopal claimed that Priya Senthilkumar, the president of Kolumanguli Village Panchayat in Kundadam Panchayat Union, was allegedly threatened by the former panchayat president. The statement urged the District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal to take steps to arrest the man under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. However, Revenue Department officials said on Monday that no such complaint was submitted by Ms. Senthilkumar. This allegation comes days after the Dharapuram police arrested a ward member under provisions of the SC/ST Act on charges of threatening the president of Kavandachipudur Village Panchayat. Condemning the caste-based discrimination faced by SC panchayat presidents, the Untouchability Eradication Front organised State-wide demonstrations on Monday, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-panchayat-chief-accused-of-caste-based-discrimination/article32492319.ece
01 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tiger mauls woman to death in MTR||A 50-year-old tribal woman was killed by a tiger in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Monday afternoon. The deceased M. Gowri, an adivasi resident of Kurumbarpadi in the buffer zone of the tiger reserve, had ventured into a forest patch along with her husband Maathan and three others. Forest department officials said that the five persons had driven their cattle into the reserve forest in Kallallah in the Sigara Forest Range to graze. They had herded the animals more than two km. into the reserve forest when a tiger, which had been unnoticed in the area, attacked Gowri, dragging her away from the rest of the group. The animal dragged Gowri around 100 meters away from the site of the initial attack, before fleeing after Maathan and the others calling for help. Deputy Director of MTR (buffer zone), L.C.S. Srikanth, said that interim compensation would be provided to the family and that the forest department was investigating how the attack happened. Officials said that the incident did not occur close to a human habitation but inside a reserve forest. They said that the location the incident occurred pointed to the attack being purely incidental and not because the animal was actively stalking humans as prey. Srinivas R. Reddy, Field Director (in-charge) of MTR, said that camera traps are to be installed near to where the incident occurred. “We suspect that the attack was purely incidental, and that the tiger could have been an adult female with cubs, which attacked when the people got too close,” said Mr. Reddy, adding that residents would be warned to not venture into the forest to graze their cattle. The body of the victim was retrieved and sent for postmortem. This is the first human fatality resulting from a tiger attack in the Nilgiris since 2016, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-mauls-woman-to-death-in-mtr/article32492312.ece
01 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||The Nilgiris to remain closed to tourists||The Nilgiris district will remain closed to tourists until further notice, officials from the district administration said. The officials said all parks run by the Horticulture Department as well as tourist spots would remain closed until further orders by the State government. Meanwhile, resorts and hotels would be allowed to open, but tourists would not be allowed to stay there. People, who visited the Nilgiris on business or essential work, would be allowed to stay in these facilities. The administration would hold a meeting with the hotel and resort owners, as well as other businesses on Tuesday to lay out rules for them to operate when they opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-nilgiris-to-remain-closed-to-tourists/article32492305.ece
01 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in tiger attack in MTR||A 50-year-old tribal woman was killed by a tiger in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve on Monday. The deceased, M. Gowri, an Adivasi resident of Kurumbarpadi in the buffer zone of the reserve, had ventured into the forest with her husband Maathan and two others. A tiger, which was hiding in a thicket, is believed to have stalked and attacked Gowri, dragging her away from the rest of the group. Deputy Director of MTR (buffer zone) L.C.S. Srikanth said interim compensation would be given to the family. The Forest Department is investigating the cause of the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-kills-tribal-woman-in-mudumalai/article32492270.ece
01 September 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||80 buses to hit roads in Virudhunagar||Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Virudhunagar region, will operate 80 buses within Virudhunagar district from Tuesday. More buses may be operated based on demand. The vehicles have undergone periodical maintenance and they will be thoroughly disinfected before passengers are allowed to board, an official said. All drivers and conductors will be provided with face mask, hand gloves and sanitisers. Passengers who wear face masks alone will be allowed to board the buses. Besides, physical distancing will be maintained inside the vehicles too. Meanwhile, all places of worship will be thrown open to devotees to offer their prayers from Tuesday. “Devotees will be allowed from 6 a.m. till 8 p.m. All devotees will have to wear face masks and follow physical distancing for which markings have been made on the temple premises,” Temple Executive Officer A. Elangovan said. The temple authorities would also keep sanitiser, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-buses-to-hit-roads-in-virudhunagar/article32492477.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bus services to resume with safeguards||With the State government relaxing the lockdown norms, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) is set to operate its buses from Tuesday, with safeguards that would help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Wearing of masks will be mandatory for passengers. Drivers and conductors will have to wear masks and gloves. Conductors will also provide hand sanitisers to passengers before issuing the tickets. The buses will be disinfected periodically. The Coimbatore Division of TNSTC will operate 343 town buses and 63 mofussil buses from Tuesday, officials said on Monday. These buses constitute only 50 % of the total fleet in the district. The buses, however, will be operated only within Coimbatore district and there will be no inter-district services. To avoid crowding this time, there will be 100 buses more than the number operated for a month from June 1, before public transport was suspended again as part of the lockdown. Around 30 passengers will be allowed to travel on each bus, the officials said. The TNSTC would operate 175 buses initially. On Monday, 200 buses at the depots were kept ready for operations within the district from Tuesday. TNSTC officials said 130 town buses and 45 mofussil buses will be operated. Private bus operators said they would not operate buses from Tuesday as it would not be viable. They wanted to operate buses to other districts also with full occupancy. Of the total 135 mini-buses in the district, 50% are expected to be operated. Also, the premises of the Corporation’s Central Bus Stand at Erode, bus stands at Bhavani, Perundurai, Sathyamangalam and Gobichettipalayam were cleaned and kept ready. The Salem Division of the TNSTC, which covers Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts, plans to operate minimal services, out of the total fleet of 1900 buses as intra-district services. A senior official said the number of buses would be increased depending on passenger demand. Officials said drivers and conductors had been provided with immunity building concoction, apart from masks, gloves and sanitisers. The TNSTC will operate 30 % of the services in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Hosur. Accordingly, 285 buses, out of a fleet of 950, will be operated from Tuesday. A TNSTC official told The Hindu that the number of passengers per bus will be only 30 % of the total number of seats, in order to ensure physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-to-resume-with-safeguards/article32492299.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Highest single-day spike in Coimbatore district with 589 cases||Coimbatore district saw its highest single-day increase in COVID-19 cases so far, with 589 cases reported on Monday. Of the 14 deaths reported, except for three aged 38, 34 and 53, the rest were persons aged 60 and above. The toll stood at 308. Two persons died in Erode, taking the toll so far to 42. Salem reported the death of 10 persons, the youngest of them aged 34 and the oldest 80. Coimbatore’s fresh cases took the overall tally of the district to 15,490, of which 11,469 had recovered and 3,713 were active cases. On Monday, 436 patients were discharged. Tiruppur reported 70 cases, taking the district’s tally to 2,719, of which 1,861 recovered and 793 were active cases. A total of 72 patients were discharged. Salem district saw 497 persons testing positive, of which 468 were indigenous including 329 from the Salem Corporation limits. Twenty-eight patients returned from Coimbatore, Erode, Kalakuruchi, Krishnagiri, Namakkal and Dharmapuri, and one from Delhi. The 92 cases in Namakkal include five police personnel, two revenue officials and two health staff. Nineteen patients returned from Salem, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Erode and Neyveli. Three returned from Karnataka and Maharashtra. With Erode reporting 127 new cases, the district’s tally increased to 3,177. A total of 138 persons were discharged and 1,275 were under treatment. Eleven persons tested positive in Krishnagiri and 16 in Dharmapuri. In the Nilgiris, 30 persons tested positive, bringing the total number of cases to 1,614. The district administration stated that 1,277 people had recovered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highest-single-day-spike-in-coimbatore-district-with-589-cases/article32492304.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Soon, police outpost at Thoothukudi airport to boost security||A police outpost is coming up at Thoothukudi airport to ensure the safety of air passengers and provide additional protection to the premises. Also, stringent curbs are to be put in place to check the dumping of unsold or discarded food and meat close to the airport as it may lead to bird hits. The decisions were taken at a recently held of the Airport Services Committee and Airfield Environment Management Committee attended by Collector Sandeep Nanduri and airport director N. Subramanian. Since dumping of degradable waste, particularly edible leftovers, in areas close to the airport, would attract flocks of birds and cause disastrous bird-hits, the airport authorities discussed about the problem in detail with the district officials on checking the menace. The meeting also decided to put in place a credible solid waste management system to avert the problem. In the wake of the runway expansion at the airport to handle wide-bodied aircrafts, it decided to make a ‘no objection certificate’ from airport authorities mandatory for construction of new buildings near the airport. Following the meeting, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar visited the airport to identify spots where police personnel had to be deployed as part of increased security around the premises. He also finalised the spot for the police outpost. Senior officials of Indian Coast Guard, Indian Airforce and Ministries of Civil Aviation and Home Affairs also remotely participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soon-police-outpost-at-thoothukudi-airport-to-boost-security/article32492474.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Floral accolade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/floral-accolade/article32492315.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Banks should not ask for new MoD, says association||Tamilnadu Foodgrains Merchants Association has urged the Chief Minister to issue an order directing banks not to ask for a new memorandum of deposit (MoD) of title deed from manufacturers and traders who want additional 25% loan. In a press release, association president SP Jeyapragasam said the Central government had allowed traders and manufacturers to get a loan of 25% in addition to their existing loan. The traders and manufacturers had already received loans from banks by registering their assets to get a MoD of title deed. At present, the bankers were extending the loan limit by up to 25% based on the same assets that were pledged earlier. However, they were insisting on a new MoD title deed which costed a good sum. Therefore, the State government must issue an order directing banks not to ask for a new MoD of title deed, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-should-not-ask-for-new-mod-says-association/article32492466.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Children’s Court for Madras||It is understood that a Children’s Court will shortly be established in Madras for the trial of offences by children. The Court when constituted will be presided over by a Presidency Magistrate and an Honorary Magistrate who will be nominated by the Chief Presidency Magistrate. The Madras Legislative Council passed an Act sometime back enabling the Government to create such a Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/childrens-court-for-madras/article32492262.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Bhavani Sagar dam||Water level at Bhavani Sagar dam stood at 99.82 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet here on Monday. At 8 a.m., the inflow was 884 cusecs while the discharge was 200 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal, 800 cusecs in Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals and 2,300 cusecs at Lower Bhavani Project canal. The storage was 28.587 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-bhavani-sagar-dam/article32492296.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 31   Cases on Monday: 589 Persons tested +ve so far: 15,490 Indigenous cases: 15,450 Imported cases: 40 Persons recovered: 11,469 Active cases: 3,713 Deaths: 308      Cases on Monday: 70 Persons tested +ve so far: 2,719 Persons recovered: 1,861 Active cases: 793  Deaths: 65||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32492302.ece
01 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Jolle tests positive||Minister for Women and Child Welfare Shashikala Jolle has tested positive for COVID-19. She announced this on her social media handles on Monday. “I am under home quarantine for 14 days. I request all my primary and secondary contacts to undergo testing and quarantine,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jolle-tests-positive/article32492380.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NLSIU to introduce PhD scholarship||There are several international scholarships awarded to students who want to pursue higher education abroad, but fewer for those who want to pursue higher education and legal research within India. To provide scholarships on the lines of several prestigious international scholarships, the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) has decided to introduce its first PhD scholarship. It will be called the Dr. N.R. Madhava Menon Doctoral Fellowship. GE, an American multinational, has decided to partner with the university to fund the first batch. The “Menon Scholar supported by GE India” entails fully funded opportunities, which will include annual tuition fee, monthly stipend, laptop and travel cost for attending a conference. All candidates who are accepted for the doctoral programme at NLSIU will be eligible to apply for this scholarship. The overall sponsorship value is around Rs. 75 lakh. Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Vice Chancellor of NLSIU, said: “The fellowship was created to honour and celebrate the role of our university’s founder who pioneered legal education reform in India. This fellowship programme will identify and support PhD research scholars at NLSIU to make an exceptional contribution to legal knowledge and legal education, and to become future leaders in India.” Prof. Krishnaswamy said that NLSIU seeks to deepen its engagement with high technology industries and research initiatives in Bengaluru to emerge as a world leading research hub in the next three years. In 2019, NLSIU had awarded PhDs to 10 candidates. Srijoni Sen, Assistant Professor, NLSIU said that all PhD candidates will be eligible to apply, and will be interviewed by a three-member panel, who will assess them on their academic excellence, a compelling trajectory, potential of their work to make a significant contribution in the field of study and alignment to the values of integrity and empathy. John Thaliath, general counsel, GE-South Asia said that the merit-based scholarship would support three candidates for a three-year duration. The company found this scholarship a “meaningful way of engaging with legal research in India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nlsiu-to-introduce-phd-scholarship/article32492206.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Discharge rate stands at 72%||Three weeks after the new discharge policy came into force in the State, the discharge rate of patients who tested positive for COVID-19 and have recovered has been rising. According to the State COVID-19 war room analysis as of August 30, 72.1% of the 3.35 lakh patients who tested positive were termed as “recovered”. The highest recovery rate was reported from Vijayapura, where 86.7% of the total 6,589 cases have recovered. The lowest recovery rate was in Chitradurga, where 63.3% of the total 2,551 patients have recovered. Meanwhile, 17 districts in the State have a discharge rate higher than the State average of 72.1%. The recovery rate in Bengaluru Urban is 68.9%. According to the new discharge policy, no repeat test is required for asymptomatic, mild and moderate cases at discharge as before. They have also reduced the 14-day home isolation after discharge to seven days with self-monitoring. As per the revised policy issued on August 11, individuals who remain asymptomatic in hospital will be discharged 10 days after they are tested positive and will not require another test before discharge. Meanwhile, after seven days of home care, on the 14th day, there will be a follow up over teleconference. C. Nagaraj, Director, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, said that the discharge rates were increasing due to several factors. He said that with a uniform protocol for treatment and discharge across the State, it was easy to ensure that patients were on the path of recovery. “With testing being ramped up, people who have tested positive can sign up for treatment earlier. In the initial few days, people were coming to the hospital when the infection had spread,” he said and added that the stigma of testing positive had come down as a result of which people were coming forward now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discharge-rate-stands-at-72/article32492223.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Film shoots resume, but multiple challenges ahead||It’s lights, camera and action for Kannada film industry which has resumed shooting after the Central government gave the green signal. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said the State government had issued a notification in June permitting restricted shooting, including maximum of 50 people at the location for films that were in the last leg of shoot. “Most films had not begun the shooting process and only some pre- and post-production works were going on. Now that the Centre has given other relaxations with adequate safety measures, regular shootings have slowly resumed,” he added. Film-maker S.V. Rajendra Singh Babu said utmost care would be taken by all departments: make-up, casting, lighting, studios, camera, to actors and directors. “Many films have changed their shooting locations due to the pandemic,” he said, adding that preparations were underway to resume the shooting of his directorial Raja Veera Madakari Nayaka starring Darshan. Actor, producer and distributor Rockline Venkatesh, producer of Raja Veera Madakari Nayaka , said they had planned to shoot in Rajasthan and had obtained permission as well. “We had to replan everything due to the pandemic. Now, we will be filming in the State itself,” he said. Various teams have resumed shooting. Director Prashnath Neel recently announced on Twitter that they had “finally” begun the shooting of K.G.F. Chapter 2 . Actor Prakash Raj, who is also a part of the movie, tweeted “Start Camera..Action…BACK TO WORK.” According to sources, Shivarajkumar starrer Bhajaranhi 2 begun shooting recently. Many in the industry The Hindu spoke to said there would be many challenges in the filming process, including shooting intimate scenes, fighting and mass dance scenes. “Shooting of such scenes would be deferred to a later date hoping the number of COVID-19 cases comes down,” an industry source said. He said ensuring that no one is infected would be a challenge, as that would bring the shooting to a halt again. Sudheendra Venkatesh, a film PR professional, said shooting sites would be quite different from the usual with unprecedented health safety protocol and practices. “Thermal screening, wearing masks, avoiding hugs and handshakes, PPE kits among others will be the new normal,” he said, adding that controlling the crowd at shooting site would also be a challenge.   Controlling the crowd at shooting site would also be a challenge, said Sudheendra Venkatesh, a film PR professional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-shoots-resume-but-multiple-challenges-ahead/article32492197.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Theatre owners sore as shows continue to remain suspended under Unlock 4||Cinema halls have had no shows since the lockdown was imposed. And theatre owners, who were expecting to be given the permission to resume services under unlock 4, are disappointed. Arun Kumar B.S, owner of Santosh Theatre, said it was high time that cinema halls were given a chance to resume screening. “When places of worship, hotels and even malls have been allowed to open, we should be given a chance,” he said. Mr. Kumar said if they are allowed to open, there are a few films, some of which were released just before lockdown, that can be screened. “They will keep the momentum going by the time new films come,” he said. Uday Garudachar, owner of Garuda Mall chain, said theatres were “footfall drivers” in malls. “There are around 18 screens in the Garuda Mall chain and once it resumes, it will make a huge impact to the footfall in malls also,” he said, adding that they would abide by the government guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures in letter and spirit. “Of over 15 eateries at Garuda Mall in Bengaluru, not more than four are open as they are apprehensive. Once, cinema halls are open, the scepticism and apprehension will go away to an extent,” he said. Veteran film-maker Rajendra Singh Babu said the sooner cinema halls are allowed to open, the better it was for the film fraternity and allied sectors. “Theatres need time to get back to normalcy and for people to start returning. Hence, they should be allowed to resume services as soon as possible,” he said.  A representative from a multiplex chain said the Multiplex Association of India had come up with its own strict SOPs, including staggered show timings and online-only ticket booking system. In a series of tweets, the association said the cinema industry too deserved a chance when aviation, metro, malls, wellness, and restaurants are allowed to open. “The industry is an inherent part of the country’s culture and economy, supporting millions of livelihoods,” the association recently tweeted. Various theatre owners have repeatedly written to the government to waive electricity bills and property tax for cinema halls. Producer, distributor and actor Rockline Venkatesh told The Hindu that he was mulling over starting an initiative where well-known actors promote all films so that it encourages people to come to the theatre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theatre-owners-sore-as-shows-continue-to-remain-suspended-under-unlock-4/article32492199.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice on plea against inducting three MLCs into the Ministry||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State government, the Governor, and the Chief Minister on a PIL petition filed against inducting three MLCs — R. Shankar, A.H. Vishwanath, and N. Nagaraj (MTB) — into the Council of Ministers. However, the court declined to pass any interim order against any likely process to induct them. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on the PIL petition, filed by Harisha A.S., a city-based advocate. As it was contended in the petition that the move, published in the media, to induct the trio into the Council of Ministers would be contrary to Article 164 and 361B of the Constitution, the Bench observed that surely the constitutional functionaries, the Governor and the Chief Minister, would examine the constitutional provisions before inducting anyone. The petitioner alleged that the trio were given entry into the Legislative Council with the sole purpose of inducting them into the Council of Ministers even though Mr. Vishwanath and Mr. Nagaraj had lost in the byelections in their respective Assembly constituencies after their disqualification. Mr. Shankar did not contest from the Assembly constituency after hisdisqualification, the petitioner said. To become eligible to be appointed as a Minister, a disqualified member of the Assembly will have to get “re-elected” to the same House during the same period in which he was disqualified, by contesting in an election from the Assembly constituency, the petitioner contended. It was also claimed in the petition that the trio were “not eligible” to be appointed as Ministers and in politically remunerative posts because of the prohibitions imposed in constitutional provisions and the observations of the apex court, which had upheld the order passed the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly in July last year disqualifying the trio from the Assembly.  Unconstitutional move? It was contended in the petition that the move, published in the media, to induct MLCs R. Shankar, A.H. Vishwanath, and N. Nagaraj (MTB) into the Council of Ministers would be contrary to Article 164 & 361B of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-on-plea-against-inducting-three-mlcs-into-the-ministry/article32492210.ece
01 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State’s prison occupancy above capacity||The overall occupancy rate of the State’s prisons is just over their capacity, at 101.4 occupants to a capacity of 100 inmates. But it is lower than the national average of 118.5, according to data from ‘Prison Statistics India - 2019’, released recently by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). However, a closer look at the data shows that the eight central jails, prime among them Parappana Agrahara Central Prison of Bengaluru, are more overcrowded, with an occupancy rate of 119.48, while the district jails have an occupancy rate of 96.11 and the sub-jails an occupancy rate of 38.35, indicating a skewed distribution of inmates in the State’s prisons. Not just that, a whopping 68% of the prison inmates are lodged in just eight central prisons of the total 104 prisons in Karnataka. “This has mostly been the case because of the infrastructure available in central prisons, which is sadly not the case in other jails. Undertrials are also mostly lodged in central and district prisons because of the frequent court visits they have to make,” a senior prisons official said. The report also exposes the lack of medical personnel in the State’s prisons. The medical staff-inmate ratio in the prisons — one for every 691 inmates — is the second-worst in the country, behind West Bengal (1 to 923). However, Karnataka’s prisons function at just over 68% of the sanctioned strength,has a better staff to inmate ration. In the State’s prisons, there is one staff member forevery five inmates; the national average is 1 to 7.  Undertrials are also mostly lodged in central and district prisons because of the frequent court visits that they have to make a prisons official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-prison-occupancy-above-capacity/article32492215.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||6,495 cases reported||A total of 6,495 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Monday, while 7,238 patients were discharged on the same day. With this, the total number of recoveries is 2.49 lakh and positive cases in the State stand at 3.42 lakh. A total of 1,862 positive cases and 2,422 recoveries were reported in Bengaluru Urban. Number of deaths A media bulletin by the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that 113 new COVID-19 related deaths were reported in the State on Monday, taking the total number of deaths to 5,702. Besides this, 19 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 died due to non-COVID-19 related causes. Out of the 87,235 active cases reported in the State, 747 patients were admitted to intensive care units across different hospitals. The number of tests conducted in the State on Monday dipped as only 43,132 were conducted. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar, who tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this month, was discharged on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6495-cases-reported/article32492224.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will break Darknet market’||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the police will crackdown on all people, including those in the film industry, involved in drug trade in the State. He convened a meeting with senior police officers on the progress in investigation into drug menace. Mr. Bommai said a team of officers was working on all angles. The officers would break the Darknet market, which consists of many online platforms that facilitate trade. The department would strengthen the anti-narcotic networks in the respective police units. The Home Minister instructed police officials to keep an eye on bus stations, railway stations, airports, and big parties in cities to crackdown on the drug mafia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-break-darknet-market/article32492207.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP employees to get Rs. 30 lakh insurance cover||The State government has announced an insurance scheme for employees of gram panchayats, under which they will be entitled to a compensation of Rs. 30 lakh in case of death owing to COVID-19. The insurance is applicable to GP employees such as bill collectors, clerks, clerk-cum-data entry operators, watermen, pump operators, pump mechanics, attenders, and sanitary workers, said an order issued by the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department. The State has over 6,000 GPs, which have thousands of employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-employees-to-get-rs-30-lakh-insurance-cover/article32492211.ece
01 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Swachhta pledge||Swachhta pledge, a 15-day campaign by Principal Chief Commissionerate of Central Tax, (Bengaluru zone) and Principal Commissioner of Central Tax, Bengaluru North Commissionerate, will commence on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swachhta-pledge/article32492200.ece
01 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Patient found dead||A COVID-19 positive patient reportedly took the extreme step of ending his life in Dharwad on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Allahbhaksh Nadaf (56), a resident of Dori village in Alnavar taluk of Dharwad district. According to the police, the patient was getting treatment at the COVID ward on the sixth floor of a private hospital. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patient-found-dead/article32492383.ece
01 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||MLA tests positive||Thirthahalli MLA and Karnataka Housing Board Chairman Araga Jnanendra tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. In a video message, the MLA said that though he had tested positive, he had no symptoms. He had been advised to remain under home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-tests-positive/article32492387.ece
01 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Commodities handled by Hubballi Dn. is one-and-a-half times more||The Hubballi Division of the South Western Railway has been able to achieve an increase in its freight movement during the pandemic by carrying more commodities. Essential commodities handled by the division between May and July 2020 is one-and-a-half times more than that compared to the corresponding period of the last fiscal. Addressing presspersons through a video link in Hubballi on Monday, Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede said that after the formation of the Business Development Units in the division, more interactions were held with industries, including farm industries. “As a result of these interactions, the division has carried 10 % more freight in August in comparison to the corresponding month of the last financial year,” he said. Mr. Malkhede said that during the current financial year, inward foodgrains carried by Hubballi Division till August-end was 57.5 lakh quintals against 44.5 lakh quintals carried during the last year, an increase of 30 %. Inward fertilizers carried during the current financial year was 47.1 lakh quintals against 41.7 lakh quintals during the last year, a growth of 13 %. He said that during the lockdown period, no demurrage charges were levied and the busy season surcharge at a rate of 15 % on all goods traffic had been withdrawn on October 1, 2019. A single all-India contact helpline number —139 — with option 6 for Freight and Parcel Queries had been introduced, he said. Listing out the various discounts, relaxations and incentives offered by the division as directed by the Railway Board, Mr. Malkhede said that there had been a 10 % increase of freight carried by Hubballi Division during August 2020 when compared to last year. He said that the schemes and relaxations had turned out be a win-win situation for both freight customers and the Railways. Mr. Malkhede was accompanied by Additional Divisional Railway Manager S.K. Jha, Additional Divisional Railway Manager Vishvas Kumar, Deputy General Manager and Chief Public Relations Officer E. Vijaya and others during the virtual press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/commodities-handled-by-hubballi-dn-is-one-and-a-half-times-more/article32492385.ece
01 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||HDMC ties up with bank for digital payment||In a bid to make it easier for citizens to pay property tax through digital mode, Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation has tied up with Yes Bank. According to a press release here, the tie-up will now enable residents of the twin cities to make HDMC bill payments digitally using mobile banking, internet banking, digital wallets and other service providers integrated with the BBPS (Bharat Bill Payment System) platform. The facility was formally launched on Wednesday. Residents can make property tax and bill payments through BBPS-enabled bank branches, ATMs and business correspondents as well. Further, it will enable HDMC to streamline the tax and payment collections from citizens on a single national bill payments platform. The platform facilitates the flow of billing information between Yes Bank and HDMC along with confirmation of bill payments on a real-time basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdmc-ties-up-with-bank-for-digital-payment/article32492377.ece
01 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State to come out with Special Investment Region Act based on Gujarat model||As part of its efforts to ensure an even distribution of industries across the State, Karnataka will shortly come up with a Special Investment Region Act, along the lines of legislation enacted by Gujarat, and declare Dharwad, Kalaburagi, and Shivamogga as special investment regions, according to Jagadish Shettar, Minister of Large and Medium Industries. “The industrial development is currently Bengaluru-centric and we want to ensure distribution of industries across the State by taking them to Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities. As part of these efforts, we are going to introduce the Special Investment Region Act, which is similar to the one in force in Gujarat, and declare Dharwad, Kalaburagi, and Shivamogga special investment regions for focussed industrial development. The Bill will be introduced in the next session of the legislature,” he said. He was addressing industrialists at an interaction programme organised by the Hyderabad-Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI) on Monday. Responding to criticism against the government for its recent amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, Mr.Shettar described as “historic” the removal of clauses A and B of Section 79 in the Act and maintained that it would pave the way for rapid industrialisation. “I had, along with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, participated at the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland. Industrialists from across the world who took part in the meet hailed Karnataka as an industry-friendly State, but expressed concerns over the impediments in getting land for the establishment of industries. Section 79(A) and 79(B) in the land reforms Act were there to harass industrialists. They were the obstacles to industrialists to get lands hassle-free for the establishment of industries as well as for non-agricultural persons to purchase agricultural lands. They were helpful neither to farmers nor to industrialists. With the amended Act in force, industrialists can directly purchase lands for their industries instead of doing it through the KIADB (Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board) or other State-run agencies,” he said, adding that the amendment would, in no way, affect the farming community or the farm sector as a whole as it would increase the value of agricultural lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-come-out-with-special-investment-region-act-based-on-gujarat-model/article32492212.ece
01 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Centre promises AIIMS to State||As part of its plans to expand the public medical infrastructure in the country, the Union government will establish an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Karnataka in the next financial year, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan has said. “Even after 50 years of Independence, the country had only one AIIMS at New Delhi. After the Narendra Modi government came to power, six more institutes have been established in the country, including one in Rae Bareli. We have now planned to establish one more in Karnataka and the project would get approval in the next financial year. We would establish 22 such institutes across the country in the years to come,” he said. He was speaking from New Delhi in a virtual meeting after remotely inaugurating the Super Speciality Trauma Care Centre at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari on Monday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar also participated in the event from Bengaluru. As per the information provided by the Ballari district administration, the trauma care has been established at a cost of Rs. 150 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). The new facility with 200-bed capacity, including 72 beds in ICU and 79 beds in the emergency department, is equipped with neurosurgery, plastic surgery, orthopaedics, radiology and anaesthesia departments. “The late Sushma Swaraj had contested a Lok Sabha election from Ballari and she had given approval for a trauma centre in Ballari when she became Union Health Minister. Now, it is realised. Besides, four medical colleges – one each in Chikkamagaluru, Haveri, Yadgir and Chikkaballapur – would be established this year. We have established 57 medical colleges across the country in the last four years,” Dr. Harsh Vardhan said. Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey, parliamentarian Nasir Hussein, legislators Somashekhar Reddy and Allam Veerabhadrappa, Ballari Urban Development Authority chairman Dammur Shekhar, and Joint Secretary of Union Health and Family Welfare Sunil Sharma, among others participated in the virtual meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-promises-aiims-to-state/article32492218.ece
01 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Lorry driver, cleaner run over||A lorry driver and a cleaner were killed on the spot when a cement-laden lorry ran over them in Chittapur town in Kalaburagi district on Sunday night. However, the deceased were not identified. The lorry ran over the two when both of them were refilling their lorry’s diesel tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lorry-driver-cleaner-run-over/article32492382.ece
01 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 31 lakh fine collected||Kalaburagi Regional Transport Office has collected Rs. 31 lakh fine in traffic violation cases and pending taxes in August. Department officials said that as per the directions of Joint Commissioner, Kalaburagi Division, and Regional Transport Officer, they imposed penalty on 400 vehicles. The department, on an average, used to collect about Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 6 lakh, but this [collection] was the highest in the recent years, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-31-lakh-fine-collected/article32492381.ece
01 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Works begin to augment capacity at Mangaluru Central||The process to address the long-pending demand of coastal people for augmenting train handling capacity at Mangaluru Central Railway Station has commenced with the Southern Railway floating tender for the construction of a new 24-coach pitline to replace the existing 18-coach pitline. Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division hopes to complete the new pitline work, estimated to cost about Rs. 7 crore, by March next, paving the way for demolition of the existing pitline. This, in turn, would facilitate the construction of two new platforms — platforms 4 and 5 — at Central Railway Station thereby enhancing train handling capacity. Divisional Railway Manager Pratap Singh Shami told The Hindu that tenders for pitline construction (Rs. 7.37 crore) as well as modification of overhead electric lines (Rs. 31.68 lakh) were called for two weeks ago. The Railway Board had earlier assigned pitline and platform works to the Construction Organisation of the Southern Railway. The division sought the nod of headquarters to execute these works through its own Open Line wing as there was delay in the execution of the work while capacity augmentation had to be done expeditiously, he said. While work on the new pitline construction would go on, preparations to launch the construction of new platforms would also be taken up simultaneously, including preparing the final plan and finalising the tender. By the time the new pitline is ready, hopefully by March next, work on the new platforms should also start. If everything goes as planned, new platforms too should be ready by 2021-end, Mr. Shami said. A senior official said that the existing pitline was a non-standard one with a small curve that was not advisable. The new one, he said, would be a standard one and offer unhindered cleaning and maintenance of coaches. Welcoming the developments, West Coast Rail Yatri Sangha advisor Anil Hegde told The Hindu that the long-standing demand of the coastal people for capacity augmentation at Central Railway Station was being fulfilled now. This would facilitate the introduction of new trains, particularly to destinations within the State as well as to North India, he said.   By the time the new pitline is ready, hopefully by March next, work on the new platforms should also start, and, if everything goes as planned, new platforms too should be ready by 2021-end, says Divisional Railway Manager Pratap Singh Shami||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/works-begin-to-augment-capacity-at-mangaluru-central/article32492373.ece
01 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pranab Mukherjee’s visit to Mangaluru, Udupi||The former President Pranab Mukherjee visited Mangaluru region last on June 18, 2017. As President, he had laid the foundation stone for the A. Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Super-speciality Hospital in Udupi. Speaking on the occasion, he had emphasised the need to provide quality healthcare in the country’s rural areas. Mr. Mukherjee had said that in healthcare, the country was rather backward in terms of number of doctors, nurses, hospitals and super-speciality hospitals. Later, he visited the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple and offered prayers. He met Vishwesha Tirtha Swamji of Pejawar Mutt in Udupi. He also visited the Sri Mookambika Temple in Kollur and offered prayers on the occasion. Earlier, as Union Finance Minister he visited Manipal on May 26, 2012 and inaugurated a two-day seminar on “21st Century as the Asian Century: Role of India and China” organised by the Manipal Centre for Asian Studies at the then Manipal University and now, the Manipal Academy of Higher Education. He had inaugurated the ground floor of the Academic block of Manipal Institute of Technology campus on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pranab-mukherjees-visit-to-mangaluru-udupi/article32492386.ece
01 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More train services likely||The Railways believes that Mangaluru Central Station is set to become a major station in the region once the works on new pitline, two additional platforms, doubling of 1.5 km line between Netravathi Bridge and Mangaluru Central and the Kulashekara tunnel between Mangaluru Junction and Padil are completed. Southern Railway’s Palakkad Divisional Railway Manager Pratap Singh Shami told The Hindu that once all these works were completed by December next, more trains could be introduced to and from Central Railway Station that had been facing severe capacity crunch. Though Netravathi-Central doubling work is under progress, it is severely affected by non-availability of workers due to the pandemic. Yet, the Construction Organisation was expected to complete the doubling work by March. So was the case with the Kulashekara tunnel, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-train-services-likely/article32492374.ece
01 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Trial to study efficacy of BCG vaccine against COVID-19||While human trials for COVID-19 vaccines were underway in different parts of the country, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) in Mysuru will soon begin trials to study the efficacy of BCG, the anti-tuberculosis vaccine, in providing a protective cover against COVID-19. As part of the trials, which had been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), an estimated 250 elderly citizens in the age group of 60 to 80, free from COVID-19 or any other ailments, will be inoculated with a dose of BCG vaccine. “Over the next one year, the inoculated persons will be monitored for the presence of antibodies in their blood and how they respond in the context of COVID-19,” JSSAHER Pro-Chancellor B. Suresh told The Hindu . Though BCG vaccine is mandatorily given to children in India, the immunity is believed to wane with time and reduce substantially after 60 years. The vaccine administered as part of the trial will be a “booster dose” to see if it can provide additional cover to tuberculosis and also cover COVID-19 in the process, he said. BCG vaccine is given when children are young and is expected to last for 40 to 50 years during which they are expected to develop strong immunity to face the tuberculosis challenge, he said. The persons vaccinated in the trial will be first checked after 28 days. One-year test “We will check how they have responded after the inoculation and test them for antibody titer. We will keep checking them over a period of time to see how long the antibody cover is available and how the person responds with the cover,” Dr. Suresh said adding that the trial will last for one year. The clinical trials of BCG against COVID-19 come in the backdrop of studies indicating a slower spread of COVID-19 infection in countries where the vaccination to children is mandatory. JSSAHER is one of the few centres chosen by ICMR for the BCG vaccine trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trial-to-study-efficacy-of-bcg-vaccine-against-covid-19/article32492221.ece
01 September 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Revenue officials told to go to the aged to give govt. pension||Considering age-related difficulties of senior citizens, Revenue Minister R. Ashok has directed Revenue officials to identify beneficiaries who are eligible to get old age pension from the government and accept applications from them for further action instead of forcing them to approach offices for the purpose. He was addressing a review meeting on flood-related issues and action taken so far in Yadgir recently. Mr. Ashok, who expressed serious concern over aged persons, said that they should not be forced to come to Revenue and other departments to submit applications seeking pension from the government. Therefore, officers compulsorily should identify eligible aged persons and take applications from them to release pension amount directly to their respective bank accounts. The Revenue Minister suggested that officials take all available initiatives to tackle the flood situation and help people in distress. “Attend to every call seeking help. Inform higher officers if you receive information on floods and take immediate action to alert people about flood threats,” he advised. He directed tahsildars of all taluks in the district to construct burial grounds in every village using government land. “Every village should have a burial ground for people from all communities. Therefore, you have to identify at least one acre of government land for the purpose. If such land is not available, purchase it from private persons,” he added. Chairman of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board Narasimha Naik, Chairman of Kalyan Karnataka Region Development Board Dattatraya Patil Revo, MLA Raj Kumar Patil Telkur, president of Zilla Panchayat Basanagowda Yadiyapur, Regional Commissioner of Kalaburagi Revenue Division Manjunath Prasad, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane and district-level officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenue-officials-told-to-go-to-the-aged-to-give-govt-pension/article32492376.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two main markets to reopen today||Krishna Rajendra Market and Kalasipalyam market, which have remained closed for months, will reopen on Tuesday. The civic body had sealed the markets when the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the city increased to around 2,000 a day. On Monday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, accompanied by MLA Uday B. Garudachar and senior officials, inspected the markets and reviewed cleanliness and measures taken in view of COVID-19. Several precautionary measures have been taken at the markets, he said. BBMP would post 15 marshals at the markets to oversee protocols and violators. Vendors and visitors have to wear masks, follow social distancing norms, use sanitisers, have minimum contact with each other, and ensure segregation of waste. Special markings have been made inside the markets to help visitors maintain social distancing. Mr. Prasad said BBMP would be spending around Rs. 3 crore to put in place fire safety measures in the two markets. While reiterating that street vending would not be allowed, he urged vendors and citizens to cooperate. Later, Mr. Prasad, along with Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Development Department Rakesh Singh, reviewed the progress of TenderSURE works taken up by Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. As many as 36 roads have been taken up for development in 13 different packages. A release said that contractors were directed to complete the road works within the deadline. Bengaluru Smart City Ltd.’s MD Hephsiba Korlapati has been asked to review the progress of the works with engineers and contractors once every two weeks, apart from levying a fine on contractors who did now show much progress in works. Contractors were told to ensure that safety measures are in place at the work sites, besides ensuring motorists are not inconvenienced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-main-markets-to-reopen-today/article32492203.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kempegowda Jayanti celebrations put off||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has put off Kempegowda Jayanti celebrations, following the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee. The State government issued a circular cancelling all programmes scheduled during the seven-day national mourning, till September 6. The civic body had scheduled the celebrations on September 2 and had decided to give away Kempegowda awards to 20 persons who had helped the State government and BBMP in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. This is the second time the celebrations are being put off this year. The event usually coincides with the Bengaluru Karaga. It was earlier put off following the outbreak of COVID-19 in the city. Condoling Mr. Mukherjee’s death, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar said a date would be fixed after discussions with Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. Mr. Prasad, meanwhile, recalled his close association with the former President during his posting as District Magistrate and Collector of Murshidabad district from 2004-06. “Pranab Mukherjee was elected as MP of Jangipur (Murshidabad district). I worked very closely with him during my tenure. His demise is a great loss to me, personally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kempegowda-jayanti-celebrations-put-off/article32492201.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Unlock 4: Public events allowed from Sept. 21||There will be no restrictions on the movement of people and goods within the State and also between States. People aged above 65, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those with multiple health problems have been advised to stay at home. In containment zones, the BBMP and district authorities should take strict steps to contain spread of the disease. Only essential services would be allowed in containment zones.  Regularising the Union government’s SOP on preventive measures to be taken in restaurants to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Excise Department issued an order, allowing only up to 50% seating capacity in pubs, bars, restobars for dine-in services. Encouraging takeaways instead of dine-in, the SOP states that maintaining social distancing of a minimum of 6 ft when queuing up for entry and inside the restaurant should be followed “as far as feasible”. “Seating arrangements to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. In restaurants, not more than 50% of seating capacity to be permitted,” the SOP says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unlock-4-public-events-allowed-from-sept-21/article32492217.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police step up efforts to track down drug peddlers||Close on the heels of a raid by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to seize drugs supplied mainly to those in the Kannada film industry, the police stepped up efforts to track down the source of drugs. The Vijayanagar police, on Sunday, searched the house of Syed Sadiq Ahmed, 22, from Padarayanapura who was arrested for allegedly assaulting a traffic policeman at the Vijayanagar junction. Police found a packet of ganja in his pocket. According to the police, Sadiq, his associate Ahmed Qureshi and a minor were riding a two-wheeler when they were flagged down by a traffic policeman. They allegedly assaulted him. A few passers-by rushed to the policeman’s help and caught the trio. They were handed over to the Vijaynagar police. The injured constable was taken to a hospital for treatment. The police learnt that Sadiq was an addict and questioned him about the source of the drug. “We have obtained vital clues on the peddler and efforts are on to track him,” a senior police officer said. Meanwhile, the CCB’s anti-narcotics wing have stepped up a probe into a possible drug network in the city. Officials are keeping a close watch on courier services as it was the one of the means to supply the contraband, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-step-up-efforts-to-track-down-drug-peddlers/article32492204.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New Addl. Chief Secretary to CM||E.V. Ramana Reddy is the new Additional Chief Secretary to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The incumbent P. Ravi Kumar has been transferred and posted as Additional Chief Secretary to the State government. Mr. Reddy will continue to hold the position of Additional Chief Secretary to the IT, BT and Science and Technology Department. G. Kumar Naik, Principal Secretary to the Industries and Commerce Department, has been posted as Principal Secretary, Higher Education, relieving Mr. Reddy from the concurrent charge. Mr. Naik will continue to be the Principal Secretary to the Industries and Commerce Department, said an order issued by the government on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-addl-chief-secretary-to-cm/article32492216.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||The trio||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-trio/article32492220.ece
01 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State needs to assert its right on TB water: CPI||Andhra Pradesh has not asserted its right over 105 tmcft of water from the inter-State irrigation project Tungabhadra Dam at Hospet in Karnataka and the government must take immediate measures to do it politically, said Communist Party of India(CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna. In a letter written to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Ramakrishna said that the engineers from Karnataka had earlier estimated the holding capacity of the dam having got reduced to 100.5 tmcft in 2008, but following a study by irrigation engineers from three States in 2016, a report given by Mumbai-based RV Associates showed that the dam had a capacity of 105 tmcft and hence pro-rata allocation of Andhra Pradesh must increase. A decision on this report is still pending in the Tungabhadra Dam Board and no effort is being made to get this approved, the CPI leader wrote in the letter. The Karnataka government, meanwhile, was going ahead and building new dams and reservoirs in the upper reaches stopping flow into the dam, he pointed out. Total yield While the total yield is supposed to be 220 tmcft, Karnataka gets 151 tmcft and Andhra Pradesh 69 tmcft. Anantapur and Kurnool districts are the major beneficiaries from the High Level Canal and Low Level Canal flowing from the dam and with lesser amount of water coming from the Tungabhadra dam, irrigation in Rayalaseema gets affected, he observed demanding immediate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-needs-to-assert-its-right-on-tb-water-cpi/article32492532.ece
01 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held for attack on scribe in Chittoor||The police on Monday arrested three persons in connection with the attack on the house of a journalist of a vernacular daily at Kanduru village of Somala mandal. The police said that the arrested persons were relatives of a minor girl in the village. Last week, the headmaster of the school allegedly molested the girl. Based on complaint from her parents, the headmaster was arrested and sent for remand. A local scribe had allegedly tried to settle the issue between the girl’s family and the headmaster in remand. This angered the victim’s family members and relatives. On Sunday, three relatives of the girl’s family allegedly intimidated the journalist and damaged the furniture at his house. Acting on a complaint, the police arrested the accused and a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-held-for-attack-on-scribe-in-chittoor/article32492533.ece
01 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor worth Rs. 13.56 lakh seized||The Gangavaram circle police on Monday seized liquor worth Rs. 13.56 lakh along with a timber dust-laden lorry at Gundrajupalle check-post near Palamaner on the Bengaluru NH. According to Additional SP (Special Enforcement Bureau) Y. Rishant Reddy, the Gangavaram circle police were conducting checks on the NH at random. When they checked the lorry, liquor bottles from Karnataka were found hidden under the timber dust. While two persons were arrested, two others, including its driver, escaped abandoning the vehicle. The Additional SP said that surveillance was stepped up all along the national highway towards Karnataka and the border check-posts at Nangili and Cheekalabailu were kept under digital monitoring. He said that due to the growing incidence of liquor smuggling, special parties were formed in the border mandals of Gangavaram, Punganur, Palamaner, Ramasamudram, V. Kota, and Kuppam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-worth-rs-1356-lakh-seized/article32492534.ece
01 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tonsuring case: YSRCP trains guns on Naidu||The YSRCP leaders on Monday took pot shots at TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who accused the government of having failed in protection of the Dalits in State, by organising symbolic protests across the State. The tonsuring of a Dalit youth in Visakhapatnam has triggered a war of words between the ruling YSRCP and the TDP, the main Opposition party. As part of the symbolic protests, the YSRCP cadres led by their leaders including some Ministers performed ‘palabhishekams’ to many statues of B.R Ambedkar across the State. They also placed memorandums at the feet of the statues at several places. In Guntur, YSRCP leaders Meruga Nagarjuna, Lella Appireddy and others staged a protest at the B.R. Ambedkar statue at Lodge Centre. Taking strong exception to the allegations levelled by Mr. Naidu that the YSRCP government has failed to take actions in the cases involving alleged atrocities against Dalits, the YSRCP leaders claimed that such cases were among the highest ever reported in the State during the TDP tenure. “Mr. Naidu has no moral right to speak about the welfare of Dalit communities. It was him who made fun of ST community stating that they were not intelligent. The SCs and STs hate him for his anti-Dalit demeanour,” alleged Deputy Chief Minister P. Pushpa Srivani. ‘Rs. 13,000 cr. spent on Dalit welfare’ “The YSRCP government has spent Rs. 13,000 crore on the welfare schemes meant for SCs and STs in just 14 months after assuming the office,” she said. Minister for Women and Child Welfare Taneti Vanitha accused Mr. Naidu of neglecting the Dalit community during his term. “The TDP chief is now shedding crocodile tears for Dalits. he must not forget that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has given five portfolios in his Cabinet to Dalits,” she said. ‘Action taken immediately’ Meanwhile, Minister for Tourism M. Srinivasa Rao took part in a protest in Visakhapatnam. “The YSRCP government has taken immediate action in the case of tonsuring of the Dalit youth and arrested the people allegedly involved in the case. The BCs, SCs, STs and minorities have got prominent representation in the the YSRCP government,” he said. YSRCP MLA V. M. Nagarjuna accused Mr. Naidu of taking many anti-Dalit initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tonsuring-case-ysrcp-trains-guns-on-naidu/article32492550.ece
01 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers oppose biomedical waste plant in East Godavari||The residents from six villages surrounding to site for the Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility proposed at Marripadu in Rangampeta mandal of East Godavari district opposed the project at the public consultation meeting held on Monday. Nearly 2,000 villagers thronged the government school at Marripadu, the venue for the meeting and raised slogans. In July 2017, the environmental public hearing was held for the project proposed to set up by M/S Godavari Bio-Management and the eco-clearance was granted. However, the operational clearance is pending. Legal battle The facility proposed to be set up in 1.28 acres aims at handling the waste generated from an estimated 6,800 hospital beds in the district. However, with the residents opposing it , the project was caught in a legal battle. The High Court has asked the authorities to conduct a public consultation meeting and document the views. On Monday, Peddapuram Revenue Divisional Officer S. Mallibabu and officials of APPCB and District Industries Department conducted the meeting. The residents representing Marripadu, Chinna Brahmadevam, R.D.Kothuru, G. Kothuru, Srimedapadu, Valatimmapuram and Kondapalli made it clear that they would not allow the project at any cost, saying that it would impact their lives in many ways. “All the surface and groundwater sources and fields will be affected by the project,” said K. Katam Raju from Chinna Brahmadevam.  The residents also submitted letters signed by all the villagers. In a separate memorandum, a group of farmers from the affected villages also opposed the project. The villagers and farmers did not allow the officials to speak at the meeting, blaming the departments for granting the permissions for the project, despite their opposition. “The opinions of the villagers will be submitted to High Court within four weeks,” said Mr. Mallibabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villagers-oppose-biomedical-waste-plant-in-east-godavari/article32492547.ece
01 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore records more than 1,000 cases for third day in a row||Nellore district reported more than 1,000 cases for the third consecutive day on Monday, while the toll climbed to 294 with 12 more deaths in the last 24 hours. With 1,086 new cases, the district’s tally shot to 32,196. For the last three days, Nellore has been among the top three districts contributing to the State’s daily tally. However, it also sees a high number of discharges every day. With 882 patients recovering, the active cases came down to a little over 8,000. Meanwhile, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu urged the public to be extra careful and take all precautionary measures, such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and frequent handwashing in view of the rapid increase in fresh cases in the district. Helpline People in the containment zones as also those in COVID-19 Care Centres and hospitals can call helpline numbers 104 or 1077 or 9618232115 for queries or guidance. On the other hand, Prakasam district reported 9 more deaths pushing up the toll to 284, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Monday night. The tally rose to 22,830 with 524 new cases getting reported. As many as 411 patients discharged during the period, bringing down the number of active cases to over 10,000.  In Ongole, two inmates of the sub-jail were among the 524 persons who got infected during the period. Fresh cases came from, among other villages, Ayyavaripalli, Devaragattu, Inamanamalluru, Chandalur, Pangalur, Chervukommapalem, Sarvereddypalem, Vengamukkapalem, Pamidipadu, T.Kopperapadu, Thuravagunta and Lingamgunta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-records-more-than-1000-cases-for-third-day-in-a-row/article32492537.ece
01 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Punitive action taken against six policemen in Prakasam||Punitive action was initiated against six police personnel on Monday following allegations of corruption and misbehaviour with public were made against three of them. While Dornala sub-inspector Sk.Abdul Rahman was placed under suspension on the orders of South Coast Zone Inspector General J.Prabhakar Rao by Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, “departmental major penalty” was served on Kumarole SI S.Mallikarjuna Rao and Gudluru SI Y. Panduranga Rao who had already been brought to the district headquarters under Vacancy Reserve(VR), following inquiry into charges of corruption and rude and inappropriate behaviour with the public. Criminal action would be taken, if necessary, after further probe, the SP said. The SP also transferred District Special Branch field-level staff K. Vivek Kumar(Chirala Rural), S.A. Rahman(Kandukur) and M.Venkateshwarlu (Ongole Taluka). Punitive action was taken against them for “negligence, poor performance, indiscipline and failure to provide timely inputs on law and order”. The SP said a close watch was being maintained on police stations across the district and stern action would taken after inquiry. The SP wanted the public to inform the police about any such incident through WhatsApp at 9121102266.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/punitive-action-taken-against-six-policemen-in-prakasam/article32492535.ece
01 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||110 COVID-hit women deliver babies safely at GGH||As many as 110 pregnant women infected by coronavirus delivered healthy babies safely at Srikakulam Government General Hospital, thanks to the special efforts of the doctors, nurses and other medical staff. An exclusive ward for them has been created in the second floor of the hospital and special care was taken in the maternity centre for the safe birth of babies. Head of Obstetrics and Gynaecology I. Vani and senior gynaecologist R. Aravind conducted a special training programme for all doctors, nurses and staff in handling pregnant cases in June itself. They instilled confidence among them to take up the responsibility. As per the assurance, they supplied PPE kits to all of them and made them participate wholeheartedly in the deliveries. “As per the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council of Medical Research, breastfeeding is allowed for just born babies. Mothers were asked to cover their faces with masks while feeding the babies. After that, the babies are kept in cradles to avoid close touch with mothers. The coronavirus tests conducted on infants showed a negative result in spite of breastfeeding, which is a good sign,” said Dr. Vani.  Counselling Dr. Aravind said that the pregnant women were counselled to be calm during deliveries in view of their COVID-19 condition. “Soon after admission the pregnant women were tested and those who showed positive for COVID-19 were put in the exclusive ward created for them. Constant counselling helped them stay calm and that ensured more than 50 normal deliveries out of 110,” he said. “The women could overcome COVID-19 also as a majority of them had good immunity due to their young age. The special care and training helped us prevent COVID-19 infection among the doctors and staff,” he added. A new mother from Gangatarapuram of Kanchili mandal was quite happy with the special care taken in the ward. “We were worried about the doctors and the staff getting infected. Their devotion to duty is laudable,” she said. Another new mother from Balligattulu village of Kaviti mandal said that the GGH had come to their rescue when many private hospitals had refused admissions. “I was anxious about the baby’s health. Fortunately, my baby tested negative in spite of breastfeeding. I hope everything will be normal for me in a few days with the support of the doctors and the staff,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/110-covid-hit-women-deliver-babies-safely-at-ggh/article32492563.ece
01 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Race hots up for Turpu Kapu corporation chief's post||Many leaders of YSR Congress Party are in the race for the prestigious chairperson's post of Turpu Kapu Corporation which has been formed recently. Though the Kapu community is an upper caste in East and West Godavari districts and some other parts of AP, the Turpu Kapu community comes under the backward category in the State. A majority of the people of the community live in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Every party tries to woo the community during the elections. Their reported support tilted balance in favour of the YSRCP and helped it to win all nine Assembly segments in Vizianagaram district and eight in Srikakulam district. Rajam was reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Palakonda for the Scheduled Tribes in Srikakulam district. However, more than 30% votes of Turpu Kapu decided the fate of contestants in elections. That is why, the corporation's chairperson post has got special importance. Former chairperson of Vizianagaram Marketing Committee and YSRCP Congress leader Pilla Vijaya Kumar, YSRCP joint secretary Mamidi Srikanth, retired Group-1 officer Surangi Mohana Rao, former MPP of Narasannapeta in Srikakulam district Karimi Rajeswara Rao are reportedly in the race for the key post. Mr. Vijaya Kumar, who has been loyal to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana for the last 30 years, is hopeful of getting the post. He reportedly met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and explained his active role in arrangements for padayatra. Mr. Vijaya Kumar's supporters recalled his relentless fight to get BC-A status for the Turpu Kapu caste. Support sought Mr. Srikanth has reportedly sought the support of Mr. Satyanarayana and former Minister Dharmana Prasada Rao to get the key post. Former CEO of Srikakulam Zilla Parishad Corporation and YSRCP BC cell president Surangi Mohana Rao's name is also reportedly being considered for the post. Mr. Rajeswara Rao is loyal to Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas and Mr. Dharmana Prasada Rao. He is hopeful of getting the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/race-hots-up-for-turpu-kapu-corporation-chiefs-post/article32492562.ece
01 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Punnami Garuda Seva in ekantham||The TTD has resolved to observe the monthly Punnami Garuda Seva scheduled for September 2 in ekantham (private). The decision was taken in view of COVID-19 pandemic. However, festivities relating to the festival will be carried out at Ranganayakula Mandapm inside the hill temple where Lord Malayappa shall ride his favourite Garuda Vahanam between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m.  Donation In a munificent contribution, an ardent devotee from Visakhapatnam Kaki Govinda Reddy on Monday donated Rs. 1 crore to the TTD Nitya Anna Prasada (free meals) Trust. A demand draft for the amount was presented to TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma reddy at his camp office in Tirumala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/punnami-garuda-seva-in-ekantham/article32492564.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Infrastructure, State support key to better investment climate’||Speakers at an online conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Andhra Pradesh on Monday ascribed sustained State support and continuous efforts to improve infrastructure to the congenial investment climate. Speaking at the virtual event conducted on the theme ‘Reinforcing growth through infrastructure development: investment destination for the State of Andhra Pradesh’, R. Karikal Valaven, Special Chief Secretary, Industry & Commerce, Infrastructure & Investment, explained how the government focussed on the industrial sector, ways to attract more investments and introduced a new industrial policy to focus on providing best-in-class infrastructure, zero-hassle set-up, skilled labour and end-to-end hand-holding support for units to provide an industry-friendly environment on a par with international standards. “Development of four new ports to make Andhra Pradesh the logistics hub and gateway to South East Asia is under way. New industrial parks in different districts will be set up and infrastructure in the existing ones improved,” Mr. Karikal Valaven explained. Model business city Sri City founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy emphasised on developing world-class infrastructure as the key to attracting investment.“ CII A.P. Chairman D. Ramakrishna, Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association (ICEMA) president Sandeep Singh, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CRDAI) president C. Sekhar Reddy took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infrastructure-state-support-key-to-better-investment-climate/article32492565.ece
01 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVU holds Ph.D. admissions||Sri Venkateswara University(SVU) has completed the first phase of Ph.D. admissions relating to Andhra Pradesh Research Common Entrance Test (APRCET 2019) which concluded on Monday. The second phase of admissions will be held in the second week of September, SVU Director of Admissions M. Venkateswarlu said on Monday. For details, contact 0877-224 8589 or 98481 90850.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svu-holds-phd-admissions/article32492538.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social security pension to be distributed today||The State government will distribute social security pensions on Tuesday. “The government has released Rs. 1,496.07 crore for the purpose and the amount has been credited into the accounts of the respective village secretaries through the Andhra Pradesh Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (APSERP),” Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said on Monday. Geo-tagging method More than 61.68 lakh beneficiaries will get their pension at their doorsteps. As many as 90,167 new pensioners will be benefited from September 1 onwards, he said. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, the government will distribute pensions using geo-tagging method. Digital mapping and iris and face recognition systems will be used while distributing the pensions. New beneficiaries The Minister said of the new beneficiaries, 89,324 will get general pensions, while 843 will receive health pensions. “The government will spend Rs. 21.36 crore on the pensions of the new beneficiaries. “Around 2.68 lakh volunteers will hand over the pension amounts to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps on Tuesday morning,” said Mr. Ramachandra Reddy. The Minister further said 4,133 pensioners have opted for portability in September. “The pension of 730 beneficiaries who are held up at different places due to the lockdown will be given to them after they return. The benefits of 1,87,422 people who have not received their pensions for the last six months due to various reasons will also be paid in total this month,” he said. Further, 2,244 pensioners have requested for inter-district transfer of their accounts and 7,592 have sought intra-district transfers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-security-pension-to-be-distributed-today/article32492552.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pranab’s death is a tragic loss to the nation: Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan condoled the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee who passed away on Monday. Mr. Harichandan recalled the services rendered by Mukherjee to the nation as the 13th President and said he had the rare distinction of serving as the Union Minister of External Affairs, Defence, Commerce and Finance Minister at different times during his illustrious career that spanned over five decades. “Mukherjee had spearheaded important legislations such as the Right to Information and National Food Security Acts and played an instrumental role in setting up the UIDAI, metro rail and etc.,” he said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a Twitter post, said the demise of Mukherjee is a tragic loss to the nation and his valuable contributions to the nation’s progress will be always remembered. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief and observed that Mukherjee had shown maturity while dealing with complex issues and had passed through testing times. BJP State president Somu Veerraju described Mukherjee as a multifaceted personality and his death is a grave loss to the nation. Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan said Mukherjee was a non-controversial politician and had played a key role in reforms that changed the country’s economic landscape. ‘The troubleshooter’ TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu expressed his condolences to the family members and the countless admirers of Pranab Mukherjee. “The country has lost a veteran statesman. He was known for his image as a troubleshooter and keeping aloof from controversies,” he said.  APCC president Sake Sailajanath and BJP State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy condoled the death of the Bharat Ratna awardee. “A towering personality in INC and the President with a human face, we have many things to learn from him,” said Mr. Sailajanath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pranabs-death-is-a-tragic-loss-to-the-nation-governor/article32492555.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State may appeal against HC order on COVID care centre fire||The State government is likely to go in for an appeal on the High Court’s order on the fire accident that occurred in a COVID care centre run by Ramesh Hospitals here. On August 25, Justice D. Ramesh of the High Court granted an interim stay on all the proceedings on the case filed against Ramesh Cardiac and Multispeciality Hospitals Private Ltd. Managing director P. Ramesh and chairman M.S. Rammohan Rao. Ten patients died and 21 others suffered injuries when fire broke out in Hotel Swarna Palace-turned-Ramesh Hospital COVID care centre, located on Eluru Road, on August 9. Following a complaint lodged by Vijayawada Central Tahsildar, the Governorpet police registered a case against Ramesh Hospitals and Swarna Palace managements under Section 304 (II) and 308 r/w. 34 IPC and took up investigation. Police arrested Ramesh Hospitals chief operating officer Kodali Rajagopala Rao, Kurapati Sudarshan, general manager, and P. Venkatesh, public relations officer, of the hospital within a few hours after the incident Police launched search for the remaining accused. “We read the order copy of the High Court staying further proceedings in the case. The government will file a review petition on the interim stay of the single-Judge Bench,” said an officer on Monday. Legal opinion “We will file the review petition after discussions with legal experts and officers investigating the case,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-may-appeal-against-hc-order-on-covid-care-centre-fire/article32492401.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lauded for awareness drive on cyber crimes||International table tennis player Naina Jaiswal and Indian cricketer Ravi Kalpana praised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for according priority to women protection. Ms. Kalpana thanked Mr. Reddy and Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita for introducing AP Disha Bill, to prevent crimes against women in the State. Participating in the valedictory of the month-long ‘E-Raksha Bandhan’ (Online awareness drive on cybercrimes) at Police Headquarters in Mangalagiri on Monday, Ms. Jaiswal asked the people to treat women with a fair smile and respect. “Parents and teachers should have knowledge about cybercrimes, bullying and hacking and guide their children on cyber attacks,” the tennis player said. Ms. Kalpana thanked Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gauam Sawang and CID Additional DG P.V. Sunil Kumar for organising the month-long awareness drive. Actor Akkineni Samantha praised the government and the AP Police, CID, Cyber Peace Foundation, Education Department and other partners for conducting webinars on cyber crimes. District-level webinars Mr. Sawang said the AP Police would organise district-level awareness programmes across the State on cyber frauds. He released books on cyber security for women and children and launched police monthly magazine ‘Suraksha’ on the occasion. Students – K. Indumathi and Jyoshita from Visakhapatnam, Keertana of Vijayawada, Usha and Pushpa Latha from Tirupati – spoke to the DGP online and thanked the police for organising the webinars. Mr. Sunil Kumar said 19 webinars were conducted on different topics on cybercrimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-lauded-for-awareness-drive-on-cyber-crimes/article32492572.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals, labs warned on rapid antigen tests||State COVID-19 Nodal Officer (Labs) A. Mallikarjuna Rao said the licences of hospitals and laboratories charging more than Rs. 750 for COVID rapid antigen test or doing the same without permission would be revoked. Mr. Rao said many hospitals and labs had been conducting rapid antigen tests without permission. They were charging more than Rs. 750 fixed by the government. Only labs accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and the hospitals accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) upon being permitted by the government could conduct the rapid tests, he said. Every test should be registered on the portals and an ID generated for the sample. Hospitals and labs mail to ceoap@ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in or c405@ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in to seek permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospitals-labs-warned-on-rapid-antigen-tests/article32492556.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector reaches out to maths teacher||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz met the mathematics teacher-turned-street vendor T. Venkateswara Rao at BRTS Road in the city a day after this newspaper published a report highlighting the plight of Mr. Rao. Mr. Imtiaz, along with officials, on Monday reached out to Mr. Rao who was selling footwear on BRTS Road near Padavalarevu as part of his new daily routine. According to a release, Mr. Imtiaz offered a contract job and a loan facility to set up a better business and asked Mr. Rao to choose one of it. Mr. Rao will meet Mr. Imtiaz at his office on Tuesday for further proceedings. Mr. Rao lost job as a part-time teacher due to COVID pandemic and resorted to selling footwear to make ends meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-reaches-out-to-maths-teacher/article32492567.ece
01 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM sets sight on self-reliance of ULBs||Taking stock of the reforms in municipal administration at a review meeting on Monday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed officials to study the tax compliance in States such as Karnataka and Maharashtra in order to replicate the best practices thereby shore up revenues. Mr. Jagan stressed the need for urban local bodies (municipal corporations and municipalities) to be self-reliant as per the Central government's mandate and insisted ways to achieve that goal should be explored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-sets-sight-on-self-reliance-of-ulbs/article32492568.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. becomes second worst-hit State in India in just two months||A visit to the Beach Road in Visakhapatnam on Sunday would have given a hint on why the State has leapfrogged to the second position in the country in the number of coronavirus infections. The 4-km Beach Road was a choc-a-block, with the attendance of an estimated one lakh people on the weekend. And the district health officials told The Hindu on Monday that going by a conservative estimate, at least a 1,000 would have been the carriers of the virus, who would have infected thousands. The State on Sunday surpassed Tamil Nadu to take the number two spot after Maharashtra in COVID-19 infections and it happened in just 60 days. On June 1, infection count in State were 3,679, when the same in Maharasthra was 70,013, followed by Tamil Nadu (23,495), Delhi (20,834) and Gujarat (17,217). On July 1, the tally in A.P. was 14,595 when compared to Maharashtra (1,74,716), Tamil Nadu (90,169) and Delhi (85,161). However, in the last two months, the State, with 4,24,767 cases, have broken all records, leaving behind Tamil Nadu (4,22, 085)to take the number two spot after Maharashtra (7,80,689). Fixing responsibility Since June first week, the lockdown norms have been relaxed in phases, with the Centre giving certain guidelines to the States and empowering them to take necessary decisions as circumstances demand. But, emphasis have been laid by the State and the Centre that checking the virus is also the responsibility of people. “Some restraints and adherence to norms are the needs of the hour. We have seen how there was a spike in cases after people thronged markets during the Sharavan Shukravaram. Now, we see people thronging the beaches on weekends not giving two hoots to the norms,” says a senior doctor. Partial lockdown “The slew of measures launched to educate people on the virus and on the precautions appear to be failing in solving the purpose. We are heading towards the worst and the load on the health infrastructure is all time high. People must understand the gravity of the situation,” says District COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar. Meanwhile, a few doctors questioned the government policies. Many States such as Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and even West Bengal have come up with partial lockdown measures. But, we are yet to see such measures in the State. After the Unlock 2.0, we opened up almost everything ,” says a senior doctor. Onus on policing Many doctors are of the opinion that strict policing is the need of the hour. It is time that the administrations imposed some restrictions, they say . However, a senior police officer says that nothing can be done, unless an order is received from the higher-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-becomes-second-worst-hit-state-in-india-in-just-two-months/article32492559.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six more persons succumb to coronavirus; toll goes up to 258||As many as 434 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday, taking the cumulative tally to 37,106 here in the district. Six more persons succumbed to the infection taking the death toll to 258. What gives a respite to Health Department officials is that the number of discharges have crossed 30,000-mark in the district, after 478 more persons recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. With the new recoveries, the total number of persons recovered from the virus is 30,337, which is almost 81% of the total cases. As per the COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases as on Monday are 6,511. Among the 738 clusters, 49 are very active and 60 are active. As many as 629 clusters are dormant. It may be recalled that 171 clusters have already been denotified, said Special Officer for COVID-19 & Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar. The number of cases saw a very drastic increase during August in the district. Compared to the previous month, the cases were more than 2.5 times higher in August. By the end of June, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district was 900 with five deaths. By July 31, the district ended up with 11,177 cases and the death toll rose to 91. By August 31, the total cases increased to 37,106 and the death toll rose to 258. As per the COVID-19 health bulletin, district saw 10,277 cases and 86 deaths in July, which indicates that on an average, over 330 new cases were reported every day in the month. However from August 1 to 31, the number of cases reported in the district is 25,929 and 167 persons died due to the virus. This indicates that on an average, 836 new cases were reported every day and at least five persons died. The district also reported more than 1,000 cases everyday five times in August. Health officials say that the number of cases could increase even more in September and October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-more-persons-succumb-to-coronavirus-toll-goes-up-to-258/article32492583.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu shedding crocodile tears for Dalits: YSRCP MLA||Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri has alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu is shedding crocodile tears for Dalits to gain publicity. The former Chief Minister, who had failed to respond to attacks on Dalits by his own partymen in the past, was now targeting the YSR Congress Party government, though action was initiated against the accused in the incident relating to the attack and tonsure of a Dalit youth within 24 hours, he said a media conference here on Monday. He said that YSRCP came to know that Nutan Naidu, at whose house the Dalit youth was attacked and tonsured, was a Jana Sena Party (JSP) supporter, only after an inquiry. But, Mr. Naidu was talking as though Nutan Naidu had links with the YSRCP. The TDP had opposed the efforts of the State government to allot house plots to the Dalits, he alleged. Mr. Dharmasri explained that the State government was giving importance to all castes unlike Mr. Naidu, who was interested in the welfare of only one caste. The growing support to the YSRCP in north Andhra was leading to a sense of insecurity in the TDP president and making him resort to false propaganda to portray the ruling party in bad light, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-shedding-crocodile-tears-for-dalits-ysrcp-mla/article32492577.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pranab’s last visit to city was an emotional one’||Recalling former President Pranab Mukherjee’s visit to the city as an emotional one, senior management of GITAM deemed-to-be University say that the par excellence statesman and astute politician was full of energy, who visualised a developed India. Mr. Mukherjee who passed away in the Army Hospital after an illness on Monday, was here at GITAM to deliver the Foundation Day lecture on August 10, 2019. Recalling his lecture, Vice-Chancellor of the University K. Sivaramakrishna said: “The former President had just stepped down from his position when he visited our university and was above politics and political lines. His very opening statement summarises his idea of ‘his’ modern India: India has been invited as an observer for the G8 summit, but the day is not far when India will be a member of the G8, for which we have to focus on research and innovation.” President of GITAM M. Sri Bharat, recollecting his association said, “I have met him several times in the past, since my maternal grandfather Kavuri Samba Siva Rao and he were friends for the last 40 years. He always was kind and supportive. In fact, when we approached him for the foundation day lecture, his health was already failing, but still he wanted to make it despite his assistants trying to advice him not to travel. It was first the foundation day after the demise of GITAM founder MVVS Murthi and we got his statue inaugurated by Pranab Mukherjee on the campus.” Mr. Bharat also recollected how Mr. Mukherjee laid emphasis on research and dreamt of seeing Indian universities in the top 100 universities in the world. Mr. Bharat recalled how the former president deviated from his prepared and written speech to go into the ‘extempore’ mode. His secretary who was sitting beside me noted that it was rare for Pranab da to do such a thing, this shows that he is emotional and enjoying his visit here, recollected Mr. Bharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pranabs-last-visit-to-city-was-an-emotional-one/article32492588.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: TDP trying to politicise tonsuring of Dalit youth incident||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that it is unfortunate that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) is trying to gain political mileage in the incident in which a Dalit youth was beaten up and tonsured. The statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was cleansed with milk by Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, MLAs Golla Babu Rao and Chetti Phalguna and YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) SC Cell leaders, to protest against the TDP for politicising the issue of tonsuring of the Dalit youth Srikanth, at LIC junction here on Monday. ‘Unfortunate incident’ While condemning the attack on the youth, the Minister said it was unfortunate that the Dalit youth, who came to the city for work, was beaten up. No one should take the law into their hands. All political parties should condemn such incidents instead of trying to gain mileage. The accused were arrested within 24 hours of the attack, which sent a strong signal that the government would not spare anyone, indulging in attacks on Dalits, irrespective of their influence or political affiliations, he said. He said TDP President and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu’s only goal was to target the YSR Congress Party government. The people of the State were aware of the innumerable attacks that had occurred during the Telugu Desam Party rule right from the Karamchedu massacre. He added that the State government was providing financial assistance to the victim, and the culprits would be taken to task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-politicise-tonsuring-of-dalit-youth/article32492540.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra University staring at fund crunch||The nine-decade-old Andhra University, the oldest in the State and among the prestigious institutions in the country, is slowly heading towards a funding crisis. The university gets a block grant of about Rs. 261 crore per annum from the State government, but the salary component for the university at present per year, with the depleted staff strength, is around Rs. 410 crore. Of which around Rs. 199 crore is for pensions. AU gives pensions to about 4,000 non-teaching staff of different cadres and close of 700 retired professors, says the Vice-Chancellor of the university Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy. At present there are about 230 permanent faculty members and the requirement is over 600. “If we are sanctioned 300 posts, we will land in a huge fund crisis, as we will not be able to give salaries with this funding. With the present staffing our monthly salary bill is around Rs. 34 crore, including pension,” he explains. Apart from salary component, the miscellaneous expenditure for water, electricity and others goes up to about Rs. 30-35 crore. Some part of the research expenditure is met from the UGC and DST funding. Plan in place To tide over the issue, AU is focussing on revamping its School of Distance Eduction, and efforts are on establish a state-of-the-art digital studio. The proposal for the studio has been approved and a committee has been formed to look into it. The studio will leapfrog the school to a different league, he says. The studio is being established at a cost of Rs. 1.3 crore sanctioned under RUSA (Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan). According to the V-C, the studio can not only facilitate creation of lectures and transmission, but students can visit the site later to see the lectures from the digital library. “With the creation of the studio and other infrastructure, we intend to enhance the revenue of AUSDE from a mere Rs. 12 crore per year to Rs. 40 crore in the next three years,” he says. According to him, the idea is to see that AU School of Distance Eduction contributes to at least one month of the salary component. “With the present block grant of Rs. 261 crore, we are able to cover seven to eight months of our salary bill. Our idea is to generate funds from various other sources such as AUSDE and affiliated colleges. If AUSDE can take care of one month of the salary component, we can depend on examination fees for another month and affiliated college fees for another. That is how we intend to cover the year,” says Prof. Prasada Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-university-staring-at-fund-crunch/article32492570.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy missing during idol immersion||A 12-year-old boy, M. Laxman, went missing during Ganesh idol immersion at Venkatanagaram beach of Payakaraopeta in the district on Monday. Five others were rescued by locals. The condition of one of those saved, N. Raju (14), turned critical and was shifted to a hospital. Search operation for the missing boy is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-missing-during-idol-immersion/article32492575.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take steps to prevent virus spread’||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that September is crucial and all measures should be taken to prevent spread of COVID-19. At a review meeting with COVID-19 Nodal Officers in the district on Monday, the Collector directed the officials to work with dedication to check the spread of the virus. The State government was according top priority to provide better services to patients, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-steps-to-prevent-virus-spread/article32492580.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uber launches its auto service in city||Uber announced the launch of its auto service here on Monday. Uber is already offering a host of its services in the city including Uber Go, Premier and Intercity along with the recently launched Uber Connect for package deliver and Uber Rentals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uber-launches-its-auto-service-in-city/article32492579.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Businessman passes away||A.S. Chakravarthi (88), a pharmaceutical businessman, died this afternoon. Chakravarthi was an all-rounder in cricket who played in Delhi A division league and the inaugural match of the Andhra Cricket Association when C.K. Nayudu, his brother C.S. Nayudu and Mushtaq Ali played at Guntur in 1953. Chakravarthi leaves behind his wife, a son and two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/businessman-passes-away/article32492584.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for JEE Mains||The stage set for JEE Mains, which is scheduled to begin from Tuesday. The online test will be held over a period from September 1 to 6, in four centres in Visakhapatnam. The three-hour examinations will be held in two slots, morning and afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-jee-mains/article32492585.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fit India campaign launched||Fit India campaign, an initiative of the Ministry of Youth Affairs, was launched here by Narava Prakasa Rao, State vice president of Bharat Scouts and Guides, on Monday afternoon at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan, near Dr. L.B. College. On October 2, a mega event ‘Run for health’ will be organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fit-india-campaign-launched/article32492586.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Value-based education need of the hour: President||The Central University of Odisha celebrated its 12th Foundation Day on Monday in virtual mode. On the occasion, President Ram Nath Kovind greeted the university fraternity and in his message stressed on the need for value-based education for the growth and development of students and youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/value-based-education-need-of-the-hour-president/article32492589.ece
01 September 2020||VISAKHATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers seek better deal||ASHA workers, owing allegiance to Andhra Pradesh ASHA Workers Union (CITU), staged a protest opposite DM&HO’s Office on Monday demanding better service conditions. Union honorary president P. Mani said that the State government should extend the welfare schemes, being implemented for the poor, to ASHA workers also. She sought that welfare schemes like YSR Cheyutha, house sites and widow pension should be given to eligible ASHA workers. Their honorarium was hiked after several years and now they were being paid Rs. 10,000 but their services were being terminated after 60 years of age. Union leaders S. Aruna, S. Padma, V. Mary, CITU leaders R. Sankar Rao and V.V. Srinivasa Rao were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-workers-demand-better-deal/article32492542.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur tops A.P. in disbursing loans under PM SVANidhi scheme||For a small-time vegetable vendor Boya Bhagyamma at Ramnagar in Anantapur, the day starts even before the dawn breaks. Leaving behind her children at home, Bhagyamma, along with two other women, hire an autorickshaw at around 3 a.m. to fetch fresh vegetables from the Ananthasagaram Tank Bund, where wholesalers stock produce by midnight. She goes back with half a dozen sacks of leafy and other vegetables. Every morning, she comes with Rs. 3,000 in her purse, but at times falls short by a few hundreds when there is a sudden increase in the price of goods. At any given time, she needs to maintain a stock of vegetables worth Rs. 20,000 at her shack. In addition to commuting charges, capital investment in buying the plastic display/storage baskets, weighing machine, she needs working capital for buying stock daily and paying for the transport. For a vendor like her, the PM’s Street Vendor Atmanirbhar Nidhi scheme came in handy. Funded by the Central Government, PM SVANidhi is useful for street vendors and hawkers on the roadside, says District Collector Gandham Chandrudu. Under the scheme, the beneficiaries get Rs. 10,000 from the district administration. By August-end, Anantapur district, with 76.72% of targeted loans disbursed, topped the three districts chosen in Andhra Pradesh. In all, 939 loans have been sanctioned and Rs. 93.9 lakh disbursed from the banks and the district has a target of 2,098 beneficiaries and got 1,224 applications so far. The remaining applicants would also be given loans by September-end, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-tops-ap-in-disbursing-loans-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme/article32492531.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veda Pathasala remembers Mukherjee||Students of Tirumala Tirupati Devastanams (TTD) Veda Pathasala, located at I. Bhimavaram village in the district, recalled former President Pranab Mukherjee’s visit to their institution. Mukherjee, along with the then Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan, then Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and other public representatives, inaugurated Sri Venkateswara Veda Pathasala, constructed by TTD amid the green fields and coconut orchards in I. Bhimavaram of Akiveedu mandal in December 2015. The students recalled their interaction with the then President of India. “Mukherjee praised TTD for promoting Vedic traditions and said that Vedas are sources of Indian heritage and culture,” said Ravi, a student of the pathasala. “The former President praised us for joining the prestigious TTD’s Veda Pathasala. Vedic schools acquire greater importance in dissemination of Veda education and culture,” Mukherjee opined, recalled another student, Ramakrishna. Village shoots to fame A fifth year student of the school, Srinivas, said that Mukherjee went round the Pathasala, visited Yagasala, Gosala and Gnana Mandiram on the school premises and interacted with them. “For the first time, I had seen the President of India directly in my life. With the launch of Vedic Learning Centre (Veda Pathasala) in I. Bhimavaram by Mukherjee, our village found place in the world map,” a farmer, G. Narsimha Rao, said. During his speech, Mukherjee said I. Bhimavaram would become a centre for Vedic studies, and it has become a reality now. The tiny village got popularity with the launch of the Veda Pathasala by TTD, recalled a student, D. Venkata Lakshmi, who had attended the inaugural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veda-pathasala-remembers-mukherjee/article32492561.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari level rising, villagers cautioned||With the water level rising in the Godavari river again, the officials cautioned the villagers staying in low-lying areas on Monday. The irrigation, revenue and the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) officials alerted the people residing on Godavari bund villages in Kuknur, Velerupadu, Polavaram and the villages located in Narasapuram division in the district. Due to increase in flood waters in Wardha and Wainganga Rivers, water level in Godavari has been increasing at Kaleswaram, Medigadda Lakshmi Barrage and at Bhadrachalam. Flood level at Polavaram and in the downstream has been rising, the officials said on Monday. Prepared for exigency: officials “Flood level is rising in the river in Telangana and the Irrigation Department and the Central Water Commission (CWC) have alerted the officials on flood threat to low-lying areas. We are all prepared and essential materials have been supplied to the flood-hit habitations,” K.R. Puram ITDA officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-level-rising-villagers-cautioned/article32492082.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sun and surf||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sun-and-surf/article32492574.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monumental work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monumental-work/article32492545.ece
01 September 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,TELANGANA||Soot removal delays Srisailam LBHES revival works||Time being consumed in the removal of soot from the underground Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station is delaying the works on phased revival of the power station, although the process of de-watering and temporary lighting arrangements have almost been completed. According to officials of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco), the task of soot removal and de-smoking of the underground power station has been handed over to an agency specialising in such works for speedy completion. “Removal of soot is necessary for taking up any work towards revival of the units to resume power generation since it acts as conductor for electricity. The floor, walls and roof are required to be completely cleaned to make them safe before commencing any revival work,” a top executive of the power utility told The Hindu . It is learnt that the soot removal (cleaning operation) would take another 2-3 days and only then any work on the revival of the first two units of the 6×150 megawatt power plant, where a major fire on the night of August 20 left huge damage besides claiming nine lives including those of five engineers and two other employees of the TSGenco and two other employees of a private company engaged in the replacement of battery back-up system, is taken up. The sources stated that the first two units do not require any major equipment or implements for their revival. “If everything goes according to our plans, the two units shall be in a position to resume generation at least by the ends of first two weeks of September although the plans is to bring them back in generation before that itself,” the official sources said adding that works of establishing permanent lighting system and re-installation of air-conditioning system would also go along with the works of revival of the first two units. Even the units three and five too do not require any components to be imported from other countries and some equipment and implements required were available within the country itself, the sources said. For record, the hydel generation units were supplied by a major Japanese MNC and the loan for developing the project was also borrowed from a Japanese agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/soot-removal-delays-srisailam-lbhes-revival-works/article32492422.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free anti-viral doses for COVID-19 frontline workers||MSN Group, an integrated pharmaceutical company, has announced free ‘Faviflow’ tablets to all bravehearts, including doctors, nurses, journalists, police and sanitation personnel, across 170 cities who have tested positive for COVID-19 while performing duty to contain the spread of the virus. The firm will be distributing free 200 mg tablets (Favipiravir) as an attempt to salute their selfless spirit. This service will be active during the ongoing pandemic year of 2020. Doctors, nurses, journalists, police and sanitation personnel can avail themselves of the benefit by providing the test report, doctor’s prescription and work ID at the customer care desk for the free delivery. “We want to express our solidarity to all the frontline fighters for displaying exemplary service during this pandemic. We feel, as an organisation, it is our responsibility to acknowledge their services. We have already introduced Faviflow at most affordable prices in line with our commitment to reduce the cost burden in treatment of COVID-19,” said chairman and managing director MSN Reddy on Monday. “The gesture of MSN to doctors and healthcare workers is unprecedented and exemplary. Indian Medical Association (IMA) acknowledges and appreciates the gesture,” said IMA president Rajan Sharma and secretary general R.V. Asokan, when informed about the initiative by team MSN .  ‘Favipiravir’ has been granted approval by DCGI for the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in adults and children, hospitalised with mild to moderate symptoms of the disease. It is available at all the major medical and hospital pharmacies and can be purchased by producing a prescription by a healthcare practitioner at the outlet. MSN has also launched Oseltamivir 75 mg capsules, another anti-viral medication under the brand name ‘Oselow’. More information can be sought on MSN COVID helpline (91005-91030) or through e-mail (customercare@msnlabs.com), a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-anti-viral-doses-for-covid-19-frontline-workers/article32492409.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||High security for Ganesh immersion||A day ahead of the final Ganesh idol immersion procession, Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar along with other senior officials reviewed the security arrangements on Monday on Tank Bund-NTR Marg. Mr. Kumar said that in the last one week more than 30,000 Ganesh idols of different sizes were immersed in the Hussainsagar and in the next two days around 4,000 idols are expected to reach Tank Bund and NTR Marg for immersion. “At least 165 Ganesh idols above five feet, 1,213 idols between three and five feet and 1,842 idols below three feet are expected to reach the immersion points from Monday night to Tuesday evening,” he said. According to Mr. Kumar, around 15,000 policemen have been deployed across the city for hassle-free procession. “Right from Chandrayangutta to Hussainsagar several seniors officials will be deployed to monitor the procession route in our limits for smooth conduct of the immersion,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu . He said that 21 mobile and 17 static cranes have been installed at Tank Bund and NTR Marg. The police have mapped more than 300 hypersensitive and over 600 sensitive places across the twin cities. Traffic restrictions Further, traffic restrictions have been imposed in view of the immersion and no traffic would be allowed on the main procession route from Keshavaigiri in old city to Tank Bund-NTR Marg via MJ Market and Abids. “Only vehicles carrying idols will be allowed to move on the procession route between 9 a.m. on Tuesday to 8 a.m. on Wednesday to relieve congestion and maintain smooth flow of traffic,” he said, adding that restrictions will be extended if the situation so demands. All lanes and bylanes along the main route would be barricaded. Movements of vehicles other than those carrying Ganesh idols will be restricted and diverted at many points along the route and at other points adjoining the routes of other roads. Motorists are advised to use the Ring Road and Begumpet area to avoid diversions. The traffic will be diverted at CTO, YMCA, Paradise crossroads, Patny crossroads, Bata crossroads, Adavaiah crossroads and Ghans Mandi crossroads from 6 a.m. on Tuesday till completion of immersion. Heavy vehicles After immersion on the NTR Marg, the empty vehicles should proceed to their destination via Necklace Rotary – Khairtabad flyover - V.V.Statue – KCP and onwards. They will not be allowed to return towards Telugu Talli statue or Mint Compound road. After immersion on the Upper Tank Bund, the empty vehicles should proceed towards Children’s Park – DBR Mills – Kawadiguda – Musheerabad or towards Indira Park – Ashok Nagar – Vidya Nagar. No vehicle shall go towards the Bible House Rail-over-bridge. Inter-State vehicles Inter-State and inter-district lorries are not allowed to enter the Hyderabad City on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. They would be stopped on the outskirts of the city. While private buses should operate for their destinations from outside the city and they should not enter the city from 8 a.m. Tuesday till 10 a.m. on Wednesday. People going to/coming from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport should avoid using Necklace Road, NTR Marg and Tank Bund. The Police Commissioner said that traffic restrictions, main routes and other details would be shown live on Google Maps and it would be updated on real time basis. “Citizens can use Google Maps for latest traffic condition,” Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-security-for-ganesh-immersion/article32492432.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steps taken to fulfil COVID-19 norms during monsoon session||Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy said that the duration and the agenda of the forthcoming monsoon session of the legislature would be decided by the Business Advisory Committee of the two Houses. The government is in favour of conducting the session for 20 days. But a final decision on the issue would be taken during the BAC meeting, he said adding the session could see introduction of four bills, including the new Revenue Act proposed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for making the system effective and transparent. In an informal chat with reporters here on Monday, he said all arrangements are being made for smooth conduct of the proceedings. Thermal scanners are being put in place while the seats had been arranged in such a manner that physical distancing norms prescribed in the wake of coronavirus are strictly followed. Accordingly, additional seats are being arranged in the Houses and steps are being taken to follow the distancing norms in the media and visitors galleries too, he said. On the other issues, he said the government is firm that it would not allow illegal diversion of Krishna water by the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh government. Pothireddypadu head regulator itself is an illegal project and coupled with this was the neighbouring government’s proposal for taking up Rayalaseema lift irrigation project. He recalled how he along with senior Congress leader K. Jana Reddy addressed letters to the government while they were in Congress. “Not a single Minister hailing from Telangana in the then Cabinet came forward in our support,” he said. He said lift irrigation is the only mechanism to bring water to all parts of the State and that the projects on Godavari river were accordingly redesigned to meet the requirements. He expressed concern over the charge made relating to the fire accident in Srisailam power house and said an inquiry was underway to ascertain the reasons behind the fire. The Council Chairman said that he is satisfied with the constitutional post given to him by the Chief Minister. There was no truth in the criticism of the Chief Minister by a section of leaders that people who fought for separate State are being sidelined. Admission of leaders from other parts was part of political equations and there is nothing wrong in the issue, he said. The statement assumes significance in the light of charges made by Council former chairman K. Swamy Goud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-taken-to-fulfil-covid-19-norms-during-monsoon-session/article32492413.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Conservation work on grand mosque nearing completion||After a break due to the COVID-19 lockdown, conservation work on the royal mosque in the funerary complex of Qutb Shahi Heritage Park is nearing completion. “This is a mosque attached to the mausoleum of Hayat Bakshi Begum. It is not a congregation mosque. It was meant for use by the royal family to pray for the begum buried here,” says Ratish Nanda of Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC). Called the grand mosque or the mosque of Hayat Bakshi Begum, its twin minarets soar to a height of 110 feet or about 11 storeys. The protective shields are still there, some of the scaffoldings remain in place but a major chunk of the work has been completed. “We are looking at a mid-September date for finishing the work,” says Prashant Banerjee of AKTC, giving a timeline of the work. The conservation work is being carried out the Telangana Department of Archaeology and Museums, AKTC and the Tata Trusts. Key figure Hayat Bakshi Begum was the daughter of Muhammad Quli, who founded Hyderabad in 1591, and wife of Sultan Muhammad who reigned for a short period. She then played a key role during her son Abdullah Qutb Shah’s reign. The mosque was completed in the year Hayat Bakshi Begum passed away and she was buried in the tomb built during her lifetime, earning it the moniker Hayat Bakshi Begum Masjid. Challenging for artisans The challenges faced by the conservation artisans can be seen from the scattered pre-fab concrete flower patterns that were stuck to the 17th century lime-mortar structure. “The height of the flooring was changed during the earlier restoration work. Enamel paint was used to colour the ornamental designs of the alams and the ceiling medallion. Some of the slopes of the raised platform were inverted leading to water stagnation,” informs Mr. Banerjee pointing to chunks of concrete shapes lying around the mosque. Original craftsmanship The original craftsmanship can still be seen from the capital band details that have been left unmolested by multiple conservation and restoration works. The removal of outer layers of cement plaster has revealed details of fire breathing mythical monsters known as shirdal (griffin) on the alams in the niches of the arches. The prayer niche has a band of chiselled inscription attributed to Taqiuddin Muhammad and gives the date of completion of the mosque to 1666. Once work on the mosque is completed, a key element in the story of the Qutb Shahi necropolis will come alive for the visitors and tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/conservation-work-on-grand-mosque-nearing-completion/article32492403.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Day 5 of CLP tour: Bhatti visits hospitals in Palamuru district||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka accused the TRS government of lacking commitment towards public healthcare, particularly during the COVID-19 crisis, and it is evident in the large number of vacancies in government hospitals. As part of the CLP delegation visit to government hospitals across the State, the team visited Mahabubnagar, Gadwal and Wanaparthy district hospitals on Monday. At Mahabubnagar hospital, Mr. Vikramarka interacted with the duty doctors and patients. He alleged that in spite of borrowing over Rs. 3 lakh crore during the last six years, the State government was not a position to provide proper beds in government hospitals and is not even paying salaries to frontline warriors such as staff nurses and other staff working on outsourcing basis in the hospitals for the last five months. He pointed out that a large number of vacancies of doctors and other staff in government hospitals has affected healthcare services to the poor and as a result, work burden on the existing staff has increased. “Mahabubnagar teaching hospital has vacancies of nine professors, 19 associate professors and 15 assistant professors. Similarly, 30 senior resident doctors posts and 70 junior resident doctors posts are also vacant. Among other staff, 146 out of 213 are vacant,” he said. Demanding that the government take up filling vacancies of all posts in the government healthcare sector and include COVID-19 under Aarogyasri scheme, Mr. Vikramarka suggested that isolation wards be set up in every Assembly constituency as the positive cases in the districts were on the rise. He said the hospital infrastructure in Telangana needs to be bolstered as many COVID patients died due to lack of oxygen supply facility. The condition of Gadwal hospital is very bad since it lacks the required 350 beds to be called a district hospital, besides vacancies of civil surgeons, general surgeons, gynaecologist, paediatrician, dental, ENT, orthopaedic, pulmonary medicine posts. A total of 35 out of 49 sanctioned doctor posts are unfilled, he said. Former MP Mallu Ravi and ex-legislator S.A. Sampath Kumar participated in the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/day-5-of-clp-tour-bhatti-visits-hospitals-in-palamuru-district/article32492405.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR dancing to Majlis tunes, alleges BJP||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is acting as per the directions of the Majlis party and hence he allowed processions during Moharrum despite coronavirus restrictions, charged party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday. Addressing a Zoom media conference on Monday, Mr. Sanjay criticised the government for denying permissions to Ganesh Utsav processions but allowing processions on the occasion of Moharrum under the influence of MIM. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should apologise to the Hindu community for not allowing pujas at Ganesh pandals. People have been threatened with cases if they participate in Ganesh Navaratri festival. Ganesh idols brought for puja have been whisked away to police stations. It is unfortunate that the police have forcibly taken away the idols for immersion by giving an ultimatum to people. We have never experienced such oppression during the Ganesh festival,” he lamented. Stating that he was not against giving permissions to Muslims to observe Moharrum, the Karimnagar MP said the Chief Minister should give equal importance to all religions. “But he has become a puppet in the hands of MIM and is giving directions from his farmhouse to allow the procession in the old city,” he said. The BJP leader pointed out that people have not celebrated even Bonalu and Sri Rama Navami festivals this year due to coronavirus but scores of people were allowed to gather at Dabirpura for Moharrum. Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Defence G. Kishan Reddy said he was deeply anguished by the passing away of former President and Bharat Ratna, Pranab Mukherjee. “Fondly called as ‘Pranab da’, he was an exemplary leader who led from the front and served this nation with dedication and determination,” he said in his condolence message. Party State Bandi Sanjay Kumar and other top leaders too expressed their condolences. In a message, the party chief recalled the services rendered by the departed leader to the country in various capacities, including as Union Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-dancing-to-majlis-tunes-alleges-bjp/article32492415.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pranab’s tryst with TS started long ago||Pranab Mukherjee’s tryst with Telangana issue didn’t start when he was made the Chairman of the UPA Committee on Smaller States but much before that, and of course finally he was the one as the President of India who signed the Act fulfilling the dreams of millions. In the year 2000 he understood the need for Telangana when Prof. Jayashankar and Prof. Janardhan Rao along with former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah met him for over two hours explaining why a separate State was the only solution to Telangana’s problems. “It was supposed to be a brief meeting but went on for over two-and-a-half hours as he patiently heard the gamut of issues related to Telangana and sympathised with the cause,” Mr. Lakshmaiah recalls. Another little known contribution of his to Telangana was his recommendation for World Bank loan of Rs. 2,220 crore for modernising Nagarjunasagar. “There were several requests from all States pending with him when he was the Finance Minister for Central government’s recommendation for World Bank loans but he cleared only Nagarjunasagar,” Mr. Lakshmaiah, who was the then Irrigation Minister, recalled. That he was sympathetic to the creation of Telangana as a Congress Minister at the Centre was also reflected in his interactions with some senior Congress leaders. During the initial days of agitation, he apparently told a group of Congress leaders that “If Telangana was created, his own State of West Bengal would also be pushed into turmoil as the Gorkhaland demand would flare up. Yet I will support Telangana as its demand are more than 60 years old,” he said.  Handling Jagan’s crisis Much before the Telangana agitation picked up, the Congress high command sent Pranab Mukherjee to handle the political crisis in the aftermath of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s unfortunate demise. As the Congress MLAs rallied behind Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy and there was a near unanimous support to him as the next Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Pranab Mukherjee was rushed to Hyderabad to convince Mr. Jaganmohan Reddy not to insist for the top post. After a lengthy exercise with senior leaders and Jaganmohan Reddy, he could convince the latter to support K. Rosaiah, who was the high command’s choice and was already the Chief Minister after the untimely death of Mr. Reddy. “Almost all the MLAs and MPs signed a letter in favour of Jagan and we were not willing to accept any other leader. But Pranab Mukherjee convinced all of us and Mr. Jagan as well,” a senior leader from Telangana recalled. “In the hindsight may be that decision was wrong and we would not have lost both the States now to other parties,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pranabs-tryst-with-ts-started-long-ago/article32492418.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, a ‘safe’ sample collection kit||Mapmygenome, the personal genomics company, has launched ‘Covisafe’, a collection kit for COVID-19 diagnostic testing validated by the CSIR-CCMB, and certified the kit to be as per ICMR protocols. The kit consists of a nasopharyngeal/oropharyngeal swab which, post sampling, is placed in a stabilising solution containing RNAShield, a proprietary US FDA approved reagent from US-based Zymo Research. The solution effectively inactivates the virus (it is also bacteriostatic and fungistatic), without compromising the integrity of DNA/RNA. The reagent does not interfere with the downstream process and need not be removed from the sample, before or during RNA extraction. Recognising the unique cultural needs of India, Mapmygenome is committed to providing COVID-19 reagents and collection kits that do not use bovine or swine-derived ingredients, said a press release. Edge over other kits Covisafe kit has significant advantages over other COVID sampling kits using Viral Transport Media (VTM) since the virus is rendered ineffective right after sampling, there is minimal risk to healthcare providers and staff after the sample is collected, samples can be transported safely at ambient temperatures and do not require cold-chain transport. Viral samples remain stable for prolonged periods, and can be kept for up to 30 days at temperatures below 25°C, unlike samples collected in VTM, which need to be transported to testing labs the same day. There are benefits during lab processing as well — samples collected are not vulnerable to degradation during multiple freeze-thaw cycles, unlike VTM samples. Covisafe kit can be used directly in lab with no preprocessing needed to remove the stabiliser reagent and is compatible with RNA extraction kits from standard providers such as Roche, Qiagen, ThermoFisher, etc. “Not only does the Covisafe kit reduce infection from live virus, it saves significant costs in terms of PPE, cold-chain logistics, and downstream processing,” said CEO Anu Acharya. Mapmygenome offers personalised health solutions based on genetic tests that help people understand their genetic selves. It is among the first private diagnostic labs to receive approval from TS government for COVID testing from walk-in customers, healthcare partners, home collections, and corporate clients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-a-safe-sample-collection-kit/article32492410.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EFLU’s English App launched||Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank launched EnglishPro, a free mobile app, developed by the English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad. Member of University Grants Commission (UGC) and EFLU Vice Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar said that the App, developed under University Social Responsibility (USR) is the first-of-its kind initiative by any university in the country and will help learners develop Indian English Pronunciation in the unique “Indian” way. Mr. Pokhriyal called the Mobile App “a useful digital tool” and an educational resource for the teachers, students and for people from varied backgrounds. He felt the App will be a good hand-maid to the “skilling” of youth, a grand vision of the government. “In a very modest way, it tries to achieve the objectives of the interconnected measures by the Government — Skill India and Digital India.” Union Minister of State Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre lauded the USR initiative and called the Mobile App a useful platform and a dependable educational resource. Mr. Suresh Kumar explained to the ministers that the App is the first in its series and more advanced versions will be evolved. EnglishPro mobile app can be downloaded from Google Play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eflus-english-app-launched/article32492437.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth writes to Modi||Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order for an inquiry by the CBI and the Central Electricity Authority into the Srisailam Power Plant fire accident to find the ‘criminal conspiracy’ and the technical failures that led to the tragic incident. In a letter to the Prime Minister, he said nine employees lost their lives, and equipment worth hundreds of crores damaged due to the negligence of the State authorities involved. He claimed that Srisailam power plant lacked basic safety provisions including fire alarm alert, fire suppression system, fire hazard risk assessment, emergency action plan and training of the employees for emergency situations as per the ‘Recommended Practice for Fire Protection for Hydroelectric Generating Power’ mentioned in the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Code number 850. Moreover, for the past several years, multiple red flags were raised about the poor maintenance of accompanying structures, including the structural integrity of the dam itself, on which the plant is built. “Concerns were also raised at the 39th meeting of the National Committee on Dam Safety (NCDS) in February 2019 but the State government of Telangana failed to act,” he said in the letter. Mr. Reddy said the State govt. has not been paying its dues to the Transmission Corporation for past several years and in turn, it was unable to pay to TS Genco, which produces power and supplies to TS Transco. Up-gradation of safety measures were requested by the power plant management but due to lack of funds, Genco failed to address these concerns thus resulting in this accident, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-writes-to-modi/article32492416.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor leads people in paying condolences||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan led the people of the State in condoling the death of former President, Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee. In her message, the Governor said she is deeply saddened by the death of the most respected former President. She described him as a great visionary, statesman par excellence, great orator, writer and a shrewd parliamentarian, and above all a great human being, all in one. The passing away of this Great Son of India is a loss not only to India but humanity at large, she said. Pranab Mukherjee will always be remembered as an astute leader who upheld democratic traditions and values. In his passing away, the country lost a great leader, administrator and a wonderful human being, she said. The Governor conveyed her heartfelt condolences to the members of the bereaved family. Several State Ministers, including S. Niranjan Reddy, E. Dayakar Rao, G. Jagdish Reddy, V. Prashanth Reddy and T. Srinivas Yadav too expressed their profound grief over the death of Mr. Pranab Mukherjee. They recalled his contribution as chairman of the high-level committee on separate statehood issue constituted by the then UPA government.  Deeply pained and saddened at the demise of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee, said TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. He was a competent Union Minister while holding Finance/Defence/Foreign Affairs portfolios. He was one of the outstanding Presidents of India. We convey our condolences and sympathies to Abhijit and Sharmistha, Mr. Reddy said. CPI national secretariat member K. Narayana too condoles the death of Pranab Mukherjee. TDP-TS president L. Ramana and Polit Bureau member R. Chandrashekhar Reddy condoled the death of the former President and conveyed their sympathies to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-leads-people-in-paying-condolences/article32492421.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TITA offers certificate course in coding||Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) ‘Digithon’ has announced that it would impart coding skills to one lakh people in the next two years and has inked a pact with the renowned University of Texas, Dallas (UTD), United States. TITA global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala said on Monday that coding was now becoming a sought-after skill and that is definitely worth learning. Experts will train the code based on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)-developed ‘Scratch’. Participants will receive a certificate issued jointly by UTD and Digithon. Those interested in the coding program can register themselves at the following link bit.ly/digithon_academy. For details call: 6300368705; 8123123434.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tita-offers-certificate-course-in-coding/article32492429.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ensure mid-day meals for children: Minister||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy on Monday said that mid-day meal scheme should be strictly implemented with a focus on poor and minority children in all government schools. Construction of new buildings for the schools, which is currently pending, should be completed expeditiously. Toilets and sanitary pads for girls should also be made available in all government schools, he said. The Minister chaired the first ‘DISHA’ meeting of Hyderabad district held virtually where he reviewed the progress of various Centrally sponsored schemes like MUDRA Yojana, PMAY, Ujjwala, Poshan Abhiyaan, pension schemes, Aatma Nirbhar package, PM Svanidhi and others with district officials. Under the current Covid conditions, generic medicine shops should be made available at all government hospitals, he said and suggested Basti hospital be connected with wellness centers. He also told the district collector to increase COVID tests and curb the exploitation by private hospitals. The meeting was co-chaired by MP Keshava Rao, City MLAs and top officials of various departments including Chief Executive Officer of the Secunderabad Cantonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-mid-day-meals-for-children-minister/article32492430.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No open land of 16 acres on OGH premises: AG||Advocate-General B.S. Prasad on Monday told Telangana High Court that there was no open land of 16 acres on Osmania General Hospital premises for construction of a new building, as contended by some PIL petitioners. As the OGH old building got dilapidated, the State government decided to demolish the former and build a new one, he said. The AG was presenting arguments in a batch of PIL pleas challenging the proposal to construct new multi-storeyed building for OGH before a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. Senior counsel S. Satyam Reddy, appearing for one of the petitioners, said that a part of the old OGH building was ‘heritage structure’. Hence, it cannot be demolished. It needs to be protected, he told the bench. He contended that authorities can explore the option of erecting new building in the 16 acres of open land on OGH premises. Though the OGH building was meant for a hospital, it was included in the list of Heritage structure due to its heritage value, he said. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy sought to know from the senior counsel if a hospital was being run from a heritage structure in any part of the world. Lawyer B. Rachna Reddy, representing another petitioner, said the government cannot demolish ‘heritage part’ of the OGH building. She contended that orders passed by the HC in a batch of PIL petitions challenging State government’s decision to demolish Erram Manzil building would be applicable to the present PIL petitions. Going by that verdict, the OGH building cannot be pulled down, she said. The bench remarked that the site plan of entire OGH submitted to the bench was not clear. Examining the plan, the judges could not understand areas of the buildings and the open spaces precisely. It directed the AG to furnish a fresh and clear colour map of the site of OGH building. The pleas were posted to September 8 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-open-land-of-16-acres-on-ogh-premises-ag/article32492428.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Held for flying drone without permission||A resident of Fortune Towers in Madhapur, identified as Adarsh, was arrested by the police on Monday for flying a unmanned aerial vehicle. They seized a micro-category drone (DJI Mavic Air-II). Madhapur police said that Mr. Adarsh was flying the drone near Inorbit Mall and Durgam Cheruvu. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Indian Aircraft Act was booked against him. “People should not fly any drones without prior permission from DGCA as per Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR) document,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/held-for-flying-drone-without-permission/article32492434.ece
01 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Likely to be a dull affair||Ganesh immersion in twin cities which usually attracts lakhs of spectators and devotees with much fanfare is expected to be a lacklustre fair this year, due to the COVID-19 restrictions. Pandal organisers were told by the police to conclude the immersion process at the earliest without pomp and gaiety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/likely-to-be-a-dull-affair/article32492435.ece
01 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers stage protest at Collectorate||Several farmers from Nagireddygudem in Gummadidala mandal staged a protest at the Collectorate on Monday demanding that their problems must be addressed immediately. They alleged that for the past three years they were moving around government offices and submitting memorandums - but without any result. They alleged that about 500 acres belonging to 150 farmers was mentioned in part B of revenue records though they have pattadar passbooks. They said that farmers were not getting Rythu Bandhu and families of two farmers could not get Rythu Bima as their land was in part B.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-stage-protest-at-collectorate/article32492420.ece
01 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Revise land rates before paying compensation’||Md. Hayatuddin, a land oustee from Vemualghat under Mallannaghat, appealed the authorities to revise land rates before extending compensation to farmers who are losing lands in Mallannasagar canals. In a petition submitted to the Collector on Monday, he said that lands for canals are being acquired without following a due procedure. “Many farmers do not know that they are losing lands in canals till they receive award copies, which is against the procedure. Land rates were not revised in TS since 2014. Please revise land rates before paying compensation to farmers and pay them as per open market rates. Similarly, see that small and marginal farmers do not lose heavily,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revise-land-rates-before-paying-compensation/article32492419.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Hospital staff beaten up by attendants||Staff working at Government General Hospital, Mahabubnagar, received grievous injuries in an alleged attack by attendants of a patient on Sunday midnight. The attendants were allegedly inebriated. While sanitation worker Shankar suffered a head injury and fracture in arm, sanitation workers supervisor Devanand sustained a rib fracture. Both have blunt injuries too. The staff at the hospital and members of Telangana Medical Contract Workers Union staged a protest on Monday morning demanding action against those who attacked the workers. Hospital Superintendent D. Ramkishan said a group of over 20 people rushed into the hospital with a patient who tried to end his life. Security guard Shiva was on duty at that point of time. “As most of them were wearing masks and it was a big group, Shiva asked them to take precautions. They took objection and started beating him. However, Shiva managed to run away. Seeing the commotion, Shankar and Devanand reached there. Both were beaten up,” leader of the union P. Suresh said. The Superintendent has lodged a complaint with the Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-staff-beaten-up-by-attendants/article32492406.ece
01 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Weekend curbs to stay till Sept. 30 in G.B. Nagar||Restrictions will continue on the movement of the general public from Friday evening to Monday morning in Gautam Buddha Nagar till September 30 during Unlock 4, an official release said on Monday. The order passed by Additional DCP (Law and Order) Ashutosh Dwivedi said movement of people, except those providing essential services, will be prohibited from 10 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday. The order passed under Section 144 of IPC further said that academic, social, political, and religious functions could be held from September 20, with a restriction of 100 participants. Cinema halls, theatres, and swimming pools will remain closed till September 30. However, open-air theatres can function from September 20. Restriction on the number of people in weddings and funerals will be increased to 100 from September 20. Schools and colleges, and coaching centres will remain closed till September 30. There will be no relaxations in containment zones, read the order. The district reported 126 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,055.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/weekend-curbs-to-stay-till-sept-30-in-gb-nagar/article32492347.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Facebook should be treated as co-accused in riots: govt. panel||The Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony on Monday said that prima facie it seemed that Facebook had a role in the Delhi riots that broke out in February. The panel added that Facebook India officials will be issued notices to appear at its next meeting. “Facebook should be treated as a co-accused in the Delhi riots. There should be an inquiry. If the investigating agency finds that there is truth in the charges against Facebook, then a supplementary chargesheet against it should be filed in the court,” said AAP MLA and chairman of the pane; Raghav Chadha. “On Facebook’s role, the committee’s prima facie view is that they should be treated as co-accused in Delhi riots. This committee has taken the decision that Facebook India officials will be summoned in the next meeting. They will be issued notices to appear before the panel,” he added. Mr. Chadha also said the “prima facie view” is that Facebook and some rioters had a “premeditated conspiracy”, which led to the deterioration of Delhi’s communal harmony, in February. The committee recorded statements of various witnesses on Monday. ‘Hypocrisy is real’ “When Black Lives Matter movement started in America, Facebook implemented its community standards. Following their by-laws, they worked to strengthen brotherhood between communities. The content, which affected the brotherhood between different communities, was removed from the platform. But when the Delhi riots happened, Facebook did not implement the same standards. Facebook’s hypocrisy is clear from this,” the AAP leader said. The committee said the deposition and evidence tendered to the committee revealed that there have been “major lapses” by Facebook India in applying their community standards. “All the witnesses have strongly agreed that an independent probe must be carried out against the alleged role and complicity of Facebook in the orchestration of Delhi riots,” the statement read. Mr. Chadha also said evidence submitted by witnesses showed there was an effort to incite a riot in Delhi before the Assembly election in February.  Evidence submitted by witnesses showed there was an effort to incite a riot in Delhi before the Assembly election in February Raghav Chadha Peace and harmony commitee chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/facebook-should-be-treated-as-co-accused-in-riots-govt-panel/article32492350.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Number of COVID-19 patients in hospitals highest in over 45 days||As many as 1,358 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,74,748, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The number of new cases is less as the number of tests conducted is 33.9% less compared to the average of last three days. The number of tests in Monday’s bulletin are less on most occasions as it reflects tests conducted on Sunday. ‘Aggressive testing’ Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the government was doing aggressive testing and not even a single case will remain untraced. A comparatively high positivity of 9.4% has been registered, and there is also an increase in the number of patients in hospitals and home isolation. Also, 18 more deaths have been reported, taking the toll to 4,444. Of the total cases, 1,55,678 people have recovered and there are 14,626 active cases.  The number of active cases is now higher compared to August’s average. There were 27,007 active cases on July 1, which fell to 9,897 on August 4. It has remained above the 10,000 mark since then. The number of containment zones in the city has increased to 833. The number of people in home isolation now stands at 7,876 — the highest in over a month. The number of patients in hospitals is 4,146 — highest in over 45 days.    Meanwhile, the Delhi government is scheduled to begin the third serological survey in the city from Tuesday. The survey helps find the seroprevalence — percentage of population that have developed antibodies against the virus. The first such survey, done in June-July, showed that 22.8% of people had developed antibodies. A second survey in August showed a seroprevalence of 29.1%. The third survey will see collection of 17,000 random blood samples, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/number-of-covid-19-patients-in-hospitals-highest-in-over-45-days/article32492352.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Permit gyms to open’||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Monday asked Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to permit opening of gyms in the Capital. “Delhi markets have opened, restrictions on weekly markets have been lifted and permission has been given to operate the Delhi Metro. So why not gyms?” asked Mr. Bidhuri. “Gyms are helpful in increasing immunity. Gym owners have also ensured there is air conditioning and air ventilation in their gyms. Masks, sanitisers, gloves etc. have also been arranged. The government can determine the timings for gyms and the number of people allowed,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/permit-gyms-to-open/article32492348.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Court seeks Jain’s response on BJP leader’s petition challenging his win||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued a notice to Health Minister Satyendar Jain on a plea by BJP leader S.C. Vats challenging the former’s election to the Legislative Assembly for allegedly indulging in corrupt practices. Justice Mukta Gupta also issued notices Mr. Jain, Returning Officer, Chief Election Officer and three other candidates who had contested for the same constituency and asked them to file their responses within four weeks. Mr. Vats lost to Mr. Jain in the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections from Shakur Basti constituency here. In his petition filed through advocate Sahil Ahuja, the BJP leader has sought that the AAP leader’s election be declared as null and void and re-election be done on the seat. It alleged that Mr Jain after the election process set in motion, “unlawfully, unconstitutionally,” offered, promised to deliver and or actually delivered gifts in the form of a large number of goods to various registered societies and DDA flat complexes. The plea alleged that in Maulana Azad Residents Welfare Association, Mr. Jain promised and delivered one air conditioner, one music system, one computer, two book barrier, 12 cameras, one cement bag, two steek benches and one steel gate. It sought to declare Mr, Vats to be a successful candidate in the elections held on February 8, 2020, in Shakur Basti assembly constituency being the runner up candidate. The plea has also claimed that Mr. Jain did not disclose his actual expenses incurred during the election campaign and exceeded the cap on poll expenditures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-seeks-jains-response-on-bjp-leaders-petition-challenging-his-win/article32492345.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. told to start online registration of legal papers||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the government to begin online registration of legal documents to minimise physical contact between officials and the public as well as reduce other inconveniences during the pandemic. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said several states have started online registration of documents. It also said even the High Court has started e-filing of cases where a litigant can file a petition and even pay court fees from his or her office or home. The government counsel told the Bench that such a system was already in place. However, the counsel sought time to take instructions concerning the features of the system. The court has listed the case for further hearing on September 23. Wills of senior citizens Advocate Gaurav Gambhir, in his petition, had claimed that sub-registrars in the Capital are refusing to register ‘wills’ and other documents of senior citizens, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women by citing the risk of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-told-to-start-online-registration-of-legal-papers/article32492346.ece
01 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Heavy rain: 5,000 shifted in Bharuch, Vadodara||As heavy rain continued to lash various parts of Gujarat on Monday, 5,000 people were shifted to safer places in Bharuch and Vadodara districts after several villages were flooded due to the rise in the level of the Narmada. Twenty people have died in rain-related incidents since Friday. The State has received over 120% of the season’s total rainfall, making it one of the heaviest monsoons in the last two decades. “As the level is rising due to higher inflow from the catchment areas in Madhya Pradesh, the level of the Narmada has risen significantly in the last few days and water has now started entering the low-lying villages situated on its banks in Vadodara and Bharuch,” Relief Commissioner Harshad Patel told reporters. He said, “District authorities and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been alerted.” Mr. Patel said 13 NDRF teams and two SDRF teams have been deployed in the flooded-affected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/heavy-rain-5000-shifted-in-bharuch-vadodara/article32492505.ece
01 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Activists are being persecuted for their stellar work’||Advocate R. Sathyanarayanan has been a trial lawyer for 26 years and has represented a few accused in the Harshad Mehta scam. Now, he is representing four of the 12 accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case — Rona Wilson, P. Varavara Rao, Anand Teltumbde and Surendra Gadling. He tells The Hindu that it is a clear case of persecuting human rights activists for their stellar work. He says the term ‘urban naxal’ is a bogey created to divert the attention of people towards non-existent issues so that the real issues that plague our polity gather dust. Edited excerpts: August 28 marked two years since the arrest of Sudha Bharadwaj, P. Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. Why do you think they were arrested? I am not representing Sudha Bharadwaj. So I can’t say anything about her. I know Arun Ferriera as a lawyer and the two others are human rights activists. They have a consistent record of questioning the non-implementation of various welfare policies. It is a clear case of persecuting human rights activists because of their stellar work. They have been acquitted in every false case they were ever implicated in, except for the one against Mr. Gonsalves, where an appeal is still pending before the Bombay High Court. Why do you think the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took up the case? Much before the NIA took over the case, we had filed a petition in the HC challenging the Special Court, Pune, taking cognisance of the case, which goes to the root of the matter. We had challenged the jurisdiction of the Special Judge, Pune, to take up the matter. Therefore, to pre-empt any adverse order, the NIA took over the case. Sadly, the same NIA decided not to take up the investigation initially. Moreover, we have also challenged this belated takeover by the NIA after almost two years. The petition is pending before the HC. It appears that the takeover by NIA is politically motivated and an attempt to scuttle the State government’s proposal to order an investigation by an independent Special Investigation Team. How can charges be framed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for taking part in an event where 35,000 people gathered to watch plays and listen to music? An FIR was filed in the case dated January 2, 2018, at Pimpri police station (Rural) for offences punishable under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (if an offence be committed by any member of an unlawful assembly, every other member of such assembly shall be guilty of the offence), 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage to amount of one hundred or, in case of agricultural produce, ten rupees), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent destroy house) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, the Arms Act and the Maharashtra Police Act. The case was registered against Hindutva rightwing leaders Milind Ekbote and Sambhaji Rao Bhide based on an eyewitness account that they along with other fringe groups had incited the violence against the Dalit congregation. Instead of taking action against those who were behind the Bhima-Koregaon violence, a false and fabricated complaint was engineered against these activists and an FIR came to be registered on January 8, 2018, at Vishram Bagh police station (Pune city). This fabricated FIR against the activists was registered based on the complaint of a man who happens to have close links with the accused in the FIR registered at Pimpri police station (Rural). While Bhide was never arrested, Ekbote as of today is out on bail. What evidence does the NIA have to link the accused with the CPI(Maoist)? So far, there is no evidence to link any of these activists with CPI(Maoist).  How do you think the term ‘urban naxal’ came into existence? What do you think it means?  The term ‘urban naxal’ has neither any literary origin nor is it a legal term. Hence, it is not an important word that we have to trace its origin. The term is a bogey created to divert our attention towards non-existent issues so that the real issues that plague our polity gather dust. Such terms do not have any legal implications. These activists, who have illustrious careers, have been the victims of relentless propaganda to malign the cause they espouse.  These activists, who have illustrious careers, have been the victims of relentless propaganda to malign the cause they espouse||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/activists-are-being-persecuted-for-their-stellar-work/article32492504.ece
01 September 2020||Mumbai,||BJP leaders target Rohit Pawar||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have launched an attack on Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Rohit Pawar for questioning the Centre’s failure to compensate States for the revenue shortfall arising on account of the implementation of the Goods and Service Tax (GST). Mr. Pawar, Karjat-Jamkhed MLA and grandnephew of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, criticised the Centre after the GST Council meeting last week, when Maharashtra Finance Minister Ajit Pawar reminded the Centre that it cannot shrug off its responsibility to clear the GST dues of the States. Mr. Pawar said the treasuries of all States are depleting amid the COVID-19 crisis and the Centre should come forward and hand over the compensation to the States. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the young NCP leader should study the matter before questioning the Centre. Mr. Pawar also came under attack by former BJP minister Ram Shinde, whom he defeated in the 2019 State Assembly polls. Mr. Pawar also criticised the Centre over news reports that it would stop supplying medical equipment such as RT-PCR test kits, PPE kits, and N-95 masks to States. He said the decision comes at a time when COVID-19 cases are rising in the country and the States are finding it difficult to curb the spread of the virus. ‘Reconsider decision’ Mr. Pawar said, “The decision to stop supporting the States with these kits is a serious concern. It is the final nail in the coffin. This is not how you handle your responsibilities. I sincerely urge the Central government to reconsider its decision.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-leaders-target-rohit-pawar/article32492506.ece
01 September 2020||Mumbai,||Fresh Dharavi redevelopment bids trigger unrest||Residents of Dharavi have decided to intensify their agitation following the State government’s plan to invite fresh bids for the redevelopment of the slum. The Dharavi Redevelopment Committee, a federation of 52 associations of residents, has decided to approach the court, its president Raju Korde said. “We are yet to receive an official order, but if the State is rethinking its decision, then we will intensify our agitation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fresh-dharavi-redevelopment-bids-trigger-unrest/article32492499.ece
01 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two women and a baby saved in nick of time||In two separate incidents, quick action by the police prevented two women and a child from ending their life. On Sunday, Jitendrakumar Yadav, a constable attached to the Kalyan Railway Protection Force, saw a 54-year-old woman standing near the tracks. “I was 20 feet away from her and the Pushpak Express was approaching. Constable Chotelal who was on duty also helped me save her,” Mr. Yadav said. The woman sustained injuries while being rescued and has been admitted to Rukminibai Hospital in Kalyan. “She said she could not get along with her son and daughter-in-law,” Mr. Yadav said. In another incident, Naresh More, a constable attached to Pali police station, when he noticed a 24-year-old woman standing on the banks of the Amba river with a one-and-a-half-year-old boy. “When the woman said they were going to end their life, Mr. More brought her to the police station. She said she could not get along with her husband, who had lost his job as a labourer at a brick kiln during the lockdown,” police inspector Bala Kumbhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-women-and-a-baby-saved-in-nick-of-time/article32492500.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Prima facie evidence against Narwal: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday remarked that there was prima facie evidence against Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal, arrested in connection with north-east Delhi riots, after perusing the case diary supplied by the Delhi police in a sealed cover. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said that the Delhi police have “been able to get materials which are indicative of the allegation against you [Ms. Narwal]”. Justice Bakhru, who has gone through certain portions of the case diary, in a private hearing with the Delhi police’s counsel, candidly said if he had come to the conclusion that there was some sort of fabricated evidence being created to keep Ms. Narwal unnecessarily, he would have intervened. The court asked Ms. Narwal’s counsel if she would consider going ahead with her bail application after two weeks when the chargesheet in the case is likely to be filed by the police before the trial court. As of now, the detials of the case diary cannot be revealed to Ms. Narwal’s lawyer as the investigation is going on and the chargesheet is yet to be filed. “Prima facie view of the court is that there is material and you [Ms. Narwal] would have to comment on that material at approproiate stage,” the High Court remarked. The court was hearing Ms. Narwal’s plea challenging a trial court’s order, which had dismissed her bail plea. She was arrested on May 23, along with fellow JNU student Devangana Kalitha in connection with an FIR registered on February 24 over a sit-in protest at Jafrabad metro station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Crime Branch has lodged a separate FIR against Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita in connection with the Delhi riots, with charges ranging from IPC Section 147 (rioting), 353 (using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder), 302 (murder), among others. The FIR also named relevant sections of the Arms Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/prima-facie-evidence-against-narwal-hc/article32492354.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests Tahir Hussain for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in connection with a money laundering probe into alleged funding of anti-CAA protests and riots in north-east Delhi in February this year. The agency has secured Hussain’s six-day custody from a Karkardooma court for recording his statement under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The case is based on multiple FIRs registered by the Delhi police under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code. “Investigations conducted under the PMLA have revealed that companies owned/controlled by Mr. Hussain and his relatives transferred huge amounts of money to dubious entities/entry operators that was returned by them in cash. The cash received by Mr. Hussain through entry operators was used to fuel the anti-CAA protests and Delhi riots,” an ED statement said on Monday. According to the agency, Mr. Hussain and his companies laundered money in the past as well. The ED had earlier conducted searches on the residential and business premises of the accused, his relatives and associates in Delhi, Noida and Greater Noida on June 23. “These search operations had led to the recovery of incriminating documents and evidence, including fake invoices, which were used for the fraudulent transfer of money,” said the statement. In the past few days, ED officials interrogated Mr. Hussain in Tihar Jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ed-arrests-tahir-hussain-for-money-laundering/article32492363.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU registers 93,000 more admission applications than last academic year||Registrations for admissions to all courses at Delhi University ended on Monday with about 93,000 additional registrations this year compared to the last academic session. While registrations, which began on June 20, were extended multiple times, the university administration made it clear that registrations would not be extended further. Registrations only for merit-based undergraduate courses was extended for a final time on July 31, when the university decided to allow students to apply under the extra curricular activities (ECA) quota. This year, a total of 3,51,974 paid applications had been made for UG courses at DU, a significant hike from the previous years. In 2019, about 2,58,388 applications had been made and 2,78,574 applications were made in 2018. Apart from this, 1,46,996 applied for PG programmes and 21,699 for MPhil and PhD programmes. Talking about cut-off dates, Dean of Admissions, Shobha Bagai, said that no decision has been taken on the matter yet, but added that dates are unlikely to be released before the first week of October. Ms. Bagai said that the university was waiting for the UGC to release the academic calendar to decide on the cut-off dates, apart from which they also wanted to ensure that the CBSE’s supplementary exams were completed before the release of the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/du-registers-93000-more-admission-applications-than-last-academic-year/article32492357.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman arrested for kidnapping infant boy||A 58-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 25-day-old boy, the police said on Monday. The accused had given the infant to her daughter, who is incapable of bearing any child, the police also said, adding that the baby has now been handed over to his mother in north Delhi’s Lahori Gate. A senior police officer said that the accused has been identified as Savitri Devi, a resident of Nai Basti, who runs a small stall near Fatehpuri Masjid in old Delhi. The police said that a woman identified as Shakuntala, who is a vagabond and a pavement dweller, informed them that her son had been kidnapped. “She stated that the boy was with her till 2 a.m., but when she woke up around 4 a.m., he was missing,” the officer said. A kidnapping case was registered and an investigation was taken up. With the help of local intelligence, the police zeroed in on Ms. Savitri and arrested her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-arrested-for-kidnapping-infant-boy/article32492359.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for shooting at teenager||In an alleged case of road rage, an 18-year-old youth was shot at by two persons when the victim asked them to park their car properly in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, the police said on Monday. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that one of the accused, identified as Chetan, a graduate pursuing a diploma in pharmacy, has been arrested while the other, identified as Manoj, is absconding. The police said that around 10 p.m. on Sunday they received a call regarding an incident of firing. When a police team reached the spot, they were told that the victim, Prabh Preet Singh, had been taken to AIIMS and that he had sustained two bullet injuries on his right leg. At the hospital, the injured stated that he was eating golgappas with his friends Sujal and Raman when the incident happened. “The victim had asked the accused to park their car properly. This made the accused furious and they fired at Prabh after which they fled the spot,” Mr. Thakur said.  The police said that Prabh and Mr. Chetan were acquaintances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-arrested-for-shooting-at-teenager/article32492361.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Duo stabbed over pending payment for order, 1 held||A 37-year-old man and his brother were allegedly stabbed by two persons in Dwarka over non-payment of money, on Sunday evening, the police said on Monday. They said that one person has been arrested. The victims, identified as Rajesh and Mukesh Kumar, residents of Bharat Vihar, said they run a sweet shop in the area and have been buying cottage cheese from the arrested accused, identified as Jitender, for the past three-four years. “In February, before the lockdown started, I had bought cottage cheese worth Rs. 11,000 from him,” said Rajesh. Two-three days ago, the accused called Rajesh to ask him for the money and he told Jitender that he could afford to make the payment only after Diwali. “On Sunday evening, Jitender and his brother Pankaj came to my shop. They thrashed me and threatened to kill me,” he said. When Rajesh and his brother Mukesh went to speak to Jitender, the two accused stabbed the victims. DCP (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said that a case under Indian Penal Code Sections 307, 323 and 34 has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/duo-stabbed-over-pending-payment-for-order-1-held/article32492362.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Terror suspect planned twin blasts in Karol Bagh: police||An alleged terror suspect, who was arrested in Delhi on the night of August 21 after a brief exchange of fire with the police, was planning bomb blasts in Karol Bagh, claimed a senior police officer on Monday. The officer said that Abu Yusuf Khan, who hails from Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh, told the police during interrogation that he had got instructions from his handler, operating from outside India, to target Karol Bagh. As per the plan, he visited Karol Bagh and identified two locations to place the bombs. His targets were crowded places. During the arrest, the police recovered two SIM cards from him – one of which he used to contact his handler. Both SIM cards have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory.  The officer added that the police custody of Khan ended on Sunday. He was produced before a Magistrate and the police demanded a six-day extension of his custody. The Magistrate has granted police a custody till September 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/terror-suspect-planned-twin-blasts-in-karol-bagh-police/article32492364.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Lic||Life Insurance Corporation of India has introduced its new Jeevan Akshay-VII plan, which is a single premium, non-linked, non-participating, individual immediate annuity plan with effect from August 25, 2020. The policyholders have an option to choose a type of annuity from 10 available options on payment of a lump sum amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lic/article32492360.ece
01 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra govt. will open temples soon: VBA chief||Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar on Monday declared that his agitation for the reopening of temples across Maharashtra was “successful” as the State government has promised him that places of worship will be opened in the next eight to 10 days. Mr. Ambedkar, however, warned that the VBA would launch an agitation again after 10 days if the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government fails to keep its word. He said, “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has made the right decision. I thank him for acknowledging the sentiment of the people and promising to reopen temples soon. The government has said it needs eight to 10 days to prepare the standard operating procedures [SOPs] for opening the temples. However, if the State government fails to prepare its SOPs within this time, then we shall be compelled to agitate once more in Pandharpur.” Mr. Ambedkar, who is the grandson of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, said the government permitted him and 14 of his supporters to enter the Vitthal-Rukmini temple for darshan after they arrived at the temple town of Pandharpur in Solapur district. Defying regulations Despite the district administration suspending State Transport bus services and deploying a formidable security shield to discourage assembly near the temple premises, VBA activists, warkaris (devotees) and volunteers from several parts of the State streamed into Solapur since Monday morning. The police had a hard time ensuring physical distancing as agitators threatened to break through the barricades erected outside the main temple complex. With Solapur being one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the Pune division, Mr. Ambedkar was asked why the VBA activists were not adhering to the regulations. He said, “We have come here to break rules… The State government should change its stance [on keeping temples closed] by seeing these impassioned scenes. I acknowledge that physical distancing is not being followed in some cases, but these are feelings of the people.” Stressing that his agitation had been peaceful, Mr. Ambedkar said he also wanted to prove that even if people gathered in large numbers, there would not be any great spread of the virus. He said compared with COVID-19 more people have died of other causes in the past. The VBA chief said, “Official figures say that more than 80% of the people who had tested positive for COVID-19 have recovered. So, then what is the reason to fear this virus and keep temples shut, which has had an adverse effect on thousands whose existence revolves around the temple economy. We should be thankful to authorities that despite no vaccine having yet come out in the market, they have managed to keep the novel coronavirus at bay and so many have recovered.” The VBA is supporting the demand of the Vishwa Warkari Sena, an outfit of devotees of lord Vitthal, which had given a memorandum to the Solapur district administration seeking all temples be reopened in Maharashtra. The VBA earlier said keeping temples shut at a time when several establishments have been allowed to resume operations was affecting the livelihoods of thousands of people dependent on the temple economy. A day ahead of the VBA’s ‘Chalo Pandharpur’ rally, the Bharatiya Janata Party also had staged a protest against the State government, demanding all major temples in the State be reopened. ‘Right to profess faith’ Asked whether he was following the Hindutva line with his agitation, Mr. Ambedkar said, “We regard Mahatma Phule, Mahatma Gandhi and Babasaheb Ambedkar as our gurus and follow their ideas. They have never been against religion. Everyone has a right to profess their faith… thousands of devotees could not offer worship at the Pandharpur temple because of the State government’s restrictions at a time when everything else has been opened up. Hence, we held this agitation to force the government to reconsider its decision.”  Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has made the right decision. I thank him for acknowledging the sentiment of the people Prakash Ambedkar Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-govt-will-open-temples-soon-vba-chief/article32492502.ece
01 September 2020||Pune,||Sena, Congress hit out at VBA for protesting in midst of pandemic||The Shiv Sena and the Congress on Monday criticised the Prakash Ambedkar- led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) for defying the State’s COVID-19 guidelines and leading scores of supporters and warkaris to the Vitthal-Rukmini temple at Pandharpur in Solapur. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said it is “regrettable” that Mr. Ambedkar, who is otherwise known for his restraint, is inciting people to agitate without adhering to physical distancing rules. “When the State is coping with a raging pandemic, one expects Opposition leaders or any other politician to be united with the State government in dealing with the contagion. Instead, some leaders are proudly proclaiming of having broken the law during their protest.” Mr. Raut added, “The whole of Maharashtra is intent on offering worship at the Vitthal-Rukmini temple and other holy places in the State. Our government has not the slightest interest in keeping these places shut… it is only in the people’s interests that we have been forced to keep religious places shut and cancel all religious functions,” The Sena MP said such agitations do not bode well for the State during the COVID-19 crisis as thousands have gathered to protest. “The spread of the virus can very well increase because of this agitation. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi is unwilling to lift the lockdown on religious places,” Mr. Raut said. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said it is indeed unfortunate that Mr. Ambedkar has chosen to hold his agitation at such a critical time when the State is struggling to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. He said, “What is even more unfortunate is that a person with ‘Ambedkar’ as his surname should be leading this agitation in defiance of the Constitution bequeathed to us by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. He [Prakash Ambedkar] should have supported the government instead.” Reacting to criticism, Mr. Ambedkar said as the State government has failed to do anything for the people whose livelihoods have been affected, the VBA had no option but to protest. “The Constitution has given the right to people to protest when the government has failed them. After all, people are the ultimate masters in a democracy,” the VBA chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-congress-hit-out-at-vba-for-protesting-in-midst-of-pandemic/article32492503.ece
01 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||U.S.-Israeli delegation lands in Abu Dhabi on historic visit||A U.S.-Israeli delegation, led by White House adviser Jared Kushner, arrived on Monday in Abu Dhabi on the historic first commercial flight from Tel Aviv to mark the normalisation of ties between the Jewish state and the UAE. The word “peace” was written in Arabic, English and Hebrew on the cockpit of the El Al flight that landed at the VIP terminal in the Emirates capital where U.S. flags flew alongside the Star of David banner. “While this is a historic flight, we hope that it will start an even more historic journey in the Middle East and beyond,” Mr. Kushner, who is President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and a key architect of his West Asia policy, said before boarding. “The future does not have to be predetermined by the past. This is a very hopeful time.” Riyadh’s permission Saudi Arabia allowed the “historic” flight to cross its airspace, Mr. Kushner said at Abu Dhabi shortly after the flight landed. “This is the first time this has ever happened. I would like to thank the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for making that possible.” The landmark direct flight by Israel’s national carrier, numbered LY971 in a nod to the UAE’s international dialling code, is due to return on Tuesday with the number 972, matching Israel’s dialling code. The agreement to normalise ties was announced by Mr. Trump on August 13, making the UAE the first Gulf country and only the third Arab nation to establish relations with Israel. Unlike Egypt, which made peace with its former battlefield enemy in 1979, and Jordan, which followed in 1994, the UAE has never fought a war with Israel. The fact the flight also passed through Saudi airspace was a sign of Riyadh’s cooperation with Israel after the kingdom refused publicly to normalise relations. However, it skirted the Gulf states of Qatar and Bahrain who have declined so far to follow the UAE’s move, which has been met with criticism in some parts of the Arab world. Advancing relations Israeli National Security Advisor Meir Ben-Shabbat, who was also on the flight to the UAE, said “our goal is to achieve a joint working plan to advance relations in a very broad range of areas. “This morning, the traditional blessing ‘go in peace’ receives special meaning for us,” he was quoted as saying in an English-language government statement. The talks in Abu Dhabi aim to boost cooperation between the two regional economic powerhouses in areas including aviation, tourism, trade, health, energy and security. An Israeli government statement said there would be “working meetings of joint teams on a range of issues ahead of the signing of cooperation agreements in the civil and economic spheres”. The visit will also include a meeting between Mr. Kushner, Mr. Ben-Shabbat and UAE National Security Advisor Sheikh Tahnoun bin Zayed, it said. Israel’s Health Ministry had late on Sunday updated its list of “green countries” with low COVID-19 infection rates to include the UAE and eight other countries. The change meant the Israeli officials and journalists travelling to Abu Dhabi would be exempted from a 14-day quarantine upon return. Since the agreement between the UAE and Israel was unveiled, there have been phone calls between their Ministers, and on Saturday the Emirates in a new milestone repealed a 1972 law boycotting Israel. “It will be permissible to enter, exchange or possess Israeli goods and products of all kinds in the UAE and trade in them,” read a decree issued by UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al-Nahyan. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, speaking alongside Mr. Kushner in Jerusalem on Sunday, praised “the swift pace of normalisation” between his country and the UAE. A door opens Noting the UAE’s move from Saturday, Mr. Netanyahu said it “opens the door” for “unbridled trade, tourism, investments, exchanges between the Middle East's two most advanced economies”. “You will see how the sparks fly on this. It’s already happening,” he said, predicting that “today’s breakthroughs will become tomorrow’s norms. It will pave the way for other countries to normalise their ties with Israel.” “There are many more unpublicised meetings with Arab and Muslim leaders to normalise relations with the state of Israel,” Mr. Netanyahu said without naming any countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-israeli-delegation-lands-in-abu-dhabi-on-historic-visit/article32492070.ece
01 September 2020||Hongkong,||Taiwan toddler survives terrifying kite flight||A three-year-old girl was swept high into the sky after a streamer became tangled around her neck during a kite-flying festival in northern Taiwan this weekend. The child hovered above throngs of spectators and was zipped around by strong winds for a heart-stopping 30 seconds amid inflatable pandas and astronauts as screams erupted from spectators. The girl, who was identified by news outlets only by her last name Lin, landed mostly unscathed at the Hsinchu International Kite Festival. She suffered abrasions around her neck and face, the mayor of Hsinchu, Lin Chih-chien, wrote in a Facebook post on Sunday. She was admitted to a hospital for medical examination, he said. The startling episode drew an apology from the Mayor, led to the suspension of festivities and added a frisson of horror to an event that usually draws tens of thousands of visitors for what’s supposed to be a fun time at the two-day festival. “The city government expresses its deepest apologies to the public and to the individuals involved, and we will review the reasons to avoid this type of accident from ever happening again, conducting a thorough review and holding people to account,” he wrote. The girl is not the only toddler to have found herself in a harrowing situation in recent days. Last Monday in Greece, a three-year-old girl was swept out to sea in a winged unicorn inflatable toy before she was rescued by a ferryboat captain. Larger-than-life designs The kite festival in Taiwan, featuring larger-than-life designs from around the world, took place on a grassy expanse at a fishing port on the last weekend before kindergartens and other schools reopened for a new year. On Saturday, the Asia Kite Foundation, a Taiwan-based group that helped promote the kite-flying event, had urged families to take care on Sunday, when gales were forecast for the afternoon. Sure enough, the winds were strong. At 4 p.m., children gathered around for the unfurling of a “candy kite,” officially named “Joy Falls From Heaven.” A compartment attached to the long, voluminous orange fabric was filled with candy, and once it was sent into the air like a flying piñata, confection was supposed to rain down. Footage showed several men struggling to control the long streamer as gusts of wind whipped it around. Somehow, as a powerful draft lifted the ballooning kite from the grass, its tail lassoed the three-year-old by the neck and hoisted her upward. The pumpkin-orange kite suddenly became a parachute.  Dangling from the kite, the girl was whizzed across a sky full of floating cartoon figures and jerked around like a spool. Screams and shouts could be heard. Pulling the kite back When the winds shifted less than a minute later, the girl was spun rapidly in circles before people managed to pull the kite to the ground. Spectators jumped onto the kite’s tail to prevent it from taking off again. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Shie Jiun-hung, an official with the Fisheries Department, said the girls’ parents had blamed themselves for the accident. He said that the local government would no longer allow candy kites to take flight again in public events and would impose stricter rules in the future. As for the girl, the official said that she returned home on Sunday and promptly had a nap.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taiwan-toddler-survives-terrifying-kite-flight/article32492078.ece
01 September 2020||Sydney,||China detains Australian journalist||China has detained an Australian news anchor working for its state-run English-language television network CGTN, Australia’s Foreign Minister said on Monday. The detention of journalist Cheng Lei is a new blow to deteriorating relations between the two countries that have seen China warn its citizens of travelling to Australia and vice-versa. Foreign Minister Marise Payne said Australia was informed on August 14 that Ms. Cheng was being held by Beijing authorities. Australian consular officials spoke to Ms. Cheng in her detention facility via video link on August 27 and were in touch with her family, Ms. Payne said in a statement. She provided no further details, but public broadcaster ABC said Ms. Cheng’s friends became concerned after she stopped responding to messages in recent weeks. The ABC said Ms. Cheng was being held under “residential surveillance at a designated location”, a form of detention that allows investigators to hold and question a suspect for up to six months without them being formally arrested. The broadcaster published a statement by Ms. Cheng’s family in Melbourne expressing confidence that “in China, due process will be observed and we look forward to a satisfactory and timely conclusion to the matter.” Ties began to sour between Australia and China — its biggest trading partner — more than two years ago when Australian authorities began to move against what was seen as China’s growing political interference and influence peddling in the country. Beijing was particularly infuriated by Australia’s leading role in international calls earlier this year for an investigation into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Ms. Cheng is the second high-profile Australian citizen to be detained in Beijing after writer Yang Hengjun was arrested in January 2019 on suspicion of espionage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-detains-australian-journalist/article32492066.ece
01 September 2020||Beirut,||Lebanese leaders choose ex-envoy as PM||Lebanon’s under-fire leaders Monday designated a new Prime Minister, the diplomat Mustapha Adib, to tackle the country’s deep political and economic crisis, hours before French President Emmanuel Macron was due to visit. Mustapha Adib, 48, Lebanon’s former envoy to Germany, acknowledged in a televised speech that there is “a need to form a government in record time and to begin implementing reforms immediately”. He vowed to resume talks with the International Monetary Fund for assistance to the country, which is in the throes of its worst economic crisis since the 1975-1990 civil war and was traumatised by Beirut’s deadly August 4 explosion. “I want your trust,” an AFP correspondent heard him tell a resident of Beirut’s badly-hit Gemmayzeh neighbourhood during a tour of the area devastated by the blast that rocked the city and further shook confidence in the political class. Mr. Macron, who had toured the area two days after the disaster, was due to return on Tuesday and was expected to renew his calls for a radical overhaul of the country's complex, sectarian political system. Mr. Macron had demanded “deep change” and warned then he would check on progress when he returned for the September 1 centenary of Greater Lebanon, expected to be a glum commemoration. President Michel Aoun and his political ally, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, both expressed willingness in speeches on Sunday to change the way Lebanon is governed. Under Lebanon’s political system, the Premier must be a Sunni, the presidency is reserved for a Maronite Christian and the post of parliamentary Speaker goes to a Shia person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lebanese-leaders-choose-ex-envoy-as-pm/article32492072.ece
01 September 2020||Paris,||‘Russia should contribute more in Navalny probe’||Germany on Monday urged Moscow to step up its efforts to investigate the apparent poisoning of Opposition leader Alexei Navalny who is currently being treated at a Berlin hospital in a coma. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said in a special address to French Ambassadors in Paris that Europe needed “constructive” relations with Russia for the sake of the continent’s own security but it was clear now that “dark clouds” were hanging over bilateral ties. “Of course, we have the expectation that Russia should contribute more to clearing up of the Navalny case than it is doing at the moment,” he said alongside French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian. Berlin’s renowned Charite hospital said on Friday there was “some improvement” in Mr. Navalny’s condition but he remains in a medically induced coma and on a ventilator. Mr. Navalny fell ill after boarding a plane in Siberia earlier this month. He was initially treated in a local hospital before being flown to Berlin for treatment. Charite doctors said they believed he was poisoned with a substance that inhibits the cholinesterase enzyme, a feature of nerve agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-should-contribute-more-in-navalny-probe/article32492069.ece
01 September 2020||Kigali,||Rwanda arrests famous hotelier on terror charges||Rwandan investigators announced on Monday that they had arrested Paul Rusesabagina, whose heroic actions during the 1994 genocide were depicted in the Oscar-nominated movie Hotel Rwanda , accusing the high-profile government critic of terrorism. The Rwanda Investigation Bureau (RIB) said Mr. Rusesabagina, who lives in Belgium, had been detained “through international cooperation” and was being held at a police station in the capital on serious charges. “With the cooperation of the international community, Paul Rusesabagina was arrested and he is now in the hands of RIB,” RIB acting spokesman Thierry Murangira told reporters in Kigali. Mr. Murangira refused to detail how the arrest occurred or the extent of involvement of international authorities in detaining the outspoken critic of long-ruling President Paul Kagame, claiming doing so “could jeopardise investigations”.  Mr. Murangira said Mr. Rusesabagina, who has agitated for political change in Rwanda from abroad, was the subject of an international arrest warrant and “suspected of financing and creating terror groups” operating in East Africa and overseas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rwanda-arrests-famous-hotelier-on-terror-charges/article32492075.ece
01 September 2020||Moscow,||Trump has fomented violence: Biden||Democratic White House hopeful Joe Biden on Monday castigated President Donald Trump as a “weak” and morally deficient leader who has sown chaos and fomented the violence that has recently gripped U.S. cities. “This President long ago forfeited any moral leadership in this country. He can’t stop the violence — because for years he has fomented it,” the Democratic presidential nominee will say in a speech, according to excerpts released by his campaign. “He may believe mouthing the words ‘law and order’ makes him strong, but his failure to call on his own supporters to stop acting as an armed militia in this country shows you how weak he is,” Mr. Biden will say. Two U.S. cities in particular — Kenosha, Wisconsin and Portland, Oregon — have been battered by fierce protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-has-fomented-violence-biden/article32492073.ece
01 September 2020||Ottawa,||Ottawa, Aug 31, 2020 (AFP) -||The Canadian government announced on Monday a deal with American biotech firm Novavax for 76 million doses of its COVID-19 vaccine in development. Procurement Minister Anita Anand said the deal “will give Canadians access to a promising COVID-19 vaccine candidate.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ottawa-aug-31-2020-afp/article32492065.ece
01 September 2020||Paris,||Paris, Aug 31, 2020 (AFP) -||French economist Thomas Piketty said on Monday his latest book would probably not be released in China after the publisher demanded too many cuts. His Capital and Ideology surveys the rapid rise of inequality around the world and includes attacks on the “plutocracy” of the Chinese regime, which he says has overtaken Western countries.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/paris-aug-31-2020-afp/article32492068.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||GST reform needs a new grand bargain||Three years ago, the Centre and the States of the Union of India struck a grand bargain resulting in the launch of the unified Goods and Services Tax (GST) era. The States gave up their right to collect sales tax and sundry taxes, and the Centre gave up excise and services tax. The nationwide GST promised frictionless commerce across State borders,buoyant and leakproof tax compliance, and removal of inefficiencies like the cascade of “tax on tax”. This historic grand bargain was the result of painstaking consensus building, which inter alia involved addressing the apprehension of States, of revenue loss due to the GST. Abdication of responsibility Their consent was secured by a promise of reimbursing any shortfall in tax revenues for a period of five years. This reimbursement was to be funded by a special cess called the GST compensation cess. The promised reimbursement was to fill the gap for an assured 14% year on year tax growth for five years, and it was generous to a fault. Neither the national aggregate nor any of the major States had this record for the previous five years. But that was not the only fault with the design, which had also failed to learn from the successful design of harmonising Value Added Tax (VAT) rates across the nation, implemented just a decade ago. VAT was the precursor to GST and also needed a consensus. That design too had an inbuilt reimbursement formula. But that tapered over the years, making room for incentives for tax effort from the States, sort of “skin in the game”. As the economy battles a pandemic and recession, the tax collection has dropped significantly, while expenditure needs are sharply higher, especially at the frontline of the battle, at the State level. But it seems that the States have been told that they are on their own to meet the shortfall in revenues. Using an equivalent of the Force Majeure clause in commercial contracts, the Centre is abdicating its responsibility of making up for the shortfall in 14% growth in GST revenues to the states. The onus is on the Centre This is wrong on many counts. First, the States do not have recourse to multiple options that the Centre has, such as issue of a sovereign bond (in dollars or rupees) or a loan against public sector unit shares from the Reserve Bank of India. Second, the Centre can anyway command much lower rates of borrowing from the markets as compared to the States. Third, in terms of aggregate public sector borrowing, it does not matter for the debt markets, nor the rating agencies, whether it is the States or the Centre that is increasing their indebtedness. Fourth, fighting this recession through increased fiscal stimulus is basically the job of macroeconomic stabilisation, which is the Centre’s domain. Fifth, and most importantly, breaking this important promise, using the alibi of the COVID-19 pandemic causes a serious dent in the trust built up between the Centre and States. Cooperative federalism is in the nature of a “repeated game” between the two entities, and every action must think of the future consequences, not just the immediate ones. Will it not weaken the foundation of trust? Kautilya too would have advised the sovereign against reneging on the promised bailout, as fulfilling the obligation helps build trust with sub-sovereigns. The Australian example The issue of GST compensation to the States is just the latest in the bumpy three-year journey of the new tax design. It is clear that the design needs a radical overhaul. Just tinkering with the compensation mechanism, or frequently changing rate slabs, or pushing more goods in the “sin tax” cess category, to earn revenue that is not shareable with the States, is not the way forward. What we instead need is a Grand Bargain 2.0 between the sovereign and the sub-sovereign entities. What would this be based upon? We have to go back to first principles. GST is a destination-based consumption tax, which must include all goods and services with very few exceptions, such as food and medicine. That widening of the tax base itself will allow us to go back to the original recommendation of a standard rate of 12%, to be fixed for at least a five-year period. A comparison with Australia which also coincidentally shares its GST anniversary with India, is apt. For the past two decades their GST rate has been constant at 10%. Of course India’s single rate of 12% has to cover petrol, diesel, electricity, transport and real estate as well. Some extra elbow room for the States’ revenue autonomy is obtained by allowing the States non VATable surcharges on a small list of “sin” goods such as liquor, tobacco, polluting goods such as sport utility vehicles, and industrial fuels such as diesel, aviation turbine fuel and coal. A low moderate single rate of 12% encourages better compliance, reduces the need to do arbitrary classification and discretion, reduces litigation and will lead to buoyancy in collection. Incidentally this redesign will scrupulously avoid the bogey of a “revenue neutral rate” (RNR) which needlessly occupied the attention of lawmakers and officials. GST is a long-term structural reform, while RNR is a short term and basically an elusive concept. In the long term there are many changes in consumption patterns, production configurations and locations, which cannot be anticipated and hence a static concept of RNR cannot be reference. The commitment to a low and stable rate, à la Australia and many other federal democracies, is a must. Of course the compensation-cum-reimbursement incentive can remain, but more in the nature of what was done for VAT harmonisation. Third tier of government This new grand bargain must recognise the increasing importance of the third tier of government. Even after 28 years of the 73rd and 74th Amendments, the local governments do not have the promised transfer of funds, functions and functionaries. These local bodies face increased responsibility of providing government services especially in view of increased urbanisation and decentralisation. Of the 12% GST, 10% should be equally shared between the States and the Centre, and 2% must be earmarked exclusively for the urban and rural local bodies, which ensures some basic revenue autonomy to them. The actual distribution across panchayats, districts and cities would be given by respective State Finance Commissions. GST consumption tax paid by every citizen establishes a tighter link between the governed and the government. The quality of governance improves as also, the tax base is better aligned with responsibilities of various tiers of government. Other changes This fresh approach also calls for an overhaul of the interstate GST and the administration of the e-way bill. Research papers by Bhaskar and Kelkar (“Reforming Integrated GST: Towards accelerating exports Policy Brief” by Dr. V. Bhaskar and Dr. Vijay Kelkar and “National Agenda for 2019 – A proposal for the GST reform” by Dr. V. Bhaskar and Dr. Vijay Kelkar — https://bit.ly/3jlXnpo andhttps://bit.ly/3jyb6JB)describe the simplified mechanism, which essentially reduces the transaction costs drastically. The current system is too complex and burdensome. We also need to zero rate exports. GST is a crucial and long-term structural reform which can address the fiscal needs of the future, strike the right and desired balance to achieve co-operative federalism and also lead to enhanced economic growth. The current design and implementation has failed to deliver on that promise. A new grand bargain is needed. Vijay Kelkar and Ajit Ranade are, respectively, Vice-President and Member, Pune International Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/gst-reform-needs-a-new-grand-bargain/article32492052.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A party being pulled in different directions||Another chapter in the Congress leadership saga has come to a predictable close. Sonia Gandhi will continue as interim president. While the dust may have settled on the latest eruption of intra-party discontent, it’s time to unpack a problematic assumption that tends to muddy public discourse on this subject. It can be summed up as follows: the Congress is facing a leadership crisis only because the Gandhi family blocks every non-dynastic talent. This sounds plausible, given the lack of internal democracy. But it also has the misleading effect of rendering every non-Gandhi politician, almost by default, more capable than Rahul Gandhi.  Search for a new president For the record, though the immediate trigger for the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting of August 24 was a letter from 23 senior leaders seeking internal reform, the current crisis actually began in July last year when Mr. Gandhi resigned as Congress president, taking responsibility for the poor results in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Now, this was a perfect occasion for a new, full-time president to take over. Mr. Gandhi said as much in his resignation letter: “The way forward would be to entrust a group of people with the task of beginning the search for a new President. I have empowered them to do so and committed my full support to this process and a smooth transition.” But the Congress would not or could not do so. None of the suave young geniuses frequently talked of as worthy alternatives to the Gandhi scions showed mettle, initiative or, for that matter, leadership. Either they were lacking in self-belief — an essential quality for a leader — or they knew they did not enjoy the support of the majority. At any rate, they remained passive, and Ms. Gandhi stepped in as interim president. And yet, the inverse of this has become common sense: the party has plenty of talent, all sadly stymied by a feckless dynast. Never mind that if there was outstanding leadership talent waiting in the wings, it would have broken through by now. That it hasn’t displaced the Gandhis suggests that it doesn’t exist — as yet.  The merits of the letter It is true that for more than 20 years there have been no elections to the CWC. The high command-cum-coterie culture still prevails. Regardless of their individual motives, the apprehensions expressed in the letter of the ‘dissenting 23’ are genuine. But that still does not mean that their interests and the party’s interests coincide. Most, if not all, of the leaders linked to the letter are at a crossroads with regard to their political career. They are Congressmen by instinct. But they are, first and foremost, pragmatists. They are concerned about their political investment in a party that looks increasingly incapable of offering tangible returns — returns of the kind that are only possible if the party is in power or looks like it’s returning to power. So yes, they do earnestly want the Congress to end its current drift and return to its winning ways. If that requires the party to take cognisance of changes in the political landscape and make ideological compromises, then so be it. Unfortunately, there is a stumbling block to such adjustments: Mr. Gandhi and his team of advisers, who share a different vision and often bypass party veterans on key decisions. For these and other reasons, the ‘old guard’ is more comfortable working with Ms. Gandhi, and allergic to Mr. Gandhi. The root cause of the leadership crisis, as well as the reasons for Mr. Gandhi’s refusal to officially take charge, is there in black and white in his resignation letter of 2019. “We didn’t fight a political party in the 2019 election,” said the letter. “Rather, we fought the entire machinery of the Indian state, every institution of which was marshalled against the opposition. It is now crystal clear that our once cherished institutional neutrality no longer exists in India.” The very starting point of Mr. Gandhi’s politics was liable to be dismissed as ‘too radical’ by his party seniors. It got more interesting. “I personally fought the Prime Minister, the RSS and the institutions they have captured with all my being,” he wrote. The way forward is for the Indian nation “to reclaim and resuscitate our institutions” and the “instrument of this resuscitation will be the Congress party.” He added for good measure: “The stated objectives of the RSS, the capture of our country’s institutional structure, is now complete… There is a real danger that from now on, elections will go from being a determinant of India’s future to a mere ritual.” Is it any surprise that the old guard is alarmed at the prospect of being led by a man who not only says that his fight “has never been a simple battle for political power” but also believes that a) India’s electoral apparatus is not neutral anymore; b) the RSS has captured India’s institutions; and c) Congressmen should sacrifice the desire for power in order to fight a “deeper ideological battle” against the RSS? Is it not possible that some of the 23 signatories might share Mr. Gandhi’s perspective? His resignaton letter gives it away. “At times,” he wrote in his letter, referring to the 2019 poll campaign, “I stood completely alone.” Even now, with the exception of his small group of loyalists, Mr. Gandhi stands alone on the question of fighting the RSS ideologically, a project that today carries the risk as well as the political costs of being branded as ‘anti-Hindu’ and ‘anti-national’. Not surprisingly, elements of the old guard have a different view on how the party should respond to the saffronised reality of ‘New India’. The contradictory pulls exerted by the two divergent approaches are partly responsible for the stasis plaguing the party.  Uncomfortable questions Thus, the leadership crisis in the Congress is primarily not about personality traits. While they do matter, the real issues are the differences over ideology and strategy. Should the Congress bet on wooing back the upper caste vote that it has lost to the BJP or should it focus on OBCs, Dalits, Adivasis, and minorities? If the latter, then shouldn’t the face of the party be an OBC or Dalit rather than a ‘janeu-dhari’ like Mr. Gandhi? Should the party try to neutralise Hindutva politics by ‘Hinduising’ itself or should it wage an ideological war against the RSS? If the latter, then will its stance carry credibility without a proper reckoning of past dalliances with communal politics, not least the 1984 riots? Another troubling question looms: Given the gigantic mismatch of power and resources between the Congress and the BJP, will a non-Gandhi Congress chief be more vulnerable to external pressures than a Gandhi scion? The burgeoning list of Congress leaders who’ve recently joined the BJP might suggest so. Clearly, the path that Mr. Gandhi wants the party to walk is not an easy one. It will only be made tougher by a lack of clarity and internal divisions on these questions. What is beyond dispute is that the party could end up in two very different places depending on whether it follows Mr. Gandhi’s political vision or a ‘consensus’. sampath.g@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-party-being-pulled-in-different-directions/article32492063.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The environment is a national issue||Environment issues are currently at the centre of a heated debate. Even the Congress President, Sonia Gandhi, felt impelled to write on the issue ( The Hindu , Editorial page, “Stop the dismantling of environmental rules”, August 13, 2020). As a former Environment Minister in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) dispensation, I feel that environment issues should be above political dissonance, and to this end attempt to highlight critical facts which need to be flagged for public knowledge. To politically weaponise environmental issues is unproductive and unacceptable.  How India fares It may be politically convenient — but not presenting the complete picture — to express shock at India being ranked at “177 out of 180 countries” in the Environmental Performance Index Report. Besides, in the June 2020 EPI Index, India’s rank stands improved at 168, not 177 which is the 2018 rank. The Environmental Performance Index has been developed by two U.S. universities (Yale and Columbia) in collaboration with the World Economic Forum and European Commission and available ranking shows India at 118 in 2006, 123 in 2010, 155 in 2014 and 177 in 2018, thereby giving a message opposite to that sought to be conveyed, regarding our standing at 177 in 2018. Also, the experts in the two universities conclude: “... the 2008 ranking suggests that wealth is a major determinant of environmental success.” Any balance between the environment and development needs to be struck within India and based on our priorities, and not some international index. Further, the environment index cited by Ms. Gandhi, as explained above, shows a drop of 37 points (namely six points a year) in six years of UPA rule — and 22 points in 4 years (4.5 points a year) — under the present rule. The statistics are self-explanatory. Political record Pointed reference is made to the Narendra Modi government’s alleged preoccupation with “crony capitalism” and implementing “ease of doing business” to the detriment of the environment. This charge ignores the record of UPA governments, when important Group of Minister Committees were set up to implement ease of doing business, as also a special Monitoring Cell in the Cabinet Secretariat. Regardless of affiliation, every government faces this balancing challenge.  Further, the link between the great winter smog and pollution in North India, and the present draft EIA draft is not reasonable, since winter pollution in North India did not begin in 2014, after Narendra Modi was elected. In point of fact, the winter smog and pollution in North India exemplify the anomalies of federalism, where the imperatives of the Centre and States differ. There are also problems of environmental laws which are effective in principle, against point sources like industries — but not against agriculture-related pollution such as stubble burning or public usage pollution relating to vehicular and household sources. Undoubtedly, big industry has erred grievously in polluting our environment, and the government needs to take stringent steps against violators.  Ms. Gandhi writes about the problems of Adivasis. However, this problem did not arise in just the last few years. The UPA governments were unable to frame subordinate legislation and implement the Forest Rights Act effectively for eight long years, even in Congress-ruled States. In fact a major dilution of the Forest Rights Act was spearheaded by the Prime Minister’s Office in the UPA dispensation, and office memorandums formalising the dilution were issued despite objections from some quarters. ‘Forests’ was a State subject until transferred to the Concurrent list by the 42nd Amendment Act. However, de facto , the powers of the State governments continue, which is why, regardless of political affiliation, State governments hesitate to fully implement the Forest Rights Act.  Focus on deforestation Deforestation ought to be a primary concern of any right-thinking government. Forest clearances for mining and industries, while major, are not the only causes of deforestation. Population pressure due to which the slash-and-burn (or jhoom cycle) has reduced in forest areas from 17-20 years to two-three years giving no time for forest regeneration, and creeping conversion of forest to cultivated land are both major drivers of deforestation; there is also the increasing use of timber for household and industry purposes. However, while diversion of forests for mining and industry is regulated by law and challenged in courts, the other major drivers are not even discussed. ‘Nirmal Ganga’ can be achieved by zero discharge of effluents and domestic sewerage, but ‘Aviral Ganga’ can only be achieved by constant balancing between irrigation needs of agriculture and potable water for cities on the one hand and the environmental flow of the river on the other.  Crucial dimensions The balance of imperatives between the environment and poverty eradication, and the critical need to harmonise the working of the central, State, and local governments, as also intelligence, monitoring and compliance with law are vital dimensions of environment preservation.  To address environment protection from the standpoint of ideological or political mooring is to sound the death knell of our environment. The environment is a national issue which requires the unwavering participation of all governments, and all citizens, regardless of political affiliation. Jayanthi Natarajan is a political activist and a former Union Environment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-environment-is-a-national-issue/article32492054.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Congress and its discontents||The seven-hour Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24 was, predictably, a stormy affair, with the Gandhi loyalists taking on the senior Congress leaders who wrote to the interim president, Sonia Gandhi, demanding course correction. That the ginger group of letter writers would be taken to task was a forgone conclusion. The tone of the meeting was set when Ms. Gandhi offered to resign as the interim president, leading to a cacophony of voices pleading with her to continue. Despite the inevitability of what transpired, a few things came to the fore: If anyone assumed that the Gandhi sycophants were guided only by blind loyalty and servility to vilify the dissenters on their own, Rahul Gandhi’s frontal attack on the ginger group, where he raised doubts about their motive and the timing, disproved it. It was also clear that a non-Gandhi, however senior and loyal he or she might be, wouldn’t stand a chance to be Congress president even for a brief period. So, the game of musical chairs is set to continue: Ms. Gandhi’s interim presidency being followed in all probability by Mr. Gandhi’s election to the position at an All India Congress Committee session in the next six months. It is interesting to note that at the CWC meeting, Mr. Gandhi didn’t rule out getting back to the helm even as the loyalists made fervent pleas to make him change his mind. The Gandhis are to blame The overwhelming sentiment against a non-Gandhi being nominated as president is to do with ideological moorings. It is often argued that a non-Gandhi’s ideological underpinnings would be suspect, harking back to the Narasimha Rao term. That argument rings hollow, for it was Rajiv Gandhi who was responsible for the opening of the locks of the Babri Masjid in 1986 and for resorting to the Hindutva handbook in the 1989 election. In reality, the Gandhis are to blame for the present mess. Despite all their pretences of inner-party democracy, the Nehru-Gandhi family has appropriated to themselves the leadership of the party and actively promoted and incentivised sycophancy. True, this goes back nearly 50 years ever since Indira Gandhi’s promotion of Sanjay Gandhi as her successor. However, back then, Indira Gandhi enjoyed popularity across the country following the 1971 election win and the subsequent creation of Bangladesh. Rahul Gandhi’s attempts to fashion himself as a modern Sanjay Gandhi, at least within his party, can only have disastrous consequences as he seems to want to wield power without responsibility. Basic demands Now, what was it that the ginger group had asked for? They had basic demands including having full-time and active leadership at all levels, elected democratically, to serve the party that was adrift, and an end to ‘ad-hoc’ism. If that was seen as an affront, it only reveals the kind of anti-democratic impulses of the Gandhis. This non-democratic impulse seems to run in the family. Else, when the Allahabad High Court set aside the election of Indira Gandhi in 1975, why would she choose to impose Emergency to preserve her position rather than pass the baton on to the stalwarts within the party? The less said about the coterie, the better. They seem to believe in preserving the hegemony of the Nehru-Gandhi family within the Congress rather than preserving the party itself. There are overt and covert insinuations about the motive of the letter writers and the need to put these issues in writing instead of resorting to the usual brush-it-under-the-carpet approach. That such a wide cross-section of leaders chose to undersign a document seeking revival of the party made it impossible to brush the letter under the carpet. For the likes of Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik, forever dubbed Gandhi loyalists, to seek accountability only reveals that their primary loyalty is to the party more than the Gandhis. In fact, the letter nowhere tries to cast the Gandhis in poor light. On the contrary, there are portions exalting the Nehru-Gandhi family as an integral part of the Congress. If it stung the Gandhis, it is only because the letter clearly stated the need for institutional leadership and how leaders had to be consultative, bear responsibility and be available — highlighting the lack of it under the present set-up. Someone had to bell the cat. And if sources close to the ginger group are to be believed, more leaders within the fold, including the likes of P. Chidamabaram, offered moral support although they didn’t undersign fearing reprimand. Despite Ms. Gandhi’s assurance at the end of the meeting that she won’t bear any ill will, it is likely that the ginger group will be targeted. Whatever their fate, they have done a great service to the Congress party, which, in many ways, is a cross-section of the country rather than a regimented, cadre-based party. Anand Kochukudy is a Kerala-based journalist and former editor, The Kochi Post||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/congress-and-its-discontents/article32492058.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking a leaf out of the Air Force||Earlier this month, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officer asked DMK MP Kanimozhi if she was an Indian after realising that she did not speak Hindi. Ms. Kanimozhi wisely chose to walk away and took to Twitter to air her annoyance. Though the CISF ordered an inquiry into the incident, the matter invited much media attention, leading to debates on television channels on Hindi imposition. The incident impelled former Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram to tweet that he had “experienced similar taunts from government officers and ordinary citizens who insisted that I speak in Hindi during telephone conversations and sometimes face to face”. He added that all Central government employees must be made to speak in both English and Hindi. At times, CISF personnel exceed their brief. Many of us who have travelled by air or metro rail would be aware of this. Despite their misdemeanour, not many passengers care to protest or lodge formal complaints as no one wants to be involved in such a time-consuming exercise and pursue the matter. As a result, many CISF personnel continue to be arrogant. At times, they can be seen chatting among themselves at airports while passengers await their scanned bags after security check. Proficiency in English Though reports state that CISF personnel are imparted training in basic proficiency in English, not much seems to have been done in this direction. A computer-based English language lab is reported to have been installed at the CISF’s National Industrial Security Academy in Hyderabad where officers recruited to the CISF are imparted basic training. Such labs need to be set up at the recruit training centres too, where the constabulary can acquire working knowledge of English. Speaking, reading and writing in English should be made mandatory in basic training so that officers do not have to struggle with learning English after joining duty. Not only will this help personnel build confidence but it will also help them interact easily with people not just at airports and metro stations but also at government buildings. A leaf can be taken out of the Air Force Training Institutes where recruits with hardly any knowledge of the language graduate as smart English-speaking personnel after they complete basic training. Language training There was a proposal to impart language training in Spanish, German and French to some selected personnel to enable them to easily converse with foreign passengers but this seems to have been shelved. This proposal should be revived. Our country’s image will be enhanced when foreigners landing on our soil find themselves being assisted by CISF personnel speaking in their own native languages. Personnel who acquire fluency in these languages could also be used as interpreters when foreign delegations visit our country. As an incentive, they can be paid foreign language allowance. Selection of personnel for airports should be done in a meticulous manner. Not only should they be sober, smart and mature in their behaviour but also well informed about important personalities of the State and the Centre. Needless to say, the visible presence of officers – Assistant Commandants or Deputy Commandants – round the clock at airports will avert ugly situations. Officers can guide and train personnel while on duty. Swift disciplinary action against those found misbehaving with passengers will go a long way in curbing unfortunate incidents. Personnel who are erratic in their behaviour need to be identified and removed from airport security duties. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), Central Reserve Police Force||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/taking-a-leaf-out-of-the-air-force/article32492060.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The right keys||The Unlock 4 guidelines of the Home Ministry allowing all but a few activities that attract large crowds, with supportive measures by States, reflect deep economic distress. India resorted to the world’s most rigorous lockdown early on in the COVID-19 pandemic, when infection spread had just begun; there were just over 600 cases on March 25. It has now liberalised most activities, restricting only those that witness gatherings in excess of 100 people. This comes at a time when daily infections are scaling new highs — 78,512 on Monday — and growing at a rate faster than in the U.S. and Brazil, which have held the top spots globally. Resumption of economic activity, including Metro and other public transport services, will ease the pain for many, and prevent a further precipitous decline in earnings and spending, but if it is not accompanied by rigorous infection control, a major public health penalty could lie ahead. Successful unlocking requires enabling movement, including international travel, within a scientific regime of identification, testing and inexpensive quarantine where needed. When the pandemic was unfolding, a major concern was that of a wildfire spread overwhelming a lopsided health-care system, in which intensive care is meagre, urban-centric and expensive even for the middle class. This painful reality, of the virus retaining high transmissibility and unpredictable disease impacts, is as relevant today as it was then, as people resume their jobs and travel. Students, meanwhile, continue to be despondent, as there is no escape from high tuition fees, while online teaching remains experimental. Worryingly, many lockdown-weary people have begun to disregard safety norms, abandoning masks and distancing norms. India is proceeding with its unlock strategy against the backdrop of scientific models that estimate that the actual infections could be 10 times the reported 3.6 million. The implication, which was voiced by the Harvard Global Health Institute, taking antibody test data into account, is that the tally for positive cases could be between 35 million and 70 million, given India’s high population. Evidence also indicates that a deceleration in disease spread should reflect in a lower test positivity rate. If Indian States have 8% or higher positivity, compared to 1% in over-the-peak locations such as New York or South Korea, it indicates far more undetected infections in the population and significantly low testing. These insights point to the tenuous nature of the unlock programme, the need for constant vigil and the irrationality of exuberance. The pandemic cannot yet be viewed in the past tense, and there is a long wait for a possible vaccine. The impending scenarios underscore the need for wider testing and safe behaviour. The new normal requires governments to prioritise work-from-home and actively support green mobility such as walking and use of bicycles. It must, in parallel, identify infections and scale up health-care access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-right-keys/article32492046.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Quantum not a solace||The penalty may be mild, but its import is quite grave. In imposing a nominal fine of one rupee on advocate Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt of court, and, in the event of default, asking him to serve a three-month simple prison term and be debarred for three years from legal practice, the Supreme Court has bared its dark, intolerant side. That this was in response to tweets that contained criticism of the current CJI and some of his predecessors, diminishes the Court’s stature much more than the upstanding lawyer’s tweets that contained insinuations and opinions that the judiciary found unpalatable. During the hearing on sentencing, it appeared that the Bench had painted itself into a corner and was looking for a way out by seeking an apology so that a quietus could be given to the whole issue. However, Mr. Bhushan was in no mood to oblige, placing his bona fides and conscience above the need to give a face-saving option to the Court to close the case. It is unfortunate that the Court did not heed the Attorney General’s wise counsel that it should display magnanimity by not imposing any sentence, and by considering the tweets as bona fide expression of criticism aimed at improving the institution’s stature. The 82-page sentencing verdict, much like the 108-page judgment finding Mr. Bhushan guilty, sets much store by the claim that it is not so much the reputation of individual judges that the Court is seeking to protect, but the standing of the institution in the eyes of the public, whose faith and trust are necessary for its sustenance. If the judiciary’s majesty, dignity and trustworthiness were indeed the values at stake, it would have been far more advisable for the Court not to have taken up this matter on its own motion. For instance, the defence of truth taken by Mr. Bhushan has been characterised as something that aggravates the contempt. The reasoning is right. Past CJIs and retired judges whose conduct and opinions were sought to be marshalled in Mr. Bhushan’s defence could not have been embroiled in the current proceedings. However, this was fairly obvious when the Court issued notice to him. Surely, someone cannot be found guilty of contempt without giving him an opportunity to explain his view that the CJIs of the last six years had contributed to the “destruction of democracy”. This proceeding was fated to shine a light on the Court’s conduct rather than on the actions of the contemnor. In the ultimate analysis, it is not a verdict that purges Mr. Bhushan of any contempt. Rather, it comes across as an unfair, but inevitable punishment for his refusal to apologise or express regret for his opinions on the conduct of the judiciary in recent times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/quantum-not-a-solace/article32492047.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The Kheri murder||The details of how Mr. Willoughby met his death show that he was reading a newspaper in his bungalow, when his principal assassin entered and made a cut at him with a sword which would have been fatal had it not struck the pankha. Mr. Willoughby rushed outside and ran for about 50 yards when he fell into a drain. The men then cut him over the skull and nearly severed one of his arms. By this time the servant had given alarm. The murderer fled. Mr. De. Cartevat arrested the principal accused who was hiding in a house close by. Four men have been arrested in connection with the crime and several others are under suspicion. The fourth man was arrested in Lucknow yesterday. Before service at the Christ Church on Sunday evening the Civil Chaplain referred to the terrible tragedy which had occured at Kheri to which Mr. Willoughby had laid down his life in the fulfilment of his duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-kheri-murder/article32492055.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Fiji prepares for independence||Prince Charles will represent Queen Elizabeth at Fiji’s independence celebrations in October. Royal assent has been given to the Bill providing for Fiji’s independence on October 10, the 96th anniversary of the cession of the islands to Queen Victoria. Warm feelings of goodwill to Fiji and its people were expressed during debates on the Bill in both Houses of the British Parliament. It has been decided that October 10 will be known as Independence Day and not Dominion Day. The Independence Celebration Committee has decided against a midnight ceremony of lowering the Union Jack and raising the new national flag. Instead, it has proposed that the Union Jack will be lowered at sunset on October 9 at a ceremony of Beating the Retreat by the Fiji military forces. The new flag will be ceremonially hoisted throughout Fiji on October 10 at 10 a.m. To mark Independence, every child in Fiji will receive a medallion. It will bear a replica of the Queen’s head on one side and the Dominion Coat of Arms on the other. The Suva Indian Chamber of Commerce has initiated three projects to mark Independence. They are the setting up of a fund by the Indian business community to be known as the Prime Minister’s Fund; erection of a monumental clock tower in the capital, Suva; and a gift of 51 dollars to the first Fiji citizen born at the biggest hospital in Suva, after the raising of the new national flag on October 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fiji-prepares-for-independence/article32492056.ece
01 September 2020||MUMBAI,||To focus on reasonable returns to customers: LIC||The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) said it would continue to deploy funds to the best advantage of the policyholders as well as the community as a whole ‘true to the spirit of nationalisation.’ “National priorities and obligation of reasonable returns to the policyholders are the main criteria of our investments,” said LIC. The total funds, so invested for the benefit of the community at large, are Rs. 30,69,942 crore as on March 31, LIC said on the eve of its foundation day. It said it had immensely contributed to propagating the message of life insurance in the country and in the last 64 years, it had spread its wings from being a life insurance company into an internationally-recognised financial conglomerate with presence in 14 countries. Starting with an initial capital of Rs. 5 crore in 1956, LIC’s asset base had gone up to Rs. 31,96,215 crore with a Life Fund to the tune of Rs. 31,14,496 crore, according to the insurer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/to-focus-on-reasonable-returns-to-customers-lic/article32496387.ece
01 September 2020||Benglauru,||Biocon arm introduces Semglee in U.S.||Biocon arm Biocon Biologics India and Mylan introduced Semglee (insulin glargine injection) in vial and pre-filled pens to help control high blood sugar in adult and pediatric patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes, in the U.S. They will offer Semglee at a wholesale price of $147.98 per package of five 3ml pens and $98.65 per 10ml vial after a list-price discount of 65%, as per a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/biocon-arm-introduces-semglee-in-us/article32496394.ece
01 September 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Most firms availing moratorium were struggling before COVID-19’||Three out of four entities that availed of loan moratorium were rated in the sub-investment grade, Crisil Ratings said. “Most of them were grappling with a slowing economy before the pandemic began. The severely curtailed business activity that followed in the first quarter of this fiscal had cramped cash flows, so the moratorium came as a big relief,” it said. Only one out of four companies that availed of the moratorium is rated in the investment grade (rated CRISIL BBB- or higher). They took recourse to the moratorium to build a liquidity cushion for exigencies in the near term, the ratings agency added. “Companies in sectors impacted the most by the pandemic have been the keenest to avail of the moratorium,” Subodh Rai, Senior Director, Crisil Ratings said. “While every sector has been affected by the dislocations stemming from the pandemic, majority of those with lower resilience have availed of the moratorium. Few among the more-resilient ones have done so,” he added. Every fifth company in highly impacted sectors such as gems and jewellery, hotel, auto components, automobile dealers, power (power utilities, independent power producers and energy traders), packaging, and capital goods and components availed of the moratorium, Crisil said. On the other hand, only one in 10 from less-impacted sectors such as pharmaceuticals, chemicals, FMCG, secondary steel and agriculture availed, Crisil added. While the moratorium ended on Monday, demand outlook in most sectors remained muted. In particular, companies falling in the low resilience sector will continue to remain under stress over the next 2-3 quarters, the ratings agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/most-firms-availing-moratorium-were-struggling-before-covid-19/article32496396.ece
01 September 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI moves to ease liquidity further||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced more measures to ease liquidity pressures amid rising yields on government securities and concerns of higher government borrowing and said that it would conduct additional, special open market operations (OMOs) as part of its efforts to ensure orderly market conditions and congenial financial conditions. The OMOs via auctions involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs. 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs. 10,000 crore each, would be conducted on September 10 and September 17. “The RBI remains committed to conduct further such operations as warranted by market conditions,” the central bank said. The central bank’s announcement came on a day when the government announced the biggest quarterly contraction in economic output and other data showed the Centre’s fiscal deficit had exceeded 100% of its full-year budget target in the first four months of the current fiscal. “The RBI remains committed to use all instruments at its command to revive the economy by maintaining congenial financial conditions, mitigate the impact of COVID-19 and restore the economy to a path of sustainable growth while preserving macroeconomic and financial stability,” it said. As part of the measures, the RBI also allowed banks to hold fresh acquisitions of statutory liquidity ratio securities acquired from September 1 under Held-To-Maturity up to an overall limit of 22% of net demand and time liabilities up to March 31, 2021, which shall be reviewed thereafter, it said. RBI said it will conduct term repo operations for an aggregate amount of Rs. 1 lakh crore at floating rates (i.e., at the prevailing repo rate) in the middle of September to assuage pressures on the market on account of advance tax outflows. “Thus, the banks may reduce their interest liability by returning funds taken at the repo rate prevailing at that time (5.15%) and availing funds at the current repo rate of 4%.” Observing that market sentiment had recently been impacted by concerns relating to the inflation outlook, the RBI said, “there are indications that food and fuel prices are stabilising and cost push factors are moderating”. It said the recent appreciation of the rupee was also working towards containing imported inflationary pressures. The RBI assured that the borrowing programme of the Centre and States for the year 2020-21 would be completed in a non-disruptive manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-moves-to-ease-liquidity-further/article32496398.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||Integrated Core Strategies (Asia) buys Bharti Airtel shares worth nearly Rs 1,953 cr||Integrated Core Strategies (Asia) Pte Ltd. on Monday bought shares of Bharti Airtel Ltd. worth about Rs. 1,953 crore through open market transaction. According to NSE data, the acquirer bought over 3.8 crore shares, representing about 0.69% shareholding of Bharti Airtel, at Rs. 513.79 apiece. Shares of Bharti Airtel on Monday fell 2.1% to Rs. 512.45 on the NSE.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/integrated-core-strategies-asia-buys-bharti-airtel-shares-worth-nearly-rs-1953-cr/article32496399.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,||Funskool to focus on domestic market, says CEO||Buoyed by the Prime Minister’s (PM) call for developing innovative ‘toys and games’ in India for making the country a global toy hub, a leading toy manufacturer said that it saw a bright future for the sector. “The PM’s speech focussed more on the Indian toy sector and this will give a fillip to domestic toy manufacturing companies,” R. Jeswant, CEO, Funskool (India) Ltd. told The Hindu.  “We see a bright future for the Indian toy manufacturing firms and the country can be a hub for the industry as a lot of initiatives are set to follow the PM’s speech,” he added. Since April, Funskool exports had grown exponentially following a surge in sourcing by international majors. However, the domestic volume was impacted by the pandemic. Currently, the company exports about 60% of its production. Going forward, it would strive to keep it 50:50 (domestic production and exports). Funskool has has three units — one in Goa and two in Ranipet in Tamil Nadu. Each year, Funskool develops about 60-70 products comprising plastic-moulded toys, board games, puzzles and wooden toys, among others. This year, the number could go up to 120 following the recent hike in duty on imported toys and the company’s focus on the domestic market.   “The world toy market is estimated to be $90 billion, and we have a share of 0.5%. There is enough scope for exports. With good support, we can grow by leaps and bounds in the future,” said Mr. Jeswant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/funskool-to-focus-on-domestic-market-says-ceo/article32496401.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,||MRF sees spurt in demand for two-wheelers, tractors||Tyre manufacturer MRF Ltd. said it saw a spurt in demand for two-wheelers and tractors even as the way forward for the automobile and the tyre industries remained unclear on account of the pandemic, said a top executive. “The forecast of a normal monsoon and its timely onset has boosted the expectations of a bumper crop output and this augurs well for the rural economy,” wrote K.M. Mammen, CMD in a note to shareholders. “This can strengthen rural income, which will see a spurt in demand for two-wheelers and tractors. Thus, a recovery in the rural economy will be a relief to the tyre industry,” he added. “Currently, the automobile industry is also passing through tough times as the demand for four and two-wheelers is at an unprecedented low,”he said. “The industry has moved to BS-VI vehicles, which are slowly getting absorbed into the market. We are expecting to see a fair growth in demand for vehicles, and I am sure that the automobile industry will come out of this slump with reasonable growth in the near future,” he said. In the coming year, the automobile industry would see new trends, with the industry trying to recover from the COVID-19-induced recession. There could be a preference for personal mobility with entry-level vehicles standing to benefit. E-commerce would see more traction, which will drive sales of light commercial vehicles. Two-wheelers also could see traction since they are used for last-mile delivery, MRF officials said. The road to recovery will not be smooth, given the impact on disposable incomes, consumer behaviour and credit, they said. The bright spot would be the rural and semi-urban areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mrf-sees-spurt-in-demand-for-two-wheelers-tractors/article32496404.ece
01 September 2020||New Delhi,||NTPC to seek shareholders’ nod to raise up to Rs 15,000 cr via bonds||NTPC will seek shareholders’ nod to raise up to Rs. 15,000 crore through issuance of bonds in the annual general meeting (AGM) scheduled for next month. The funds are proposed to be raised on a private placement basis in one or more tranches, not exceeding 30, as per the notice for the AGM. The funds would be raised for capital expenditure, working capital and general corporate purposes.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ntpc-to-seek-shareholders-nod-to-raise-up-to-rs-15000-cr-via-bonds/article32496405.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Easier norms for default recognition||Markets regulator SEBI on Monday asked credit rating agencies (CRAs) not to consider as default the restructuring of debt done solely due to COVID-19 related stress by lenders. The move comes after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) provided a loan restructuring window for corporates, following bankers’ and industry’s demand. As per RBI, restructuring will be allowed as per the prudential framework issued on June 7, 2019. “Based on its assessment, if the CRA is of the view that the restructuring by the lenders/investors is solely due to COVID-19-related stress or under the ... RBI framework, CRAs may not consider the same as a default and/or recognise default,” SEBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/easier-norms-for-default-recognition/article32496406.ece
01 September 2020||Chennai,||Raina has been influential as a CSK player: N. Srinivasan||N. Srinivasan said here on Monday that certain statements attributed to him about Suresh Raina, which appeared in some sections of the media, were taken “out of context.” Raina had pulled out of the upcoming IPL, beginning in the UAE on September 19, after travelling with the team to Dubai.   The former BCCI and ICC chief, who is the managing director of India Cements that owns the Chennai Super Kings, told The Hindu , “Let me make one thing very clear. We own the franchise but not the players.” No interference He added: “One of the key reasons for the tremendous success of CSK over the years is that the franchise doesn’t interfere in the cricketing affairs. That is left to the skipper and the coach.” Srinivasan praised Raina for his contribution to CSK over the years. “He has been so influential for CSK as a player. I acknowledge his enormous contribution. He has been with us for so many years.” Raina is the leading run-getter for CSK with 4,527 runs and, at one stage, played a staggering 158 successive matches for the franchise before missing a game due to fitness concerns. The CSK boss said, “If Raina now has opted out of this edition for personal reasons, I completely support his decision.” Srinivasan noted, “Look, I will never speak ill of a cricketer. I respect players. I am a cricket lover myself. India Cements has always been supportive of the cricketers, much before the IPL came into existence.” Asked whether CSK will seek a replacement for Raina, he said, “That call will be taken by the team management.” Dhoni’s decision Queried about the most suitable cricketer to replace Raina in the playing eleven, Srinivasan answered, “Now you are entering M.S. Dhoni’s area. He will take that decision. Like I said before, we don’t interfere in the cricketing affairs.” Despite the team being hit by COVID-19 and the early departure of Raina, Srinivasan remained confident about CSK’s prospects. Team is united “The team is united and there is no friction in the squad. We have a strong captain in Dhoni. The team is solidly behind him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raina-has-been-influential-as-a-csk-player-n-srinivasan/article32492173.ece
01 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anand thrilled with addition to medal collection||One medal was missing from Viswanthan Anand’s collection — the one from the biennial Chess Olympiad. On Sunday, the gold-sharing performance of India in the inaugural FIDE online Olympiad gold has ensured a new addition to five-time World champion’s trophy cabinet. “I think Olympiad is a very special title. And on top of it, I really liked the sensation and the ambience of winning as part of this team. Somehow, getting together with lots of chess players, and feeling that we are fighting for a common cause, that’s very inspiring. “And specially, in these times of the pandemic, this was the best social event I had in some time. Winning the Olympiad medal will add to my collection and my trophy cabinet. Just a great memory,” said an elated Anand. After a drama lasting two hours on Sunday, India’ protest over two “lost” games following internet outage across several nations, was upheld and it was declared joint winner with Russia. Many Indian players, including Anand, congratulated Russia. In contrast, leading Russians — Ian Nepomniachtchi and former women’s World champion Alexandra Kostinuik — took to twitter to express their disappointment. Timely recovery When The Hindu asked Anand if Nihal’s timely recovery to reach an equal position, when seen together with Divya Deshmukh’s high winning prospects (in the two affected games), had a role to play in the eventual verdict, he said, “I would say it could’ve had an impact. But honestly, it’s not nice for FIDE to decide these things by judging the positions. I guess, it would have been hard for FIDE to take that decision, if we had lost on all six boards, or something like that. “So it helped that we were in good positions, on Divya’s board and Nihal’s position had improved a bit and it must have helped. But I would be uncomfortable to know that they are sitting and judging the positions or something!” Great experience On his part, skipper Vidit Gujrathi said, “It was a great experience to lead a team, featuring Anand and Humpy. I still have the autographs I took of these two legends. In case of juniors, we had to consider their styles before finalising our line-up. “Like Nihal and Vantika Agrawal are more solid in their approach while Praggnanandhaa and Divya are sharper. So the choice depended on the situation we were in.”  I think Olympiad is a very special title Anand||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-thrilled-with-addition-to-medal-collection/article32492161.ece
01 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||It is a great feeling to be part of a champion Indian team, says Humpy||World rapid chess champion K. Humpy faced a different kind of challenge as she played a significant role in India being declared joint-winner along with Russia in the online Chess Olympiad. The 33-year-old had to make the difficult choice of staying away from her two-year-old daughter Ahana and playing the games from her parents’ home in Vijayawada. “Yes, since it would not have been easy to play with her at home, I preferred to be with my parents [her father K. Ashok has been her coach-cum-mentor since her early days] and it was comparatively easier,” Humpy told The Hindu from Vijayawada.  Reflecting on her contribution to the team’s win, Humpy said it was immensely satisfying that she could give her best in the crucial Armageddon (a tie-break) in the semifinal as she beat Monika Socko of Poland and helped India move into the final. “Everything fell in place and luckily being the best woman player, I got the chance to play that big match and I am glad with my performance,” said a smiling Humpy. “Well, it is a great feeling to be part of a champion team in the Olympiad, this being my third or fourth appearance,” she said. The World No. 2 said India enjoyed a huge advantage because of the Olympiad’s mixed-team format. “We had the highly experienced [Viswanathan] Anand on the top board and then the young exciting talent who played their bit in clinching crucial wins,” Humpy said. Formulating strategies She credited captain Vidit Gujrathi and non-playing captain Srinath for all the efforts in formulating strategies. “Essentially, the trust amongst the players and everyone pulling off wins when they were expected to were the key to India’s success,” Humpy signed off.  The trust amongst the players and everyone pulling off wins when they were expected to were key to the Indian team’s success   We had the highly experienced [Viswanathan] Anand on the top board and then the young exciting talent who played their bit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-is-a-great-feeling-to-be-part-of-a-champion-indian-team-says-humpy/article32492178.ece
01 September 2020||MANCHESTER,||England squads for series against Australia||The England squads for the three T20Is and three ODIs against Australia were announced on Monday.  The squads:   T20Is: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Tom Banton, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler (wk), Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Joe Denly, Chris Jordan, Dawid Malan, Adil Rashid, and Mark Wood; Reserves: Liam Livingstone, and Saqib Mahmood.   ODIs: Morgan (Capt.), Moeen, Archer, Bairstow, Banton, Billings, Buttler (wk), Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Rashid, Joe Root, Woakes, and Wood; Reserves: Denly and Mahmood.   The schedule (all times IST):   T20Is (all at Southampton): Sept. 4, 10.30 p.m.; Sept. 6, 6.45 p.m.; Sept. 8, 10.30 p.m.   ODIs (all at Manchester): Sept. 11, 5.30 p.m.; Sept. 13, 5.30 p.m.; Sept. 16, 5.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-squads-for-series-against-australia/article32492162.ece
01 September 2020||MADRID,||Messi skips training||Lionel Messi boycotted Barcelona’s first pre-season training session on Monday, club sources confirmed. After skipping coronavirus tests on Sunday, Messi was absent again from the club’s Ciutat Esportiva training ground, where Ronald Koeman held a session, his first after being appointed Barcelona coach. The 33-year-old and his lawyers believe that participating in the pre-season programme would contradict their argument that Messi no longer belongs to the club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-skips-training/article32492167.ece
01 September 2020||Bengaluru,||de Villiers shakes off the rust at the nets||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) batting mainstay A.B. de Villiers tested himself at nets in Dubai, and came away satisfied. The South African had a strenuous batting session, his first hit in a long time. “It was very good and very enjoyable to be out there. It was night time — it was bit blurry under lights. The pitch was sticky too. It was a great challenge. “To be honest, it was how I wanted my first nets in a long time to be. I kept my basics in place, and watched the ball closely. I hit some nice shots at the end,” de Villiers said, in a video posted on RCB’s Twitter handle. After finishing his batting, de Villiers was seen offering tips to teammate Gurkeerat Singh. Zampa for Richardson Meanwhile, the RCB management announced that Australia leg-spinner Adam Zampa will replace countryman Kane Richardson in the squad. As Richardson and his wife are expecting their first child, the Australia seamer has pulled out of the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-villiers-shakes-off-the-rust-at-the-nets/article32492174.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting match-ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/getting-match-ready/article32492159.ece
01 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Indian IM Leon Mendonca wins title at Skalicky chess festival||IM Leon Luke Mendonca, with 7.5 points from nine rounds, has won the Skalicky chess festival in Slovakia. The The 14-year-old, Goa-based player remained unbeaten and notched up six wins on his way to the title.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-im-leon-mendonca-wins-title-at-skalicky-chess-festival/article32492166.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 07:50 IST,||Sudoku - September 1, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-1-2020/article32492837.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||The ‘i’ of the tiger||For those who find buying a laptop too much of an investment and relying on a smartphone unacceptable, the happy medium in these work-from-home or live-at-work routines, comes in the form of a tablet. In this case, the iPad Pro 2020 breaks into the global market at an apt time. I had the 11-inch iPad Pro in Space Grey, an easily handled size and weight at 473 grams (for the WiFi + Cellular model). I love the matte finish on the back, offering that slate-like feel and tactile grip, which many earlier iPads missed out on. On the back, are three small magnetic connectors on the lower edge, where the iPad Pro locks against the Magic Keyboard. There is another magnet along one edge where the 2nd Generation Apple Pencil snaps into place and charges through the iPad Pro, rather than the plug-in charging the older Pencils have through the Lightning connector of the tablet. The Liquid Retina display for the iPad Pro is vivid with none of the dizzying contrast I have seen much of this year in a lot of devices. The overwhelming screen time is already a lot to handle, so the iPad Pro’s 600-nit brightness with 1.8% reflectivity offers minimal strain for these long live-at-work hours. The adjusting refresh rate of up to 120Hz, thanks to the ProMotion technology, makes the system move smoother and more intuitively, depending on what you are doing. Powered by A12Z Bionic Right off the bat, I found myself relying on the iPad Pro for its PC-like experience. The device is able to handle high volumes of diverse work thanks to the improved battery and the new-to-device A12Z Bionic chip, the third in the A12 series of chips. There is an eight-core graphics processing unit in the A12Z Bionic, with an enhanced thermal architecture and tuned performance controllers, which collectively uphold the system quite well for long hours. It is important to note that the A12Z is not merely a processor but a system on its own, so much of iPad Pro’s USP leans on the powerhouse of the A12Z Bionic. That said, I got a solid 12 hours of strong battery life before I hit Low Power Mode; during this time I was averaging at four hours of video-editing, five hours of productivity and two hours of social media, and there was still plenty of battery life to spare. The Neural Engine in the chip enables redistribution of power, through Machine Learning, to whatever predominant activity is happening on the device. Charging the iPad Pro from Low Battery Mode to 100% takes about an hour via USB-C; I was able to use this port to share heavy files directly through a drive rather than manoeuvring AirDrop or switching across cloud-based storage sites between devices.  A lot of the heavy campaigning for the iPad Pro was geared towards video editors, graphic designers and photographers — people who are used to multiple screens or split screen ways of working. Though it is not the same as having many monitors, each with their custom display settings, the iPad Pro is a good option for on-the-go work. The split-screen option was great for me during video editing, to have raw footage up against edited footage, or fact-checking sites against a draft of my written work. On an 11-inch screen, it is not a permanent solution but it does fill a gap in productivity that does more good than harm by having it integrated in iPadOS, especially when clubbed with the Magic Keyboard. If you are more of a visual worker, opt for the 12.9-inch version for more room to play around in. The camera itself has an iPhone 11 feel — the wide 12 megapixel rear camera with ƒ/1.8 aperture, and the ultra-wide: 10 megapixel rear camera with a 125 degree field of view. The iPad Pro comes with a LiDAR scanner too, and this is not limited to developers or computer engineers. I had long been playing Hot Lava on Apple Arcade but on an iPhone. However, on the iPad Pro, the game will soon come with an Augmented Reality mode to enhance the danger factor of the game by bringing it to your surrounding space. When this comes out, I will surely be immersing myself. This year marks 10 years since the first iPad, and the 2020 iPad Pro is a great upgrade and standalone piece of technology for the Apple ecosystem. Yes, the iPad Pro is expensive but I feel this is geared to the technically savvy, who will make the most of the more niche specs such as the ARKit, the LiDAR scanner and others. If you are keen on an iPad, look to the older models which are easier on the bank account and on the user experience.  The 11-inch iPad Pro starts at Rs. 71,900 for the Wi-Fi model and Rs. 85,900 for the Wi-Fi + Cellular model. The 12.9-inch iPad Pro starts at Rs. 89,900 for the Wi-Fi model and Rs. 1,03,900 for the Wi-Fi + Cellular model.   Specifications (review unit)  Dimensions & weight:247.6 x 178.5 x 5.9 mm ; 473 g  Display:Liquid Retina display, 11-inch (diagonal) LED-backlit Multi-Touch display with IPS technology, 2388x1668-pixel resolution at 264 pixels per inch (ppi), ProMotion technology, Wide colour display (P3), True Tone display, Fingerprint-resistant oleophobic coating, Fully laminated display, Anti-reflective coating, 1.8% reflectivity, 600 nits brightness  Sensors:Face ID, LiDAR Scanner, Three-axis gyro, Accelerometer, Barometer, Ambient light sensor  Chip:A12Z Bionic chip with 64-bit architecture, Neural Engine, Embedded M12 coprocessor  Power & battery:Built-in 28.65-watt-hour rechargeable lithium-polymer battery, Up to 10 hours of surfing the web on Wi-Fi or watching video, Charging via power adapter or USB-C to computer system||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-i-of-the-tiger/article32492447.ece
01 September 2020||September 01 2020 00:00 IST,||A hardened act to follow||Apart from the Nioh series, very few games have come close to matching FromSoftware Inc’s series of games, starting with 2009’s Demons Souls: an action role-playing game (RPG), known for its risk-reward formula of gameplay and high difficulty. Put together by master game designer Hidetaka Miyazaki, it is a form of passive storytelling. Many big studios have never quite understood the spirit of the Souls games, but U.S.-based indie studio, Cold Symmetry, has crafted a worthy game that brings a lot of new ideas into the fold. In Mortal Shell, you play a mysterious being, a nameless humanoid husk known as a Foundling, a sinewy creature with the ability to harden its skin. You switch between four ‘shells’ of armour made of flesh, bone and metal, as you embark on a journey to unravel the mystery, layer by layer, of this shattered world and its inhabitants. Impressive foundations Taking a page out of FromSoftware Inc’s games, the story of this deep-action RPG is never told outright, if you wish you can just enjoy the gameplay without really experiencing the story. However, those who look and listen will be rewarded with excellent worldbuilding and lore. While the game is short — about 20 hours — the story is deep and over too soon, keeping you thirsty for more Mortal Shell and the Foundling. Rather than choosing a vocation or class outright, you have four different play styles to experiment with. From a quick and agile rogue like character, to a tank that is able to absorb damage, to a well balanced warrior. You can take over each of these body types to find the play style you like, or if you get bored of one you can switch it around. Each of these Shells come with their own equipment upgrades and abilities and it adds a versatility to the game which most Souls games lack. There are distinct movesets for each shell right down to the way they evade, especially the rogue, who disappears into a puff of smoke. The hardening ability brings a Sekiro-like parry mechanic into the flow of things. Able to harden its skin, Foundling can block an attack and can even kill an enemy. Deploying such an attack with timing is the key. You have to account for its cool-down into your combos. It is addictive, but requires some practice. Death is a major factor here; as the Foundling, you are impervious to death, though your Shell is not. So, you have to make your way back to it, retracing your steps until you get control again. Mortal Shell aesthetically looks very much like Dark Souls, and even feels like one. It is much more than just a clone though, with its well-crafted levels, and devious enemy placements. While the game is short, it is trimmed of fat, giving you an immersive experience free of bloat. The graphics are moody and ethereal, with the white skin of the Foundling carved in exquisite detail. While it is not perfect, given that some of the animations feel a bit off, the final experience is not hampered by it. If you love the genre that From Software created — and you want more — Mortal Shell will fill a certain void. Cold Symmetry has done a fantastic job of the game, and we hope to see a lot more of its world and lore. The writer is a tech and gaming enthusiast who hopes to one day finish his sci-fi novel  Mortal Shell   Developer:Cold Symmetry   Publisher:Playstack  Price:Rs. 1,999 on Playstation 4, Rs. 1400 ($19) on Epic Store||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-hardened-act-to-follow/article32492441.ece
01 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Maken meets partymen in Jaipur||All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Ajay Maken, recently appointed in-charge of Rajasthan, met party leaders, workers, office-bearers and Ministers here on Monday to evolve a consensus in the party in the aftermath of a month-long political turmoil. This was Mr. Maken’s first visit to the State after his new appointment.  Feedback from Ministers Mr. Maken, who is also part of a three-member committee set up by the Congress to look into the issues raised by Sachin Pilot and his supporters, will hold extensive discussions with the party functionaries and get feedback from the Ministers and MLAs during his four-day visit. His visit also assumes significance for the impending organisational changes and Ministry reshuffle. After his interaction with the Ministers at the Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters, Mr. Maken told reporters that each of them had fulfilled 60% to 70% of the promises made in the Congress manifesto for the 2018 Assembly election. “This achievement indicates that our Ministers are accountable to the people,” Mr. Maken, who has replaced Avinash Pande as the in-charge of Rajasthan, said. PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra accompanied Mr. Maken during his interactions. Mr. Maken said the State government would present a progress report on its works, including the implementation of various schemes and execution of the manifesto’s promises, to the public on Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary on October 2. Mr. Dotasra said both the government and the ruling party were working hard for people’s welfare in the State with an effective coordination. The Ministers will visit the districts assigned to them once every month and get the feedback from the party’s district and block units in an attempt to redress people’s grievances. Mr. Maken will interact with the party functionaries from various districts of Jaipur and Ajmer divisions during the next two days. On his arrival here on Sunday night, the Congress leader accused the BJP of killing democracy through money power and by misusing the Central investigating agencies. “The BJP faced defeat in Rajasthan when it tried to do so recently,” he said. Meets Gehlot, Pilot He also met Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former Deputy CM Mr. Pilot at their respective residences here. While Mr. Gehlot welcomed Mr. Maken, Mr. Pilot expressed the hope that the Congress would get a “new direction” in the State under his guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maken-meets-partymen-in-jaipur/article32492342.ece
01 September 2020||Bhopal,||Crops in 7 lakh hectares hit by floods: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said crops in nearly 7 lakh hectares had been affected owing to heavy rain and floods in 14 districts. “Combining provisions of the crop insurance scheme and the Revenue Book of Circulars, all possible efforts to compensate for the loss will be made besides arrangements for rehabilitation,” he said. In addition, he apprised Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar of the crop loss. “And a request will be made for additional support to Madhya Pradesh for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in rural areas,” he added. Further, Mr. Chouhan gave directions for surveying soybean crop loss and property loss. At a meeting, officials informed him that the water level had gone down in the Gandhi Sagar, Indira Sagar and Omkareshwar reservoirs. TheNarmada level in Sethani ghat in Hoshangabad, worst hit by floods, had come down.  Relief work On Monday afternoon, Mr. Chouhan oversaw relief works in flood-hit areas of Hoshangabad district, and reached Balabhet village in a boat accompanied by Army personnel. The Chief Minister’s office said he ordered the district administration to offer every possible help to the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/crops-in-7-lakh-hectares-hit-by-floods-chouhan/article32492340.ece
01 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. to continue curbs as virus cases rise||Amid spiralling cases of COVID-19, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced his government’s decision to continue with restrictions in urban areas, including weekend lockdown in all the 167 municipal towns of the State, along with 7 p.m. to 5 am. curfew in all cities till the end of September. The decision has been taken in due consultation with the Centre, as required by the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, according to an official statement. “Section 144 of the CrPC banning all social, political, religious gatherings, protests and demonstrations will continue to remain in force throughout the State, while gatherings relating to marriage and funerals shall be allowed only for 30 persons and 20 persons respectively,” said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-to-continue-curbs-as-virus-cases-rise/article32492343.ece
01 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||IIT-Bhubaneswar issues gag order to employees||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bhubaneswar has asked its employees not to make any statement or publish opinion in media which could embarrass relations between the institute and the Central government or any State government. The IIT-Bhubaneswar directed its faculties and staff not to interact with print or electronic media without prior approval of the competent authority. “No employee shall, in any media activity or in any document published anonymously or in own name or in the name of any other person or in any communication to the media or in any public utterance, make any statement of fact or opinion,” said a circular issued by IIT-Bhubaneswar Registrar. The August 19 circular says no employee should go public with opinion which is capable of embarrassing the relations between the institute and the Central government or any State government or any other institute or organisation or members of the public. Employees are also not entitled to give opinion which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the institute, says the order. The IIT-Bhubaneswar, however, has not put any restriction if media participation or contribution is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-bhubaneswar-issues-gag-order-to-employees/article32492344.ece
