05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath Singh meets Chinese counterpart Wei in Moscow||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Defence Ministers’ meeting in Moscow on Friday. Details of the meeting, however, were not known. Mr. Singh and Mr. Wei met in Moscow at 9.30 p.m. India time, a defence source said. The Chinese side sought the meeting between Mr. Singh and their Minister on Thursday, a second source said. In comments on Thursday, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar also confirmed that he would meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at the SCO Foreign Ministers’ meet in Moscow on September 10.  Three-day visit Mr. Singh is on a three-day visit to Russia for the combined meeting of Defence Ministers of the SCO, Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) Member States in commemoration of the 75th anniversary of victory in the Second World War. Earlier, he was in Russia in June to attend the Victory Day parade of the Second World War, which was also attended by Mr. Wei but there was no bilateral meeting then. The meeting comes amid the ongoing four-month standoff in eastern Ladakh after the ingress of Chinese troops into Indian-held territory along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at several locations and undertook a massive military build-up. Addressing the meeting, Mr. Rajnath Singh emphasised that “peaceful, stable and secure region of SCO member states, home to over 40% of the global population, demands a climate of trust and cooperation, non-aggression, respect for international rules, sensitivity to each other’s interest and peaceful resolution of differences.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajnath-singh-meets-chinese-counterpart-wei-in-moscow/article32527918.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s COVID-19 cases cross 4 mn||India became the third country with more than four million COVID-19 cases in the world on Friday, after the United States of America and Brazil with 6.253 million and 4.047 million cases respectively. The death toll in India reached 69,634, third behind the U.S.’s 1.898 lakh and Brazil’s 1.247 lakh. Data was as of 10.20 p.m. based on reports from the State governments and the Johns Hopkins University COVID-19 tracker. Friday saw 80,938 confirmed cases and 1,080 deaths registered till 10.20 p.m. with data yet to come from Assam, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura. This marked the third straight day when more than 80,000 infections were identified. India currently has both the highest daily case load and the highest registered daily toll in the world if a seven-day rolling average is considered. Testing rates up One reason for the high case load has been that testing rates have gone up significantly with 11,69,765 samples tested in the last 24 hours. “With this steep exponential rise in daily testing, the cumulative tests were 4,66,79,145,” said the Health Ministry in a release. However, a look at the break-up of the tests available on the website of the Indian Council of Medical Research shows that only 38.65% of these were the more accurate Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, with the rest being the Rapid Antigen tests variety, which allow for quicker diagnosis but are known to have a higher rate of false negative reports. Positivity rate The Health Ministry’s release pointed out that the daily COVID-19 positivity rate was just below 7.5% while cumulative positivity rate was less than 8.5%. The Ministry also told The Hindu that “those undertaking rapid antigen (are obviously those who have been exposed or showing symptoms etc) are followed up even after they test negative and recommended RTPCR in case the physician sees a requirement for it”. The Ministry said that as per its data 2% of the COVID-19 cases are in ICUs and less than 3.5% of the active cases occupy oxygen supported beds currently.  (With inputs from Bindu Shajan Perappadan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-covid-19-cases-cross-4-mn/article32527933.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects appeal by 6 State Ministers against JEE, NEET||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, dismissed a plea filed jointly by Ministers from six non-BJP-ruled States against the conduct of the JEE Main and the NEET-UG amid the pandemic. The Bench, also comprising Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, found no merit in the plea to review the top court’s order on August 17 refusing to entertain a petition by students to postpone the NEET and the JEE. ‘Careful study’ “We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We find no merit in the review petitions and the same are accordingly dismissed,” the court said in a short order. The court similarly dismissed the review petitions filed by Puducherry MLA R.K.R. Anantharaman and N. Vinoba Bhoopathy. The court decided the review petitions in chambers. The Ministers had submitted that lakhs of students should not fall prey to the Centre’s “knee-jerk” and “haphazard” plans, which will prove “worse than the disease itself”. The situation was grave enough to recall or postpone the exams, they said. The National Testing Agency (NTA) had notified the JEE between September 1 to 9. The NEET for medical seats are scheduled for September 13. The JEE Main is slated to be conducted at over 660 exam centres, with 9.53 lakh students taking it. The NEET will see 15.97 lakh students in 3,843 centres across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rejects-appeal-by-6-state-ministers-against-jee-neet/article32527920.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees 1.04 lakh infections in 10 days||The State reported more than 10,000 new infections during the past day making it the tenth consecutive day to witness over 10,000 daily infections since August 26. Due to the unabated surge in infections in the past 10 days, the tally increased by 1.04 lakh which is 22% of the total tally of 4,76,506 so far. Over 6.08 lakh samples were tested during the same period and the positivity rate of the tests was at 17.22%, way higher than the State’s overall positivity rate. Also, 91,916 patients have recovered and 816 patients have died in the past 10 days. On Friday, 10,776 new infections and 76 new deaths were reported and the death toll increased to 4,276. As many as 12,334 patients have recovered leaving 1,02,067 patients active and under treatment. The recovery rate is at 77.68% with a total of 3,70,163 recoveries. Testing The number of tests conducted so far in the State has inched close to the 40-lakh mark. With 59,919 tests conducted in the past day, the overall figure reached 30,65,694. With this, the tests per million ratio went up to 74,263 and the cases per million is at 8,923. The death rate is at 0.90%, one of the lowest rates among states. New cases and deaths East Godavari, Nellore and Prakasam reported more than a thousand infections and no district reported over 10 deaths. The new cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (1,405 cases and 6 deaths), Nellore (1,270 and 8), Prakasam (1,256 and 9), Chittoor (970 and 9), West Godavari (924 and 6), Anantapur (750 and 3), Kadapa (727 and 8), Guntur (708 and 8), Kurnool (702 and 2), Vizianagaram (588 and 2), Visakhapatnam (560 and 6), Srikakulam (538 and 4), Krishna (378 and 5). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (64,305), Kurnool (47,573), Anantapur (43,998), West Godavari (40,699), Chittoor (40,696), Visakhapatnam (39,449), Guntur (38,791), Nellore (34,933), Kadapa (29,538), Prakasam (26,700), Srikakulam (26,565), Vizianagaram (22,676) and Krishna (17,688). The percentage of active cases present in West Godavari has further decreased to 7% with more discharges and less new cases in the past day. Prakasam has close to 50% of its cases active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-104-lakh-infections-in-10-days/article32527922.ece
05 September 2020||Vijayawada,||Recruitment of medical staff will be completed in 10 days, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the recruitment of doctors and paramedical staff in government hospitals, mainly for tackling COVID-19, would be completed in 10 days and that the containment of the pandemic entailed a daily expenditure of Rs. 10.18 crore. He warned of stringent action on hospitals flouting the norms in the implementation of the YSR Aarogyasri scheme and ordered that help desks with ‘Arogya Mitras’ should be set up at every network hospital to cater to the requirement of the beneficiaries. In a review meeting on the steps taken to curb the COVID-19 menace on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the new medical colleges being set up by the government would strengthen the health systems, and directed the officials to attach due priority to the augmentation of infrastructure in the urban health centres. He also told the officials to give ratings to the hospitals on the basis of patient feedback and make necessary improvements. Mock calls The Chief Minister instructed officials to make mock calls to call centres every day to check their work and record the response and to intensify the awareness campaign on COVID which continued to be a threat. Officials told the Chief Minister that the process of recruitment of 30,887 posts in the Health Department was nearing completion. So far, 21,673 posts were filled on contract basis and of the 9,971 regular posts, 4,676 were filled up. The State has 138 COVID care hospitals with 37,441 beds, of which 2,462 are general beds and 11,177 oxygen-supported beds while 2,651 ICU beds are vacant. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recruitment-of-medical-staff-will-be-completed-in-10-days-says-jagan/article32527924.ece
05 September 2020||Belagavi,||‘State govt. will set up panel to identify, remove encroachments on rivers’||The State government will form a committee, headed by the Regional Commissioner, to identify and remove encroachments on the rivers in the Krishna basin irrigation, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said in Belagavi on Friday. “It has come to our notice that rivers like the Malaprabha, the Ghataprabha, the Doodha Ganga, the Veda Ganga, the Hiranyakeshi, the Markandeya, and the Ballari Nala are all suffering from encroachments. This is one of the reasons for the flooding. During years with low rainfall, the people don’t understand the impact of encroachment. But this year they have realised it after successive floods,” he said. “We will form a committee under the chairmanship of Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas to conduct a survey of the entire river basin to identify encroachments and remove them. The meeting to ensure this was to be held in Bengaluru last week, but it was postponed owing to the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee. The rescheduled meeting will be held this week,” the Minister said. He was speaking to journalists after a meeting to review the COVID-19 management and other issues. The committee will also take up operations to remove encroachments in the Krishna, he also said. He said the Irrigation Department will study the feasibility of 11 lift irrigation projects in the Krishna basin that would help people of north Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-will-set-up-panel-to-identify-remove-encroachments-on-rivers/article32528185.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi ramps up testing to meet 40K target||The Delhi government has ramped up testing for COVID-19 at transit points, court complexes, weekly markets and will set up camps in addition to deploying mobile testing units at Central government offices. The measures are primed towards achieving its daily target of 40,000 tests over the coming days. According to sources, such arrangements will also be made near Parliament in view of the upcoming monsoon session that begins on September 14. Following a meeting on August 26 to assess the novel coronavirus situation in the city amid rising cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the number of daily tests would be doubled from 20,000 to 40,000. Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, too, at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday, had directed that testing facilities be augmented at transit points and larger construction sites in the city. Government sources said this is likely to be done over the next two to three days.  Increasing tests The total number of tests, including both RT-PCR and rapid antigen, conducted in Delhi have been steadily rising since the beginning of this month. As many as 24,198 tests were conducted on September 1, followed by 28,935 on September 2, 32,834 on September 3 and 36,319 on September 4, a source said. Testing facilities are currently available at 207 dispensaries and 38 city hospitals. These are also available at transit points including the New Delhi and Anand Vihar railway stations as well as court complexes including the Supreme Court, Delhi High Court and Patiala House Courts. Sources said over the next two to four days, COVID-19 testing camps and mobile units would be deployed at Central government offices located in Lutyens’ Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-ramps-up-testing-to-meet-40k-target/article32528136.ece
05 September 2020||Pune,||At 19,218, Maharashtra sees record daily surge||Maharashtra climbed a new high in its single-day case surge, reporting a staggering 19,218 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday to take its total case tally to 8,63,062. As many as 378 patients succumbed to the virus, pushing the death count to 25,964. The number of active cases in the State has risen to 2,10,978. As many as 13,289 patients were discharged on Friday to take the total recoveries to 6,25,773. Of the 378 deaths, 248 fatalities are from the last 48 hours while 78 deaths have occurred last week. The remaining 52 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, State Health Department officials said. “Of a total 44,66,249 laboratory samples tested thus far, 8,63,062 (19.32%) have returned positive with nearly 94,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 72.51%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had marginally reduced to 3.01%. Pune — the worst-hit district in the country — reported more than 3,500 cases to take its total case tally to 1,89,722. The district reported 95 deaths to take its fatality toll to 4,333. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases in the district stands below 32,000. Mumbai reported its highest surge in nearly two months with 1,929 new cases taking its total case tally to 1,52,024. Of them, 22,222 are active ones. As many as 35 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 7,799. Nagpur district reported a new high in its case surge, with 1,848 fresh cases taking the district’s total case tally to 32,653.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-19218-maharashtra-sees-record-daily-surge/article32528364.ece
05 September 2020||CUDDALORE,||Seven women killed in cracker unit explosion||Seven women were killed and two others sustained serious injuries in an explosion at a firecracker manufacturing unit at Kurungudi, near Kattumannarkovil, in Cuddalore district on Friday. Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri said the unit did not have a licence to handle explosives. Its licence expired in March. While five women died on the spot, two others succumbed to burns at the Kattumannarkovil Government Hospital. M. Thenmozhi, 35, and D. Anitha, 20, who sustained severe injuries, were rushed to the Kattumannarkovil Government Hospital and referred to the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER) in Puducherry. The police gave the names of the victims as C. Gandhimathi, 57, owner of the unit; U. Chitra, 45; M. Raasathi, 50; N. Latha, 42; P. Malarkodi, 25; R. Rukmani, 38; and R. Rathnamal, 60. All of them hailed from Kurungudi. The police said the accident occurred around 11 a.m. at the licensed unit when nine women were working. A fire broke out and the country-made crackers stocked on the premises exploded. The concrete structure, including the roof and the walls, collapsed. Everything was gutted. The explosion was so severe that the limbs of the victims were flung far away. A few of them suffered over 80% burns, and were charred beyond recognition. The unit, which made country-made fireworks for temple festivals, resumed operations recently. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said the police were ascertaining the cause. Mr. Sakhamuri told The Hindu that an inquiry committee would be established. “The unit had a light explosive licence, and it was functioning for the last 30 years. However, the licence had expired and it was not renewed,” he said. The Chidambaram Sub-Collector had visited the site a few days ago, but it was vacant. The unit started operations on Friday and it had brought the explosives without authorisation, he said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death and announced Rs. 2 lakh in solatium each to the families of the victims from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. In a statement, he said he directed Industries Minister M.C. Sampath and the Cuddalore Collector to ensure relief and rush those injured to hospital. Governor Banwarilal Purohit condoled the death. He said: “I offer my deep condolences to the families of those who are mourning the loss of their near and dear ones. I join the people of Tamil Nadu in praying for the early and complete recovery of the injured admitted in hospitals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-women-killed-in-cracker-unit-explosion/article32528026.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||After Onam lull, State reports 2,479 new cases||With COVID-19 testing picking up in the State after the Onam lull, more new cases are being reported. The State’s case graph, which had been on a steady climb since August, had shown a slight dip during the Onam days, with case numbers going down by thousand a day. On Friday, with sample testing going up to 36,310, the number of fresh cases reported went up to 2,479. It turned out to be a day when the maximum number of recoveries – 2,716 – were reported on a single day. The cumulative case burden now is 82,104, with more than half of these being reported in August alone. The official cumulative death toll went up to 326 on Friday, with the Health Department confirming 11 more COVID deaths. Three of the deaths were in Thiruvananthapuram, two each in Malappuram, Thrissur and Kannur, and one each in Kollam and Kasaragod. Nearly 62% of the total deaths were also reported in the month of August. With 60,444 recoveries so far, the number of patients undergoing treatment is 21,268. Epidemic picture In contrast to the earlier epidemic picture of the State, when over 90% of the cases used to be in those with a travel history outside Kerala and abroad, nearly 95% of the cases being reported now are in persons with no travel history. Around 82% of the deaths are occurring among this category, indicating that community transmission is intense in the State, while its proportion might vary between districts. On Friday, 2,349 out of the 2,479 new cases reported were locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining untraceable in 149 cases. These include 34 health-care workers. In August alone, the number of health-care workers who tested positive is 1,062, according to official data. Thiruvananthapuram’s graph went up again on Friday with 477 cases. Among other districts, Ernakulam reported 274 cases, Kollam 248, Kasaragod 236, Thrissur 204, Kottayam 178, Malappuram 178, Kozhikode 167, Pathanamthitta 141, Kannur 115, Alappuzha 106, Wayanad 84, Palakkad 42 and Idukki 29. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 557.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-onam-lull-state-reports-2479-new-cases/article32528257.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Nutan Naidu held for posing as retd. IAS officer||Six days after the tonsuring of a 20-year-old Dalit youth, the Visakhapatnam city police arrested Nutan Naidu, known for his participation in a TV reality show, in connection with the case in Karnataka. He allegedly tried to impersonate a retired IAS officer, P.V. Ramesh, to protect his wife, who is the prime accused in the case, police said. On August 29, the Pendurthi police arrested his wife and six others for allegedly beating, abusing and tonsuring the youth, their former employee, a day before in their house at Sujatha Nagar. Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha told the media here on Friday that the CCTV footage showed that on the day of tonsuring, Nutan Naidu had made video calls to his wife Priya Madhuri twice from Hyderabad. Mr. Naidu had allegedly abused and threatened the youth. Mr. Sinha said on August 29 a person who identified himself as retired IAS officer P.V. Ramesh had made phone calls to some medical officers, the Principal of the Andhra Medical College (AMC) and in-charge of the KGH, Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, and two others and asked them to refer Priya Madhuri to hospital under health grounds. “Suspecting something fishy, Dr. Sudhakar contacted Mr. Ramesh directly. Later, the former IAS officer himself called me and informed that someone was using his name,” Mr. Sinha said. Nutan Naidu also used some apps to set his name as chief secretary of Andhra Pradesh, AP CMO, the city police chief said. On the run After the incident, Nutan Naidu had left for Bengaluru and then to Mangalore. However, acting on a tip-off, he was taken into custody at Udipi with the help of the Karnataka police. “While he was being taken into custody, Naidu tried to throw away his mobile phone which he used to impersonate the retired officer. When we compared CDR, the phone numbers matched,” Mr. Sinha said, adding that the accused was produced before a magistrate and would be brought to Visakhapatnam soon. The Police Commissioner said that the accused had impersonated a few more officials and investigation was on into it. He said any person having complaints against Nutan Naidu should approach the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nutan-naidu-held-for-posing-as-retd-ias-officer/article32527929.ece
05 September 2020||PUNE,||Pune firm’s RT-PCR test kit gets nod for manufacture||‘CoViDx One’, the COVID-19 RT-PCR (Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction) test kit developed by Pune-based GenePath Diagnostics, has received approval for manufacture and sale in India from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The approval was received on August 31, said a statement by the firm on Friday. The CDSCO has given approval to the Bengaluru-based Achira Labs to manufacture the kits. The kit was validated by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad and approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) earlier in the year. GenePath’s Pune clinical laboratory had earlier received approval from the National Accreditation Board of Laboratories (NABL) and the ICMR to carry out COVID-19 RT-PCR based testing in the country. This makes GenePath the first company in India to also run an NABL-ICMR approved COVID-19 testing lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pune-firms-rt-pcr-test-kit-gets-nod-for-manufacture/article32528368.ece
05 September 2020||Kolkata,||E-passes may be needed to board Kolkata Metro||The West Bengal government on Friday suggested that the Kolkata Metro issue e-passes to passengers to manage the crowd when the services resume later this month. Crowd management has turned out to be the biggest challenge for authorities for resumption of the underground Metro services. The Kolkata Metro had recently said that passengers with only smart cards could avail of the services and tokens for a single ride would not be issued when the services resumed. But the number of passengers using smart cards is over two lakhs. Hence, if many people took the Metro during the peak hours, crowd management would become a challenge. “A meeting was held at the Metro Bhawan on Friday with State government officials. The State has proposed developing a system to issue e-passes for entering the Metro station, which was explained by the developer to the committee,” the spokesperson of Kolkata Metro said. The e-passes, which would be issued for a few hours, would provide real-time data about the number of passengers at a particular station and prevent overcrowding. The details for resumption of Metro services that connect the north part of the city to the south have not been announced so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-passes-may-be-needed-to-board-kolkata-metro/article32528316.ece
05 September 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 case count in Bengal nudges 1.75 lakh||West Bengal on Friday reported 2,978 new COVID-19 cases taking its total case tally to 1,74,659. As many as 58 more deaths recorded in the past 24 hours pushed the number of fatalities in the State to 3,452. Of the 58 deaths, Kolkata reported 17 deaths taking its mortality count to 1,350. North 24 Parganas recorded 14 deaths taking the fatality toll to 783. Kolkata reported 422 new cases as the number of infections in the city touched 41,995. North 24 Parganas recorded 572 fresh cases taking its total case tally to 36,562. With more patients being discharged than the number of those infected, the recovery rate in the State has increased to 84.48%. Active cases in the State have dropped to 23,654. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 45,620, which takes the total samples tested so far to 20.66 lakh. Of the total deaths in the State, 2,983 (86.4%) were suffering from co-morbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-case-count-in-bengal-nudges-175-lakh/article32528318.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bihar elections, 65 bypolls around the same time: EC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has decided to conduct 65 by-elections in various States along with the Bihar Assembly polls. The poll schedules would be announced at an appropriate time, it said. The decision was taken at an ECI meeting on Friday. By-elections were due for 64 for Assembly constituencies and one parliamentary seat, said the ECI. The Commission reviewed the reports and inputs from Chief Secretaries/Chief Electoral Officers of many of the States concerned, seeking deferment of bypolls in view of various factors, including extraordinarily heavy rains at some places and other constraints such as the pandemic. Considering that the Bihar Assembly polls need to be completed before November 29, the ECI decided to hold the by-elections around the same time. “One of the major factors in clubbing them together is the relative ease of movement of Central Armed Police Forces/other law and order forces, and related logistics issues,” it said. Of the 64 vacant Assembly seats, 27 are in Madhya Pradesh; most of these fell vacant when rebel Congress members joined the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-elections-65-bypolls-around-the-same-time-ec/article32528134.ece
05 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||U.P. police arrest man for ‘threatening’ Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh police have picked up a 42-year-old trader from Odisha’s Cuttack district for allegedly threatening Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on social media. The man, identified as Sayyed Hassan Ahmed from Kushambi village under Salepur police station limits, was produced before a local court in Cuttack on Friday. The U.P. police secured a four-day remand. “A two-member U.P. police team with help of our police arrested Mr. Ahmed from Kushambi village in connection with a case filed in Singhbali police station in U.P.’s Baghpat district,” said Nihar Mohanty, in-charge of Salepur police station. He said the State police was informed that the accused took to social media to threaten the PM and U.P. CM. “My son does not have any criminal antecedents. He has hardly used any provocative words [on social media]. We don’t know how U.P. police from Baghpat district landed here,” said the accused’s father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-police-arrest-man-for-threatening-adityanath/article32528138.ece
05 September 2020||MANGALURU,||COVID-19: 94% of deaths in DK owing to co-morbidities||As many as 360 [94.48%] out of the 381 COVID-19 deaths reported in Dakshina Kannada were owing to co-morbidities, according to a report prepared by a district-level committee that analysed deaths between March 25 and September 2. The report stated that 276 deaths were the result of complications associated with COVID-19. As many as 84 were termed as COVID-19 co-incidental deaths, as the infection was incidental to their deaths. As many as 16 were termed COVID-19 deaths, three were classified as brought dead, and two were termed non-COVID deaths. As many as 218 of the victims were from Mangaluru taluk and 79 from outside the district. In terms of mortality rate, those from outside the district was the highest with 9.62%, followed by 6.42% in Puttur taluk, 2.59% in Bantwal, 2.42% in Mangaluru, 1.28% in Belthangady, and 0.58% in Sullia taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-94-of-deaths-in-dk-owing-to-co-morbidities/article32528183.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy hours ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/happy-hours-ahead/article32528133.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Assembly Speaker tests positive||Maharashtra Assembly Speaker and senior Congress leader Nana Patole tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Mr. Patole said on Twitter that he developed symptoms while touring his constituency in Vidarbha region to monitor flood relief work. “I met many people during this and felt symptoms of corona. Though My tests results have come positive, I am healthy and there is no need to worry,” he said. A two-day monsoon session of the Assembly is set to begin on September 7. NCP MLA Narhari Zhirwal, who is the Assembly Deputy Speaker, will chair the proceedings in Mr. Patole’s absence, a Vidhan Bhawan official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-speaker-tests-positive/article32528367.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Situation tense on LAC: Army chief||The situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is slightly tense and the Army had undertaken precautionary deployments, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said on Friday, the second day of his visit to Ladakh. “India is firmly committed to resolving the current situation along the LAC through engagement. We will continue to utilise all existing mechanisms to reduce tension and to ensure that status quo is not unilaterally changed,” he observed. He added that troops were prepared for all contingencies. At Chushul, the Brigadier-level talks continued for the fifth day on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/situation-tense-on-lac-army-chief/article32527934.ece
05 September 2020||Kolkata,||No Question Hour in 2-day WB Assembly session||The West Bengal Legislative Assembly will not have Question Hour in the session beginning September 9, Speaker Biman Banerjee confirmed on Friday. A two-day session will be held with all norms of social distancing and necessary precautions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Those attending the proceeding of the House, including journalists, will have to undergo an antigen test before entry. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Abdul Mannan and Leader of the Left Legislature Party Sujan Chakraborty wrote a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urging her that there should be Question Hour for raising questions to the government. The development comes at a time when Opposition parties, including the Trinamool Congress, have raised concern over Question Hour being dropped from the monsoon session of the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-question-hour-in-2-day-wb-assembly-session/article32528317.ece
05 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Former Navi Mumbai Police commissioner tests positive||A day after he was transferred and posted as Additional Director General (training and special squads), Maharashtra, former Navi Mumbai Police commissioner Sanjay Kumar on Friday said that he had tested positive for COVID-19. “In spite of all precautions and all sort of concoctions Ayurvedic , homeopathic and rigorous physical activities I also become victim of covid 19. Started with muscle pain, fever, shivering and throat infection. Hospitalised. I’m Fine. Will get released in a week. Good rest,” Mr. Kumar tweeted. Mr. Kumar handed over charge to new police commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh on Thursday. Following his test results, he urged his colleagues and Mr. Singh to isolate themselves. Mr. Kumar who is currently admitted to MGM Hospital had started developing symptoms on Thursday. Along with Mr. Kumar, three of the staff at the commissioner office and a police inspector were found COVID-19 positive. Mr. Singh said, “I haven’t isolated myself as I am on duty. I am taking all precautions, and while I interacted with Mr. Kumar, we both had taken precautions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-navi-mumbai-police-commissioner-tests-positive/article32528363.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Police following script in investigating riots case’||Nearly 1,000 people, including activists, filmmakers, former government officials and academics signed an open letter on Friday condemning the way the police has been investigating the riots in northeast Delhi in February. Activists hit out at the investigations, calling it a conspiracy instead of an attempt to probe a conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-following-script-in-investigating-riots-case/article32528131.ece
05 September 2020||Srinagar,||3 militants killed in encounter in Kashmir||Three unidentified militants were killed and three security personnel, including an Army Major, were injured in an encounter in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Friday. “A firefight started after the evacuation of civilians from the cordoned-off area in Pattan. Three terrorists were killed. One officer was also injured during the operation and is stable,” an Army spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmir/article32528130.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Elgaar Parishad: custody of accused extended||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday extended the judicial custody of professor Hany Babu, professor Anand Teltumbde and activist Gautam Navlakha, accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, till September 18. The Bombay High Court on Friday issued a notice to the NIA seeking its response to a criminal appeal filed by Mr. Navlakha, challenging the rejection of his plea for default bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elgaar-parishad-custody-of-accused-extended/article32528366.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||BJP distances itself from Kangana’s ‘PoK’ remark||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday distanced itself from actor Kangana Ranaut’s comment comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, while leaders of the ruling coalition in Maharashtra lashed out at the actor. Unfazed by the criticism, Ms. Ranaut continued her tirade against the Maharashtra government and the Shiv Sena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-distances-itself-from-kanganas-pok-remark/article32528365.ece
05 September 2020||Chennai,||Rs. 200 fine to be levied for not wearing mask||People who do not wear masks in public places will have to pay a penalty of Rs. 200, as per a government order issued by the Health Department on Friday. A fine of Rs. 5,000 will be imposed on those violating the standard operating procedure issued for salons, gyms and other establishments. Those spitting in public places will have to pay Rs. 500 as fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fine-of-rs-200-to-be-levied-for-not-wearing-mask/article32528029.ece
05 September 2020||Chennai,||5,976 new COVID-19 cases, 79 deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu’s tally crossed the 4.5-lakh mark, with another 5,976 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 992, followed by Coimbatore with 595 cases and Cuddalore with 499. A total of 79 persons died in the State, while 6,334 recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5976-new-covid-19-cases-79-deaths-in-tn/article32528028.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Police arrest actor Ragini Dwivedi||After several hours of interrogation, the CCB on Friday arrested actor Ragini Dwivedi for her alleged involvement in a drug racket with links to the Kannada film industry. She has been charged under various Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-arrest-actor-ragini-dwivedi/article32527963.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NLSIU urged to reconsider decision on entrance test||A day after the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, announced that it would conduct its own entrance test for admissions to B.A. LLB and LLM courses for this year’s admissions, the Consortium of National Law Universities issued a statement asking it to reconsider its decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nlsiu-urged-to-reconsider-decision-on-entrance-test/article32527964.ece
05 September 2020||Mangaluru,||Yakshagana academy announces awards||The Karnataka Yakshagana Academy on Friday announced its annual awards, 2019, including the Parthi Subba Award to eminent Yakshagana playwright and Talamaddale interpreter Ambathanaya Mudradi (Keshava Shettigar). Chairman M.A. Hegde announced the list at Bengaluru and said the general meeting had selected the awardees in its meeting on March .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yakshagana-academy-announces-awards/article32528187.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Examine introducing price regulation for N95 masks’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed both Union and State governments to examine the need to introduce a measure to regulate the price of N95 masks while observing that there is a need to ensure their availability even to common citizens when the country is witnessing a steep rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/examine-introducing-price-regulation-for-n95-masks/article32528186.ece
05 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Massive efforts on to douse oil tanker blaze off Sri Lanka coast||Naval vessels from India and Sri Lanka continued their efforts for the second day on Friday to douse the fire that broke out on a large oil tanker off Sri Lanka’s east coast, amid fears of a possible oil spill. A Filipino crew member was killed in the fire, following an explosion in the engine room of MT New Diamond , while 23 others have been rescued, authorities said.  According to the Sri Lankan Navy, nine vessels from the two countries, including three tugboats, were engaged in the firefighting operation that had so far prevented the flames from spreading to the cargo onboard. The vessel, said to be chartered by the Indian Oil Corporation and heading from Kuwait to Paradip in Odisha, is carrying 2,70,000 metric tonnes of crude oil. The MT New Diamond is some 25 nautical miles off Sri Lanka’s southeast coast, near the popular surfing spot of Arugambay. “It is currently parallel to the land. There are no naked flames, only white smoke. The Indian and Sri Lankan vessels are trying their best to contain the fire and tow the vessel further away from the coast,” Navy spokesman Captain Indika de Silva told The Hindu on Friday. The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) said that its ship Shaurya was coordinating the firefighting and rescue operation with the master of the burning vessel. To augment the ongoing efforts , the ICG has deployed additional ships with pollution response equipment. “Under the inter-governmental, South Asia Co-operative Environment Programme, the ICG has taken the lead in the efforts,” an official told The Hindu . Two Dornier aircraft have also been deployed from India to assist the efforts.    (With inputs from Dinakar Peri in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/massive-efforts-on-to-douse-oil-tanker-blaze-off-sri-lanka-coast/article32527897.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala tops in care for children||Kerala, Goa, Tripura, Tamil Nadu and Mizoram are among the top five States for well-being of children, according to a report brought out by non-governmental organisation Mobile Creches and launched by Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu on Friday. The young child outcomes index measures health, nutrition and cognitive growth with the help of indicators such as infant mortality rate, stunting and net attendance at the primary school level. It identifies eight States that have scores below the country’s average: they are Assam, Meghalaya, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The index is part of the ‘State of the Young Child’ in India report released the 50-year-old NGO, which works in the field of early childhood care and development by ensuring creche services at construction sites and slum settlements across several cities. The index has been constructed for two time periods (2005–2006 and 2015–2016) to enable inter-State comparisons as well as provide an idea of change over time. The report has also developed another index called the young child environment index to understand the policy and environment enablers that influence a child’s well-being. According to the environment index, Kerala, Goa, Sikkim, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh secured the top five positions. It uses five policy enablers that influence child well-being outcomes, including poverty alleviation, strengthening primary healthcare, improving education levels, safe water supply and promotion of gender equity. The environment index was constructed for 2015–2016 only due to limitations of data availability. The eight States that have a below average score on the outcomes index also fared poorly on this one. Public spending The report calls for an increase in public spending on children. According to its analysis on expenses towards child nutrition, healthcare, education and other necessary protection services, India spent Rs. 1,723 per child in 2018–2019, an amount that is insufficient and fails to reach the entire eligible population. The report points out that while the budgetary allocation for the Ministry of Women and Child Development has seen a year-on-year increase, all the additional funds have been allocated towards nutrition delivery under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). While the population of children under six years of age is 158.8 million, the ICDS covers only 71.9 million children as calculated from the total number of beneficiaries across States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-tops-in-care-for-children/article32527900.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||With 5,976 new cases, T.N.’s tally crosses 4.50 lakh||With COVID-19 testing picking up in Kerala after the Onam lull, more new cases were also detected on Friday. The case graph, which had been on a steady climb in August had shown a dip during the Onam days, with case numbers down by about a thousand per day. On Friday, with testing going up to 36,310, fresh cases reported also went up to 2,479. The cumulative cases stood at 82,104, with more than half reported in August. The official COVID-19 death toll went up to 326 on Friday, with the Health department confirming 11 more deaths. Three were in Thiruvananthapuram, two each in Malappuram, Thrissur and Kannur and one each at Kollam and Kasaragod. Nearly 62 % of total deaths were also reported during August. There were 21,268 patients under treatment in hospitals. In a complete inversion in the infection pattern from early days, nearly 95% of new cases reported in the State had no travel history. Around 82% of deaths were also occurring among this category. Of Friday’s cases, 2,349 were locally acquired infections, with no known source of infection in 149 cases, including 34 healthcare workers. Thiruvananthapuram’s graph spiralled on Friday, with 477 cases. Andhra Pradesh marked the 10th successive day of over 10,000 new infections. The tally increased by 1.04 lakh since August 26, representing 22% of the total. On Friday, 10,776 new infections and 76 new deaths were reported. The positivity rate of tests was at 17.22% during the period, way higher than the State’s overall positivity rate. Also 816 patients died in the past 10 days. With 59,919 tests conducted in the past day, the overall tests figure was 30,65,694. East Godavari, Nellore and Prakasam reported more than a thousand infections. The new cases and deaths were: East Godavari (1,405 cases, 6 deaths), Nellore (1,270, 8), Prakasam (1,256, 9), Chittoor (970, 9), West Godavari (924, 6), Anantapur (750, 3), Kadapa (727, 8), Guntur (708, 8), Kurnool (702, 2), Vizianagaram (588, 2), Visakhapatnam (560, 6), Srikakulam (538, 4), Krishna (378, 5). Karnataka reported 9,280 cases on Friday, its tally going up to 3,79,486. The death toll touched 6,170 on Friday with 116 more people dying. In the last one week alone, the State added 802 deaths to its toll. Of the 99,101 active cases, 785 were being monitored in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,963 cases and 25 deaths on Friday.  Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases crossed 4.50 lakh with another 5,976 persons testing positive for the infection on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai recorded 992 cases followed by Coimbatore with 595 cases and Cuddalore with 499 cases. The State’s overall tally was 4,51,827 of which 51,633 persons were under treatment, 3,92,507 discharged after treatment and 7,687 persons succumbed to the infection. On Friday, 6,334 persons, including 1,040 in Chennai, were discharged. A total of 79 persons died in the State and this included 12 deaths in Chennai, six in Tiruvallur and five each in Salem and Villupuram.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-tally-rises-by-over-one-lakh-in-just-10-days/article32527866.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Police arrest Kannada actor after searching her flat||After several hours of interrogation, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Friday arrested actor Ragini Dwivedi for her alleged involvement in a drug racket with links to the Kannada film industry. She has been charged under various Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Around 6.30 a.m., two police teams searched her flat in Yelahanka for three hours. They seized her phone, car keys and other material evidence. The search was based on information gathered from Ravi Shankar, a second division assistant with the Jayanagar RTO, who was arrested on September 3 in connection with the case. The CCB believes she destroyed evidence pertaining to the drug case and tried to hide her association with Ravi. According to a CCB official, “Soon after the first notice was issued to Ragini to appear for questioning, she bought a new mobile phone and transferred all data, except WhatsApp messages. This was to destroy evidence comprising messages and other details.” According to the police, she had deleted details from her phone, including a WhatsApp phone call and conversation, which could have established her link with Ravi Shankar. “We are trying to retrieve the deleted data,” said a senior police officer. The actor’s name cropped up during the course of the investigation into the involvement of actors and singers in the Kannada film industry in a recent drug bust, which involved party drugs like ecstasy and LSD. The police had issued a notice to the actress to report for questioning on September 3, which she did not comply with. “We obtained vital information and sought court permission to carry out the raid,” the officer added. The raid came a day after the police arrested Ravi Shankar, who is reportedly a close associate of Ragini. The police also arrested two men who allegedly organised high-profile parties. One of the accused, Rahul Shetty, has been charged with organising parties in and around the city, and using them to sell party drugs. “He is an architect and realtor who travelled to neighbouring countries to organise such parties. He has links with international drug dealers from whom he procured drugs to sell to his clients here,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. “Rahul is a close associate of another film star, identified as Sanjjanaa Galrani who is also under the scanner,” said a CCB official. Later in the evening, the CCB arrested Viren Khanna, a party organiser.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-arrest-kannada-actor-after-searching-her-flat/article32527860.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘We are neither dissenters nor rebels but reformists’||Congress Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, who is among the 23 leaders who expressed concern over the state of the party in a letter to its chief Sonia Gandhi, stressed the need for a new narrative to tackle the challenges facing the nation. Edited excerpts:  Why did you all feel the need to express your views in writing? Could you not have met Ms. Gandhi and expressed your concerns? As political activists and leaders who have given an entire lifetime to the Congress party, we have been concerned over the developments of recent years — the rise of the BJP and the political narrative being dominated by their divisive agenda; a subversion of institutions that uphold the foundational values of the Republic. We felt there is an environment of fear, people are increasingly feeling helpless as there is a delay and denial of justice. Now, many of us were discussing these issues after the 2019 defeat of the party. There could be multiple factors which led to the electoral outcome. And we, as members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and party leaders, submit ourselves to collective accountability. Having said that, we cannot ignore that there has been a drift and uncertainty in the party after the second disastrous defeat. There is a great sense of urgency to restore the balance in the political narrative by re-energising the Indian National Congress (INC). There has not been any physical meeting in the last five months. Had that been possible, we would have gone, sat across the table and discussed our concerns frankly and openly and given our proposals. But we had strong reservations on discussing sensitive organisational issues through virtual platforms. I want to clear the air that the letter was written in the best of the interests of the INC, reaffirming our commitment to the Congress ideology. But the timing of the letter was questioned by the CWC members, including Rahul Gandhi. Many others slammed the letter writers at the CWC meet. I want to put this on record that we have the highest respect for Ms. Sonia Gandhi. And for us to upset her and hurt her in any manner is unthinkable. I do not know from where the timing issue comes. It is 15 months after the defeat. It’s unfortunate this was misunderstood. This letter was signed by all the signatories somewhere around July 25 but Ms. Gandhi was not well and her health is of paramount importance to us. So the letter was actually sent on August 8 when she had recovered. There is some misunderstanding there. There was an orchestrated campaign that started the day before the CWC. That should not have happened. What saddened me is that we were given sermons by people who had betrayed Indira Gandhi when the Shah Commission was set up, abused Sanjay Gandhi and left the Congress while many of us faced police lathis , went to jail and still carry injury marks. But the letter mentions the CWC failing to give direction to the party and the need for a “full time and visible leadership” No, we have talked visible leadership at every level. In my view, we can’t be meeting just to react to an agenda set by the BJP or the government. After 15 months, we should have had a roadmap for revival. What we meant is that the CWC in its collective wisdom needs to deliberate, may be for a few days and give a narrative which finds resonance with the people, the youth, the women, the working class, the farmers, the weaker section, Dalits, the minorities. The people must understand that we as a party cannot be in denial but are committed to serve them. We can’t expect the Congress president to agree with all our points but we need an internal consensus at revival. We are neither dissenters nor rebels but reformists. The question is: do we need to reflect and analyse our continuous slide? Our virtual eclipse from the large States in the country? Without a revival there, we cannot expect a national revival. From Shimla to Nagpur and beyond to Karnataka, we have barely 15 Lok Sabha seats while the BJP in this belt, alone, has 272 seats. There is a view that the letter was aimed at preventing Rahul Gandhi from taking over the reins of the party again? This is absolutely false and I reject it. We were the ones who elected him and requested him to continue. After the 2019 elections, Rahul Gandhi had resigned and went to the extent of saying no one from the Gandhi family should become the president. The CWC didn’t agree with this view. We were in a limbo for three months and requested Sonia ji to take over. Now why this situation? Because Rahul Gandhi gave no indication, one year [of Sonia Gandhi being interim president] was ending on August 10 and there was total uncertainty. Now, after the letter episode, do you expect an election to the top post or election of members to the CWC? There should be, or else Congress will continue to be weak. There is no harm. Don’t take them as personal enemies if somebody contests against you. We should immediately go for a nation-wide membership drive and based on that membership, have Blocks, District and State leaders who should elect the new All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates. These AICC delegates will elect the new president. We should have elected members to the CWC and so on. These are my views but it is up to the CWC that can take the final call.  (For the full interview, please log on to http://bit.ly/AnandSharma)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-neither-dissenters-nor-rebels-but-reformists/article32527872.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘M.P. is known for a strong BJP base’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice president (V-P) and Madhya Pradesh ‘prabhari’(in charge) for the party , Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, speakson the party’s prospects in the State byelections, which are crucial for the survival of the Chouhan government.  The Election Commission (EC) has said that it would be conducting by-polls to 65 Assembly and one Lok Sabha seat alongside the Bihar Assembly polls. What is the BJP’s state of preparation for the 27 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh? Well, our election preparation started from the day these seats became vacant. Madhya Pradesh is known for a very strong organisational base of the BJP for the last many decades and that continues. Now that our government is well-settled in the saddle and days of crass injustice under the previous rule are over, party organisation is further galvanised and enthusiastic. The party is facing an incongruent situation where workers will have to campaign for candidates who they campaigned against in 2018, as rebel Congressmen had shifted to the BJP in February. How is the party going to handle that? Our party workers know that it was due to the new entrants that BJP rule was restored. On the other hand these new entrants — mostly the likely candidates — are well aware that their victory depends upon the proactive grassroots level work of basically the traditional BJP workers and supporters. This mutuality is now realised by one and all. We are working to bridge the gaps, and cementing the ties. After all, when we meet Jyotiraditya- ji (former Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia), we recall Rajmata- ji (late Vijayaraje Scindia).  What will be the high points of the campaign considering the prevalence of the COVID-19 pandemic across the country?  Three things — we have to convince people that we cannot sacrifice our democratic duties even when we face a dreaded disease. In a ‘pandemic versus people’ fight, people will have to win, and hence, while observing personal distance, we have to vote to ensure that people win. Secondly, people have realised the difference that the six-months rule of BJP has made. Kamal Nath was ‘coterie Nath’, Shivraj Singh Chouhan is people’s Chief Minister. Thirdly, after having taken the State out of the ‘ bimaru ’ [an acronym for the economically poor Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh] sphere, we have a duty to work to be a developed State, and for that, our plans are already being worked on. The new agriculture policy and new employment initiatives are a testimony to these. Do you think that after Jyotiraditya Scindia’s move to BJP from the Congress, the ‘palace versus the rest’ politics of the Gwalior-Chambal belt is over? Firstly, what you are describing was a point in a perception war. It is now a thing of the past. We always draw inspiration from Rajmata- ji , a founding member of the BJP, and currently we are working with Jyotiraditya- ji , and I am sure the future of this entire Gwalior-Chambal region is bright.  Kamal Nath was ‘coterie Nath’, Shivraj Singh Chouhan is people’s Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-is-known-for-a-strong-bjp-base/article32527888.ece
05 September 2020||PUNE,||Pune firm’s test kit gets nod for manufacture||‘CoViDx One’, the COVID-19 reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test kit developed by Pune-based GenePath Diagnostics, has received approval for manufacture and sale in India from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The approval was received on August 31, said a statement by the firm on Friday. The CDSCO has given approval to the Bengaluru-based Achira Labs to manufacture the kits. The kit was validated by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB) in Hyderabad and approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) this year. GenePath’s Pune clinical laboratory earlier received approval from the National Accreditation Board of Laboratories (NABL) and the ICMR to carry out COVID-19 RT-PCR based testing in the country. This makes GenePath the first company in the country to run an NABL-ICMR approved COVID-19 testing lab and receive approval to manufacture its own RT-PCR test kit. ‘High quality, low price’ Dr. Nickhil Jakatdar, CEO, GenePath Diagnostics, said: “As a kit manufacturer, our goal is to support every lab that wants to offer high quality tests at the lowest possible price, in order to make RT-PCR based testing more accessible and affordable to the common person. With that in mind, we went about developing our COVID-19 test kit in India by utilising our expertise in molecular diagnostics over the last decade and with an investment of Rs. 50 crore into this effort.” GenePath Diagnostics is a next-generation diagnostics company that operates Research and Development (R&D) facilities in Pune and at Michigan, U.S., as well as a state-of-the-art clinical diagnostics facility in the city. Dr. Jakatdar said the company had tested its kit for ‘clinical sensitivity’ in labs across India as well as the United States. “The kits have shown excellent results when compared with the best FDA [Food and Drug Administration] approved kits in the U.S. Importantly, we have managed to keep costs low owing to local manufacturing,” he said. GenePath’s clinical lab has processed more than 20,000 COVID-19 tests for patients in Pune, one of the worst-affected cities in the country. “We are happy to offer our RT–PCR tests at a much more affordable price of just Rs. 1,500 per test at our [GenePath’s] drive-up facility in the city’s Wakdewadi area. This is much lower than the Rs. 2,200 per test mandated by the Maharashtra government. Likewise, with regard to home collections, our test kit has allowed us to drop our price from the government-mandated Rs. 2,500 per test to Rs. 2,200. Our hope is that the usage of our test kit will enable many more labs to drop their prices without compromising on the quality of their results,” said Dr. Jakatdar. Dr. Nikhil Phadke, founder and Chief Scientific Officer, GenePath Diagnostics, said the company’s objective had been to create the “gold standard” of RT-PCR kits globally. “In fact, our test kit design is already being used by leading edge labs in America. Being a clinical lab ourselves, we understand the challenges and constraints faced by labs when deciding the right kit to use. Now, with the manufacturing licence for our kit, we hope to turn the health and economic situation around in India,” he said. The test kit was developed keeping in mind simplicity and convenience of usage and the cost to the lab, said Dr. Phadke. “Our test kit is a single tube assay to maximise lab throughput capacity. We used three target genes and a human gene as our internal control in order to ensure a robust and accurate test,” he explained. The kit has been tested on more than 4,000 clinical samples to ensure the highest level of clinical sensitivity and minimise the chances of false ‘positives’ and false ‘negatives’. ‘Among fastest in industry’ “Our PCR cycle run is amongst the fastest in the industry, thereby reducing the turn-around time from sample collection to declaring results,” said Dr. Phadke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pune-firms-test-kit-gets-nod-for-manufacture/article32527905.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre flags districts with high COVID-19 caseload||The Health Ministry on Friday held a review meeting of COVID-19 management and response in 15 districts across five States exhibiting high caseload and fatality. At the meeting, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan spoke with senior health officials of Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh and identified the districts of Chittoor, Prakasam, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Koppal, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Ludhiana, Patiala, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar which, he noted, needed urgent attention. “These areas have been exhibiting higher active caseload, fatality rates and a surge in the COVID-19 cases for the past four weeks”, said Mr. Bhushan. The Ministry said that these areas have been issued detailed road maps and action plans for the next one month. “The States were advised to limit and eventually break the spread of the infection by implementing stringent containment measures and following social distancing measures, strict perimeter control, and active house-to-house case search. It has also been asked to ensure early identification by ramping up testing across the districts, optional utilization of RT-PCR testing capacity and use of Rapid Antigen Tests as a screening test in hotspots and densely populated areas,” Ministry said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-flags-districts-with-high-covid-19-caseload/article32527868.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks CBSE to file affidavit on compartment exams||The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday asked the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to file an affidavit detailing its scheme for conducting compartment exams for Classes 10 and 12 by the end of September. The Board assured a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar that necessary precautions against the pandemic have been taken. The number of exam centres have been more than doubled from 575 to 1,278. Only 12 students will be accommodated in an exam hall meant for 40. The Board said a notification would be out later in the day. Nearly a lakh students for Class 10 and over 80,000 for Class 12 are expected to take these exams. The court directed the CBSE to file its affidavit by September 7. It listed the case for September 10. The Bench was dealing with a plea filed by Anika Samvedi to postpone the exams due to the health crisis. The court, however, asked whether delaying the exams would help students in the long run. “Where do you stand without the exams? Is there any other methodology contemplated by the CBSE?” Justice Khanwilkar asked. The court urged the counsel for the petitioner to be clear about the relief sought when the latter expressed apprehensions about the completion of compartment exams in time for university admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-cbse-to-file-affidavit-on-compartment-exams/article32527886.ece
05 September 2020||Bhopal,||Students, parents become classmates in M.P.||Every morning, the entire Dhaba village of Madhya Pradesh’s Sehore district transforms into a classroom for an hour. Parents and children study together — sitting cross-legged in their courtyards or engaged in chores every morning, while listening attentively to English lessons and stories broadcast on a loudspeaker. The COVID-19 pandemic has forced schools shut, hobbling the learning of students. But that of residents, including primary and middle school students from close to nearly 50 schools of the Nasrullaganj block, has been democratised — all one needs is to pay attention and listen. “Education is first about listening and broadcasting lessons publicly is bolstering the skill among everyone,” said 40-year-old Santosh Dhanware, Block Academic Coordinator. About 70% of the around 25,000 primary and middle school students in the block don’t have access to smartphones, in vogue as a medium for e-learning as schools remain shut. Instead, educational modules on radio from 11 a.m. to noon broadcast through loudspeakers is helping students stay home during the pandemic and continue learning, besides widening the net to cover even elders, said Mr. Dhanware. “Teachers can’t visit schools every day now, so the role of guardians assumes greater significance,” he explained. And most parents in the block have never stepped inside a school, nor can they read. “Several students are first generation learners in schools, so education of parents along with them is important as well. They could guide them.” An elderly man in the village said through English lessons he had learnt the meaning of ‘thank you’ and ‘sit down’. “I once visited my manager, who said — ‘sit down’. I thought he was asking me to come later,” the man said. The radio modules also include moral stories, which adults particularly enjoy, said Mr. Dhanware. “Folklore and stories have been part of the tribal culture here, and it’s easier to make sense of social issues through,” he added. As the only middle school teacher in 2012-2014 for 156 students, Mr. Dhanware came up with the idea of using a microphone and a loudspeaker to touch each student. “During COVID-19, the learning gap is widening, so the community must come forward as part of the ‘Humara Ghar, Humara Vidyalaya’ programme,” he said. In a bid to evolve a self-sufficient model and boost peer learning, senior students are teaching junior ones while self-help groups are also involved. “Almost every school in the block has former students now in higher education who are back home with colleges shut. They are been encouraged to teach school students now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-parents-become-classmates-in-mp/article32527907.ece
05 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Kaziranga set to be expanded by 3,053 hectares||The Assam government has approved the addition of 30.53 sq. km ( 3,053 hectares) to the 884 sq. km Kaziranga National Park. The additional areas straddling two districts — Nagaon and Sonitpur — would make the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) grow to 1085.53 sq km. The core area of the KNPTR is 430 sq km. A Forest Department spokesperson said preliminary notifications were issued for seventh, eighth and ninth additions on Thursday. “The additions include encroachment-evicted areas and suitable wildlife habitat on river islands (sandbars) that are vulnerable to encroachment. It is a move to consolidate the wildlife areas anticipating better wildlife conservation and reduction in human-wildlife negative interactions in the future,” said KNPTR director P. Sivakumar. He added that the three additions are habitat corridors and would help provide connectivity to Orang and Nameri National Parks across river Brahmaputra, besides the hills of Karbi Anglong to the south of the park, where the rhino, tiger, deer and other animals take refuge during the floods. “Of course, we will need more manpower to guard the additional areas,” he said.  Wildlife activists appreciated the expansion but pointed out that the rhino habitat is yet to be handed over possession of 1,461.59 hectares of land comprising the second, third, fifth and sixth additions in Golaghat and Biswanath districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kaziranga-set-to-be-expanded-by-3053-hectares/article32527883.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana’s COVID-19 death tally unbelievable, says HC||Observing that the tally of nine to 10 deaths daily due to COVID-19 given by the State government were ‘unbelievable’, Telangana High Court on Friday expressed dissatisfaction over the government reports on spread of coronavirus in the State. Giving a slew of fresh directions, the HC sought to know why the State government was not complying with earlier orders given by it. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a batch of PIL pleas related to COVID-19, said the reports given by the government were vague and incomplete. The government report said it issued notices to 38 hospitals while complaints were received against 161 hospitals. But it did not specifically explain to which hospitals notices were sent, the bench observed. Government allotted lands to three private hospitals at concessional rates which were supposed to treat poor patients freely to some extent. Why was the government not ready to reveal their names, the CJ asked. “Sorry… the government is not ready to take action against erring private hospitals,” the bench said. Referring to Health Minister’s statement that government would take over 50% of beds in private hospital, the bench remarked no concrete steps seem to have been taken in that direction. It was not sufficient to say that private hospitals had agreed to give beds. There should be clear agreements and understandings on such crucial decisions, the bench said. The bench directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to give a report on the action taken by government on earlier directions of the HC on COVID -related petitions. It directed the government to conduct an inquiry by National Pharmaceutical Price Authority into excessive charges being collected by private hospitals. The report should be submitted by September 22. There are no details as to how many tests were conducted in private hospitals and how many of them tested positive for the virus in the reports given by the government. While 62,200 tests were conducted on August 28, the figure nosedived to 37,000 on August 30. Why such a steep fall, the bench sought to know. The Centre announced that nearly 80% of medical fraternity attending on COVID patients contracted the virus. But the State government did not provide any details as to how many medical staff and doctors contracted the virus, the bench said. Reminding the officials that India was the second country in the world with high number of coronavirus cases, the bench said focus should be on holding more tests.  The govt. report said it had issued notices to 38 hospitals and complaints were received against 161 hospitals, but their names were not specifically mentioned. High Court bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telanganas-covid-19-death-tally-unbelievable-says-hc/article32527848.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli riots were pre-planned, says fact-finding panel||A fact-finding committee of Citizens for Democracy, headed by retired judge Srikanth D. Babaladi, which visited the riot-affected areas of D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli in Pulakeshinagar constituency in Benglauru, has claimed that the incidents were pre-planned and communally motivated. The committee members submitteda report to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday. In the violence that broke out on August 11, following an inflammatory Facebook post against Islam, Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house was gutted and four people were killed in police firing. The government has ordered a magisterial probe into it. The 49-page report found that “the entire incident qualifies to be a riot against the State with the motive of reducing the faith of common people in the State.” It claimed that “the mob specifically targeted certain prominent Hindus in the area”. After interacting with several victims, the police, and prominent people of areas, the committee comprising of retired bureaucrats, journalists, advocates, professors, and social workers, expressed the view that locals were not only involved in execution of the violence but were also aware about it in advance. Despite attempts being made to project the same as political rivalry, it was communally motivated, the report claimed. “The committee is of the opinion that the SDPI and the PFI were involved in planning and executing this incident,” it said. Recommendations Based on the observations, the committee recommended that all the costs that have been incurred by the State and private persons have to be recovered by attaching the properties of rioters. It is imperative for the State to investigate the incident holistically and not consider it to be isolated and local. Itsaid the funding received by individuals and religious extremist organisations involved in anti-social activities be tracked and continuously monitored by involving the NIA. It suggested establishment of a cyber dome so as to ensure that social media is not used for hate-mongering against any religion, race, class, sect, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dj-halli-riots-were-pre-planned-says-fact-finding-panel/article32527851.ece
05 September 2020||Chennai,||Railways may decriminalise begging||As part of an exercise to decriminalise/rationalise penalties under the provisions of the Railway Act, 1989, the Ministry of Railways has proposed to decriminalise begging on trains or railway premises. The Railway Board has called for comments/suggestions on the proposed amendments to the Act. Section 144(2) of the Act says that if any person begs in any railway carriage or at a railway station, he shall be liable for punishment as provided under sub-section (1), which prescribes imprisonment for a term that may extend to one year, or with fine that may extend to Rs. 2,000, or with both. The Railways now proposes to amend the section stating that “No person shall be permitted to beg in any railway carriage or upon any part of the Railway”. Section 167 of the Act says that no person in any compartment of a train shall, if objected to by any other passenger, smoke therein. Irrespective of any objections raised, the railway administration may prohibit smoking in any train. Whosoever contravenes these provisions shall be punishable with fine that may extend to Rs. 100, the Act says. The Railways now propose to amend this section, saying: “Provided that if the person liable to pay the fine under this section is willing to pay such fine immediately, the officer authorised may compound the offence by charging the maximum fine payable under the section concerned, and the sum so recovered shall be paid to the railway administration. Provided further that the offender against whom the offence is compounded shall be discharged and no further proceeding shall be taken.” Comments/suggestions can be be sent tosingh.ravi@gov.inor by post to Ravinder Singh, Deputy Director/TG-V, Room No. 445, Rail Bhavan, New Delhi. A couple of years ago, the Delhi High Court, while quashing provisions in the law that made begging in the national capital a punishable offence, said: “Criminalising begging is a wrong approach to deal with the underlying causes of the problem... The State simply cannot fail to do its duty to provide a decent life to its citizens and add insult to injury by arresting, detaining and, if necessary, imprisoning persons who beg in search for essentials of bare survival.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-may-decriminalise-begging/article32527879.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Venkaiah for two-year fixed tenure for House committees||The Rajya Sabha Secretariat is mulling over changing the rules governing the standing committees’ tenure to make it two years from the present one so that the panels have enough time to work on the subjects selected by them. The tenure of all standing committees end on September 11, and they can’t hold deliberations till new panels are formed. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, sources said, was keen on amending the rules to give a fixed two-year tenure. However, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has to agree to it. Two options are being looked at: one, to extend the term of the panels for a year, and second, to form new committees with a fixed tenure of two years. Many chairpersons of the current panels have felt that a significant amount of the tenure of their committees was lost due to the pandemic. Speaking to The Hindu , Congress leader Shashi Tharoor batted for an extension of the terms of the present committees. “The committees appointed last September were essentially unable to function normally from the third week of March and have not been able to do a meaningful year’s work. I would certainly suggest that it is worth considering extending their tenures to compensate for this lost time especially since by convention, the Committee chairs tend to serve for the entire life of Parliament,” he said. Many panels have not been able to complete reports on the subjects they were working on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/venkaiah-for-two-year-fixed-tenure-for-house-committees/article32527909.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||MPs can enter House only with COVID-19 negative certificate||All Members of Parliament should have a COVID-19 negative certificate to enter the premises during the monsoon session that begins on September 14. A set of guidelines have been issued by both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha Secretariat with the recommendations of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Health Ministry. This test needs to be done 72 hours before the session commences. Those unable to undertake the test will need to do so on the day they arrive at the Parliament reception. And they can enter only if their rapid antigen test comes out negative. Staff, family member Even when an MP’s staff or family member tests positive, the guidelines says the MP will need to self-quarantine for 14 days. The guidelines have been issued after consultations were held between Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. They individually also met senior officials from the Home Ministry, the Health Ministry and the ICMR. The members will have to wear masks at all times, even while participating in a debate. “MPs would be encouraged to avoid going out of Parliament in the course of a day’s proceedings unless necessary to avoid contracting infection externally,” the guidelines say. Hard copies of parliamentary papers such as list of business, copies of bills, ordinances and other documents also have been discontinued. The copies of these documents will be sent electronically. MPs have been requested to avoid calling any visitors to Parliament unless absolutely necessary. In the pre-pandemic times, the MPs used to arrange huge groups from their constituency to visit and school children also were routinely brought around for a tour of Parliament. The Parliament canteen will offer only packed meals, tea and coffee during the course of the session. This, too, will be given in disposable containers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mps-can-enter-house-only-with-covid-19-negative-certificate/article32527914.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Consortium urges NLSIU to reconsider decision to conduct separate entrance test for admissions||A day after the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, announced that it would conduct its own entrance test for admissions to B.A. LLB and LLM courses for this year’s admissions, the Consortium of National Law Universities issued a statement asking it to reconsider its decision. In a press release, Balraj Chauhan, convenor of CLAT 2020, said that the governing body stated that the NLSIU’s decision was in violation of Rule 15.3.3 of the consortium bylaws as all the members of the consortium were “duty-bound” to admit students only through CLAT. The release also stated that if the NLSIU stuck to its decision, it could not remain associated with CLAT 2020 in any manner. All financial and administrative decisions will be taken by Prof. Chauhan and the secretariat of the consortium may be shifted out of NLSIU. In previous academic years, admission into NLSIU has been based only on CLAT scores, but this year the university has decided to conduct its own test as CLAT has been postponed multiple times because of the COVID-19 pandemic. CLAT will be conducted as scheduled on September 28 for other national law schools. ‘Different format’ Students planning to apply for NLSIU’s National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020, an online home test that will be conducted on September 12, have pointed out that the marking scheme, duration of exam, and number of questions were different from those of CLAT. While CLAT 2020 is proposed to be a two-hour exam, NLAT 2020 is a 45-minute test. NLSIU, in a statement to The Hindu , said that the exam structure of NLAT 2020 aimed to minimise the possibility of malpractice. “This was also in response to infrastructural concerns. In addition, certain changes have been made to the question paper structure for the undergraduate paper that ensure a deeper testing of skills and aptitude,” it was said in the statement. In order to prevent malpractice, the students have also been told that they cannot revisit questions. “In combination with the scoring pattern of NLAT 2020 and the randomised sequencing of question sets for each candidate, this will help towards preventing unauthorised collaboration among candidates and others,” NLSIU said. The online test will be monitored through Artificial Intelligence-based proctoring, as well as human proctoring, to ensure that the exam is conducted smoothly and fairly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/consortium-urges-nlsiu-to-reconsider-decision-to-conduct-separate-entrance-test-for-admissions/article32527965.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women police can save J&K children: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said women police officers could play a pivotal role in preventing children of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) from taking the ‘wrong path’. “We have to work towards stopping children from joining the wrong path. Women officers could counsel their mothers and bring back the children to mainstream. Women force can help in stopping children in their tracks,” he stated. Mr. Modi was addressing the ‘Dikshant’ ceremony or passing out parade of the Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) through videoconference. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Minister of State G. Kishan Reddy and Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhallla joined the event from Delhi. 131 officers pass out In all, 131 IPS officers, including 28 women, concluded their two-year training on Friday. Mr. Modi interacted with some of the IPS probationers, and asked them about their background and education. While interacting with J&K cadre officer, Tanushree, who has a degree in textiles designing, he said, “Terror incidents are main news in newspapers everyday … Jammu, Kashmir Valley, Ladakh and Kargil also have other specialities. They are lovely and nice people and we believe that with everyone’s effort we will be able to bring back happiness in their lives. Kashmir has a unique strength, every house has deft hands and the shawls and handicrafts they can make is phenomenal.” He asked the officer to make small groups of women and use those skills to bond with them. The Union government revoked the special status of J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution on August 6 last year and bifurcated the State into Union Territories — J&K and Ladakh.  Mr. Modi asked young police officers to be conscious of their image once they stepped out of the academy, as “first impression is the last impression”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-police-can-save-jk-children-pm/article32527895.ece
05 September 2020||Srinagar,||3 militants killed in encounter in Kashmir||Three unidentified militants were killed and three security personnel, including an Army Major, were injured in an encounter in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Friday. “A firefight started after the evacuation of civilians from the cordoned off area in Pattan. Three terrorists were killed in the operation. One officer was also injured during the operation and is stable,” a Srinagar-based Army spokesperson said. The injured officer is of the Major rank. Two personnel of the police’s Special Operation Group (SOG) were also injured during the encounter in Yadipora village of Baramulla’s Pattan area. The gunfight had erupted earlier on Friday morning when a search party of the security forces was fired upon by militants hiding in the area. In south Kashmir, a gunfight between militants and security forces was reported in Pulwama district. “The firing took place during a search operation in Babhoora village of Pulwama. The hiding militants fired indiscriminately,” an official said. The police also busted a hideout of the Jaish-e-Muhammad in the Buchoo-Kamla forests of Tral area in Pulwama. “Incriminating materials, including IED [improvised explosive device] material, were recovered,” the police said. Srinagar attack: 5 held The police have arrested five people and seized four vehicles, including ambulances used by militants, to carry out an attack in the Pandach area near Srinagar on May 20, which left two Border Security Force jawans dead. “Four vehicles, including two private ambulances, a bike and a Scooty, were seized. The ambulance was used to transport the militants from Bijbehara to Pandach, Srinagar, while the two-wheelers were used to carry out the attack and escape after looting weapons from the injured jawans,” the police said. The police said all militants involved in the attack have been killed in different operations in the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmir/article32527903.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No protection for wrongdoers: Kodiyeri||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Thursday said that neither the government nor the party would protect wrongdoers. His son Bineesh Kodiyeri was no exception. He was speaking to mediapersons after a routine meeting of the CPI(M) State secretariat here. The Indian Union Muslim League, Congress, and the BJP had leaned on a court filing in Karnataka to accuse Mr. Kodiyeri of being a close associate of a person arrested in Bengaluru as part of a high-profile drug bust. “Mr. Kodiyeri has replied to the allegations. If he is guilty, let him face punishment. Let the law hang him. Will any parent support illegal activities? A cabal of BJP, Congress, and IUML leaders backed by a section of the media are spreading the lies to erase the lustre of the LDF government,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. He said the barrage of lies against his family would not break his spirit. “I am a communist inured to being put on trial by the media. Those who think they can weaken me mentally by denigrating my family are in for a disappointment,” he said and challenged Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala to furnish evidence against his son. The party secretariat reportedly held the view that the attacks on Mr. Kodiyeri were an extension of the UDF strategy to destroy the image of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-protection-for-wrongdoers-kodiyeri/article32528263.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||To be in NDA or leave: LJP will decide on Monday||After several public statements highlighting the “shortfalls” in governance by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, the Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP) will take a call on Monday at a meeting of its State Parliamentary Board on whether to stay on in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), where the JD(U) is also a partner, or walk out. The LJP Parliamentary Board will meet hours after the first virtual rally called by the JD(U) ahead of Bihar Assembly elections. According to sources, at a meeting held last week, LJP president Chirag Paswan conveyed to BJP president J.P. Nadda his discomfort in working with the JD(U). “Our simple question was whether there was any one thing that the Nitish Kumar government achieved that could be used as a poll plank in this Assembly elections,” a senior LJP leader said. By pitching it as a direct battle between Mr. Kumar and Mr. Paswan, the LJP sees an opportunity to carve out a bigger role for itself. When asked if the LJP would walk out of the NDA, Mr. Paswan told The Hindu , “As of now I am not saying that. Right now my priority is to strengthen the party’s organisation. And it is not only for my candidates to win. The LJP’s organisation should also be strong enough so that I can help my allies to win.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/to-be-in-nda-or-leave-ljp-will-decide-on-monday/article32527876.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s COVID-19 cases cross 4 mn||The Health Ministry's release pointed out that the daily COVID-19 positivity rate was just below 7.5% while cumulative positivity rate was less than 8.5%. The Ministry also told The Hindu that “those undertaking rapid antigen (are obviously those who have been exposed or showing symptoms etc.,) are followed up even after they test negative and recommended RTPCR in case the physician sees a requirement for it.” The Ministry said that as per its data 2% of the COVID-19 cases are in ICUs and less than 3.5% of the active cases occupy oxygen supported beds currently.  (With inputs from Bindu Shajan Perappadan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-covid-19-cases-cross-4-mn/article32527844.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajnath meets Chinese counterpart Wei||“I reaffirm today that India is committed to evolution of a global security architecture which will be open, transparent, inclusive, rules-based and anchored in international laws,” Mr. Singh stated. Engagement crucial Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla meanwhile on Friday said there will be no compromise on India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and asserted that it cannot be “business as usual” in bilateral ties unless there is peace in the border areas. He also said it was important that even during the difficult moments of this “crisis” India has been communicating and engaging with China. Speaking at an Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA) webinar, Mr. Shringla said, “We remain firmly committed to making sure that we preserve our territorial integrity... and we will not yield on that ground, we will remain firm and resolute. At the same time, we are open to resolving outstanding issues through dialogue.” “This [LAC situation] is one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades... we have not seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border also in recent years, is something that we have to take stock of,” he said. Naval exercise In the Andaman Sea off the Strait of Malacca, Navies of India and Russia began the two day Indra 2020 war games on Friday. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, Indra 2020 will be in a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ format, the Navy said. “The primary aim of exercise Indra Navy-20 is to further consolidate inter-operability ,” the Navy said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-meets-chinese-counterpart-wei/article32527845.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Drug link suspected in gold smuggling case||The Customs Department has moved the court for permission to record the statements of the suspects in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case in connection with the recent high-profile drug bust in Karnataka. The investigation by the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) had resulted in raids on the houses of entertainment industry persons in Bengaluru. It also ended in arrests and seizure of substantial amounts of synthetic drugs, including LSD stamps and ecstasy tablets. The NCB had named several persons from Kerala as accused in the case. Contentious topic The anti-drug investigation became a politically contentious topic in Kerala with Muslim Youth League president K. Firoz charging that the name of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, had figured in a court filing related to the case. Mr. Firoz alleged that one of the suspects in the case was closely associated with Mr. Kodiyeri. The politician’s son later clarified that he did not know of the involvement of his friend in drug rackets. The case took a turn with the NCB reportedly sharing third party information with the Customs. The NCB allegedly told the agency that some of the accused in the drug case had associated closely with persons named as suspects in the UAE consulate- linked gold smuggling case. An analysis of their mobile phone usage and geo-location had spotlighted the link. The same route? A Customs Department official said the agency had viewed the charge seriously. The accused in the gold smuggling case had smuggled contraband gold into the country from Dubai via air cargo consignments addressed to foreign officials at the UAE consulate here. The NCB and Customs wanted to probe whether the same route was used for illegally importing banned narcotic drugs. An official said LSD stamps and synthetic medications in tablet and vial form were easy to conceal in everyday items. He said only a detailed questioning of the accused would reveal whether the racketeers had used the consulate route to import designer drugs.  The NCB has reportedly shared information with the Customs, hinting at close links between some of the accused in the drug case and suspects in the gold smuggling case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-link-suspected-in-gold-smuggling-case/article32527856.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Situation tense on LAC, says Army chief||The talks aimed at de-escalating the situation on the South Bank, however, remained inconclusive as earlier days. Gen. Naravane said the situation had been tense for the last three months but there had been continuous engagement with China both at the military and diplomatic levels. Asked about his visit to Leh and forward areas, Gen. Naravane stated that he took a first-hand account of the situation on the ground and interacted with the personnel. “They [personnel] are highly motivated. Their morale is high and they are fully prepared to deal with any situation that may arise,” he asserted. The Chief of the Army Staff urged all ranks to remain vigilant and maintain a high order of operational readiness, the Army said in a statement. He was briefed by Lt. Gen. Y.K. Joshi, Northern Army Commander, and Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, 14 Corps Commander, on the “state of operational preparedness and on the logistics arrangements for sustenance of forces in winters”. Army’s pre-emptive step Gen. Naravane’s visit to Leh comes amid heightened tensions on the South Bank of Pangong Tso following “provocative movements” by Chinese troops, prompting the Indian Army to dominate some unoccupied heights in the Chushul sector as a pre-emptive measure. India and China have deployed thousands of troops, tanks, artillery and fighter jets along the LAC since early May when Chinese troops moved into Indian side of the LAC and built defences at several locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/situation-tense-on-lac-says-army-chief/article32527863.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. keeps up attack on Centre over job losses||Continuing to attack the Narendra Modi government over the state of the economy, the Congress on Friday hit out at the job and income losses. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi joined the party’s social media campaign vikas gayaab hain [development has gone missing] as he targeted the government on Twitter. He also tagged a media report which said unemployment rate has gone up in August as rural jobs dipped. Social media spat “12 crores jobs missing. The $5 trillion economy has disappeared, incomes of common citizen have disappeared. The prosperity and security of the country disappeared and if you ask a question, the answer also disappears,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted with the hash tag # vikas gayaab hain . In another tweet, Mr. Rahul Gandhi appealed to the Modi government to “provide solutions to the problems being faced by the youth of the country”. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the government over the rise in unemployment and privatisation of public sector units. She alleged that the Staff Selection Commission (SCC) Combined Graduate Level (CGL) exams have been ‘paralysed’ over the past few years. “2017- No appointments till now under SSC CGL. 2018 - Even results are not out of the CGL exam. 2019 - CGL exam was not held. 2020 SSC CGL - No vacancies announced. If vacancies come out, then no exams. If exams take place, then no results. If results come out, then no recruitment,” Ms. Vadra said on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-keeps-up-attack-on-centre-over-job-losses/article32527870.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||No action against judge accused of harassment||The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday said it has become a “practice” to level allegations against judges who are in the zone of consideration for elevation to higher courts. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde made the oral remarks while staying a disciplinary inquiry against a district judge who was accused of sexual harassment by a woman judicial officer in Madhya Pradesh. The Bench also directed the Madhya Pradesh High Court Registrar General to file a response. The High Court had consented to an inquiry into the allegations by the Gender Sensitisation Internal Complaint Committee. The complaint dates back to March 2018. “Despite a categorical finding of ‘no evidence’ and ‘no material to proceed in the matter’, the GSICC in an volte face action recommended disciplinary action against the petitioner as well as the complainant dehors the mandate of law contained in Sections 10, 11 and 13 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013,” said the plea filed by the district judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-action-against-judge-accused-of-harassment/article32527884.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Doctor, aide arrested for giving forged test reports||A 34-year-old doctor and his associate have been arrested for allegedly preparing forged COVID-19 test reports, police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said the accused had been identified as Dr. Kush Bihari Parashar and his associate Amit Singh. They had forged at least 75 reports. Police said they received a complaint on August 30 from a noted testing lab in Hauz Khas regarding forgery of a COVID-19 report with their centre’s name on it. Based on the complaint, a case on charges of cheating, forgery and fraud was registered. Police said a person who ran a business of providing nursing staff to people asked Dr. Parashar for COVID-19 tests of his two nurses before they were hired. The doctor sent the reports to the person on WhatsApp in PDF format who further sent the reports to his client who wanted to hire the nurse. The client spotted a mistake in the name and contacted the testing lab straight for her query on the name and asked them to send a new report with corrected name. The lab stated that they had no record of testing the nurse. During investigation, it was found that the doctor would recommend people for COVID-19 testing after which he would collect the sample himself or his associate Amit would. The duo wouldn’t send the samples for testing and make forged test reports of centres which the patients desired, police said. “As the reports were prepared in PDF format on computer and same were sent to patients on WhatsApp, it was difficult to differentiate between the forged and the genuine report,” Mr. Thakur said. The doctor, police said, was charging Rs. 2,400 a test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctor-aide-arrested-for-giving-forged-test-reports/article32527898.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||SC rejects State Ministers plea against JEE, NEET||Ministers Moloy Ghatak of West Bengal, Dr. Rameshwar Oraon from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh’s Amarjeet Bhagat, Maharashtra’s Uday Ravindra Samant and Raghu Sharma and Balbir Singh Sidhu from Rajasthan and Punjab respectively had moved the Supreme Court through lawyer Sunil Fernandes. The petition was filed shortly after a meeting was held among Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Chief Ministers of the six non-BJP-ruled States. ‘Dates fixed in hurry’ The Ministers said the months from April to September 2020 were characterised by inaction, confusion, lethargy and inertia on the government’s part. The Union government had suddenly woken up to hurriedly fix the exam dates. “The remedy will prove to be worse than the disease itself,” the petition had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-state-ministers-plea-against-jee-neet/article32527861.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Fate versus human effort||During Parikshit’s righteous reign, unrighteousness in the shape of Kali Purusha is subdued by the king. But the same Parikshit is destined to die owing to the curse of the son of a sage. The Devi Bhagavata Purana narrative on this tense situation throws light on how human beings can seek solutions from the sastras for their various problems and difficulties in life, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. There are many who accept the way of fate and many who believe that it can be averted by human resource, intelligence and penance. Though Parikshit is well aware of the force of destiny in the lives of people, and especially of his imminent end, he advocates the reasonable path of learning to live in the valuable present moment. No sensible person would adopt the fatalistic view that nothing can be done since all depends on what is ordained in each one’s fate. There are instances when destiny has been averted by penance and God’s grace. One has to factor in the power of mantra to ward off evil effects, and the use of medicines as an antidote for sickness. Therefore one should exert one’s own prowess from the very outset. A sanyasi who has renounced the world and has Poorna vairagya can afford to abide by what comes his way. Yet he too has to go out for seeking alms for his daily sustenance. In contrast, a person in samsara may not have the same bent of mind of a renunciate. He might choose to seek solutions from sastras for protection from disasters. Whatever may be the outcome, human effort and attempt to counter destiny is not to be discounted. Even if food is forcibly given to one, it can reach the stomach only with the individual’s effort to swallow. A lion sleeping in a cage cannot expect to get his prey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fate-versus-human-effort/article32527881.ece
05 September 2020||Guwahati,||Assam lifts weekend lockdown, night curfew||The Assam government has lifted the weekend lockdown and the night curfew though coronavirus-related restrictions will remain in force in the containment zones till September 30, Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said on Friday. Night curfew and weekend lockdown have been operational across the State and inter-district movements were prohibited since June 28 following a spike in COVID-19 cases. “Weekend lockdown and night curfew have been lifted. However, please adhere to all the COVID-19 protocols to keep yourself and others around you safe,” the Chief Secretary tweeted. An order was also issued listing various activities that are allowed outside the containment zones along with the restrictions. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes shall remain closed till September 30, but online and distance learning will continue. Fifty per cent of the teaching and non-teaching staff are allowed to attend educational institutions at a time for online teaching /telecounselling and related works, the order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-lifts-weekend-lockdown-night-curfew/article32528139.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bihar polls to coincide with 65 bypolls||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has decided to conduct 65 byelections in various States along with the Bihar Assembly polls. The poll schedule would be announced at an appropriate time, it said. The decision was taken at an ECI meeting on Friday. Byelections are due for 64 Assembly constituencies and one Parliamentary seat, said the ECI. Among the vacant Assembly seats, 27 are in Madhya Pradesh. The Commission reviewed the reports and inputs from Chief Secretaries/Chief Electoral Officers of many of the States concerned, which sought deferment of bypolls in view of various factors, including heavy rains at some places and other constraints such as dealing with the pandemic. Considering that the Bihar Assembly polls required to be completed before November 29, the ECI decided to hold the byelections around the same time. “One of the major factors in clubbing them together is the relative ease of movement of Central Armed Police Forces/other law and order forces, and related logistics issues,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-polls-to-coincide-with-65-bypolls/article32527877.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC nod for clubbing U.P. Tablighi cases||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to the consolidation of multiple cases being heard against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members across Uttar Pradesh. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar asked the State government to approach the Allahabad High Court for a decision to specify the number of courts which can hear the trial. Right now, the trials are spread across various judicial zones in the State. ‘Identify trial courts’ The Bench also asked the High Court to identify the trial courts within a week. Once identified, the trials should be completed expeditiously within eight weeks, the Bench said. The court was considering the pleas made by foreign nationals facing trials across U.P. A similar plea for consolidation made by members in Bihar was allowed by the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-nod-for-clubbing-up-tablighi-cases/article32527901.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Probes expose underbelly of CPI(M): Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday said multiple investigations into South Indian drug cartels and international gold smuggling networks had exposed the dark underbelly of the leadership of the CPI(M) in Kerala. A drug bust in Karnataka has led Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) investigators to the doorstep of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. A court filing by narcotics investigators in Bengaluru had shed light on the “close association” between the prime suspect and Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Mr. Balakrishnan, Mr. Chennithala said. (Bineesh has emphatically denied any knowledge of the crime.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probes-expose-underbelly-of-cpim-chennithala/article32528261.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Test must for entry into Assembly||The stage is set for the monsoon session of State Legislature from Monday, but not without precautions against COVID. In the wake of the pandemic, the Assembly session will witness several restrictions on the movement of ministers, members, officials and even the media. Entry into the Assembly will be allowed only after one takes the COVID test. “COVID-19 test report is mandatory for all entering the premises as a precautionary measure. I myself will undergo the test one more time,” Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy said on Friday. Staff of the Secretariat as well as security personnel, including the Chief Marshal, should undergo COVID test before entering the premises. Wearing a mask would be mandatory for those entering the Assembly or Council and members would be provided kits containing oxymeters and sanitisers, among other things. The Speaker along with Legislative Council chairman G. Sukhender Reddy, and Legislative Affairs Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy held detailed discussions with senior officials led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Charyulu and other senior officials on the smooth conduct of the session likely to be held till month-end. The Speaker was categorical in stating that members who tested positive need not attend the session. Officials were directed to give special focus to arrangements in coordination with the Legislature and all departments were directed to ensure utmost coordination between them. Seating arrangements in the Assembly and the Council had been rearranged so that physical distance of at least six feet was maintained. Accordingly, 40 new seats had been added in the Assembly and eight in the Council so that only one member sits in one chair, instead of two in previous sessions. There would be no entry for visitors into the Assembly. Personal secretaries or assistants of MLAs would also not be allowed into the Assembly or Council. Ministers could be accompanied by their personal secretaries/assistants as they have to answer queries but the number should not be more than three. In addition to the standard operating protocols issued for COVID, ambulances containing PPE kits, rapid test kits, oxymeters and other necessary equipment would be kept ready in the Assembly and Council. There would be restrictions on the entry and movement of the media with only two passes – one for the Assembly and one for the Council – to be issued to each media/newspaper establishment during the session. Arrangements have, however, been made to ensure the live telecast of the entire proceedings. “There will be no media point,” he said. When asked as to how the Opposition members should express their views in the absence of the media point, the Council chairman said adequate time would be given to them in both the Houses to express their views. Mr. Prashanth Reddy said the government was prepared to conduct the session any number of days as long as the proceedings focused on issues of public importance. Steps have been initiated to ensure that answers to the queries raised by the members during and after the previous sessions were sent to the members. Asked whether the question hour or zero hour would be allowed, the Speaker said that the Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly, which would meet on Monday, would take a decision in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/test-must-for-entry-into-assembly/article32528188.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra varsities asked to submit exam plan by Sept. 7||The Maharashtra government on Friday asked the universities in the State to submit by September 7 their detailed plan of conducting final year examinations. State Minister for Higher and Technical Education Uday Samant said while universities were free to chalk out their own exam schedule, they have to announce the results by October 31. “The State has asked the universities to submit by September 7 their detailed plan of conducting examinations. This would enable the government to hold a meeting with the disaster management committee to decide on the steps needed to be taken against the novel coronavirus spread during the exam,” he said. Considering the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the government had sought cancellation of the final year exams. “The students who are going abroad for higher studies will be getting provisional certificate from their respective colleges and institutes. Several colleges abroad have shown willingness to accept such provisional certificate as a document for confirming the admission,” Mr. Samant said. Students are allowed to secure admission in a foreign institute of their choice first and submit their final year results later, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-varsities-asked-to-submit-exam-plan-by-sept-7/article32528143.ece
05 September 2020||Imphal,||Man shot dead outside bank, Rs. 1.15 cr. looted||A man was shot dead and Rs. 1.15 crore looted in Manipur’s Churachandpur district on Friday, police said. Arambam Ranjan Meitei, employed with an agency appointed by the State Bank of India to load cash in its ATMs, was shot dead outside the bank’s main branch at 11 a.m., they said. The incident happened when he was on the way to load cash in 16 ATMs , police said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-shot-dead-outside-bank-rs-115-cr-looted/article32528141.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi’s COVID-19 count rises by 10 to 2,810||Dharavi’s COVID-19 tally rose to 2,810, with 10 new cases being recorded on Friday. “Of the total number of patients, 2,432 have recovered and were discharged from hospitals,” an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. Dharavi now has 98 active cases. G North ward, which includes areas like Dadar and Mahim along with Dharavi, has so far reported 7,820 positive cases. Of them, 2,683 are from Dadar and 2,337 from Mahim, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavis-covid-19-count-rises-by-10-to-2810/article32528140.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Examine introducing price regulation for N95 masks: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed both Union and State governments to examine the need to introduce a measure to regulate the price of N95 masks while observing that there is a need to ensure their availability even to common citizens when the country is witnessing a steep rise in COVID-19 cases. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the directions while hearing through videoconference PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19 health management. Noting that the health experts have regarded N95 masks as the best weapon to fight against COVID-19, the Bench said it is the duty of both the governments to ensure sufficient availability of N95 masks at affordable rates, as COVID-19 positive cases are increasing in Karnataka. As the State government’s data showed that N95 masks are sold in the open market in the range of Rs. 60 and Rs. 300 across State, the Bench said the Centre’s decision to leave the price of N95 masks to open market dynamics from July 1 would adversely affect citizens. Pointing out that both the governments are not helpless in ensuring the masks are available at a reasonable price across the State, the Bench said in the present COVID-19 scenario, it is the responsibility of the governments to ensure availability of N95 masks at a reasonable price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/examine-introducing-price-regulation-for-n95-masks-hc/article32527849.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Admissions to national law varsities only through CLAT||The Consortium of National Law Universities has requested the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bangalore, to reconsider its decision of holding its own independent test for this year’s admission to BA.LL.B and LL.M courses and not based on the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). At an emergency meeting of the governing body of the consortium on Friday chaired by V. Vijaykumar, Vice-Chancellor of NLIU-Bhopal and all the members requested that earlier agreement of the common test be continued. All members, including the V-C of NLSIU-Bangalore, were present at the meeting. The governing body resolved that the NLSIU’s decision was in violation of Rule 15.3.3. of consortium bye-laws, a statement said. It added that if NLSIU sticks to its decision, it cannot remain associated with the CLAT-2020 in any manner and all financial and administrative decisions will have to be taken by Balraj Chauhan, CLAT-2020 convener, and that the secretariat of consortium may be shifted out of NLSIU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/admissions-to-national-law-varsities-only-through-clat/article32528213.ece
05 September 2020||Kannur,||Two injured as crude bomb explodes||Two persons were injured when crude bombs exploded at Ponniyam at Kathirur here on Friday afternoon. The police suspect that the injured were making the bombs when the blast occurred. While the condition of 27-year-old Rameesh, a native of Mahe, is said to be critical, the other person took treatment for minor injuries. The police were trying to trace the other person who reportedly left the hospital after treatment. Rameesh was the 24th accused in the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case and the court had acquitted him of the crime for want of evidence. He was shifted to the Thalassery Cooperative Hospital as his hands and eyes suffered serious injuries. Bombs recovered The police also recovered 13 crude bombs from the place where the blast occurred. Sources said there had been a tense situation in the area for the past few days. The incident took place a day after the District Collector had convened an all-party peace meeting in the wake of a series of attacks in the district in the last three days. A team comprising the District Police Chief and the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thalassery, reached the spot and started an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-injured-as-crude-bomb-explodes/article32527854.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Special COVID guidelines for Assembly bypolls||Steps will be taken for holding the byelections in Kuttanad and Chavara Assembly constituencies in line with the special guidelines issued for conducting elections during COVID-19, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena said on Friday. The Election Commission of India (EC) has overruled the recommendation of Mr. Meena and the State government that the bypolls may be avoided given the worsened COVID-19 situation in Kerala and the fact that the Assembly elections are anyway due early next year. On Friday, the commission had announced that the Bihar Assembly election would be conducted before November 29. Sixty-five byelections also will be held ‘around the same time’, the EC said. Dates have not been announced. Mr. Meena, who contacted the commission, was informed that no State has been exempted from the elections. The bypoll for the Kuttanad seat has been necessitated by the death of Nationalist Congress Party MLA and former Minister Thomas Chandy in December 2019. Chavara MLA N. Vijayan Pillai had passed away in March this year. Mr. Meena clarified that no confusion surrounds the voters’ list of the Election Commission which will be used for the bypolls. The Election Commission had released ‘Broad Guidelines for Conduct of General Elections/By-Elections During COVID-19’ on August 21. The guidelines require voters to wear face masks and maintain proper physical distance. Provision for thermal screening, sanitiser and soap and water will be made at the polling booths. The bypoll nomination process can be carried out online. Only two individuals can accompany the candidate for the physical filing of nomination papers. Voters should be provided hand gloves for signing the voter’s list and pressing the button on the electronic voting machine (EVM). There will be three separate queues for male and female voters and people with disabilities/senior citizens. Last hour COVID-19 patients will be allowed to cast their vote during the last hour of polling at their respective polling stations under the supervision of health authorities. Additional arrangements necessitated by the pandemic is expected to trigger an increase in election expenses. According to Mr. Meena, a bypoll in a single Assembly constituency normally costs around Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 5 crore. This would go up given the need for making special arrangements to ensure a safe election process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-covid-guidelines-for-assembly-bypolls/article32527857.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Centre wants review of HC order for translation of EIA draft||The Central government has asked the Delhi High Court to review its direction to publish the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) in all the 22 languages in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution, saying that official documents are required to be published only in Hindi and English. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan on Friday issued notice to environmentalist Vikrant Tongad, on whose plea the High Court had passed the direction. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Environment Ministry, claimed that the court had been “misled” by the petitioner who stated that the government has in the past published its draft notifications in several other languages apart from Hindi and English. Administrative problems The Centre does not have any obligation to publish the draft EIA notification in any language apart from Hindi and English, the Ministry said, adding that “trying to do the same would cause massive procedural and administrative difficulties”. As on August 14, the Ministry has received over 19 lakh responses on the draft EIA from across the country. “Issuance of notifications in multiple languages would in any case result in translation and interpretation issues resulting in the meaning of the words being obfuscated and often even lost,” the Ministry has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-wants-review-of-hc-order-for-translation-of-eia-draft/article32527880.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||291 ITBP personnel get DG commendation rolls for gallant actions||As many as 291 ITBP personnel were accorded the Director General (DG) commendation rolls and discs “for their gallant actions during the face-offs and border skirmishes that took place in May and June in Eastern Ladakh,” the Central Armed Police Force deployed along the China border said in a statement on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/291-itbp-personnel-get-dg-commendation-rolls-for-gallant-actions/article32527889.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kangana Ranaut||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday distanced itself from actor Kangana Ranaut’s comment comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Ashish Shelar, the party’s former Mumbai unit president, said, “The BJP does not agree with what Kangana Ranaut has said... about Maharashtra and Mumbai. Some people are working to divert the CBI investigation into the unfortunate death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Kangana Ranaut should not try to tell people of Mumbai or Maharashtra about anything.” Earlier, unfazed by the criticism, Ms. Ranaut continued her tirade against the Maharashtra government and the Shiv Sena. She tweeted, “I see many people are threatening me to not come back to Mumbai so I have now decided to travel to Mumbai this coming week on 9th September. I will post the time when I land at the Mumbai airport.” She added, ‘ Kisi ke baap mein himmat hai rok le ’, daring detractors to try and stop here. Throughout the day on Twitter, Ms. Ranaut indirectly targeted Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. She termed Bollywood a ‘Islam-dominated industry’ and referred to herself as someone who stood up to defend Maratha pride. “Your only achievement cannot be that you are a son of great soul. Who are you to certify me on whether I love or hate Maharashtra? How did you decided that you love Maharashtra more than me?” she tweeted, alluding to the Chief Minister. Earlier in the day, the Sena took to the streets, protesting over Ms. Ranaut ‘PoK’ comment. Workers of the party’s women’s wing set an effigy of the actor on fire outside Sena Bhavan in Dadar. Several protests were organised in Worli, Girgaum, and Ghatkopar against BJP MLA Ram Kadam, who extended support to Ms. Ranaut on Thursday. State Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh said, “I strongly condemn allegations levelled by an actress against Maharashtra and the Mumbai Police. Our police force is brave and capable in executing their duties and maintaining law and order across the State. Whoever doesn’t feel safe here has no right to live here,” he said. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also warned the actor against making comments against the Mumbai Police. “She better not be judgmental about the Mumbai Police,” said Ameya Khopkar, president of MNS’s cinema wing. He said, “Our leader Raj Thackeray has taught us how much importance should be given to a person. Posting a substandard post on social media to gain publicity is a disease. We have two demands: Kangana should go for psychiatric treatment and be booked for sedition for comparing Mumbai to PoK.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kangana-ranaut/article32527891.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||NIA custody of Hany Babu, Teltumbde, Navlakha extended||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Hany Babu, Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha till September 18, in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence case. Special judge A.T. Wankhede granted the extension after special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, appearing for the NIA, made an appeal saying the investigation was still on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-custody-of-hany-babu-teltumbde-navlakha-extended/article32527910.ece
05 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||High Court overturns ban on Assamese TV serial ‘Begum Jaan’||The Gauhati High Court on Thursday set aside a two-month ban on the telecast of Assamese serial Begum Jaan by the Assam police while advising the channel to delete before airing any content that may “harm the religious sentiment of any community”. The Guwahati Commissioner of Police on August 24 suspended the serial following a series of complaints that it hurt religious sentiments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-overturns-ban-on-assamese-tv-serial-begum-jaan/article32527912.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Malegaon blast accused Purohit challenges sanction to prosecute him||Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Purohit, accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast that killed six and injured 101, has filed a fresh petition before the Bombay High Court on Friday challenging the sanction to prosecute him in the case. Former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi appeared for Lt. Col. Purohit before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malegaon-blast-accused-purohit-challenges-sanction-to-prosecute-him/article32527911.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant case: NCB quizzes housekeeping manager, Rhea’s brother||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother, Showik, and actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s housekeeping manager, Samuel Miranda, after searches in their premises in Mumbai. NCB teams reached the houses of Mr. Showik and Mr. Samuel early in the morning to conduct searches. Subsequently, the two were served summonses and taken to the agency’s office for questioning as part of the probe into the drug angle to Sushant’s death. The two were questioned for over eight hours. Bandra resident arrest The move came a day after the NCB detained another suspect for questioning. It earlier arrested a Bandra resident named Basit Parihar, after he purportedly disclosed that he knew one of the persons under the scanner in the Sushant case. At Mr. Parihar’s instance, the NCB zeroed in on the suspect, identified as Kaizan Ibrahim. The NCB got fresh leads in the Sushant case following raids in a separate case in Mumbai in August last week. Two persons, Abbas Lakhani and Karn Arora, were arrested for allegedly possessing bud (curated marijuana). The follow-up probe uncovered the links of Lakhani with Zaid Vilatra, said the NCB. The NCB arrested Zaid, an alleged drug peddler. “Zaid disclosed that he ran an eatery shop in Bandra, which was not doing well since the lockdown. He then got into peddling drugs, particularly bud, through which he earned a substantial amount of money,” an NCB official had said. Drug dealer’s link Based on Mr. Vilatra’s purported disclosures, the NCB arrested Mr. Parihar and found that he was allegedly linked to the case registered on the basis of information received from the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The NCB will also examine Ms. Chakraborty. During the money laundering probe into the Sushant case, ED officials retrieved several mobile chats indicating procurement, transportation and consumption of banned drugs by some suspects. The CBI, which is probing the allegations of abetment of suicide, conspiracy, cheating, criminal breach of trust, theft, wrongful restraint and confinement, on Friday again examined the chief executive officer of a talent management company, in which Disha Salian worked. Disha was allegedly hired for Sushant through Ms. Chakraborty. She fell from a 14-floor flat in Malad and died on June 8, following which the actor expressed a fear that he might be framed, as alleged.  Zaid disclosed that he ran an eatery shop in Bandra, which was not doing well since the lockdown. He then got into peddling drugs NCB official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushant-case-ncb-quizzes-housekeeping-manager-rheas-brother/article32527916.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation seals nearly 50 shops for violation of norms||The Greater Chennai Corporation has sealed at least 50 shops for violations pertaining to physical distancing, mask wearing and air-conditioning during the COVID-19 pandemic. At least 700 persons who failed to wear masks were penalised. Shops in violation of the norms, in areas such as Triplicane, Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam, were sealed on Friday for 14 days. Fines for spitting Civic officials said they would start collecting fines for spitting in public spaces, focusing on commercial areas that are crowded.  City Health Officer Jagadeesan said the number of COVID-19 cases in the city was decreasing in most zones. “We have more positive cases in Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam. Cases in north Chennai are declining. We are monitoring the situation in Ambattur, Valasaravakkam and Adyar,” he said. The impact of the lockdown relaxations would become apparent only during the third week of September, officials said. Municipal Administration and Water Supply Secretary Harmander Singh ordered civic officials to penalise violators of norms pertaining to physical distancing, mask wearing and air conditioning of shops. Representatives meet A meeting of representatives of marriage halls and places of worship was held in various zones to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Corporation has also intensified fever camps in various parts of the city. At least 22.5 lakh residents have participated in the camps, so far. The case fatality rate in the city is 2.03%. Active cases are over 1,000 in zones such as Adyar, Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam. At least 9% of city residents who have tested positive are active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-seals-nearly-50-shops-for-violation-of-norms/article32528033.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tally crosses 4.5 lakh as State adds 5,976 more infections||Tamil Nadu’s tally crossed the 4.5-lakh mark, with another 5,976 persons testing positive for the infection on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 992, followed by Coimbatore with 595 cases and Cuddalore with 499. The State’s tally touched 4,51,827, of which 51,633 persons are still under treatment. A total of 3,92,507 have been discharged so far after treatment and 7,687 persons have succumbed to the infection. On Friday, 6,334 persons, including 1,040 in Chennai, were discharged. A total of 79 persons died in the State. Of the fatalities, 12 were recorded in Chennai, six in Tiruvallur and five each in Salem and Villupuram. A 22-year-old man from Cuddalore was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Cuddalore with complaints of fever and cough for three days and difficulty in breathing for a day on August 28. He was morbidly obese. He died on September 3 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Chennai, along with a majority of the northern districts, accounted for nearly half of the fresh infections. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur had 370 and 260 cases respectively. In Tiruvannamalai, 215 persons tested positive, while districts such as Kancheepuram, Ranipet and Vellore had 100-plus cases. Districts’ daily count Among the other districts, Salem recorded 238 cases. Two more districts crossed the 10,000-mark. With 107 new cases, Kanniyakumari’s tally climbed to 10,022, while Tirunelveli’s total count touched 10,067 with 114 new cases. Twenty-five returnees from abroad and other States tested positive for the infection in the State. Till date, a total of 6,431 persons who returned to the State by flight, train, road and the sea have tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 83,699 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. With this, a total of 51,30,741 samples have been tested in Tamil Nadu. Biozone Diagnostics, a private laboratory in Chennai, has been approved for COVID-19 testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tally-crosses-45-lakh-as-state-adds-5976-more-infections/article32528060.ece
05 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Work on preparing new master plans for 75 towns begins||The State government has kick started the preparation of GIS-based master plans for 75 towns including Kanniyakumari, Mamallapuram, Kodaikanal, Srivilliputtur and Courtallam. The GIS based master plans for the towns are expected to facilitate planned urban development and improvement of civic infrastructure in the vicinity of eco sensitive localities of the State. For instance, Mamallapuram area with many heritage structures will get a new master plan for 277 sq km and the town will get a master plan for 13 sq km, facilitating development of new roads and rail connectivity, focusing on transit oriented development. The town will get modern civic infrastructure including an underground drainage system without affecting heritage buildings and eco sensitive areas according to the new master plan for the next 20 years. Urban development of residential areas and industrial areas will be permitted without affecting the heritage buildings of the town. Following the issuance of the government order pertaining to the preparation of the master plan, work on collecting cadastral images of the 75 towns has started this week. Urban planning officials will procure the satellite images of the towns from National Remote Sensing Centre for preparation of the GIS based master plans shortly. The State government has sanctioned Rs. 3.99 crore to prepare master plans for the 75 towns. The master plans will be prepared in-house by urban planning officials of the State government. The work involves procurement of satellite imagery of 1679 sq km of the 75 towns in the State from National Remote Sensing Centre, preparation of base map, land use and master plan formulation. The work on incorporating value addition from line agencies and local bodies will be completed by November in 21 towns such as Kanniyakumari, Yercaud, Bhavanisagar, Tirutani, Nellikuppam, Panruti, Tindivanam, Tirupattur, Arani, Walajapettai, Bhavani, Dharapuram, Mettur, Manaparai, Valparai, Chinnamanur, Melur, Srivilliputhur, Devakottai, Colachel and Padmanabapuram. Valparai town, with an area of 217 sq km, is the largest among the 21 towns to get a draft of the GIS based master plan by May 2021. Another 31 towns including Tenkasi, Arcot, Maduranthagam, Chidambaram, Virudhachalam, Thiruvathipuram (Cheyyar), Gudiyatham, Ranipet, Vaniyambadi, Kumarapalayam, Sathyamangalam, Thuraiyur, Kulithalai, Mailaduthurai, Pattukottai, Sirkali, Mannargudi, Thiruthuraipoondi, Coonoor, Kuthanallur, Metupalayam, Palladam, Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai, Bodinayakkanur, Periyakulam, Sathur, Usilampatti, Puliyankudi, Kadayanallur, Sankarankoil and Avinasi will get the draft of the GIS-based master plans by May 2022. Work on preparation of master plans for towns such as Kodaikanal, Edapadi, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai, Senkottai, Kuzhithurai, Ambasamudram, Kothagiri, Courtallam and Thisayanvilai will also be taken up shortly. A few urban planning experts have claimed that the mass production with poor in-house capabilities of the State government agencies has raised serious questions about the project. However, urban planning officials of the State government said the new initiative involves a model which will be used for “continuous training in ongoing projects and sustainable knowledge gain for department staff.” “The cost of the preparation of the master plan will be affordable. We are planning to get satellite imagery from Indian satellites at 10% of the cost of procurement from foreign agencies," said an official. A work station will be created to have experts in geo informatics, spatial planners from TNeGA and ELCOT for base map work and master plan formulation. This is expected to keep the team members from various agencies under one roof for master plan preparation, officials said. The first batch of the drafts of the master plans for at least a few towns are likely to be readied by May, 2021, which will determine the success of the project in the next three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-preparing-new-master-plans-for-75-towns-begins/article32528359.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3,000 cr.-worth projects planned to meet Chennai’s water needs||In about five years, Chennai will have an additional capacity to store 5-6 thousand million cubic feet of water to cater to the city’s growing drinking water needs. The Water Resources Department (WRD) is preparing estimates for projects to the tune of Rs. 3,000 crore, and will soon finalise funding from the World Bank. Various projects are being worked out in different river basins, including those of the Cooum, the Adyar and the Kosasthalaiyar, in the Chennai metropolitan area to mitigate floods in vulnerable areas and boost storage capacity to reduce water stress. WRD officials said estimates were being prepared based on the basin study, with various factors, including water availability and the average rainfall in the past four decades, being taken into account. Besides schemes to improve the surface water potential of waterbodies and waterways, the WRD has turned its attention to enhancing groundwater recharge. Building structures such as checkdams and sub-surface dykes would be part of the proposals. These structures would raise the groundwater table and help drawal from well fields, especially during drought. Such structures would be built especially across the Kosasthalaiyar with an alluvial soil condition, which helps in replenishing the aquifer. “We plan to improve the storage capacity of 60 waterbodies around the city through rejuvenation efforts. A bio-remediation process will also be initiated to decrease pollution in the waterbodies. We are developing schemes to meet the water demand in the next 30 years,” said an official. Schemes are also being drawn up to transfer surplus water from other basins through pumping to meet Chennai’s water needs. For instance, the viability of pumping excess water from the Palar, which is being provided with new checkdams, to the Chembarambakkam treatment plant is being considered, officials said. The issue of seawater intrusion into the Araniar and the Kosasthalaiyar would also be addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-3000-cr-worth-projects-planned-to-meet-chennais-water-needs/article32528071.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 5,000 fine for SOP violations, Rs. 200 for not wearing mask||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Friday promulgated the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, that made violations of COVID-19 lockdown and physical distancing norms “compoundable offences”. It also prohibits acts of violence against persons implementing these measures. A government order issued by the Health Department soon after the ordinance was promulgated specified that a fine of Rs. 5,000 would be imposed on those violating the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued for salons and spas, gymnasiums, commercial establishments and other public places. Those not wearing a face mask in public places will have to pay Rs. 200. Those spitting in public places and violating distancing norms will have to pay Rs. 500 as fine. The penalty for violating quarantine norms will also be Rs. 500. If containment zone norms are violated, a fine of Rs. 500 for individuals and Rs. 5,000 in case of vehicles and commercial establishments will be levied. The Raj Bhavan, in a communication, noted, “Despite an aggressive information, education and communication campaign, a section of persons/institutions/shops do not follow it, putting themselves and others at the risk of spreading infection.” “It is, therefore, considered necessary to make violations of lockdown and physical distancing measures, taken to contain the spread of COVID-19, as compoundable offences, and prohibit acts of violence against persons implementing these measures. Hence, the government has decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1939),” it said. Based on the State government’s proposal, the Governor has promulgated the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, to carry out amendments to the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1939).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-5000-fine-for-sop-violations-rs-200-for-not-wearing-mask/article32528062.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of reopening, Metro Rail ramps up safety measures||A majority of commuters who regularly used the Metro Rail before the COVID-19 pandemic are apprehensive about their return because of air-conditioned trains and stations. Officials of the Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) said they had taken a slew of measures to ramp up safety. When trains halt at each station, they usually wait for 20 seconds but now this has been increased to 50 seconds. Avoiding crowds “This has been done for two reasons — to give commuters enough time to board the trains and to allow more fresh air to enter the coaches. Of course, this means they will spend more time travelling but these days, safety takes precedence,” an official said. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has announced that the temperature inside trains should be maintained between 25 and 27 degree Celsius. Also, supply of fresh air has been increased from 25% to 100% now. “Indoor air quality inside stations will be maintained by letting in around 4 times more fresh air than the recommended rate and fans will be run continuously at maximum capacity,” CMRL stated. Officials said the air handling units had two filters that block particles of size 5 microns and above. “The air handling units and fans will run two hours before the first train departs and for two hours after the last train. This is to ensure there is enough ventilation and fresh air supply inside the stations. The tunnels also have ventilation fans,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-reopening-metro-rail-ramps-up-safety-measures/article32528031.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Think twice before calling customer care||The next time you call a customer care number found online make sure you do not share your bank account details to the person on the other end of the call. Conmen advertise fake customer care numbers online to swindle money, according to the police. The newly-formed cyber crime team of the Triplicane police stumbled upon two such cases in which complainants called fake customer care numbers of an e-commerce site and a digital wallet platform and lost money. “This is a new trend,” a police officer said. While the team was able to retrieve the entire amount in one incident, the process is on to recover the money in another. In one incident, the complainant Mahalakshmi booked a mobile phone on an e-commerce site for Rs. 10,000. “As the product was not delivered on time, she called a customer care number she found online,” an officer said. The person on the other end asked her to share the details of her bank account. “She shared the OTP with him. In no time, Rs. 10,000 was deducted from her account. Luckily, the fraudster made an online purchase. She immediately lodged a complaint with us. We requested the bank to initiate chargeback and she got back the entire amount,” he added. However, another victim was not so lucky he reported the theft after 13 days. “Munusamy was using a digital wallet platform and had transferred some money to his bank account. As the amount was not credited to his bank account, he searched online for a customer care number and called the one he found,” the officer said. The conman on the other end took the bank details. “After Munusamy shared the password, close to Rs. 1 lakh was swindled from his account. We recovered some money that he transferred to another digital wallet. The process to recover the remaining amount is ongoing,” an officer said. ‘Be vigilant’ The police have warned people not to fall prey to conmen by calling fake customer care numbers. “Don’t share OTP, CVV or bank account details over phone. The sooner they give the complaint to a police station or cyber crime team, the higher the chances of recovering the money,” said G. Dharmarajan, Deputy Commissioner, Triplicane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/think-twice-before-calling-customer-care/article32528039.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10 eggs a month for school students under meal scheme||Following an order of the Madras High Court, the Tamil Nadu government has decided to supply 10 eggs a month to every school student who has so far been a beneficiary of the Puratchi Thalaivar MGR Nutritious Meal Programme, until schools reopen in the State. The eggs will be supplied from this month, along with the dry rations that are already being provided to students in primary and upper-primary schools under the scheme, a G.O. issued by Social Welfare Secretary S. Madumathi said. To avoid students frequently visiting the schools, the order said that eggs could be distributed when students come to collect educational materials and dry rations. Since the lockdown, the government has been distributing dry rations among students, as cooking on the school premises has not been possible since they have remained shut. The Madras High Court had, in August, ordered that eggs too should be given to students, like dry rations, through anganwadi workers, teachers or nurses from primary health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-eggs-a-month-for-school-students-under-meal-scheme/article32528053.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t let your guard down, Chief Secretary tells Collectors||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Friday wrote to District Collectors, urging them not to let their guards down in the battle against COVID-19, and called for extra vigil, following relaxations in economic and allied activities since September 1. “All of you should be aware that the worst time in pandemic management is yet to come. With the opening up of more activities like industries, commercial establishments, public transport, temples, etc., the disease is expected to spike in October, if no proper discipline is enforced or observed by the people in using face masks, maintaining physical distancing in public places or in terms of personal hygiene,” he said. Warning against complacency at any level, he said that the next two or three months were critical due to the non-availability of a vaccine. He called for the strict enforcement of discipline through local bodies and the police, by levying fines and closing down establishments violating norms, if necessary. Increased awareness on safety protocols must be created, he added. COVID-19 vigilance committees can be activated in villages and wards to keep vigil on travellers and visitors. They can ensure that the visitors adhere to quarantine norms. Shift in strategy The strategy, the letter said, “now clearly shifts from lockdown restriction to containment zone management, with effective perimeter control, so that normal life of people resumes...The shift is from government-driven testing, isolation, treating strategy to public-driven testing, quarantine, isolation and treatment strategy.” Containment zones and sample collection centres can be increased if needed, he said. The parameters to be taken care of with appropriate strategies are: reducing positivity rate, reducing the absolute number of positive cases, controlling the disease spread and reducing the fatality rate. He suggested comprehensive fever camps, contact tracing, focused testing in affected areas and public awareness, among other measures. Collectors were also instructed to encourage more private hospitals to augment their testing and treatment facilities and to provide more care centres for persons who could afford to pay, so that the pressure on government facilities was brought down. But pnly rates fixed by the government should be collected. Monitoring health infrastructure and biomedical waste, keeping the morale of frontline workers high, with appropriate breaks in their work, continuous death audits, strict enforcement of discipline through local bodies and the police and proper precautions in conducting meetings were some of the other instructions. “Normal activities of the administration, including development works and implementation of welfare schemes, should be resumed rapidly, but with care and caution,” the letter added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-let-your-guard-down-chief-secretary-tells-collectors/article32528057.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adapting and innovating to keep the students engaged||For scores of teachers across Tamil Nadu, this Teachers Day was admittedly a bit odd. Many of them miss real-time contact with their students. “Be it birthday celebrations or being sought out to help them with their problems, we were an integral part of the everyday lives of our students. We are missing that,” said G. Shanthi, a teacher from Chennai. For teachers like her across the State, the last six months have been unprecedented, with schools shut down owing to COVID-19 and the need to adapt themselves to the changes that the pandemic has brought about. “After 25 years of teaching, I began to handle classes online for the first time. As an accountancy teacher, I initially struggled without a blackboard, but soon took to writing down sums in a notebook and holding it up to the camera,” said the senior teacher from Chennai Higher Secondary School, Maduvinkarai, who initially sought out her sons to help her conduct online classes. Addressing the inequity Online classes may have caught on but several teachers, as Ms. Shanthi recounted, found it tough to contact and reach out to their students, given the lack of infrastructure. Stories have emerged from smaller districts and villages about teachers literally going the extra mile and visiting their students to ensure that learning continues. Nisha Subramaniam, co-founder, Kanavu, which works with Assefa Foundation’s schools in rural Cuddalore, sums up the last six months as a mix of challenges and new, exciting things. “Initially, the idea of some of our teachers owning a phone was met with resistance from their families, and they had to negotiate with them. Once this hurdle was crossed, our teachers have found innovative ways to replicate what we do in classrooms and keep the children motivated,” she said. “They are now even using emojis on worksheets submitted by the students and it is a delight to see how they have adapted to this.” Ms. Subramaniam said that for teachers, addressing the inequity that this new normal has brought in has also been of paramount importance. “The time for our teachers is split between their own learning as well as engaging with the children and parents. It has not been an easy transition for parents as well, with regard to investing in infrastructure to support their children,” she noted. At a time like this, most teachers like those at Kanavu are attempting to keep the focus on engaging with the students over the pressures of learning and exams. Learning curve The biggest learning from COVID-19 for S. Mohamed Ayub was how to innovate and utilise the available resources to reach out to the students. “Of the 55 students in my class, only 33 have access to the Internet. Others have basic mobile phones without the Internet. We had to rely on phone calls and on other students who are residing nearby to assist them,” said the teacher at the Government High School at 63 Velampalayam, Coimbatore district. The classroom and the instant feedback from the students was a large motivator and the absence of this experience is being missed in online classrooms, he said. “The attention span of students in online classrooms is short. We are on our toes to find creative ways to keep them engaged.” Teachers Day on September 5 in most schools is marked by a host of activities every year. This year however, most teachers will continue with their schedule of online classes. “The last few months have given us newer ways to engage with students. While we can’t wait for the situation to improve and get back to classrooms, we will definitely take what we have learnt forward,” said S. Ravanan, headmaster of Government Higher Secondary School, Melur, Madurai district. ( W ith inputs from Pon Vasanth B.A. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adapting-and-innovating-to-keep-the-students-engaged/article32528076.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to reduce subsidy burden of free power||Yet another attempt at reducing the subsidy burden of the free power supply scheme for farmers is being made with the authorities planning to replace 20,000 grid-connected pumpsets in the State with solar-powered units. Proposed under the Central government’s flagship scheme of making farm pumpsets into solar-powered systems under the ‘Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthan Mahabhiyan’ (KUSUM), the replacement will cost the farmers nothing. Instead, both the Central and State governments will bear 30% of the capital cost each. The rest will be absorbed by the financial partners of the Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency (TEDA), the implementing agency in the State, or developers to be identified by the TEDA. Approval sought Apart from consuming energy to be produced by the proposed solar-powered plants of 11kilowatt (KW) capacity, which will be solar photo voltaic systems, farmers can sell energy to Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) or other buyers. It is for this purpose and many others that the approval of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission has been sought by TEDA. As the life of each system is supposed to last 25 years, the Commission has suggested an indicative tariff (also called levellised tariff) of Rs. 2.09 per unit. The panel has also recommended that the farmers be paid an incentive ranging from Rs. 0.50 to Rs. 1 per unit, as a similar arrangement is in place in other States. Publishing a paper on its website (http://www.tnerc.gov.in/), the panel has called for comments from stakeholders on or before October 2. At present, the State government is providing nearly Rs. 4,000 crore annually towards free power supply for farmers. 21.5 lakh connections There are around 21.5 lakh agricultural connections, enjoying free power supply. On an average, the cost of supply, according to the Tangedco, comes to Rs. 8.26 per unit and the government’s subsidy covers Rs. 3.22 per unit, the rate as worked out by the Commission in its tariff order of August 2017. A former official of the Tangedco said that in the event of success of the latest initiative of the government leading to all farmers converting their farm pumpsets, the State government would be able to save at least Rs. 2,700 crore per year. But, the key element here is that the selection of right developers, who will maintain the SPV systems properly at least for 5 years, will only ensure the sustenance of the scheme, the former official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-reduce-subsidy-burden-of-free-power/article32528045.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rival gangs attack each other with country bombs in Perumbakkam||Rival gangs hurled country bombs at a DMDK functionary and at the house of a DMK secretary in Perumbakkam on Thursday in two interlinked incidents which occurred within a couple of hours of each other. The Pallikarani police have arrested seven suspects in connection with the incidents. According to the police, Rajasekar, 37, a DMDK union deputy secretary, living in Mettu Street in Perumbakkam, was involved in the assault on Arul, also a local resident, in February. Around 8.30 p.m. on Thursday, when Mr. Rajasekar was out on the road, Arul and his associates chased him and allegedly hurled country bombs. Mr. Rajasekar escaped the bombs but was attacked with knives. Neighbours came to his aid and took him to a hospital. The police arrested Arul and four of his associates. Within two hours of this, two persons in a car hurled country bombs at the residence of Mano Nidhi, an advocate and the DMK secretary of the Vengaivasal union. Suspected associate Police said Mr. Mano Nidhi was suspected to be an associate of Arul. The front portion of the house was torched but no one was injured. On a complaint, the Pallikaranai police scrutinised CCTV camera footage and arrested Rajesh, a relative of Rajasekar, and another person. Police have begun an investigation into the incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rival-gangs-attack-each-other-with-country-bombs-in-perumbakkam/article32528034.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SETC gears up to begin operations in State||State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) buses are gearing up to start inter-district operations from September 7. Senior officials said that people could book tickets, atwww.TNSTC.in, from Friday afternoon. Over 2,000 tickets were booked until Friday evening, said officials. “Initially we will be operating only 524 buses from our fleet strength of 1,082. Except to other States, the buses will ferry passengers to all districts within Tamil Nadu. We will not be operating the AC buses,” said a senior SETC official. He said that of the 43 seats, only 26 will be allowed to be occupied. “If there is a demand, then we will operate more buses. We expect patronage to increase gradually,” added the official. He said that passengers could also get tickets from the conductor. But it would be better to book them online to reduce contact. They just have to show the tickets on their phone, he said. P. Paneerselvam, president, Labour Progressive Federation, SETC, said there were around 4,300 drivers, conductors and driver/conductors. “All of them should be provided masks, gloves, sanitisers and face shields. Besides, all passengers should sanitise their hands before entering the bus,” he said. SETC drivers and conductors have also demanded that restrooms in depots be kept clean.  Clean restrooms He said restrooms at 22 depots across the State should be maintained well. “The transport corporation should ensure that the restrooms are clean and physical distancing norms are enforced in all of them. The food provided in the canteens should also be of good quality,” he added. Meanwhile, an SETC driver said that toilets at the Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. MGR Bus Stand needs cleaning. “It is usually cramped, and being a closed structure, passengers can get infected easily if someone sneezes inside. A supervisor should be entrusted with cleaning and ensuring that a minimum number of people use the facility at a time,” he said. A senior SETC official said a meeting with municipalities on improving facilities at the bus termini would be held on Saturday.  All staff members should be given masks, gloves, sanitisers and face shields. Besides, all passengers should sanitise their hands before entering the bus P. Paneerselvam President, Labour Progressive Federation, SETC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/setc-gears-up-to-begin-operations-in-state/article32528052.ece
05 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Draft EIA will completely destroy environment’||The DMK is vehemently opposed to the draft Environment Impact Assessment, 2020, and the party will ensure that environment is given priority when it comes to power, said its president M.K. Stalin. He also said the party MPs will raise their voice against the draft notification in Parliament. Accusing the BJP government of trying to bring changes in the EIA notification with an attempt to destroy the environment in the country, Mr. Stalin demanded that the Centre immediately withdraw the proposed notification and frame laws that will protect and give due importance to environment. Speaking at a virtual conference organised by the DMK on the EIA Notification 2020, titled ‘Law that destroys environment’, Mr. Stalin said, “I am giving you an assurance now that when we are elected to power, environment will be given importance and top priority.” Mr. Stalin said the draft notification issued by the BJP government will “completely destroy the environment. Every law brought in by the BJP has been against the people, States and against democracy, without any benefit to the people, be it the National Education Policy, NEET, CAA or their economic policies. Now with this EIA draft, they are going to completely destroy the environment”. DMK was not opposed to industrialisation, but it should not be done at the cost of environment. The DMK president said the draft, if approved, would lead to people losing their rights to question or oppose projects. “Projects that destroy environment such as the Salem-Chennai eight lane project, neutrino, hydrocarbon -- people will lose their rights to oppose them. They cannot raise questions about any project,” he said. On the issue of post-facto approvals for projects and complaints to be raised only by government officials and project proponents on violations, Mr. Stalin said the Centre might as well do away with environment protection laws. He also said the Centre’s proposal to appoint environment officers for States was against the Constitution and was aimed at usurping State’s rights. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group Publishing Pvt. Ltd, said India today was going back, regressing. “EIA provisions must provide for a precautionary principle of first avoiding harm and for inter-generational equity. This is a duty we owe to the future generations,” he said. Mr. Ram added that the Centre was behaving in an authoritative manner and hoped that the legal challenge against the draft notification would prevail. Environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta said the draft notification was an attack on the federal structure of the Constitution. “Look at the process that is adopted - you introduce a law for public comment within a week of lockdown [for COVID-19]. They [Centre] are saying it is not possible to translate the draft in all languages and they don’t have the means and capacity to do it... for a law that impacts every person in this country— this notification has to be rejected especially on this ground,” he said. Leo Saldanha, trustee, Environmental Support Group, said this is an opportunity to fix the drawbacks in the EIA. “If Modi and Javadekar truly care about the country, they will scrap the draft and constitute a committee,” he said. DMK MP, A. Raja also said the draft takes away the rights of citizens as enshrined in the Constitution to raise questions. G. Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal provided an overview of the draft and its implications on the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/draft-eia-will-destroy-environment-stalin/article32528040.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL against decision to cancel arrear exams||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to quash a Government Order issued on August 26 cancelling the arrear examinations for all college as well as polytechnic students, except those in the final semester, across the State. Advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi filed the case on the ground that the decision taken by the State government to cancel the arrear examinations in toto would lead to lowering the academic standards of individual universities and colleges. ‘Against UGC norms’ He also claimed that the decision taken by the State government was against University Grants Commission regulations and the guidelines issued by the Centre. He said the government had no right to interfere in the academic matters of individual universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-against-decision-to-cancel-arrear-exams/article32528072.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mixed response for commencement of physical hearing in HC||There has been a mixed response among lawyers for commencement of partial physical hearing of cases in the Madras High Court from Monday with one section wanting to argue their cases in open court and the other preferring to continue with virtual hearing. During the hearing of a case before Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha on Friday, a party-in-person, Rangarajan Narasimhan, insisted on physical hearing of his case since he wanted to present certain documents in a sealed cover which could not be done over virtual hearing. However, senior counsel Satish Parasaran, representing Sriranganathar Temple management, said he would prefer to contest the case through virtual hearing since his father was an aged person. The senior counsel did not want to take any risk by attending physical hearing of cases. After hearing both of them, the judges decided to list the case before the physical court in the forenoon session and also before the virtual court in the afternoon session on September 10 so that both sides could make their submissions at their convenience. Advocate Revathi Manivannan said virtual courts were actually hassle free. She pointed out that even cross examination and re-examination of a witness in a civil suit was conducted online by her senior A. Abdul Hameed on Friday without any technical glitches. Similarly, Justice N. Satish Kumar told a group of lawyers that he too found virtual hearing of cases very comfortable. Senior Counsel P.S. Raman concurred with the judge and said that virtual courts were actually very good. However, P.S. Amalraj, Chairman, Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, begged to differ with them. He claimed that 90% of the lawyers in the State were in favour of physical hearing of cases because only then they would be able to make their submissions effectively. “Frequent power cuts, absence of seamless Internet connectivity and several other issues make virtual hearing undesirable. Almost all bar associations in the State are in favour of commencing physical hearing of cases. Virtual hearing can be confined only to lawyers above 65 years of age.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-response-for-commencement-of-physical-hearing-in-hc/article32528073.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. refuses parole to Perarivalan||The Tamil Nadu government has rejected a plea by P. Arputhammal, mother of A.G. Perarivalan, one of the life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, seeking the release of her son on parole citing risks of being imprisoned during the Coronavirus pandemic. Perarivalan is presently lodged at the Puzhal Central Prison. K. Sivakumar, counsel for Perarivalan, said dozens of convicts had tested positive in the Puzhal unit, Thoothukudi district jail, the Madurai central prison and others in the recent weeks. Going by prison records, Perarivalan was a known case of systemic hypertension, chronic prostatitis, gout arthritis and irritable bowel syndrome. He was getting regular treatment for urological problems at the Government Stanley Medical College & Hospital. After February 21, the prisoner had not visited the hospital due to COVID-19. “Since he has multiple co-morbid conditions, the chances of his getting infected by COVID-19 are high. Moreover, he is the only son of the aged couple and has to take care of them in this pandemic situation. His parents are also worried that he might get infected, considering his health condition and frequent news of prisoners testing positive for coronavirus,” Mr. Sivakumar said. In a letter sent to Ms. Arputhammal, the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, S.K. Prabakar said the concerns expressed by the petitioner were unfounded since the Prison Department had already taken all the prescribed precautionary steps as directed by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the State Health Department. The condition of Perarivalan was being regularly monitored and treated by the prison doctors adhering to the guidelines stipulated under the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules, 1983, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-refuses-parole-to-perarivalan/article32528064.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State constitutes high-level committee to study NEP||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a seven-member high-level committee to study the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, of the Centre and make recommendations regarding the adoption of the policy, in line with the announcement made by the Chief Minister. Vice-Chancellors of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University K. Pitchumani; Alagappa University N. Rajendran; Madurai Kamaraj University M. Krishnan and Thiruvalluvar University S. Thamarai Selvi are among the members of the committee. Members Former Vice-Chancellors of the University of Madras S.P. Thyagarajan, who has served in national academic panels, and P. Duraisamy, are the other committee members. Recommendations The Higher Education Secretary would head the panel. “The committee is directed to go through the policy and make recommendations to the government that are feasible for adoption,” said the G.O. issued by Higher Education Secretary Apoorva. Major opposition parties led by the DMK had strongly criticised the NEP and had called upon the AIADMK government to reject it. Following this, the Chief Minister had said that a committee would be constituted to study the new education policy and make its recommendations to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-study-nep/article32528041.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fruit traders meet Deputy Chief Minister||Members of the Chennai Fruit Commission Agents Association met Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Friday, requesting him to announce the date of reopening of the fruits wing of the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex. “The Deputy Chief Minister has assured us that the fruit market will be opened a fortnight after September 28. He has promised to announce the date in a few days,” association president S. Srinivasan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fruit-traders-meet-deputy-chief-minister/article32528038.ece
05 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways to run 13 special trains||The Southern Railway will operate 13 special trains within Tamil Nadu from September 7. Ticket reservation will begin on Saturday. After getting approval from the Railway Board, the Southern Railway has announced the operation of the following special trains, to be run within Tamil Nadu, from September 7: the Chennai-Coimbatore-Chennai Superfast Intercity (02675/6); the Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore Janshatabdi (except Tuesdays) (02084/02083); the Chennai-Coimbatore-Chennai Superfast Express (02679/80); the Chennai-Coimbatore-Chennai Superfast Express (02673/4), the Chennai Egmore-Tiruchchirappalli-Chennai Egmore (via main line) (06795/6); the Chennai Egmore-Karaikkudi-Chennai Egmore Superfast (02605/6); the Chennai Egmore-Madurai-Chennai Egmore Superfast (02635/6); the Chennai Egmore-Madurai Chennai Egmore Superfast special (02637/8); the Chennai Egmore-Tuticorin-Chennai Egmore Superfast special (02693/02694); the Dr. MGR Chennai Central- Mettupalayam-Dr. MGR Chennai Central Superfast Daily (02671/2); the Tiruchchirappalli-Nagercoil-Tiruchchirappalli Superfast Daily (02627/28); the Chennai Egmore-Kanniyakumari-Chennai Egmore Daily Special (02633/4) from September 8 and the Chennai Egmore-Sengottai-Chennai Egmore Tri-Weekly special (06181/06182) from September 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-to-run-13-special-trains/article32528050.ece
05 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four special trains to be operated from Coimbatore Junction starting Sept. 7||Four special trains will be operated from the Coimbatore Railway Junction here from September 7 (Monday). According to the Southern Railway, three trains namely Train No. 02675/76 Superfast Intercity Special, Train No. 02679/80 Intercity Superfast Special and Train No. 02673/74 Superfast Express Special will be operated every day between Coimbatore Junction and Dr. M.G.R Chennai Central Junction. Train No. 02083/84 Janshatabdi Special will be operated between Coimbatore and Mayiladuthurai Junction on all days except Tuesdays. Reservation for these special trains will begin from 8 a.m. on September 5 (Saturday). Only those with confirmed tickets will be allowed to board the trains. Railway officials said the premises of the Coimbatore Junction were disinfected on Friday as part of COVID-19 precautionary measures, ahead of the opening of the reservation counters on Saturday. Though most of the reservations will be done online, officials anticipate that many passengers would visit the railway station to book tickets. “As the e-pass system has been removed now, many passengers might directly visit the railway station for booking their tickets," an official explained, adding that this was not the case when special train services were introduced in June when e-pass was mandatory. Adequate steps will be taken to prevent overcrowding at the counters, he said. The rakes for all the special trains are stationed at the coaching depot behind the Coimbatore Railway Station as of Friday, except for Train No. 02673, which will arrive from Chennai. While routine maintenance work was being carried out regularly, cleaning of these rakes will begin on Sunday, officials said. All passengers will have to arrive at the railway station at least 90 minutes before the departure time for the thermal screening process. Personnel from the Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police will monitor the passengers to ensure wearing of masks and maintenance of personal distancing. An automated thermal scanner, installed at the entrance of Coimbatore Railway Station, will be used for the screening. The no-contact thermal scanner also has an attached camera and will sound an alarm if the body temperature of any passenger is higher than normal, the officials said. Special train from Mettupalayam The Southern Railway, on Friday, announced another special train from Coimbatore district. Train No. 02671/72 Superfast Daily Special will start from Chennai on September 7 (Monday) and from Mettupalayam on September 8 (Tuesday). The train will leave Chennai at 9.05 p.m. on Monday and will arrive at Mettupalayam Junction at 6.15 a.m. Tuesday. In the return direction, the train will depart from Mettupalayam at 7.45 p.m. Tuesday and reach Chennai at 4.50 a.m. next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-special-trains-to-be-operated-from-coimbatore-junction-starting-sept-7/article32528089.ece
05 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to engage 1,500 persons to intensify door-to-door survey||Coimbatore Corporation was in the process of engaging 1,500 persons to intensify door-to-door survey across the 100 wards, Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said here on Friday. Though the Corporation had been carrying out the exercise for sometime now, it wanted to intensify and streamline the operation. As a part of streamlining the operation, it had decided to engage 1,500 persons so that it covered all the 100 wards. Mr. Pandian said he had delegated the powers to the five zonal assistant commissioners to engage on contract the required manpower and decide on the ground-level operation to ensure continuity in the exercise. “I did so to ensure that the door-to-door survey is done properly as the five assistant commissioners have been here for sometime and a part of the COVID-19 containment operation.” The assistant commissioners would earmark a few streets to each of the 1,500 workers. And, the workers, armed with infrared thermometer and pulse oximeter would cover every house in their assigned area. The Corporation had started the exercise in West Zone a few days ago and in East Zone on Friday. In another two or three days, it would be able to cover the other three zones. The Corporation would pay Rs. 500 a day to the surveyors. In addition to the thermometer and pulse oximeter, the surveyors would carry a form to enter the name, phone number, address and health condition of every person in every household they covered. And, if they noticed high temperature or low oxygen count, they would convey the information to the sanitary officer concerned. The objective behind intensifying the door-to-door survey was to ensure that no person with COVID-19, symptomatic or otherwise, was outside the Corporation’s radar. He also said the Corporation had formed ward-level teams led by assistant/junior engineers to ensure fool-proof contact tracing. This was in response to the suggestion Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani had made a few days ago in a review meeting, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-engage-1500-persons-to-intensify-door-to-door-survey/article32528086.ece
05 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CEO orders probe into complaints against two govt. schools||Chief Educational Officer (CEO) P. Usha said on Friday that an inquiry was under way into complaints against two government schools in Coimbatore district for allegedly demanding fees. The CEO had received complaints from parents earlier this week against two schools -- Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Thondamuthur and Government Higher Secondary School in Kaliannanpudur -- for allegedly demanding fees. Class XI admission Members of the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) of both the schools had allegedly demanded fees for Class XI admission in the name of ‘school development fund’, Ms. Usha said. “We have instructed the government schools not to demand fees from students. Parents may contribute Rs. 50 every year for the PTA funds, but even that is not compulsory,” she said. While the teachers in both the government schools have denied any involvement in demanding fees, the facts would be known only after the completion of the inquiry, she said. “If the involvement of any headmasters or teachers is proved, action will be initiated against them,” the CEO warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ceo-orders-probe-into-complaints-against-two-govt-schools/article32528090.ece
05 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||PF webinar||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation will conduct “PF Near You” (Nidhi Aapke Nikat) on September 10 through webinar. According to a press release, the programme to redress grievances of PF members, trade unions, and employers will be held in two sessions - for subscribers and trade unions from 11 a.m. to noon and for employers from noon to 1 p.m. Those who want to take part should share details of the grievance with Provident Fund account number, UAN, Name of the establishment, mobile phone number and email ID to the Public Relations Officer on or before September 8. The link for the webinar will be shared through email.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pf-webinar/article32528108.ece
05 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile units in State see demand moving up||Textile units across the value chain in Tamil Nadu - spinning to garment making - are seeing gradual improvement in orders and capacity utilisation. According to Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of Indian Texpreneurs Federation, the average capacity utilisation across the value chain is 70 %. Orders are up for both, domestic and international markets. In some segments such as yarn and home texiles, export orders are higher. Apparel makers are currently executing the November season orders. In the domestic market, the retailers are yet to see a surge in demand, he said. The job working powerloom units at Somanur say that 80 % of the looms are operating. “We get orders to run the looms for six days a week. Though our demand for increase in wages by the master weavers is pending, we cannot take it up now. We continue to execute the orders we get at the existing rates,” said Bhoopathi, a job working powerloom weaver. On the apparel front, almost all the manufacturers in Tiruppur, who cater to the domestic market, have orders for at least one shift. Workers are also available from the nearby district, say industry sources. Manufacturers across the value chain do not want to build stocks. They are also not going in for credit sales much. When the migrant workers return in full strength, the capacity utilisation is expected to go up. But, it remains to be seen how demand will increase after October-November, say the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-units-in-state-see-demand-moving-up/article32528101.ece
05 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Spotted deer hit by car, driver fined||A car ran over a spotted deer near Mettupalayam on Friday, causing its death on the spot. Forest officials said that Antony Cruz, 40, from Udhagamandalam was driving on the Kotagiri-Mettupalayam Road on Thursday night when he hit the female deer aged about one-and-a-half years and continued the journey. Inquiry Officials stopped the car at Odanthurai checkpost and Mettupalayam Forest Range Officer S. Selvaraj conducted an inquiry. Following this, the driver was levied a fine of Rs. 5,000 under the Wildlife Protection Act, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spotted-deer-hit-by-car-driver-fined/article32528097.ece
05 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Air connectivity sought for Coimbatore under Vande Bharath Mission||Industries in the seven western districts of the State have sought air connectivity under Vande Bharath Mission to Coimbatore during September. In a memorandum to Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, president of Kongu Global Forum and its vice-president A. Sakthivel and Vanitha Mohan said the Coimbatore International Airport had flights landing here during the last three months under the Mission. However, Coimbatore was not included in the September schedule and also under the hub and spoke connectivity project. Air India Express connected several cities with Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah this month in the Vande Bharath Mission. According to information available, Abu Dhabi was connected to 16 Indian cities, Dubai to 18 cities, and Sharjah with 10 cities. Coimbatore International Airport had adequate infrastructure to handle these flights and it was included as one of the cities in the previous three months, they said. “It is disheartening to note that except Coimbatore and Visakhapatnam all the International airports in South India are included in this programme,” according to the memorandum. In spite of having an international airport in Coimbatore, it was extremely difficult for passengers to reach western Tamil Nadu, especially during the spread of the pandemic. The Forum appealed to the Minister to look into the issue and include Coimbatore under Vande Bharath Mission for this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-connectivity-sought-for-coimbatore-under-vande-bharath-mission/article32528102.ece
05 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held, PDS rice seized||The Coimbatore district police on Friday arrested a man who allegedly smuggled 2,145 kg of rice meant for distribution under the public distribution system (PDS) in Sirumugai. The police said D. Thangaraj (34) was a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus driver in Annur. Following a tip off on Friday, the District Special Branch of Sirumugai police station checked his truck and found the bags of rice. Preliminary investigations revealed that Thangaraj procured the PDS rice in Sirumugai and its surrounding areas and was attempting to sell it in Tiruppur and Erode districts. The accused and the seized rice were handed over to the officials of Civil Supplies CID, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-pds-rice-seized/article32528098.ece
05 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Suicide prevention helpline||N.G. Chandran Charities, a non-governmental organisation, said that its suicide prevention helpline launched on January 7 will be available from 9.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. every day. Those requiring assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts can contact ‘Prana Lifeline’ at 1800-121-203040.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suicide-prevention-helpline/article32528093.ece
05 September 2020||CUMBUM,TAMIL NADU||Administration blamed for poor handling of pandemic||DMK leader and district coordinator Ramakrishnan has blamed the district administration for ' poor' handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a press statement issued here on Friday, he said that though the Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam was from here, the administration had failed to contain the pandemic. The district, which has neither a railway station nor airport, should have easily contained the pandemic as the State Transport Corporation buses had been off the road since March end. Under such circumstances, over 12,000 people getting infected with the virus showed only the poor handling of the administration, he charged. Wrong decision Mr. Ramakrishnan further said that the government need not have released 2,000 cusecs of water from the Mulla Periyar reservoir. Instead, they could have released 300 cusecs. With huge water release now, sowing of the second crop may be a Herculean task and hoped the administration rectified it swiftly. On the plight of the 20,000 cardamom workers in the district, he said that the Central government should immediately direct the Spices Board to procure cardamom at Rs. 3,000 per kilogram which would be a big relief. The Kerala govt. has not issued e-pass to people here, while the Theni administration has issued e-pass for people from Kerala, he said and demanded a level playing field for the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/administration-blamed-for-poor-handling-of-pandemic/article32528358.ece
05 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||NGOs collect two lakh signatures for COVID-19 direct cash assistance||A campaign urging the Central government to provide direct monthly assistance of Rs. 6,000 to families affected by COVID-19 lockdown received two lakh signatures here on Friday. Organised by three non-governmental organisations (NGOs), the campaign began on August 14 across the country. R. Karuppasamy, Convener of Campaign Against Child Labour, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, said that a survey in April revealed that 12.2 crore workers had lost their jobs and were pushed to poverty during the lockdown. The situation was leading to human trafficking, bonded labour, child labour and child marriages and hence a monthly financial assistance to those affected by the lockdown would ensure them food. Mr. Karuppasamy said that two lakh signatures were collected from the public in the last three weeks and the signatures along with a memorandum would be sent to the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi. Vizhuthugal director M. Thangavel, Centre for Action and Rural Education co-ordinator Jaya and Project Manager of Rights Education and Development Centre Maheswaran said the response from the public was encouraging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-collect-two-lakh-signatures-for-covid-19-direct-cash-assistance/article32528095.ece
05 September 2020||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Air disinfectant unit developed in university||A team of trainers and students of Alagappa University, Karaikudi, have designed and developed a cost effective UV based air disinfectant unit for air conditioner systems, that controls the spread of bacteria and virus, including COVID-19, in an air-conditioned environment. Vice-Chancellor of the Alagappa University, N. Rajendran said that as per the WHO and several other research studies, aerosols at close proximity was one of the major spreading modes of COVID-19 virus. Therefore, the Centre and the State governments had suggested several preventive measures to control the spread of infections, that included using hand sanitisers, face masks and avoiding air conditioners in places like offices, shops and malls, he said. However in the longer run, the usage of air conditioners cannot be avoided and in order to reduce the risk, the newly fabricated unit can be used. The air disinfectant device can be installed in air conditioners without affecting its normal functioning, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-disinfectant-unit-developed/article32528332.ece
05 September 2020||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Allow entry of tourists into Kodaikanal: tourist operators||Appealing to the Tamil Nadu government to immediately withdraw the e-pass system, that is still applicable in hill stations, and accord permission for entry of tourists into Kodaikanal, members of the Kodaikanal Hotels’ and Resorts’ Owners’ Association assured the government that they would fully cooperate with the State machinery to contain the spread of COVID-19. After submitting a memorandum to the District Collector in Dindigul, they urged the government to understand their plight and give them relief so that hundreds of workers and entrepreneurs can earn again. Speaking to reporters, association secretary S. Abdul Gani Raja said on Friday that unlike other hill stations, Kodaikanal relied only on tourism. There are as many as 15 tourist spots in Kodaikanal. At every spot, volunteers will be deployed to ensure adherence among the tourists to physical distancing norms. For instance, only 25 vehicles will be permitted at each spot at any given time. Only after the vehicles move out, will others be given entry, Mr. Raja said. There are close to 5,000 workers in the hill station, relying on hotels, restaurants, resorts and travel agencies to earn a living. Some 315 hotels/resorts have already been shut and sealed as per the directive of the Madras High Court, Madurai Bench, for building violations, among others, he said, and added that a one-time regularisation by the government may help the industry survive. To another query, he said that assuming the government gave its nod to remove the e-pass system in Kodaikanal and permitted tourists here over the next few days, the industry would still take at least five years to recover the losses due to the total shutdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-entry-of-tourists-into-kodaikanal-tourist-operators/article32528049.ece
05 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from dam||As rains continued to lash the district sporadically, Kelavarapalli dam water was let out in view of increased inflow. The dam received 844 cusecs of water, following which 728 cusecs was released. The district received an average rainfall of 2.77 mm with Denkanikotti receiving maximum rainfall of 28.5 mm. The inflow into KRP dam was 443 cusecs and the outflow was 92 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-dam/article32528107.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Thayir’ market reopens for business after five months||The vegetable market on East Marret Street, known as ‘Thayir market,’ reopened on Friday. M. Devadas, president, East Marret Market Vegetable Vendors Association, said shopkeepers had repeatedly petitioned the district administration in the past few days urging for permission to reopen the market. While there are around 130 shops in the market, alternate shops are only allowed to function in the market every day. “This measure is taken to ensure that there is adequate space between two shops and to avoid crowding,” he added. All customers and shopkeepers have to wear face masks inside the market. Hand washing facility has been provided in front of the market and all customers have to undergo thermal screening before entering the market. “There is only one entrance for the customers,” Mr. Devadas added. Apart from Thayir market, vegetable shops, which were earlier functioning at Ammal Thidal, have returned to the Central vegetable market at Mattuthavani. But, shops that were earlier functioning in fish market in Karimedu, are now functioning at the lorry shed behind the Central Vegetable Market, said an official from the revenue wing of Madurai Corporation. S. Saravanan, a vegetable vendor at the market, said that the shopkeepers were relieved after the reopening of the market. “When the market was closed during the lockdown period, the vendors were asked to set up makeshift shops at school and college grounds. But, many shopkeepers were unable to set up makeshift shops. Hence, reopening of the market will help them earn income after many months,” he said. A Corporation official said that the public must strictly follow safety precautions in the market, as it was usually congested. In addition, rains can make the market slushy and filthy, said Mr. Saravanan. “This problem has plagued the market for decades. But, the Corporation officials have told us that they would regularly clean and disinfect the market, in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thayir-market-reopens-for-business-after-five-months/article32528350.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Invasive aquatic species engulfs Kodaikanal lake||Environmentalists have raised concerns over the rapid spread of an invasive aquatic species across Kodaikanal lake during the lockdown period. According to G. Bala, Secretary of Palni Hills Conservation Council - a group of ecologists and environmentalists, the invasive species is Salvinia molesta, which is commonly known as giant salvinia. “Although this alien species has been present in the lake for the past two years, the spread has significantly increased during the lockdown period,” he says. Mr. Bala adds that the vast spread of this alien aquatic species might affect the ecosystem of the lake. Kodaikanal lake, which has a circumference of 4.8 km, is one of the major tourist attractions, says S. Abdul Ghani Raja, Secretary of Kodaikanal Hotels and Resorts Owners Association. “It is considered to be the heart of Kodaikanal,” he adds. With tourism being the main source of livelihood in Kodaikanal, hundreds of service providers including cab drivers, horse riders, tour guides and petty shop owners are highly dependent on the lake for their business, he adds. “Hence, maintenance of the lake is highly important,” he notes. The growth of aquatic weeds indicates the inflow of sewage into the lake, says V.S. Veerapathiran of Eco Friendly Environment Conservation Trust. “Over the years, hydrilla, algae and other weeds have proliferated across the lake. Currently, the government focuses on developing the lakefront into a well-lit and aesthetic tourist spot. But, the focus must rather be on improving the quality of water, by reducing pollution in the lake,” he adds. Kodaikanal Municipal Commissioner D. Narayanan says that the civic body has been clearing the weed from the lake for the past few days. He attributes the widespread growth of the aquatic weed to non-functioning of boats during the lockdown period. “Usually, boat riders pull out the weed from the water while they travel across the lake,” he says. The civic body will continue to periodically remove invasive species from the lake, he adds. But, it is also important to conduct a study to understand how this alien species entered the lake, says Mr. Bala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invasive-aquatic-species-engulfs-kodaikanal-lake/article32528335.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai sees 123 positive cases and four deaths||A total of 123 new COVID-19 cases were recorded on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 14,575. A total of 52 persons got discharged on Friday after complete recovery and now there are 877 active cases. Four deaths were recorded on Friday, taking the district’s toll to 364. While three deaths were recorded in Government Rajaji Hospital, one death was in a private hospital. Virudhunagar district on Friday registered three more COVID-19 deaths taking the death toll to 196. Two men, aged 56 years and 65 years, and a woman, aged 59 years, died on Wednesday and Thursday. Meanwhile, the district registered 93 fresh positive cases that took the total positive cases in the district go past 13,000 and it stood at 13,063. However, with 222 patients having got discharged on Friday, the total number of patients who have got discharged has touched 12,500. With this, the number of active cases has come down to 367. Theni has reported 84 fresh cases and the total tally has moved to 12,994. There were 201 discharges from the hospitals and so far 11,840 people have been discharged till date in the district. In Dindigul 93 fresh cases were reported and the total number of positive cases moved to 7,032. There were 151 discharges from hospitals on a single day. So far, 6,008 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the district. Ramanathapuram saw 22 new cases and the tally of positive cases stood at 4,911. Seventy patients were discharged and the total number of people who were successful treated stood at 4,415. Sivaganga reported 46 new cases with which the tally moved to 4,191. There were 61 discharges from the hospital on a single day and the total discharged persons stood at 3,879, according to the State medical bulletin. Southern districts While the COVID-19 tally of Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts crossed the 10,000-mark on Friday, number of fresh cases in neighbouring Thoothukudi has started coming down. With the addition of 114 new COVID-19 cases, the Tirunelveli district’s tally touched 10,067 and 1,226 active cases were undergoing treatment in the hospitals even as 169 patients were discharged from hospitals. After two more patients died of COVID-19, the district’s fatality touched 182. Kanniyakumari recorded 107 more cases on Friday that took its tally to 10,022 and the number of active cases to 809 while 25 patients were discharged. After losing one more patient to the viral infection, the district has so far witnessed 188 deaths. Former MLA of Radhapuram M. Appavu, who is asymptomatic, has been admitted to the Kanniyakumari Government Medical College Hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. “I am quite satisfied with the quality of treatment being given here by the doctors and the nurses,” Mr. Appavu said. In Thoothukudi, 45 new cases were reported on Friday that took the district’s tally to 11,633 and the number of active cases to 757 after 79 patients were discharged. Since the district lost one more patient to the viral infection, the number of fatality moved up to 115. With the addition of 61 more patients, Tenkasi’s tally rose to 5,606 on Friday and the number of active cases moved up to 660 even as 140 patients were discharged from the hospitals. Since the district lost one more patient, the district fatality too increased to 107.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-sees-123-positive-cases-and-four-deaths/article32528354.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Elevated highway work: traffic diversion in Madurai||In view of construction work of elevated highway on Ambedkar Road, Madurai City Traffic Police have effected traffic changes and made the stretch of road between Kakkan statue junction and Periyar statue one way from Saturday. Only vehicles coming from Melur Road would be allowed to take the road to proceed to Tallakulam. Vehicles coming from Gokhale Road, New Natham Road and Alagarkoil should take the Race Course Road from Alagarkoil Road-Race Course Road junction and then take a right turn near Youth Hostel to reach Kakkan Statue junction for proceeding towards Mattuthavani, instead of Ambedkar Road. However, vehicles from New Natham Road and Alagarkoil Road that are proceeding towards Goripalayam would be allowed as usual through Periyar statue junction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elevated-highway-work-traffic-diversion-in-madurai/article32528347.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth with ‘pistol’ creates a flutter at Madurai airport||A youth wearing a holster sent the security personnel at Madurai Airport into a tizzy on Friday. However, enquiry by Perungudi police revealed that the youth was mentally disturbed and he was sent home after a stern warning. According to police, the Central Industrial Security Force personnel, who were on guard duty near the toll plaza outside the airport, found the youth with the holster at around 9.15 a.m. He was immediately intercepted. The youth claimed that he had been sent by the Prime Minister’s Office for security purpose at Madurai Airport. He was also carrying a water gun which he had bought through an online portal. The youth was handed over to the Perungudi police. Enquiries by the police revealed that the Commerce graduate from Tirumangalam was mentally disturbed. His parents were summoned and after cautioning them to take care of the youth, the police let him off. According to the police, no case was registered in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-with-pistol-creates-a-flutter-at-madurai-airport/article32528351.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail for Russ Foundation Director||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday granted bail to Russ Foundation Director M. Berlin Jose. He and his employee, John Prabhakar, had been remanded in judicial custody in connection with a case of sexual assault on a 10-year-old girl, an inmate of a home run by the foundation. Justice G.R. Swaminathan granted bail to Berlin Jose with a condition that he shall surrender his passport and not contact the family of the girl. Taking cognisance of the fact that a chargesheet will be filed by the police in the case, the court observed that a continued incarceration of the petitioner was not required. Earlier, the High Court had set aside the detention order of Berlin Jose and John Prabhakar under the Goondas Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-for-russ-foundation-director/article32528348.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider Madurai advocates for elevation||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Bar Association’s General Secretary N. Ilango has written to the Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi with a request to consider an adequate representation for advocates practising in the High Court’s Madurai Bench for elevation as judges to the Madras High Court. Pointing out that there were many advocates eligible for elevation, the General Secretary said that it was more than 16 years since the inception of the Madurai Bench and in the last 16 years only six advocates had been elevated from Madurai. Therefore, Mr. Ilango requested the Chief Justice to consider an adequate representation of advocates from Madurai Bench for elevation as judges to the Madras High Cour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-madurai-advocates-for-elevation/article32528336.ece
05 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Free laddu distribution resumes at temple||Free laddu distribution at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple resumed on Friday An official from the temple said that the laddu distribution has resumed after a five-month gap. “It is being ensured that personal distancing norms are followed when devotees stand in a queue to collect the laddus after the darshan,” said the official. He said that devotees use the eastern entrance for free darshan and devotees, who buy special tickets, are allowed through the southern entrance. Around 4,000 devotees visited the temple on Friday. “The number is expected to increase in the coming days,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-laddu-distribution-resumes-at-temple/article32528352.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC rejects plea by 8 judicial officers||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea by eight judicial officers to be considered for appointment as judges of the Madras High Court. In a judgment authored by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde for a three-judge Bench, the apex court said the eight judicial officers, who were directly appointed as District Judges in 2011, wanted to club their experience as lawyers as well as their years on the Bench to be found eligible for elevation to the High Court. “The petitioners want the best of both worlds,” the Chief Justice Bobde wrote. The court said the petition was “wholly misconceived”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-rejects-plea-by-8-judicial-officers/article32528074.ece
05 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One in 20 persons exposed to COVID-19 in Puducherry: study||A COVID-19 seroprevalence study undertaken by Jipmer has found that one in every 20 persons in Puducherry showed evidence of the SARS-CoV-2 infection at the end of July. This is the first serosurvey finding released by Jipmer on Thursday that sheds light on the prevalence of COVID-19 at the community level. Of the 869 persons tested, 43 had antibodies against the novel coronavirus (4.9%). The positivity rate for antibodies was higher in city (urban) populations than in rural populations (5.7% against 3.1%). It was higher among women than in men (6.3% in comparison to 3.6%). The seroprevalence findings showed that the actual prevalence of COVID-19 in the community was about 26 times higher than that detected by Real Time PCR in Puducherry till July. The results of this study reflect the exposure of people residing in Puducherry to the pathogen as on July 24. The total number of confirmed cases in the district by that date was 2,271, with a cumulative incidence of 0.19% for the population of Union Territory. The proportion of persons with presence of antibodies in blood was nearly 26-fold (4.9/0.19) larger than that of the cases diagnosed by Real Time PCR tests as on July 24. “Jipmer already had testing facilities available and we used a test with high levels of sensitivity and specificity that virtually eliminated errors in diagnostic results,” said Rajesh N.G., additional professor and Jipmer spokesman. “Although the density of COVID-19 cases since has increased from cases detected through RT-PCR, we can only hypothesise that the seroprevalence will be higher until we have the data to back it up,” Dr. Rajesh said. The presence of antibodies was studied using an immunoassay with reported sensitivity of 99.5% and specificity of 99.8% at more than 14 days after exposure to the virus. Experts from the Departments of Preventive and Social Medicine and Microbiology were involved in the selection of patients and collection of blood samples, conduct of the tests and analysis of the results. The blood samples were collected from randomly selected adults aged 18 and above from 30 clusters with a ratio of 21 from urban and 9 from rural areas to reflect the population distribution of the Union Territory. The samples were collected between August 11 and 16. Jipmer proposes to undertake a repeat survey in the second/third week of September to assess the extent of exposure by the last week of August (accounting for the 14-day period for the emergence of immunoglobulin IgG antibodies) and further serial surveys at an appropriate time as the pandemic continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-in-20-persons-exposed-to-covid-19-in-puducherry-study/article32528068.ece
05 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘ICMR made no negative projections about U.T.’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Friday clarified that the Indian Council of Medical Research had not informed the Puducherry government about any scientific findings by them which suggest that 95% of people in the Union Territory are susceptible to the SARS-CoV-2 infection. “In my recent meetings with ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology team in the presence of senior officials, they did not mention about any study which showed 95% of the population in the U.T. is susceptible to the the virus. When I enquired with the team members on Thursday, they informed me that the ICMR has not put out any such projections,” the Chief Minister told The Hindu . The Lt. Governor’s Secretariat had published the minutes of a meeting the ICMR-NIE team had with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, in which it was stated that 95% of the people in the U.T. are susceptible to the virus. “Though a serosurvey hasn’t been carried out, based on the data available, it is likely that 95% of the people of Puducherry are susceptible to the virus,” the minutes quoting the team said. “It is alarming data. And any such assessment/findings should have been communicated to the government for taking corrective steps. We came to know about it through newspaper reports. We have not been informed. The government wants everyone to act in a more responsible manner and every effort should be taken not to create panic,” he said. In fact, a serosurvey by Jipmer had given a different picture on the vulnerability rate. The government was taking every possible step to contain the spread of virus, he said. Fiat to hospitals The Chief Minister said in his meeting with representatives of private medical colleges on Thursday that the government had directed all the institutes to conduct 100 tests each per day. The government had asked them to provide 100 beds each with oxygen supply and 200 ordinary beds each to treat COVID-19 patients. “We have directed them to make the beds ready by September 10,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icmr-made-no-negative-projections-about-ut/article32528065.ece
05 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||20 deaths, 591 new admissions in U.T.||Puducherry recorded the highest COVID-19 toll on a single day with 20 deaths on Friday. The toll now stands at 280 while 591 new admissions took the overall figure to 16,172. As many as 395 persons were discharged in the last 24 hours. Among the 20 who died in the last 24 hours, 17 were in Puducherry, two in Yanam and one in Karaikal. The patients, including eight women, were in the 46-81 age group and six persons had no co-morbidities. The case fatality rate has increased to 1.73%. There are 5,218 active cases, and while 10,674 patients have been discharged. Of the new admissions, 525 cases were reported in Puducherry, 18 in Karaikal, 44 in Yanam and four in Mahe. While 1,802 are in hospital, 3,417 are in home quarantine. The distribution of cases in institutions is 1,528 in Puducherry, 89 in Karaikal, 159 in Yanam and 25 in Mahe. Another 3,145 patients are under home isolation in Puducherry, 141 in Karaikal and 151 in Yanam. District Collector T. Arun has issued orders under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, attaching four ambulances from various departments to transport patients. With 300 beds from each of the private medical colleges dedicated to the treatment of COVID-19 patients, the existing number of ambulances was proving to be inadequate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-deaths-591-new-admissions-in-ut/article32528066.ece
05 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Assistant professors stage protest in Puducherry||Assistant professors belonging to seven government colleges on Friday staged a protest against the delay in promotion as per the Career Advancement Scheme recommended by pay commissions. They staged the protests in front of the Kanchi Mamunivar Institute for Postgraduate Studies and Research at Lawspet. The Puducherry Government College Teachers Association, in a release, said promotion system recommended by the Sixth and Seventh Pay Review Committee had not been implemented. “We are in the same initial scale of pay without promotion,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistant-professors-stage-protest-in-puducherry/article32528069.ece
05 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||SP comes to girl’s aid||An 18-year-old girl, who found it difficult to continue with her higher education as she also had to take care of her widowed and mentally ill mother, would soon be able to continue with her studies thanks to efforts made by the Pudukottai district police authorities. Upon coming to know about the plight of Sathya on the social media platform, Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan on Friday went to Vadakku Boram village where the girl was staying in a small tenement with her mother. He handed over cash and grocery items, vegetables and fruits. After interacting with the girl, Mr. Saravanan came to know about her wish to pursue higher education and her ambition of becoming a government officer. Mr. Balaji Saravanan assured the girl of all assistance in getting her admitted to a college in Pudukottai district. Mr. Saravanan said one of his friends in Chennai who runs a coaching institute had come forward to bear the expenses for the girl’s higher education and train her for competitive exams. Mr. Saravanan also assured the girl to arrange for medical assistance for her mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-comes-to-girls-aid/article32528403.ece
05 September 2020||R. KrishnamoorthyTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Restoration of public transport to revive construction sector||Construction sector in Tiruchi region has started looking up after movement of labourers has been facilitated following easing of lockdown norms. The intra-district operation of buses since the start of this month did help in movement of labourers from villages to the city and suburbs to a considerable extent. However, a much large-scale movement of construction labourers will be witnessed from September 7 when passenger trains will start running, said Subramani, a building contractor.  The labourer belt Hundreds of construction workers usually come to Tiruchi from Manapparai-Vaiyampatti belt in trains, availing themselves the utility of season tickets. Commuting by buses by paying much higher fares is not viable for them, especially women, according to Mr. Subramani. That is the reason women who are employed as ‘sithaal’ (helpers) continue to remain at home in the absence of public transport while men set out for work either by bus or by two-wheelers. Though hit by rise in cost of inputs, promoters of building projects are able to heave a sigh of relief as the pending works could be completed. In the absence of women workers, the labour cost for manpower had shot up for the builders. Also, the workers used to start for home an hour earlier, citing the limited bus services. More working hours The normal practice is to start work at around 9.30 a.m. and go on until 6 p.m., with one hour of lunch break. But, during the lockdown period, they used to wind up work at 5 p.m. The builders see better scope for higher productivity after restoration of public transport. “Now that bus and rail transport are to be restored, the workers can resume their usual duration of work,” I. Shahjahan, president of the Tiruchi unit of CREDAI (Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India), said. Construction activity is regaining momentum, he said, adding that, all the same, it was important to enforce the Standard Operating Procedure for safety at workplace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restoration-of-public-transport-to-revive-construction-sector/article32528391.ece
05 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Numerous restrictions in place for Immanuel Sekaran anniversary||Only after obtaining valid passes from the district administration can representatives of political outfits and others be permitted to pay tribute during Tyagi Immanuel Sekaran’s death anniversary scheduled on September 11 in Paramakudi, said District Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao on Friday. Every year, thousands of people pay their respects at the memorial, and the police generally announce a number of bandobust measures and deploy hundreds of personnel in many of the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. However, with the curfew (under Section 144 Cr Pc) in force due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the officials, after holding a review meeting, announced a number of restrictions that have to be adhered to by followers planning to pay their respects. The Collector, who briefed media persons, said that there would be no procession, no rallies and no public meetings on the day. Political parties willing to make a visit to the memorial should apply for a pass. A maximum of five people alone would be given permission. Similarly, visitors from other districts shall stick to the routes earmarked by the police. Vehicles used should be owned by visitors using them, and not hired. No flags of any community or posters or mikes would be allowed. Similarly, keeping the roof of the vehicles open shall also not be permitted. Political parties intending to visit the memorial on the anniversary date should apply for permission/passes before September 7, Mr. Rao said and added that they shall also file an undertaking to obey the rules as in force by the police. Superintendent of Police Varun Kumar, (now transferred) said that vehicle owners shall submit basic documents and give an undertaking to stick to all norms, now in force due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Collector said that specific timings would be given to party representatives to pay their respects and that should be strictly adhered to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/numerous-restrictions-in-place-for-immanuel-sekaran-anniversary/article32528356.ece
05 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Murder of youth: BJP demands swift action||The murder of Arun prakash (22) by an armed gang on August 31, here, is a challenge posed to the Ramanathapuram district police and they must swiftly act to apprehend those who committed the heinous crime, said BJP national secretary H Raja here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that after the police had announced three special teams, they had not arrested even a single accused in this regard. All the suspects had surrendered in different courts in the last two days. He suspected the very formation of the special teams. When there were several check posts, the accused were able to travel and had surrendered before courts in other districts, he said. Citing a few other cases in the district and in other parts of TN over the last few years, Mr. Raja said that before the Hindus lose faith, the police, on their own, should swiftly solve the cases or else hand them over to the National Investigation Agency. The BJP leader also accused Ramanathapuram Lok Sabha MP Nawaz Kani and MLA Jawahirullah for their speeches, which not only triggered hatred, but also created apprehension. “As elected representatives, they should protect the laws”, he said. He questioned the need for posting police personnel in front of the houses of suspects, who figured in the murder of Arun Prakash. He claimed that Arun Prakash was active in the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations and all the suspects who had surrendered were accomplices of the prime accused in the SSI Wilson murder case reported in Kanniyakumari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-of-youth-bjp-demands-swift-action/article32528344.ece
05 September 2020||S. GanesanTiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite construction of new bridge across the Kudamuritti’||While residents of the city suburbs along Tiruchi-Karur highway are happy over the on-going work to widen the 11-km stretch between Tiruchi and Thindukarai, they are also eagerly hoping for the construction of a new bridge across Kudamuritti river, the starting point of the highway, at the earliest. The existing bridge across the river, close to its confluence point with the Cauvery in the city, had grown weak over the years. Said to have been built under the British regime in 1924, the narrow bridge is unable to cater to the growing traffic. The Highways Department has also placed a signboard prominently asking motorists to ‘go slow as the bridge is in disrepair.’ The department had, a couple years ago, planned to build a new bridge across the river and included it in the proposal for widening and strengthening the Tiruchi-Thindukarai stretch of the highway at an estimated cost of Rs. 73 crore - Rs. 58 crore for widening work and Rs. 15 crore for building the new bridge across the Kudamuritti. However, the new bridge proposal was de-linked from the project and the department said it would be taken up as a separate project. Earlier this year, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced in the Assembly, in the Highways Department grants, that a new bridge will be built across the river. G.O. for DPC Highways department sources said a government order has since been issued for preparation of a detailed project report. However, sources indicated that the project could take some time to reach the execution stage as a team of experts would have to make a technical study and prepare the report. The department would have to decide on whether to build a new bridge at the same spot by demolishing the existing one or go for a couple of two-lane bridges on either side. The project, the sources indicated, may involve some land acquisition, which could prove to be a lengthy process. However, residents hope that a new bridge would be sanctioned and built soon so to ease the traffic bottleneck at the entrance of the city. “Ideally, the project should have been executed along with the widening of Tiruchi-Thindukarai stretch. Once the road stretch is widened, the bridge will have to cater to more traffic,” observed P. Ayyarappan, a road safety activist of Allur. He urged the district authorities and the Highways department to expedite the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-construction-of-new-bridge-across-the-kudamuritti/article32528400.ece
05 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Five of family killed in fire accident in Salem||Five members of a family, including two children, died in a fire accident near Kurunguchavadi on Friday. Police are investigating the incident. According to the police, the deceased were identified as A.Pushpa, 40, her brother-in-law Karthik, 38, his wife Maheshwari, 34, and the couple’s children Saravesh, 12, and Mukesh, 9. Sources said Karthik and Anbazhagan were siblings and were reportedly into the saw mill business. They were living along with their families in the same house at Narasothipatti. After a fire broke out in the house during the early hours of Friday, neighbours alerted the Fire and Rescue services personnel. A 13-member team from the Sooramangalam and Shevapet fire stations, led by Assistant Fire Officer P. Shivakumar rushed to the spot. According to officials, nearly 10 persons were residing in the house, and five persons were killed in the fire. After preliminary investigation, fire and rescue services personnel said that a short circuit could have caused the fire. Three persons escape Among those who survived, two were rescued by the fire services personnel and three managed to run out of the house. The Salem city police have registered a case. Collector S.A.Raman, City police commissioner T. Senthil Kumar and other senior officials visited the spot. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the death of five persons in the fire accident. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said he had instructed the Salem Collector to ensure speedy rescue and relief operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-of-family-killed-in-fire-accident-in-salem/article32528043.ece
05 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Five, including two children, die in fire||Five members of a family, including two children, died in a fire that broke out in a home near Kurunguchavadi early on Friday. Police are investigating. According to the police, the deceased were identified as A. Pushpa, 40, her brother-in-law Karthik, 38, his wife Maheshwari, 34, and the couple’s children Saravesh, 12, and Mukesh, 9. The police said that Karthik and Anbazhagan were siblings and they were reportedly into the saw mill business. The two were living along with their families in the same residence at Narasothipatti, near Kurunguchavadi. It is said that nearly 10 persons were residing in the house. Neighbours alerted the Fire and Rescue personnel when the fire broke out. A 13-member team from Sooramangalam and Shevapet fire stations led by Assistant Fire Officer P. Shivakumar rushed to the spot. According to officials, five of the 10 persons died in the fire. Two persons were rescued by Fire and Rescue personnel and three managed to run out of the house. Based on preliminary investigation, fire personnel said that a short circuit could have caused the fire. Salem City Police have registered a case. District Collector S.A. Raman, City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar and other senior officials visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-including-two-children-killed-in-fire-at-a-house-in-salem/article32528100.ece
05 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK legislator alleges anomaly in COVID-19 data||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislator R. Rajendran has alleged anomaly in COVID-19 containment and treatment measures in Salem district and requested authorities to take necessary measures to check these immediately. Mr. Rajendran told presspersons that several recommendations made by Opposition leader and DMK president M.K. Stalin to check the spread of COVID-19 in the State had fallen on deaf ears. “It takes up to five days to announce the results of COVID-19 tests in the district and details regarding deaths due to the disease and positive cases are concealed,” he alleged. Poor quality food Patients were being served poor quality food and beds were insufficient, he said, and demanded remedial measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-legislator-alleges-anomaly-in-covid-19-data/article32528083.ece
05 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors dump vegetables on road||Street vendors on Friday protested in front of the Collectorate here by dumping vegetables demanding authorities take necessary measures to allot them space to conduct trade here. The members of the Salem rural and urban roadside vegetable vendors and self-employed traders association dumped the vegetables on road and charged that the contractor, who took the contract for market spaces near Anandha bridge from Salem Corporation is demanding huge sum for leasing out shop spaces to them. The protesters alleged that the contractor has been demanding a huge sum, beyond the amount permitted by the corporation for leasing shop spaces and has been allegedly threatening them for protesting against it. They demanded that the authorities take necessary action in this regard and allot them shop spaces to conduct business here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendors-dump-vegetables-on-road/article32528113.ece
05 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Rehabilitation programme for girls rescued from child marriage||The State government is implementing a rehabilitation programme for girls rescued from child marriage as a pilot project in Thanjavur district. So far, the girls rescued from child marriages were lodged in the government homes or accommodated in facilities run by non-governmental organisations where they can reside until they attain the age of maturity or their family situation becomes normal so that they are not forced into child marriage again. Their duration of stay at such facilities will be normally short before they are allowed to rejoin their families, official sources said. The State government is contemplating to extend them an opportunity to learn income-earning skills either during their stay at the home or after re-joining their families. As a pilot project, the State government has directed the District Social Welfare Department to organise a skill training programme for the girls who were rescued from child marriage. “The government has allocated Rs. 1,000 a month per child for conducting short-term skill training programme which is being conducted as a pilot programme,” said District Social Welfare Officer K. Rajeswari. The District Social Welfare Department department has entered into an agreement with the Thanjai Janaseva Bhavan, an NGO, for providing a three-month tailoring training course. At the end of the course, a certificate will be issued to the trainees who can use the same to become members of Women Tailors Cooperative Associations (WTCAs) formed by the department or take up self-employment. Stating that the trained girls could enrol themselves as members in any one of the three WTCAs functioning in the district to get work orders for stitching free school uniforms, Ms. Rajeswari said these girls might also get preference in distribution of priceless tailoring machines through various welfare schemes or priority in getting financial assistance for taking up self-employment. Ten girls were undergoing the tailoring training that commenced in Thanjavur recently. Some school drop-uts were also among the trainees, Ms. Rajeswari added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rehabilitation-programme-for-girls-rescued-from-child-marriage/article32528382.ece
05 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI stages protest||Communist Party of India staged a demonstration against “anti-people” policies of the Central and State governments at Darasuram near Kumbakonam on Friday. R. Mutharasan, State Secretary, CPI, who led the protest, said the Union and State governments were adamant on various issues. The Centre was trying to thrust other languages on students under the New Education Policy. Though welcoming the State government’s decision to form a committee to look into the NEP, Mr. Mutharasan indicted it for including some persons, who were pro-Centre, as its members. He termed the Chief Minister’s recent inspection tour to different districts as nothing but an effort to stabilise his position in his party and to gain some political mileage even at a time when regulatory orders were imposed in the State. Kumbakonam DMK MLA G. Anbalagan also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-stages-protest/article32528393.ece
05 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Lukewarm response to plasma donation call||The call to persons, who had recovered from COVID-19 to donate plasma for treating the virus-infected patients, has evoked a lukewarm response in Thanjavur district. According to an official release, as on Friday, 7,026 persons had tested positive for COVID-19 and among them 5,918 were cured of the virus infection and discharged from the hospital where they were admitted. However, only less than one percent of them have shown interest to donate plasma for treating other patients admitted into hospitals. Only five persons have donated plasma so far. Meanwhile, two persons aged 57 and 58 whose health condition turned critical due to COVID-19 virus infection recovered after undergoing the plasma treatment. Both of them were discharged from Thanjavur Medical College hospital on Friday with greetings from Collector M. Govinda Rao, and Dean Maruthudurai. Talking to reporters after seeing off the recovered patients, the Collector said taluk-level flying squads had been formed to ensure that people adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure to curb the spread of the infection. Stating that more than 900 pulse oximeters and thermal scanners had been distributed to the health department staff at the field level to check oxygen level and body temperature of the people across the district, Mr. Govinda Rao urged people not to move out of home unless otherwise necessary. About 4,300 fever camps had been conducted in several parts of the district and nearly 2.03 lakh people utilised the health service. Only those with confirmed virus infection were admitted to COVID-19 special wards functioning in hospitals and others were asked to stay at COVID-19 care centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lukewarm-response-to-plasma-donation-call/article32528383.ece
05 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Man held for molesting stepdaughter||Christopher, 25, of M. Kallupatti, near Peraiyur in Madurai district, was arrested by the All Women Police, Vallam, on charges of molesting his nine-year-old stepdaughter. According to police, Christopher had married a 30-year-old divorcee of Punnai Nallur Mariamman Kovil area in 2017. The divorcee had a daughter and son from her first husband. The accused, who was stationed in Madurai on duty, during his visits had assaulted his stepdaughter sexually when the wife and stepson were away. When the girl informed this to her mother, she lodged a complaint with the police who picked up Christopher from Madurai recently and booked a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offices Act against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-molesting-stepdaughter/article32528343.ece
05 September 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in Theni||The widespread rainfall recorded in many parts of the district has brought relief to the farmers. The last three days the region has experienced good rainfall with Manjalar dam receiving four feet of water on a single day. From 35 ft, the water level rose to 39 ft (max level 57 ft). The dam was getting an inflow of 335 cusecs. Manjalar alone recorded 11 centimetre rain, PWD officials said.  Kumbakarai Falls Officials said that due to good rainfall along the upper parts of the western ghats, Kumbakarai Falls has been getting steady flow since Wednesday. After Vattacanal received copious flow on Friday, there was floods in the falls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-theni/article32528357.ece
05 September 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Parents put up ‘obituary’ poster of daughter||Shocked over the elopement of their daughter with a boy, the angry parents pasted posters, declaring that she was dead, all over the town on Friday Police said that Jayapal, a native of Veppampatti near Chinnamanur, was working in Bangalore. He and his family had proposed to conduct the marriage of their daughter with a boy from neighbouring Pannaipuram on Wednesday. When relatives of the bride and groom were busy preparing for the wedding, the daughter went missing. After a frantic search, they came to know that she had married a boy of her choice. Though, they lodged a complaint with the police, the girl's parents pasted posters all over the town declaring that their daughter had died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-put-up-obituary-poster-of-daughter/article32528342.ece
05 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 679 more positive cases||Seven persons have died and 679 more persons tested positive for COVID 19 in the central region as per the medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department on Friday. Among the seven deaths, three were reported in Nagapattinam, two in Tiruvarur and one each in Karur and Pudukottai. In Nagapattinam, a 75-year-old man with acute respiratory distress syndrome, a 55-year-old with diabetes and a 68-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the viral infection. A 66-year-old man who suffered from acute encephalopathy and a 65-year-old man with co-morbidities, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, died in Tiruvarur. A 56-year-old man from Pudukottai with end-stage renal disease, chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes and a 65-year-old man from Karur suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome also died. Meanwhile, Thanjavur continues to record the highest number of cases among the central districts with 164 more cases being reported on Friday. Many among them were primary contacts and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Frontline workers and vendors were also among those who tested positive. In Tiruchi, 104 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Many of the positive cases were from existing containment zones. Madurai Veeran Street in Ward number 35 was declared a containment zone by civic authorities after many tested positive for the infection. Meanwhile, in Pudukottai, 102 patients tested positive while in Tiruvarur 98 cases were recorded. Among the patients who tested positive in both districts were primary contacts, antenatal mothers, local index cases and patients with travel history. Of the 98 patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam were local contacts, other district travellers and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Ariyalur, 58 patients reported positive for the infection. Of them, 12 hailed from Ariyalur block, two from Thirumanur, seven from Sendhurai, three from T. Palur, eight from Andimadam and 26 from Jayankondam blocks. District authorities lifted throat swabs from 579 from primary contacts, residents in containment zones and people with symptoms of COVID-19 for testing. Karur recorded 42 new cases, including patients from Anna Nagar, Rayanur, Velliyanai, Kamarajapuram among other localities in the district. Meanwhile, 13 patients tested positive for the nove coronavirus in Perambalur, among which seven hailed from Perambalur block, two from Veppanthattai, four from Veppur blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-679-more-positive-cases/article32528389.ece
05 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor follow-up irks Tiruchi patients in home isolation||While asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms of COVID-19 have been permitted to opt for home quarantine in Tiruchi district, poor follow-up by officials of the Corporation and the Health Department has irked some of them. According to the bulletin released by the district administration for September 3, 132 patients in the district were in home isolation after testing positive for the infection. Prashaant Ram, a resident of Anna Nagar, said Corporation officials called him a day after he received the RT- PCR test report. “They came and posted the home quarantine sticker on our main door but there has been no visit or check after that,” he said. Mr. Ram was told that a doctor would contact him regarding medicines to be taken. However, there have been none so far, he said. “They must also call to check on my family members and whether they had developed any symptoms. Further, they did not even ask if I have a pulse oximeter, which is crucial for anyone in home quarantine. What will people who don't have a doctor to guide them do?” he asked. Another patient, who resides in Woraiyur, said he had to contact the Corporation people to inform them that he was tested positive. “There seems to be no coordination between the civic body and the Health Department. I had called them myself to inform that I had tested positive. They then came and pasted the sticker on the door but did not ask if my family members were symptomatic or required testing. What if one of us was in a critical condition? ” he said. Meanwhile, P. Jerald, who was symptomatic and had tested positive on August 14, was asked to be admitted to the COVID Care Centre. “On my second day there, they said I could go home and self-isolate. I did not feel well and asked whether I could stay for a few more days,” he said. Many who were sent home after two days came from crowded areas in the city where home quarantine was not possible. “In many cases, they were the sole breadwinners of the family. Home quarantine for them is not feasible for all and would put the neighbours and family members at risk,” he said. When contacted, Corporation officials denied the charges and maintained that only 56 patients were in home quarantine in the city and regular follow-up was being done to check if they had developed symptoms. “For patients with no symptoms, there is no need for medication. They need to isolate themselves until they recover,” a senior official said.  They came and posted the home quarantine sticker on our main door but there has been no more visit or check Anna Nagar patient||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-follow-up-irks-tiruchi-patients-in-home-isolation/article32528384.ece
05 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fire stations in central region to get Quick Response Vehicles||Fire and Rescue Services Department in the Central region has been equipped with 11 new Quick Response Vehicles for fire fighting and spraying disinfectants in small and narrow lanes. The vehicles will also be used for spraying disinfectants in congested areas and hospitals in view of the pandemic. One vehicle each would be provided to the nine fire divisions in the central region and the remaining three vehicles would be given to fire stations identified as extra sensitive. The region has fire divisions in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore and Villupuram with the total number of fire stations being 95. The mini vehicles could accommodate six fire fighters and can serve even narrow lanes and congested areas for fire fighting operations and spraying disinfectants, said Meenakshi Vijayakumar, Deputy Director, Fire and Rescue Services, Central region, Tiruchi. “The quick response vehicles, which would be stationed in every divisional headquarters, has a foam tank and fire extinguisher to put out fire in congested areas where normal fire tenders would find it difficult to enter for want of adequate space, Ms. Meenakshi Vijayakumar said. The central region witnessed 29 ‘serious major fire accidents’ in 2019 of which 11 were reported in Tiruchi Division, four each in Karur and Cuddalore divisions; three each in Villupuram and Tiruvarur divisions and one each in Pudukottai and Perambalur divisions. Apart from these, there were numerous incidents of medium and small fires. In the current year till date, the central region has reported 11 ‘serious fire accidents’ of which two each occurred in Tiruchi, Karur, Perambalur and Tiruvarur divisions and one each in Villupuram, Cuddalore and Thanjavur divisions. In addition to attending to fire calls, the fire fighters also attended to 4,384 rescue calls so far this year. Ever since the outbreak of COVID-19, the fire fighters have also been deployed for spraying disinfectants at specified locations across the region. Ms. Meenakshi Vijaykumar said the Fire and Rescue Services Department of the central region has brought a booklet on fire safety measures for hospitals. The 10-page booklet contains dos and dont’s during fire accidents, besides containing emergency numbers of fire stations and divisional fire officers and field-level officials. The booklet will be distributed to government hospitals. Director visit  The Director General of Police/ Director, Fire and Rescue Services C. Sylendra Babu on Thursday inspected the Tiruchi fire station. He appreciated the fire fighters for their role at the frontline in the battle against COVID-19 and heard their grievances. Later, he had a meeting with the Divisional Officers through video conference mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-stations-in-central-region-to-get-quick-response-vehicles/article32528395.ece
05 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ornamental fish farming training on September 16||The Dr. M.G.R Fisheries College and Research Institute, a constituent college of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, will conduct an online training programme on ‘Freshwater ornamental fish farming’ from 10 a.m. to noon on September 16. Various aspects of ornamental fish farming such as importance of ornamental fish culture, overview of ornamental fish industry, candidate species in Indian aquarium trade, breeding of egg layers, breeding of live bearers, fabrication and setting up of an aquarium tank, feed and feed management, soil and water quality management, common diseases and management, value addition and economical aspects in ornamental fish culture will be covered during the training. The fee for the training programme will be Rs. 300. Certificates will be issued to participants, a press release from the varsity said. Interested candidates should register their names with the Professor and Head, Department of Aquaculture, Dr. M. G. R Fisheries College & Research Institute, Oradiyambulam, Thalainayeru, Nagapattinam District, on or before September 15. For more details, dial 9442288850 or email to: athithan@tnfu.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ornamental-fish-farming-training-on-september-16/article32528385.ece
05 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo to increase frequency of services to Mumbai||IndiGo airline which started bi-weekly flight services in the Mumbai - Tiruchi - Mumbai sector last month has announced increase in the frequency to four days a week in this sector. As per the schedule, the airline will operate the flight services on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday from September 9. Presently, it operates on Monday and Friday. The airline would be operating Airbus aircraft in this sector. The flight from Mumbai will depart at 3.35 p.m. and arrive Tiruchi at 5.45 p.m. In the return direction, it will leave Tiruchi at 6.20 p.m. to reach Mumbai at 8.15 p.m. IndiGo also operates daily flights from Tiruchi to Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indigo-to-increase-frequency-of-services-to-mumbai/article32528396.ece
05 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 90.68 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 22,706 cusecs and the discharge was 9,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32528398.ece
05 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Passengers unhappy as Nellai Express is yet to resume||The exclusion of Chennai – Tirunelveli Nellai Superfast Express Train from the first batch of trains to be operated from September 7 onwards after the lockdown was clamped on March 25 has disappointed passengers here. When Indian Railways announced the resumption of train services in Tamil Nadu, which was stopped five months ago in the wake of pandemic-induced lockdown, the State got a few services including nine special train services including two services between Chennai and Coimbatore, a service each to Tiruchi, Madurai, Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Mettupalayam and Shencottai. Since the Chennai Egmore - Tirunelveli Nellai Superfast Express has not been included in the list of trains to be operated from September 7, the exclusion has disappointed the people here. “Since this section is one of the most profitable routes of the Southern Railways that always enjoyed excellent patronage, the Ministry of Railways should have resumed train service in this route also. We firmly believe that the Indian Railways would include Chennai – Tirunelveli section in the second phase in near future,” said D. Joseph, a businessman from Palayamkottai. Meanwhile, the railway officials were busy preparing the Thoothukudi – Chennai Pearl City Express on Friday. While the coaches were cleaned and disinfected, trial run of the loco was conducted on Friday. Reservation for the train will commence on Saturday (September 5) from 8 a.m. onwards. Passengers carrying ‘confirmed tickets’ alone will be allowed to enter the railway station. As per the conditions stipulated by the Indian Railways, the passengers, should enter the station 90 minutes before the departure of the train with ‘confirmed tickets’. They will be screened for body temperature and they should wear masks and maintain physical distancing. “All preparations usually made for the smooth operation of this service are in place. We are ready to resume the service from Monday (September 7) onwards,” Thoothukudi railway station officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-unhappy-as-nellai-express-is-yet-to-resume/article32528341.ece
05 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Slap 40% import duty on Titanium Dioxide being imported from China’||Even as the Union Government is banning Chinese apps, Chinese firms manufacturing Titanium Dioxide are getting more than Rs. 5,000 crore from India every year by exporting the shiny bright white powder used in a range of products including paints as a pigment for its high covering power and durability. Indian manufacturers of Titanium Dioxide, who are producing the chemical with world-class quality, are seeking a ban on this import or slapping of higher import duty while allowing domestic manufacturers to increase their production capacity. According to Ponsehar, president, Indian Titanium Dioxide Manufacturers’ Association, there were only six units in the country manufacturing Titanium Dioxide – two each in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and one each in West Bengal and Gujarat even as Indian Rare Earths Limited, a Government of India undertaking, is trying to set-up its unit in Odisha. While annual demand for Titanium Dioxide, being used in paints, paper, textile, plastic products, cosmetics, printing ink etc., in India is 3.50 lakh tonnes, these six units collectively have annual production capacity of only 50,000 tonnes, leaving the buyers in the lurch. Consequently, the struggling Indian industries have been forced to import a minimum of 3 lakh tonnes of Titanium Dioxide every year from China for which the buyers have to pay huge amounts of foreign exchange even as one tonne costs around Rs. 2.25 lakh. “The Chinese firms, with an eye on crushing the Indian manufacturers of Titanium Dioxide, dump their product over and above 3 lakh tonnes that seriously affects the domestic producers,” says Mr. Ponsehar. The manufacturers advocate a multi-pronged strategy to ensure the growth of domestic industrial units manufacturing Titanium Dioxide while saving huge volumes of foreign exchange. While minimizing the Titanium Dioxide from China by slapping hefty import duty up to 40%, the Union Government should allow the domestic suppliers to increase their production. They also appealed to the Centre that the ban slapped on mining of ilmenite, the major raw material for Titanium Dioxide, should be revoked to increase production to meet domestic demand. “Even as mining of beach minerals and rare earths are allowed in a few States including Gujarat, the Centre should instruct the Tamil Nadu Government to allow mining of beach mineral and rare earths, which will incredibly boost the production of Titanium Dioxide to help the domestic industries under the Prime Minister’s ‘Make In India’ programme. More importantly, it will save precious foreign exchange worth over Rs. 5,000 crore every year for the country,” says S. Sugumar, chairman of Beach Minerals Company, who has established a state-of-the-art Titanium Dioxide manufacturing unit on Thoothukudi outskirts with German know-how. “We are very particular in giving the finest Titanium Dioxide to domestic and international buyers. Hence, we need to have the finest technology for manufacturing the product of matchless quality,” says Mr. Sugumar, exporter of beach minerals. The present scenario prevailing in the country only helps China which dumps Titanium Dioxide to strangulate the domestic industries. Hence Mr. Ponsehar suggests that the Union Government that banned the Chinese apps, should slap 40% import duty on the Titanium Dioxide being imported from China to save the domestic manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slap-40-import-duty-on-titanium-dioxide-being-imported-from-china/article32528333.ece
05 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Online grievance meet to continue||The online grievance redressal meets being conducted on Mondays in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic will continue in September also, District Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has said. As the pandemic and consequent lockdown have become unpredictable with the steady rise in cases everyday, Ms. Shilpa had dedicated two telephone numbers - 0462 – 2500611 for submitting petitions relating to rural and urban local bodies and 0462 – 2500191 for the petitions on grievances relating to revenue department – for submission of petitions. Taking this procedure to the next level, Ms. Shilpa asked the National Informatics Centre to develop a platform for online submission of petitions by the public. The petitioners were asked to submit their grievances through District Collector’s Public Grievance Meeting through videoconference on the first page ofhttp://tirunelveli.nic.ineither from their home or by visiting the nearby e-seva centers or the taluk offices with masks. After successfully conducting the trials, the online grievances redressal meet took off on August 3 with Ms. Shilpa receiving petitions from the public. Even as the Collector and other officials were sitting in the NIC’s videoconference hall, the petitioners were asked to explain their grievances based on their petition registration seniority.  “In August, we received 57 petitions online. Of this, 13 were relating to land ownership issues, six relating to monetary benefits including retirement benefits, 15 relating to seeking basic amenities, three pertaining to social security welfare assistances, five relating to issue of certificates and remaining 15 relating to other requests. While 41 petitions were accepted, action is being taken on five petitions. As 11 petitions were found to be not genuine, the appeals were rejected,” Ms. Shilpa said. Since this new procedure is found to be effective, it will be continued during the month of September also, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-grievance-meet-to-continue/article32528339.ece
05 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to prevent outsiders from bringing cattle to MTR for grazing||The forest department is continuing efforts to prevent “outsiders” from bringing their cattle into the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), and tasking adivasi communities with taking care of them. The recent death of a 50-year-old woman, who was killed by a tiger while grazing cattle in the tiger reserve, has put the spotlight on the illegal grazing of cattle in the MTR buffer zone. N. Sadiq Ali, Founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), said that it was well-known that communities bordering the tiger reserve often drove their free-ranging cattle into the buffer zone, and pay the tribal communities living in the reserve a salary to take care of the livestock. “Not only does this increase the chance of diseases being transmitted from cattle to ungulates in the reserve, but also diminishes fodder availability and increases the chances of problematic human-animal interactions,” said Mr. Sadiq, calling for stricter measures to be taken to prevent cattle from being allowed to graze illegally in the reserve. The free-range cattle are usually released in the reserve by their owners who collect dung from the communities and eventually send the animals to slaughter. Till then, the adivasis are tasked with taking care of the animals and are paid a small salary. “Nobody has any objections to adivasis being allowed to graze their own cattle, but people from outside the reserve are using the tiger reserve as grazing area and putting the lives of adivasis at risk and contributing to the rise in problematic interactions between humans and wildlife,” he added. A top forest department official from MTR, acknowledged the issue, but added that steps undertaken by the department over the last few years has significantly reduced the amount of cattle belonging to outsiders being allowed to roam the reserve. “We have slowly been successful in reducing the number of cattle from entering the reserve illegally,” said the official. Srinivas R. Reddy, Field Director (in-charge) of MTR, said that the issue was far more pronounced a few years ago, when close to 16,000 heads of cattle, most of them belonging to non-tribal communities surrounding the reserve, were inside. “Over the last few years, due to the continuous efforts of the department, the number of cattle has reduced to between 5,000 to 8,000 heads of cattle, and most of them do belong to the local adivasi communities. However, we are continuing our efforts to ensure that cattle from outside the reserve are not allowed to illegally graze inside Mudumalai,” said Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-prevent-outsiders-from-bringing-cattle-to-mtr-for-grazing/article32528111.ece
05 September 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two women robbed of 26 sovereigns of gold in Aruppukottai||Two women lost 26 sovereigns of gold in Aruppukottai on Friday. In the first incident, P. Ponnammal (85), of Pudukadai Bazaar, was robbed of 18 sovereigns of gold on Friday afternoon. The police said that the widow was living all alone in her house. Her niece who was living in the neighbourhood was providing her food. Even as the woman was lying on the bed with the doors kept open, some unidentified persons barged into the house and after closing her eyes removed the gold chains and bangles. The crime came to light only when her niece came home to give food. Stating that outsiders cannot enter the thickly-populated street without getting noticed by residents, the police suspect that someone familiar to the victim could have been involved in the crime. Aruppukottai Town police are investigating. In another incident, eight sovereigns of gold chains were robbed from a bank employee, K. Rohini Devi (35) in Aruppukottai on Friday. The police said that the victim was riding on a two-wheeler from Aruppukottai towards Kanjanaickkenpatti when two persons, who were following her on a motorbike, pushed her down at Gandhi Nagar junction and snatched the two gold chains at around 6 p.m. Aruppukottai Taluk police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-robbed-of-26-sovereigns-of-gold-in-aruppukottai/article32528331.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region sees 1,328 cases and 13 deaths||The Western region on Friday saw 1,328 new COVID-19 cases and 13 deaths, with Coimbatore district reporting 595 new cases and four deaths. Those who died of the disease in Coimbatore were aged 49, 58, 64, and 50. Tirupur reported the death of two persons aged 65 and 63 and in Salem seven persons aged 56, 72, 80, 72, 75, 81, and 32 died. Of the total 17,865 cases in Coimbatore district, 12,992 have recovered. On Friday, 428 patients were discharged. The district has so far reported 322 deaths. Six test positive in Kundadam Six employees of a private spinning mill in Kundadam were among the 90 new cases in Tiruppur district. Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar Giriyappanavar said the mill would remain closed for one week. The remaining employees would be isolated on the premises. The six men, aged between 18 and 22, were admitted to Dharapuram Government Hospital. Four employees of the same mill had reported positive in August. Of the 3,109 cases in Tiruppur district, 2,065 have recovered. On Friday, 72 patients were discharged. Of the 239 cases reported in Salem, 234 were indigenous. Four persons had returned from Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Thiruvallur and one from Uttar Pradesh. Three Health Department staff, an Armed Reserve police personnel and a postal staff were among the 75 new cases in Namakkal district. Fifteen persons had returned from Salem, Coimbatore, Karur, Erode and Thiruporur. Erode district reported 121 new cases, taking the districts’ tally to 3,587. Ninety-five persons tested positive in The Nilgiris. This is the largest single-day increase in COVID-19 cases recorded so far in the district. The number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stood at 1,810. With 72 new cases, the total number of cases in Krishnagiri rose to 2,390. The 41 new cases in Dharmapuri took the total number of cases to 1,371.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/western-region-sees-1328-cases-and-13-deaths/article32528092.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chit fund fraud alleged||Stating that an individual in Sampath Nagar had collected Rs. 24 lakh towards chit fund and had cheated a few people, a man along with his friends submitted a petition to the Superintendent of Police here on Friday. In his complaint, D. Saravanan (39) of Vettukattu Valasu said that he had known P. Boopathy for 25 years and had paid Rs. 24 lakh in 12 instalments towards the total chit amount of Rs. 30 lakh from 2016. The complaint said that Boopathy is no longer continuing the chit fund and had also refused to return the money paid, so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chit-fund-fraud-alleged/article32528104.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Anti-poaching watchers yet to get revised pay||A year after the State government issued an order increasing the monthly salary of Anti-poaching watchers (APWs) from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 12,500, over 100 watchers in Sathyamangalam Forest Division are yet to receive the revised salary and also arrears. Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) that registered a growth of over 30% tiger population in recent years is spread across 1.41 lakh hectare comprising Sathyamangalam and Hasanur Forest Divisions and is home to tigers, elephants, leopards, vultures and other large mammals and species. Of the total 283 APWs in the district, 102 watchers were with Sathyamangalam Division. They play a vital role in wildlife protection and preserving the forest reserves facing challenges every day. On July 5, 2019, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had in the Assembly announced salary hike for 1,119 AWPs in the State and the Environment and Forests Department issued an order in September for implementing the same. The hike was announced with effect from April 1 and they were entitled to receive the arrears. However, a year after the government order was passed, watchers in the division are yet to receive the hike and arrears while their counterparts in Hasanur Forest Division were receiving it. Speaking on anonymity, a watcher said that they cover a minimum of 10 km on foot inside the forest everyday to keep an eye on intruders, movement of Naxals and prevent wildlife hunting. “Our role is to protect forest and its resources at any cost for which we risk our lives”, he said and added that most of them are from tribal communities. P.G. Arunlal, Divisional Forest Officer, Sathyamangalam Division said that funds were yet to be allotted and after receiving it, possibly within a month, hiked salary and arrears will be paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-poaching-watchers-yet-to-get-revised-pay/article32528105.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Boy run over by truck||Mulanur police booked a truck driver on charges of accidentally running over a boy after he had fallen off from the vehicle in the early hours of Friday. The police said that Sathish, 29, an employee of a private brick kiln at Thadagam Valley in Coimbatore district, was bringing his two sons Shankar, 8, and Ponnar, 7, from their residence at Vadipatti in Madurai district. He arranged for a truck belonging to the brick kiln from Vadipatti to his residence as inter-district bus services were not available. Sathish and his two children sat with the driver in the cabin, the police said. Shankar, who was sitting near the door next to driver's seat, fell asleep. At around 2 a.m. as the truck reached Koneripatti near Dharapuram, the boy fell from the truck as the door was open and was run over by the vehicle. Upon reaching Sulur in Coimbatore district, the father realised that his son was missing and went back to search for his son. On the way, an ambulance was taking the boy's body in the presence of Mulanur police and the man recognised that the deceased was his son, according to the police. Mulanur police booked the truck driver V. Paraman, 65, under section 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-run-over-by-truck-driver-booked/article32528109.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Toll plaza workers stage protest||The All India Trade Union Congress staged a protest demonstration here at the toll gate alleging that the Reliance-owned toll plaza was practising anti-labour policies. The workers of Krishnagiri toll plaza had alleged that their complaints against Reliance and their contractors seeking action from the government has not been attended to. The workers had recently organised themselves into a trade union, affiliated to the CPI. The trade union has alleged that the workers were not paid on time by Reliance. The employment of the workers was through contractors appointed by Reliance. However, the workers’ payments were delayed and they were also denied welfare benefits, the AITUC has alleged. They also alleged that the toll plaza management had abused the trade union members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plaza-workers-stage-protest/article32528106.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power supply to textile units disconnected||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) disconnected power supply to three textile processing units at B.P. Agraharam for discharging effluents directly into drains. A flying squad recently inspected two dyeing units and one processing unit and found direct discharge of effluents into drainage channels. A report was submitted to the Collector and Chairman of the District Monitoring Committee C. Kathiravan, who ordered disconnection of power supply to the units. A squad comprising TNPCB officials, Erode Tahsildar and corporation officials was formed to monitor dyeing, bleachingand tannery units in city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-to-textile-units-disconnected/article32528082.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Yet another day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yet-another-day/article32528338.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Downpour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/downpour/article32528387.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rush hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rush-hour/article32528055.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven killed||The Chidambaram Sub-Collector had visited the site a few days ago, but it was vacant. The unit started operations on Friday, and it had brought in the explosives without authorisation, Mr. Sakhamuri said. Solatium Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled the deaths and announced Rs. 2 lakh solatium each to the families of the victims from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. In a statement, he said he had directed Industries Minister M.C. Sampath and the Cuddalore Collector to ensure relief and rush those injured to hospital. Purohit condoles deaths Governor Banwarilal Purohit condoled the deaths. He said: “I offer my deep condolences to the families of those who are mourning the loss of their near and dear ones. I join the people of Tamil Nadu in praying for the early and complete recovery of the injured admitted in hospitals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-women-killed-in-cracker-unit-explosion/article32528046.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Entrance test for M.Phil, Ph.D on Oct. 27||Bharathiar University will on October 27 conduct the common eligibility test for admissions to M.Phil., Ph.D., programmes, said a release from the institution. Interested persons should apply atwww.cbe.b-u.ac.inbefore October 5. The university will reject the applicatios received after the last date. The release added that the candidates with UGC/CSIR-NET/SET/GATE/M.Phil qualification or teacher fellowship, DST Inspire, scientists in DRDO, faculty at Air Force Administrative College and candidates with post-graduate degree in a foreign university were exempted from appearing for the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entrance-test-for-mphil-phd-on-oct-27/article32528103.ece
05 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cong. setting up national-level training academy for cadre||As part of its reinvention strategy, the Congress is setting up a national-level training academy for its cadre. The Na. Su. Hardikar Seva Dal training academy will come up at Ghataprabha in Belagavi district, where Seva Dal founder Dr. Hardikar spent a large part of his public life. It will train Seva Dal volunteers and office-bearers in physical and mental abilities and personality development. The party ideology and cadre discipline will form a vital part of training. It will be inaugurated on Gandhi Jayanti, October 2. The campus is adjacent to the Karnataka Health Institute charity hospital and training centre founded by Dr. Hardikar and his friends in Ghataprabha in the 1930s. Apart from full-time staff, the academy will have guest faculty. Senior leaders, party workers, and those with organisational experience will visit. “However, we will have a whole set of resource persons who have no connection to the Congress or parties,” says Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president, involved in the establishment of the academy. According to him, administrators, social activists, NGO members, student leaders, office-bearers of organisations fighting for the rights of women, children, deprived classes, environment protection lobbyists, anti-blind belief crusaders, legal awareness groups, farmers’ leaders, climate change campaigners, and other groups would be invited as resource persons. “We have been saying that Congress should be a cadre-based party. But these are the first concrete steps towards building an informed cadre,” says Mr. Jarkiholi. Cadre members would be divided into various wings including mainstream social service, party organisation, governance and public policy, and digital campaign. After they complete a basic course, they will be trained in niche areas based on interests and background. A full-fledged digital training centre would be set up in the academy. “We will use it to train our workers and leaders. We need to push up our presence in the field of digital campaigning. BJP is using its IT cell not only for poll campaign, but also for getting feedback on government policies and building up the image of the party and Ministers. The IT cell is also used to spread misinformation, abusing Opposition leaders and spreading falsehoods. We may need a dedicated team to counter them and also to spread the right information among the public and our supporters,” he said.Construction of the building is nearly over. The campus has a large convention hall, hostels for men and women and an office, apart from a kitchen and dining rooms. The rest of the 5-acre campus has over 600 saplings. The roof of the main building resembles a Gandhi cap that Seva Dal members wear. Since 1923 Freedom fighter Narayana Subbarao Hardikar, who was from Tilavalli village near Haveri, founded the Seva Dal as as a cadre to help the Congress fight the British and to implement Gandhi’s ideals of Sarvodaya in 1923. He had a master’s degree in medicine from Michigan University in the U.S. before joining his friends G.R. Kokatnur and M.K. Vaidya in starting a charity hospital in Ghatapraba in 1929.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-setting-up-national-level-training-academy-for-cadre/article32528190.ece
05 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Online campaign to focus on Belagavi issues||A group of young people have started an online campaign to draw the Centre’s attention to the city’s problems. The group that runs belagavi.infra.in and all its social media, has started the #BelagaviWritesToPMO campaign to connect the city’s residents directly to the Centre. We are facing several issues, but the Centre seems to have no idea about it. That is why we started the campaign, said Krishna Giriyannanavar, a member of the group. They have invited residents to write emails or send letters written on paper to the Prime Minister’s Office, while informing them or sending them copies of the letters. The appeal, posted on the website and social media, handles asks residents to come up with two issues related to the development of the city. It is also to record our active existence on the virtual world, he said. Good response “The initial reaction has been fantastic,” he said. Most of the people have written about protection of the fragile ecosystem of the Western Ghats. Some have spoken about the need to create jobs for skilled and non-skilled youth. Some of have expressed dissatisfaction about the quality of works and delay in completion of projects in the Smart City scheme. Some have spoken about the rising COVID -19 levels and alleged poor management of hospitals. “Whenever there is talk of North Karnataka development, the governments focus on Hubballi-Dharwad,” said activist Uday Kinjwadkar. We have lost several projects IIT, High Court bench, auto industry hub, and IThead office, that were shifted to the twin cities. We are not against any other city getting infrastructure facilities. But that should not be done at the cost of Belagavi, he said. Faith lost “It is time we take matters in our own hands as we have lost faith in our representatives, said Ashok Chandaragi, convenor of the action committee of Kannada organisations in the district. He complains that MPs and MLAs had failed to raise the issue of injustice done to the city or the district in the past. Now we will approach PM Modi directly. If our demands are not heeded, we will take up the path of agitation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-campaign-to-focus-on-belagavi-issues/article32528200.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor Ragini Dwivedi arrested in drug case||After several hours of interrogation, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Friday arrested actor Ragini Dwivedi for her alleged involvement in a drug racket with links to the Kannada film industry. She has been charged under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. She was taken into custody for three days. Around 6.30 a.m. on Friday, two police teams searched her flat in Yelahanka for three hours. They seized her phone, car keys and other material evidence. The search was carried out on the basis of information gathered from Ravi Shankar, a second division assistant with the Jayanagar RTO, who was arrested on September 3 in connection with the case. The CCB believes that the actor destroyed evidence pertaining to the drugs case and tried to hide her association with Ravi. ‘Bought new phone’ According to a CCB official, “Soon after the first notice was issued to Ragini to appear for questioning, she bought a new mobile phone and transferred all data, except WhatsApp messages. This was to destroy evidence comprising messages and other details.” According to the police, she had deleted details from her phone, including a WhatsApp phone call and conversation, which could have established her link with Ravi Shankar. “We are trying to retrieve the deleted data,” said a senior police officer. The actor’s name cropped up during the course of the investigation into the involvement of actors and singers from the Kannada film industry in a recent drug bust, which involved party drugs like ecstasy and LSD. The police had issued a notice to the actress to report for questioning on September 3, which she did not comply with. “We obtained vital information and sought court permission to carry out the raid,” the officer added. The raid came a day after the police arrested Ravi Shankar, who is reportedly a close associate of Ragini. ‘High-profile dealers’ The police also arrested two men who allegedly organised high-profile parties. One of the accused, Rahul Shetty, has been charged with organising parties in and around the city, and using them to sell party drugs. “He is an architect and realtor who travelled to neighbouring countries to organise such parties. He has links with international drug dealers from whom he procured drugs to sell to his clients here,” said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. Ragini and Ravi allegedly attended some of these parties. “Rahul is a close associate of another film star, identified as Sanjjanaa Galrani who is also under the scanner,” said a CCB official. “There are many people linked to both Ravi and Rahul, and efforts are on to probe further,” Mr. Pant added. Team in Delhi Later in the evening, the CCB announced a fourth arrest, that of Viren Khanna, who is a party organiser. “He organised big parties where drugs were consumed,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). After the CCB confirmed his involvement, two inspectors went to Delhi and arrested him. He was produced in a local court and taken into four days’ police custody. According to a senior police official, so far 12 persons have been booked and over 20 others have been detained for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actor-ragini-dwivedi-arrested-in-drug-case/article32527976.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||When screens replace classrooms...||The cheery good morning wishes of students, small conversations with them in the corridors, discussions on matters beyond academics — all these are the things of nostalgia this Teachers’ Day. Although teachershave adapted to online classes, they say that this medium has changed the role of a teacher and the objective of classes. Teachers say they no longer experience the joy of listening to their students come up with the right answers for their questions, as they constantly wonder if the students just googled the answers. Samvartha Sahil, a freelance teacher who teaches screenplay writing, said that previously his most used phrase in the classes used to be “Am I making sense?” or “Are you able to understand?” Now, during online classes, he is constantly asking students, “Can you hear me?” or “Am I audible?” “I fear classroom and education have shifted from understanding and making sense to hearing and being audible. Classes now are held merely for transmission of information,” he said. The medium limits the teacher’s role in nurturing students, he said. Timsy Thomas, who teaches English for high school students at Harvest International School, said they miss the personal connect. She feels that in the current scenario, teachers are donning the role of “tutors”. “As teachers, we worked as mentors and counsellors, but we are unable to play this part during short online classes,” she said. Ms. Thomas, however, said teachers have made peace with it and are trying and use different online tools to make classes more interactive. “In fact, my students have helped me become more tech-savy and they suggest ways in which the classes can be more lively,” she said. With online classes, many teachers have stretched working hours as the time they need to prepare for the classes has increased. Honey Chandra from Delhi Public School, Bengaluru North, said, “Earlier, we used to be at home by 5 p.m. But now we are constantly engaging with students and clearing their doubts on different platforms. On some days, I finish work at 1 a.m. after preparing for my online classes,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/when-screens-replace-classrooms/article32528009.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC fiat to govt. on fresh probe into death of two patients||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to hold a fresh enquiry through a senior police officer into the death of two patients, including a doctor in government service, allegedly due to refusal of admission by government and private hospitals in the city. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction while declining to accept the report of enquiry made by officials of the Health and Family Welfare Department, while terming the enquiry was done in “casual manner”. In the first instance, the court asked the government to enquire to the death of Manjunath S.T., a doctor at the government primary health centre in Kanakapura, as it was reported in newspapers that he died as hospitals failed to admit him on time. In the other instance, 70-year-old Chikkanarasaiah of Kamala Nagar had written to the Chief Justice narrating how his son-in-law Chetan Kumar C. died after he was unable to get timely admission in 15 to 20 hospitals for non-COVID-19 ailment and also about conflicting reports of COVID-19 test on Chetan. The Bench noticed certain overwriting in hospital documents related to Dr. Manjunath. The Bench also pointed out that casual telephonic call was made to get certain information in case of the complaint by Mr. Chikkanarasaiah instead of proper recording of statements. Stating that it was not going to deal with the enquiry conducted as it new probe had been ordered, the Bench orally observed that it expects the government to treat the complaints against hospital seriously so that such unfortunate instances do not recur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-fiat-to-govt-on-fresh-probe-into-death-of-two-patients/article32528020.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another actor booked||In an unrelated case, the police booked Kannada film actor Nivedhitha (Smitha Jagadish) for allegedly promoting marijuana consumption and comparing it to the tulsi plant. The Malleswaram police, based on a complaint, have registered an FIR against the actor. According to the complainant, while speaking to the media on September 1 about alleged drug abuse in the film industry, she said, “No one has ever died due to consumption of ganja (marijuana).” She compared it with the tulsi plant and such statements will encourage the youth to consume drugs, said the complainant. The police have registered a case under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage sentiment) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-actor-booked/article32527979.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Transport Department suspends employee||The Transport Department on Friday suspended, pending enquiry, B.K. Ravi Shankar following his arrest by the Central Crime Branch (CCB). “We learnt through the media that he was arrested. We have also received an email from the police authorities concerned confirming the same,” said the Transport Department in a notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-department-suspends-employee/article32527980.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro changes top-up rules||Commuters are not happy with a few changes that will be in place from Monday when Namma Metro services resume. BMRCL, in its SOP, has reduced the top-up duration of smart cards from 60 days to seven days. This means that commuters have to charge/activate their smart cards within seven days of making online payment by using the card at least once. BMRCL Managing Director Ajay Seth said that once a passenger activates the card, there will not be any time limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-changes-top-up-rules/article32527970.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Black Day’ to highlight grievances||On Saturday, many teachers and school managements will mark the day as a ‘Black Day’ to highlight the problems they have been facing. Thousands of teachers in private unaided schools have lost their jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said teachers would wear a black band and stage a protest on Saturday and demand the government’s intervention to resolve their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-day-to-highlight-grievances/article32528010.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Postings||The State government on Thursday cancelled the transfer order of C.K. Baba, posting him as Deputy Commissioner of Police, North East Division, Bengaluru. It transferred three police officers and their new postings are: Bheemashankar S. Guled, SP, Criminal Investigation Department, Bengaluru; S. Girish, SP, Ramanagaram district; and Anoop A. Shetty, Commandant, 9th Battalion, KSRP, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/postings/article32528018.ece
05 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold loan road show held (Advertisement Department request - from Mr. M.R. Prasad, through CoB).||To popularise gold loan, Canara Bank, Circle Office, Bengaluru, on Thursday organised a road show. The bank said this is an opportunity for its customers and those who don't have an account to open gold loan accounts. Loans of up to Rs. 20 lakh will be offered at lowest interest rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-loan-road-show-held-advertisement-department-request-from-mr-mr-prasad-through-cob/article32527969.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru/Hassan/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Teachers forced to take up odd jobs to make ends meet||An increasing number of teachers and lectures in private institutions are exchanging the tools of their trade — the traditional chalk and duster — with paintbrushes, shovels, and weighing scales to make ends meet. While some have had no choice as they have been rendered unemployed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, others have had to make do with sharp pay cuts. Many continue to teach online, but are only paid by the hour and are finding it difficult to sustain their livelihood. As a result, teachers are working in farms, selling vegetables on the street, and becoming painters.School managements say they are unable to collect school fees and are left with no money to pay salaries. Teachers who normally do not have high salaries also did not have savings to fall back on. Sudha Srinivas, a mathematics teacher in a Bengaluru school, said she started making food products over the past few weeks as she had to take a steep cut in her salary. “From May to July, we were paid 50% of our salary, but now we are being paid 25%,” she said. Her priority, however, still remains her online classes. “I conduct online classes and the management has told me that they will pay us by the hour but cannot guarantee us when the payment is made. So I look at my daily schedule, finish my online classes and then start making food products such as rasam powder and other masalas,” she said. Full of remorse This Teachers’ Day, her heart is full of remorse. Ms. Srinivas chose this profession as she wanted to influence and nurture a generation of students. “The profession has given us so much love and respect, but that alone cannot fill our stomach,” she said. Some teachers, however, have decided to give up this profession. Mohan M., a physical education teacher in a private school in Devanahalli town, Bengaluru Rural, who had been in the profession for 12 years, now finds himself working as a painter.“I will never return to the school again. Over the last few months, I have felt extremely dejected about my profession. I joined this profession to give it my all and at a time when I needed it the most, it failed me. This pandemic has been an eye-opener,” he said. Having trained students who are now State- and national-level sportspersons, he said that although it pains him to leave the profession, he had to look at other means to support his family. “I get Rs. 300 a day as a painter. If someone pays me more, I am even ready to become a sweeper,” he said. Arun Kumar M., who has been working as a lecturer in a private first-grade college in Davangere, has put up a mobile vegetable shop at Vidya Nagar in Davangere city. He set up his shop two months ago and now he earns Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 a day after working nearly 10 hours. A postgraduate in Commerce, he taught at Chanakya First Grade College as a guest faculty where he earned around Rs. 10,000 a month. He took private tuitions and was also running his computer institute, where he taught a few courses for beginners. “I was earning up to Rs. 50,000 a month from all sources and that was more than sufficient for my family. But with the lockdown, everything shut down,” he said. “A few days after I opened the shop, a couple of my students visited me. I told them my story and they became my regular customers. They campaigned for my shop in the locality,” he said and added that he hopes to return to the college from October. Shivalingappa Ramangouda, a teacher from Melkundi village in Kalaburagi taluk, was teaching English in a private school and earned Rs. 8,000 a month. As his school is closed, he has become an agricultural labourer and depends on daily wages to make ends meet.  (With inputs from Tanu Kulkarni in Bengaluru, Sathish G.T. in Hassan, and Praveen B. Para in Kalaburagi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-forced-to-take-up-odd-jobs-to-make-ends-meet/article32528013.ece
05 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||KSOU courses have been digitised with launch of app, says V-C||Vidyashankar S., Vice-Chancellor of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), has said that the courses of the open university have been digitised now with the launch of the KSOU- Student App. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Prof. Vidyashankar said that through the app the students, registering for the open distance learning (ODL) courses, can access notes pertaining to the subjects, complete the admission process, and also attend classes. He said that the University Grants Commission (UGC) had granted recognition to KSOU for five years from 2018-19 to 2022-23. “As per the ODL regulations of the UGC, KSOU is the only university in the country to get recognition for five years. KSOU will provide education to all those who have been not been able to pursue the regular courses,” he said. Prof. Vidyashankar also said that a separate wing had been set up for skill development through which training programmes were being conducted across the State. Separate libraries were being set up at regional centres of the KSOU and steps were being taken for separate contact centres for women at regional centres. The university also planned to hold a monthly videoconference between the Vice-Chancellor, regional directors, and students at the regional centres, he said. The Vice-Chancellor said that for the first time an open university had set up a placement cell and appointed special officer to head it. The university had also conducted a job fair, he said. He said that 18 candidates, who had secured various degrees from the university, had succeeded in entering the Karnataka Administrative Services this time. To a query, he said that the university had set a target of providing admission to 1 lakh students during the academic year 2020-21. Member of board of management of KSOU Raghu Akmanchi said that it had been planned to set up a high-tech campus of the KSOU in Hubballi and Dharwad. A memorandum in this regard seeking land had been submitted to the chairman of the Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Develoment Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksou-courses-have-been-digitised-with-launch-of-app-says-v-c/article32528199.ece
05 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Will address planters’ woes: Nirmala||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman, on Friday, said the Centre would take appropriate measures to address the problems faced by planters in Chikkamagaluru district. She conducted an online video conversation with elected representatives and planters. Responding to problems shared by the planters’ community, she said she was aware that growers of coffee, pepper, areca in the district were hit by drought and then floods. Many had not been able to recover from the financial crisis. “We will take measures after discussing these issues with the officers concerned,” she said. The planters appealed to the Minister to take up measures to relieve them. Many had lost crops in the heavy rains and landslips. They were not in a position to repay loans, they said. They also requested her not to force the planters to file income returns. The meeting was held at Zilla Panchayat auditorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-address-planters-woes-nirmala/article32528202.ece
05 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Yakshagana Academy announces annual awards||The Karnataka Yakshagana Academy on Friday announced its annual awards, 2019, including the Parthi Subba Award to eminent Yakshagana playwright and Talamaddale interpreter Ambathanaya Mudradi (Keshava Shettigar). Chairman M.A. Hegde announced the list at Bengaluru and said though the general meeting had selected the awardees in its meeting on March 5, the same could not be announced due to COVID-19. Subsequently, the general meeting ratified the list on August 25, he said. Born on June 4, 1935, Mr. Mudradi, a resident of Mudradi village in Hebri taluk of Udupi district, started his career as a primary school teacher. He has been office-bearer of teacher’ organisations, editor of magazines and member of text book committees. Mr. Mudradi participated in Talamaddale programmes as Arthadhari (interpreter) along with doyens, namely, Malpe Shankaranarayana Samaga, Sheni Gopalakrishna Bhat, Perla Krishna Bhat, Polya Dejappa Shetty, Kumble Sundar Rao and others. He also had written many Yakshagana Prasangas (episodes), including Pandu Charithre, Hanumadvilasa, Barkur Vaibhava, Nachiketha, Bhaktha Pralhada etc. He had been a recipient of Karnataka Rajyotsava Award in 2008. The Parthi Subba Award carries a Rs. 1 lakh purse. The academy has chosen five personalities for its Honourary Award. They are Chandrashekhar Damle, Anandarama Upadhya, Ramakrishna Gundi, K.C. Narayana and Chandru Kalenahalli. Mr. Damle, a resident of Sullia in Dakshina Kannada, was a doctorate degree holder from Pune University in Sociology. He has been active in many areas of Yakshagana, including amateur artist, playwright, director, publisher etc. Mr. Upadhya, a native of Chitrapadi in Udupi district and resident of Bengaluru, has been a researcher in Yakshagana and has the credit of writing a doctoral thesis for the first time on Yakshagana. Mr. Gundi, who too is doctorate holder, began his career as a lecturer at the Gokhale Centenary College, Ankola in Uttara Kannada in 1975. An avid artist, he was famous for the Kaurava role in Gadayuddha prasanga, which he performed 150 times. Mr. Narayana from Doddaballapura has been a Moodalapalya Yakshagana artist and organiser. Mr. Kalenahalli, a doctorate holder on Soliga tribe, had been the Secretary and Principal of Adichunchanagiri Institutions, Channarayapatna. He too is an eminent interpreter of Moodalapaya Yakshagana. The award carries Rs. 50,000 purse. The Yakshasiri annual award was announced for Nellur Janardhana Acharya, Ubaradka Umesh Shetty, Kuriya Ganapathi Shastri, Argod Mohandas Shenoy, Mohammed Ghouse, Ramachandra Hegde, M.N. Hegde, Haradi Sarvottama Ganiga, Mukhaveene Rajanna and A.G. Ashwathanarayana. The award carries Rs. 25,000 purse. Hosthota Manjunath Bhagavat, Krishnaprakash Ulithaya and Chikkanna Yannekatte were chosen for the book award that carries a Rs. 25,000 purse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-yakshagana-academy-announces-annual-awards/article32528193.ece
05 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||22 teachers from Dakshina Kannada to be felicitated||As many as 22 teachers from primary and secondary schools in Dakshina Kannada have been selected for the district-level ‘Best Teacher’ award. The awards will be presented at a function at Canara School, Urwa, on Saturday. The seven teachers to get the award from the lower primary section are: K. Ismali, assistant teacher, Alake Majalu, Bantwal; Chaitraprabha Shrishyam, assistant teacher, Rakteshwari Padavu, Belthangady; Harinakshi, assistant teacher, Tannirbhavi, Mangaluru; Radhakrishna Rao, Malar, Mangaluru; Ananth Padmanabh Jenni K.R, Kadandale, Moodbidri; P.S. Narayana, assistant teacher, Kundaje, Puttur, and Janaki K., assistant teacher, Banadka, Sullia. The seven teachers from the higher primary section are: Sangeeta Sharma P.G, assistant teacher, Maji, Bantwal; Sabeena, assistant teacher, Kunjattodi, Belthangady; Indravati N., assistant teacher, Gandhinagar, Mangaluru; M.H. Malar, Kotepura, Ullal; Janet Lobo, assistant teacher, Mantrady, Moodbidri; Prashant P.L, assistant teacher, Harady, Puttur, and Rekha Sarvottam Shet, assistant teacher, Idyadka, Sullia. The eight teachers from secondary school are: Radhakrishna Baliga, assistant teacher, Panemangaluru, Bantwal; Akkamma, assistant teacher, Kokkrady, Belthangady; Usman G., in-charge headmaster, Badaga Yakkar, Mangaluru; Jayashree, physical education teacher, Kinnikambla, Mangaluru; Vasanth, physical education teacher, Aliyuru, Moodbidri; Venkatesh Damle, assistant teacher, Ramakunja, Puttur; Taitus Verghese, assistant teacher, Panja, Sullia, and Shekar Naika, physical education teacher, SDM Mangalajyoti Integrated School, Vamanjoor, Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/22-teachers-from-dakshina-kannada-to-be-felicitated/article32528194.ece
05 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nine deaths, 614 new cases in DK, Udupi||Seven COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died while 428 new cases were detected in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. With the discharge of 222 patients, the number of active cases in the district was 2,904. Of the new patients, 227 were symptomatic while 201 were asymptomatic, stated the bulletin by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. In Udupi Two COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died while 186 new cases were detected in Udupi on Friday. As many as 332 patients were discharged and the active cases in the district was 1,967. Of the new patients, 120 were symptomatic while 66 were asymptomatic, the Udupi district administration bulletin stated. 9,366 cases in Hassan The total number of COVID-19 infected persons in Hassan increased to 9,366 on Friday, with 340 fresh cases reported on the day. Two more people died on the day, increasing the total deaths to 211. So far 6,112 have recovered and 3,043 are under treatment. Among them, 51 are in the ICU. Among the new cases reported, eight are from Alur, 43 from Arakalgud, 44 from Arsikere, 19 from Belur, 51 from Channarayapatna, 129 from Hassan, 32 from Holenarasipur and 14 from Sakaleshpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-deaths-614-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article32528196.ece
05 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested||The Puttur Town police arrested two people allegedly involved in illegal transportation of cattle on Thursday. The police identified the accused as K. Shivaprasad Bhat, 52, and Chandran T., 34, Palar Bandadka of Kasaragod. The police said they were carrying a calf in an inhuman manner in a car. They did not have any documents authorising movement of the calf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested/article32528197.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||They go beyond the call of duty to ensure that no child is left behind||While many students in private schools are able to learn through their online classes, their peers in government and aided schools have not been so fortunate. But some teachers are knocking on the doors of their students under the Department of Primary and Secondary Education’s Vidyagama programme. Here are profiles of three teachers who have gone beyond the call of duty to help their students pick up new skills during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Mobile lab From the last one month, Shashi Kumar B.S., a science teacher at the Government High School, Yelekyatanahalli, Nelamangala, Bengaluru Rural district, has been travelling with his laboratory kit to six villages near his school. He asks students to bring a few household items such as citrus fruits and baking soda, which he uses to demonstrate experiments at a common space in each village. His mobile lab is stocked with small beakers, test tubes, spatula, litmus paper, etc. “This kind of learning is a good opportunity for students to see science in their everyday life as they are involved in hands-on activity,” he said. As these “classes” are conducted in smaller groups, he is able to give students individual attention. After Mr. Kumar demonstrates the experiments, he asks the students to write notes about what they learnt. Several students in his school are children of migrant labourers who have now moved temporarily to Chitradurga, Raichur, Bagalkot, Ballari, and Sira. He conducts classes on Google Meet between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m. five days a week for them.  Personal attention Forty-six-year-old Lakshmidevi A., a primary school teacher who teaches Kannada and science, has been experimenting with teaching methods to ensure that all her students are able to pick up new skills and also get access to her worksheets and assignments during the pandemic. Before the Department of Primary and Secondary Education launched the Vidyagama programme, Ms. Lakshmidevi and her colleagues at the Government Higher Primary School, Cauverypuram, tried to get in touch with students through social networking platforms. “I would send them assignments on WhatsApp, ask them to complete it and send it to me. But many students did not have access to smartphones so I would talk to them on the phone and ask them to do a few assignments,” she said. She maintains individual files of all her students and monitors the academic progress of her students who have migrated temporarily to north Karnataka. Ms. Lakshmidevi, who has spent over two-and-a-half decades as a teacher, said that although she was initially worried about her health, she mustered the courage to make house calls. “As there is a lack of space in the city, I call my students to parks and sometimes we sit on pavements in front of their homes,” she said.  Taking the risk Riding her two-wheeler R. Manjula reached the Government Lower Primary School at Kodase, about 9 km from Hosanagar taluk centre in Shivamogga district, on August 26. After attending routine work in school, she had plans to reach her Class 2 student Prakash’s place to teach him for a few hours as part of the Vidyagama programme. On her way, Ms. Manjula was stopped by three masked men, who took her chain, rings, and bangles at knifepoint. “Normally, I don’t wear jewellery whenever I go out to work. But, that day I had attended a festival at my mother’s house. They took away 97 grams of gold I had purchased spending my savings in the 18-year service as a teacher,” said the 41-year-old. She works in the school with only two students. During the lockdown, she pays a visit to both the students and spends a couple of hours at each house every day. “As per the norms, we cannot conduct classes in the school, even if the number of students is as low as two. We have to visit students’ places and make them study,” she said. With the lockdown in effect, buses were stopped, forcing her to depend on her two-wheeler. “Like me, many teachers are travelling in remote areas alone to teach students during this lockdown. We are going through a different experience altogether,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/they-go-beyond-the-call-of-duty-to-ensure-that-no-child-is-left-behind/article32528017.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cases in State cross 9,000 mark again||After seeing a marginal dip in the number of cases on Thursday, Karnataka reported 9,280 cases on Friday, taking the total tally to 3,79,486. This is the fourth time since August 27 that the number of cases have crossed 9,000. On Wednesday, the State had seen the highest single-day increase of 9,860 cases. While 9,386 cases were reported on August 27, as many as 9,058 cases were reported on September 1. The death toll touched 6,170 on Friday with 116 new deaths. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. In the last one week alone, the State added 802 deaths to its toll. The number of recoveries have been on a steady rise. With 6,161 persons discharged on Friday, the total number of recoveries touched 2,74,196. Of the 99,101 active cases, 785 are being monitored in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,963 cases and 25 deaths on Friday. With this, the total number of cases in Bengaluru Urban touched 1,41,664, and the death toll 2,091.  Karnataka, which continues to remain in fourth position in the country in terms of total number of cases and recoveries, now has the third highest number of active cases. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh continue to be in first and second position, respectively. As many as 73,192 tests, including 31,641 rapid antigen tests, were conducted in the last 24 hours. Apart from 2,963 in Bengaluru Urban, Friday’s caseload included 776 in Mysuru, 447 in Ballari, 428 in Dakshina Kannada, 424 in Tumkuru, 350 in Shivamogga, and 340 in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-in-state-cross-9000-mark-again/article32528024.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||E-auction of BDA corner sites begins on Sept. 9||As many as 402 sites of different dimensions in Arkavathi Layout, HSR Layout, Sir M. Visweshwaraiah Layout, J.P. Nagar, Banashankari and Jnanabharathi Layout will be available in the e-auction of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). The public can bid online through e-procurement and participate in the e-auction to purchase sites. The auction is being held in six phases. A release on Friday said that the auction will commence on September 9 at 11 a.m. According to the schedule of the e-auction, the first phase will be on September 9 for which the last date for bidding is September 25. The sixth and last phase begins on September 15 and the last date for bidding is October 3. The release said geo-mapping has been implemented on the BDA website for all auctioned sites to enable bidders to view locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-auction-of-bda-corner-sites-begins-on-sept-9/article32527978.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No more villages will be added to BBMP limits||The joint select committee, which met on Friday to discuss 40 issues, is not considering adding 65 villages to the BBMP limits. However, increasing the number of wards from 198 to 225 is on the cards. BJP MLA S. Raghu, who was part of the meeting, clarified that the BBMP limits would not be increased further and there was no proposal either before the State government or select committee to add 65 villages abutting the city. However, on Thursday, following a Cabinet meeting, Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy had hinted otherwise. Sources in the ruling BJP had also said there was a proposal to bring in 65 villages, especially those in the Electronics City-Sarjapura stretch, that had already been urbanised. “While the limits will not be increased, the number of wards will be increased from 198 to 225. Many of the outer areas have seen a lot of growth in population over the past decade. The number of wards in the five outer zones will be increased,” Mr. Raghu said and admitted that the basic civic infrastructure development in these areas has not been commensurate with the growth in population. He said the committee was also looking to adapt several recommendations of the BBMP Restructuring Committee Report and S. Kasturirangan Committee Report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-more-villages-will-be-added-to-bbmp-limits/article32527972.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||4-acre plot set aside for Classical Kannada centre||The University of Mysore (UoM) on Friday got the Syndicate approval for handing over a four-acre plot on the Manasagangotri campus to the State government for establishing the Centre for Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK), which is presently functioning at the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) here. Last month, a meeting chaired by Minister for Kannada and Culture and Tourism C.T. Ravi in Bengaluru had asked the UoM to hand over 10 acres of its land on the Chamundi foothills for establishing the CESCK. Since the UoM had already planned to develop its second campus on the 23-acre plot on the Chamundi Hills Road, the authorities suggested alternative land within the campus. Kannada Development Authority chairman T.S. Nagabharana and CIIL director D.G. Rao had inspected the land along with university officials. UoM Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar told The Hindu that the university’s decision and the Syndicate approval would be formally communicated to the government for further action. Autonomy awaited Meanwhile, the government is still awaiting a decision from the Centre on giving autonomous status to the CESCK which was established nine years ago and functions under the CIIL. Mr. Ravi had sought an autonomous Central Institute of Classical Kannada (CICK) on the request of writers and Kannada activists in a bid to expedite research and academic work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-acre-plot-set-aside-for-classical-kannada-centre/article32528008.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘State govt. will set up panel to identify, remove encroachments’||“The government will complete the pending work of the relocation of villages that are likely to be flooded, based on the aggregated data of earlier years,” he said. He said the government was committed to ending the drug menace. “We will take strict action against whoever is involved in the drug business. We will ensure that raids will be conducted in schools and colleges and other places,” he said. The government had decided to withdraw cases filed against Kannada and Marathi activists in Peeranwadi village. “Since the cases are still at preliminary investigation levels, they can be withdrawn at the district-level. We don’t need to go to the State government for it,” he said. He said he would ask officers to examine the legality behind the complaints raised by some Kannada organisations about the installation of the board in Peeranwadi. He added that he would look into complaints that the Suvarna Soudha was suffering due to lack of proper maintenance. He said he would go to New Delhi to seek the Union government’s nod for the Kalasa Banduri drinking water projects. “The old proposal has lapsed. I had gone to meet Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat with a fresh proposal. But he was in quarantine. I will go again this week,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-will-set-up-panel-to-identify-remove-encroachments/article32528203.ece
05 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Work on faulty part of pipeline in October||The much-delayed work to replace 1,524 m of defective pipeline under the Alappuzha drinking water project is likely to begin next month. As per the decision, 1,084 m of faulty pipeline at Thakazhy and another 440 m at Kelamangalam will be replaced. The Alappuzha drinking water project was executed by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) with Central assistance under the Urban Infrastructure Development Scheme for Small and Medium Towns (UIDSSMT) in 2017. However, since its launch, pipelines have burst more than 45 times, a majority of them at Thakazhy, in the past three years, disrupting supply to Alappuzha municipality and eight nearby grama panchayats along with damaging the Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla road. Last month, the pipeline burst twice — one each at Thakazhy and Kelamangalam. Although a high-level meeting convened by Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty in November 2019 decided to replace the defective pipeline in three months, the process got delayed largely due to a lack of permission from the Public Works Department for digging the road. Further, as directed by the government, the KWA prepared a tentative schedule for starting the pipe-relaying work on March 18. However, the work never got off due to COVID-19. Pipes ready A. Sheeja, project manager, UIDSSMT, said they now hoped to begin the work after the end of the southwest monsoon. “As per the government decision, we are going to carry out the work after digging the road. The pipes needed for the work have already been brought to the worksite. For restoring the road after completing the pipeline work, we have submitted a Rs. 4.91 crore estimate to the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), the owner of the road, for vetting. Although the PWD has already given its nod through a government order, we will start the work only after getting permission from the KRFB. As the water table is high in September, we hope to begin the work by October or November after getting the final nod,” Ms. Sheeja says. She said a 55-day window would be needed to complete the entire work. Officials said 1,000-mm high-density polyethylene pipe would be replaced with 900-mm mild steel pipe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-faulty-part-of-pipeline-in-october/article32528375.ece
05 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Bank theft: probe team expanded||The police team probing the Karuvatta bank theft case has been expanded. As per the direction of District Police Chief P.S. Sabu, an expert team led by Additional Superintendent of Police N. Rajan has been entrusted with the investigation. Kayamkulam Dy.SP Alex Baby, the Haripad and Mavelikara Circle Inspectors and cyber cell officials are part of the 15-member team. Officials said they were yet to find any concrete lead in the case. “We have decided to split the team into two groups to conduct the investigation. The probe has been extended to neighbouring States too,” said an official. Reward for info The official added that the district police would reward those who provided important information on the bank theft. The identity of persons who pass on information would be kept secret. At least 4.5 kg of gold ornaments and Rs. 4.5 lakh cash were stolen from the Karuvatta Service Cooperative Bank. The incident came to light on Thursday when the bank reopened after Onam holidays. The burglars entered the bank by breaking open a window and they looted gold and cash kept in two safes in the strong room. The CCTV hard disk and computers were also stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-theft-probe-team-expanded/article32528376.ece
05 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||106 cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 106 COVID-19 cases on Friday. Of the total cases, 93 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Five health workers, five persons who came from abroad, and three from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.  Ward 14 in Cheppad, parts of ward 10 and 8 in Chunakkara grama panchayat, ward 4 in Kayamkulam and parts of ward 41 in Alappuzha municipality were declared containment zones. Authorities have decided to open the Cherthala market from Saturday with restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/106-cases-in-alappuzha/article32528377.ece
05 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Glass factory staff seek govt. takeover||Members of the Excel Glass Employees Union staged a dharna in front of the factory at Pathirappally on Friday demanding that the State government take over the defunct factory. It was inaugurated by All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) district secretary V. Mohandas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/glass-factory-staff-seek-govt-takeover/article32528310.ece
05 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two officers suspended||District Collector H. Dinesan has suspended two officials of the Assistant Cardamom Office at Kumily for assigning government land at Chinnakanal in Devikulam taluk for 20 years in violation of the Kuthakapattom rules (lease of poramboke land). The suspended officials are Haris Ibrahim, deputy tahsildar, and Balamurugan, a clerk. An inquiry found that the land assigned was an encroached area. The Kuthakapattom was allowed for nearly four acres of government land in survey number 34/1 at Cementpalam in Chinnakanal to Thomas Kuruvila.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-officers-suspended/article32528371.ece
05 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Journalist assault: 7 held||The police have arrested seven persons in connection with the attack on Jomon V. Xavier, district reporter of Janayugom daily, at Thodupuzha on August 31. They were arrested from a hideout at Vannapuram and were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/journalist-assault-7-held/article32528372.ece
05 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Tribal woman’s death: auto driver held||The police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old autorickshaw driver in connection with the death of a tribal woman who was found hanging. The arrested has been identified as Vipin from Kolayat at Iritty. The accused after killing the 35-year-old woman, a native of Mannancherry in Kottiyoor, hanged her to make it appear as a suicide. The accused had met the victim on Facebook. The body was found at Maloor on August 28. During the investigation, the police suspected the role of Vipin after going through the phone records of the victim. The police said the accused had promised to marry her. However, they fell out on finding that he was already married. However, the victim insisted him to marry her. The accused took her to Maloor to convince her. However, they had an altercation and he strangled her to death at a secluded place. He then hanged the body in a tree, the police said. He also took her ornaments and mobile phone, which were later recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-womans-death-auto-driver-held/article32528305.ece
05 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||COVID patient found hanging in hospital toilet||A 60-year-old man diagnosed with COVID-19 was found hanging in a toilet in the Government Medical College Hospital at Pariyaram on Friday morning. According to the hospital authorities, the deceased, Raveendran, was a resident of Chala in Kannur. Raveendran, an autorickshaw driver, had taken his ailing wife to the hospital on Thursday evening. Both of them later tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and were hospitalised. On Friday, he went missing and after a search his body was found in the toilet. The police have filed a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484 2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495 2760000 and DISHA - 1056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-patient-found-hanging-in-hospital-toilet/article32528267.ece
05 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Cases spike in Kasaragod, 236 test positive||As many as 236 persons tested positive for SARS-COV-2 in Kasaragod on Friday. Of them, 225 contracted the infection through contact, while five persons came from other States and six from abroad. Seventy persons turned negative and were discharged on Friday. Meanwhile, 6,058 people are under observation. They include 5,147 in home quarantine and 911 in institutional observation. In Thrissur As many as 59 COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the Kerala Police Academy in Thrissur on Friday. In all, 204 persons tested positive for the virus in the district, and 200 cases were through local contact. The source of infection in 18 cases is not known. While 140 persons recovered, the number of active cases stands at 1,446. So far, 5,017 cases have been reported in the district. In all, 9,175 people are under observation. In Malappuram Malappuram district saw 614 persons recovering from COVID-19 on Friday, the largest number on a single day. However, 178 persons tested positive in the district on Friday. While 161 of them contracted the infection through local contact, the source of infection could not be traced in eight cases. Seven cases came from abroad and two from other States. The number of infected persons being treated in the district came down to 1,826 on Friday. However, more than 48,000 people were quarantined. District officials said 8,083 people had recovered from the disease since March. In Kannur A total of 115 persons tested positive for the virus in Kannur on Friday. Of them, 101 contracted the infection through contract. While five are from other States, nine are health workers. A total of 3,998 cases have been reported in the district so far. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 42 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. While 22 cases were through local contacts, five came from other States and one from abroad. The source of infection in 14 cases could not be identified. Officials said 93 persons had recovered on Friday. The number of persons under treatment in the district fell to 551. In Wayanad As many as 84 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Friday. While 68 persons contracted the infection through local contact, six persons came from abroad and 10 from other States. With 28 more people recovering from the disease, there are 266 active cases in the district. A total of 2,892 people are under observation in the district.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Malappuram, Kannur, Palakkad and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-spike-in-kasaragod-236-test-positive/article32528270.ece
05 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Ganja seized||The Excise Department arrested a person and seized 18.5 kg of ganja from an apartment at Varkody, Manjeswaram, in Kasaragod on Friday. The accused, Jabir, was arrested after an excise team carried out a raid and seized the contraband kept in two gunny bags in the apartment. The ganja was bought from Karnataka for sale in and around Kumbala, the police said. The raid was conducted by a team led by excise inspector N. Noufal based on a tip-off received by the Kasaragod Deputy Excise Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-seized-from-apartment-man-held/article32528303.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CM to open metro’s Pettah extension on Monday||Kochi metro’s Thykoodam-Petta stretch will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday, the very day that the metro will resume service after the five-month break in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol. By commissioning of the 1-km stretch, he will declare completion of Phase 1 of Kochi Metro (named the Blue Line). Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardip Singh Puri, will preside over the virtual inauguration which will be conducted over video conference. Mr. Vijayan and the Union Minister will flag off the first train from Petta at 12.30 p.m. “We are glad that we are extending services to the new station at Pettah on the very first day of resuming the metro,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, MD of KMRL. While DMRC and KMRL completed their share of works on the extension in March, the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS) inspected the stretch and issued safety certificate in May. The delay occurred due to the lockdown. COVID-19 protocol Meanwhile, KMRL has initiated measures to ensure safe travel in metro trains when they resume services on Monday. “The temperature within the metro trains will be maintained at 26 degree centigrade and relative humidity at 70 degrees, to enable safe commuting during the pandemic,” said A. Manikandan, general manager (operation and maintenance) of the metro agency. Trains would be disinfected after each return trip, he said. A total of 10 trains would operate initially, at a 10-minute frequency. The increase in “dwelling time” (halting time) at every station from 10 seconds to 20 seconds would marginally increase travel time in the Aluva-Pettah corridor from 45 minutes to 47 minutes. KMRL had already made it clear that it would not encourage cash transactions at metro stations to purchase tickets, to prevent currency notes becoming a medium that could spread the pandemic. Service schedule Trains will operate from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. and again from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m. on September 7 and 8. There will thus be no service between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. September 9, trains will operate every 10 minutes from 7 a.m. to 12 noon and from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m.For services between 12 noon and 2 p.m., the frequency will be every 20 minutes, KMRL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-metros-pettah-extension-on-monday/article32528275.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Closure of Munambam harbour deals another blow to fish workers||Discontent is brewing among fish workers and boat owners over the decision to shut down the Munambam fishing harbour for seven days from Saturday, in the face of a surge in COVID-19 cases in the region. The decision taken collectively by the district administration and Health and Fisheries departments has been conveyed to the Munambam Harbour Management Society. The harbour, which reopened after the trawling ban just about a fortnight ago, will remain closed at least until September 11. “The shutdown will take a heavy toll on the livelihood of fish workers and boat owners who have already suffered from the lockdown and inclement weather. Rather than closing the harbour down for a week, it could have been reopened after disinfection in a couple of days as was done in the case of a harbour at Kollam. That way, fish workers could have ventured out to sea and returned in time for the opening of the harbour,” said P.P. Gireesh, chairman of Matsya Mekhala Samrakshana Samithi, a collective of stakeholders related to fishing from the Vypeen-Munambam region. However, the Fisheries Department authorities pointed out that the situation was different at the Kollam harbour where the number of infected and test positivity rate were not as bad as at Munambam. “As of Friday, 21 have tested positive in Munambam, out of which 17 were found to be working at the harbour. So a closure of two or three days for disinfection is of little use,” said a senior Fisheries Department official. A meeting chaired by the local MLA on Friday asked the authorities concerned to adopt stringent measures to check the spread of the disease. Health authorities said permitting fishing boats to venture out to sea during the closure of the harbour defeated the purpose of checking the spread, considering that each boat employs around 10-15 workers. They also shared concerns over a potentially infected employee turning critical when the boat was away from the shore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/closure-of-munambam-harbour-deals-another-blow-to-fish-workers/article32528281.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Twenty20 chalks out expansion plan||Twenty20, the apolitical corporate-backed charity outfit that swept into power in Kizhakkambalam panchayat dismantling the game plan of mainstream political parties in the last local body polls, is gearing up to expand its footprint to more local bodies. The outfit has declared that it will field candidates in all 19 wards in Mazhuvannoor panchayat and all 14 wards in Aikkaranadu panchayat, while contesting in Kunnathunadu and Vengola panchayats is also on its radar. The expansion strategy is apparently based on a study the outfit has conducted. “The idea is to take the benefit of the Twenty20 experiment to more people in contiguous panchayats. We will retain our distance from religious, communal and political outfits,” said Sabu M. Jacob, businessman and chief mentor of Twenty20. Candidates declared The organisation has already declared its candidates for all 19 wards in Kizhakkambalam panchayat and even claims to have wrapped up its first-round campaign though the elections remain yet to be notified. The candidates for Mazhuvannoor and Aikkaranadu panchayats are likely to be announced at the high-level organisational meeting to be held on Sunday. “A decision is yet to be made on whether or not to contest in all wards in Kunnathunadu and Vengola panchayats,” said Mr. Jacob. Twenty20 had won 17 out of the 19 wards in Kizhakkambalam panchayat in the last elections. According to Mr. Jacob, the target this time is to make a clean sweep. Poll manifesto He said the organisation would not issue any election manifesto in the panchayat, but would come up with a report card on its hits and misses and reasons behind the misses. “In the other panchayats we are contesting, we will have a single-line manifesto of making every household peaceful and happy. The idea is to make happiness index the yardstick of good governance,” said Mr. Jacob.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twenty20-chalks-out-expansion-plan/article32528285.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat graduates beat COVID blues||A Dutch shipyard operating in the UAE has hired three naval architecture and shipbuilding graduates of the Department of Ship Technology of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) with an annual salary package of over Rs. 15 lakh each. K. Sivaprasad, placement advisor, said about 80% of students who graduated had got placement despite the scourge of the pandemic threatening to hamper their employment prospects. “The offer from the Dutch company Albwardy Damen stands as a special recognition for the department, especially when the international industrial sector is struggling under the pandemic,” said Mr. Sivaprasad Mathiazhagan, Head, DoST, said that the department had made its strong presence in the global maritime domain with this international placement record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-graduates-beat-covid-blues/article32528280.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cases soar as 274 more test positive||Barring three people, all the 274 who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Friday contracted the disease through local transmission. As many as 69 migrant workers at a private enterprise at Payipra and four health workers of a private hospital and three hospital employees were among the newly-infected. A total of 185 patients have recovered from the infection. As many as 2,931 people were added to the list of those under disease surveillance on Friday, which has taken the number of those under observation to 17,372. According to official figures, the district has 2,327 active patients.  Meanwhile, the functioning of Chottanikkara police station was hit after the sub inspector was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday night. The development has sent around 21 police officers at the station into quarantine. The station was disinfected and is being run using police officers drawn from four different stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-soar-as-274-more-test-positive/article32528279.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Meet on KBIC held||Aimed at giving a fillip to the Kochi Bangalore Industrial Corridor (KBIC), the National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation Ltd (NICDC) conducted a kick-off meeting with the master planning design agency CH2M HILL (India) Private Limited in consortium with CH2M HILL International Ltd (Jacobs Engineering Group), and urged the agency to complete the master planning activities in a time-bound manner. The agency was appointed for developing Smart Integrated Manufacturing Cluster at Palakkad and Kochi Global Industrial Finance and Trade City. The CEO and MD of NICDC K. Sanjay Murthy and Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) Alkesh Kumar Sharma attended the meeting conducted via video conference in which officials of Jacobs participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-on-kbic-held/article32528277.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Jafar Malik to head CSML||Jafar Malik, an IAS officer of the 2013 batch, has joined as the new Chief Executive Officer of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) on Friday. He was the District Collector of Malappuram. “I am so excited to take charge as the CEO of Cochin Smart Mission Limited. It is performing progressively and it was ranked 10th in its performance. We hope we can complete projects by their respective deadlines. Once they are over, Kochi will be smart, sustainable and eco-friendly,” he said. Alkesh Kumar Sharma, who was heading CSML, handed over the charge on Friday. After taking charge, Mr. Malik held discussions with officials of the agency. A native of Rajasthan, he also served as the Director of Department of Social Justice and as the Additional Director General, Kerala Tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jafar-malik-to-head-csml/article32528276.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bus workers booked for death of passenger||The Udayamperoor police have registered a case against the employees of a private bus after their alleged callousness and negligence led to the death of a passenger who developed discomfort during the course of a journey on Thursday afternoon. The case has been registered against the driver and conductor of the bus operating on the Poothotta-Ernakulam route based on a petition filed by the family of the deceased. The deceased, Pushpangadan, 57, of Vailyakulam, was a cardiac patient. According to the police, the bus workers turned a blind eye to the discomfort of the man for almost nine kilometres and left him unattended at the last stop, Poothotta. Though the man’s family rushed him to the taluk hospital at Thripunithura, his life could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-workers-booked-for-death-of-passenger/article32528282.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea for involving legal service authorities dismissed||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has dismissed a plea for involving the legal service authorities in the settlement of issues relating to expatriates. The court observed that engagement of legal service authorities or any direction in that regard would not be feasible and efficacious, especially due to the fact that the involvement of External Affairs Ministry was required to sort out the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-for-involving-legal-service-authorities-dismissed/article32528288.ece
05 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam sees highest spike at 248||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district touched 1,567 on Friday with 248 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. The highest single-day spike so far, it includes 241 contact cases, one health worker, five persons from abroad, and one person who had travelled from Delhi. The Health Department has also confirmed that the death of a 61-year-old Kallumthazham resident is owing to COVID-19. She had died on August 30. The health worker who tested positive is a 30-year-old Kottankara resident who has been working at the Primaray Health Centre, Thalachira. The district had reported an increase in caseload during the past week with 234 persons testing positive last Saturday (August 29) while the number of new patients were 156 and 176 on Friday and Thursday respectively. New cluster According to health officials, Kollam Corporation and Thrikkadavur reported maximum contact cases on Friday while Anugraha Nagar in the city has developed a new cluster. “The contact started with a case from Kavanad and today 23 persons from the high-risk category tested positive. We have started one more mobile surveillance unit and steps are being taken to attend to the needs of children and elderly persons who are left alone when all other family members test positive,” said deputy DMO R. Sandhya. The Health Department is also trying to spread awareness about home care of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients since neighbours came out protesting at some places. At present, the district has over 30 patients in home isolation who are in continuous contact with the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-sees-highest-spike-at-248/article32528379.ece
05 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||178 cases in Kottayam||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 178 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Friday. Of these, 177 contracted the virus through local contact. Kottayam municipality reported 28 cases, followed by Erattupetta with 19 cases. Thiruvarppu witnessed 18 cases while cases were also reported from Kurichy, Ettumanoor, Kooroppada and Thrikkodithanam. With 11 recoveries during the day, Kottayam currently has 1,543 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/178-cases-in-kottayam/article32528373.ece
05 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Teaching a new ball game with online classes||COVID-19 has brought along with it perhaps the biggest challenge a teacher could face. Teaching virtually has turned out to be a whole new ball game for them, but they have been at the forefront of adapting to the changes that the pandemic has forced upon society. Yet, they would all love to go back to school as soon as possible. This Teachers’ Day, as the State honours its most important link of nation building, the festivities, though limited in scale, too have gone virtual.  Lack of proper interaction is taking a toll on teachers and students, with both facing some sort of psychological trauma. Teachers feel that teacher-student interactions are limited as classes have gone online. “Teacher-student interactions have become too mechanical,” observes Varughese Mathew, Principal of Sr. Xaviers’ Arts and Science College in Kozhikode, who has decades of experience as a physics teacher. Lack of proper interaction is affecting the mental health of both students and teachers, he adds. Teachers are also facing too much of a challenge, as they need to cope with a situation in which not just students but their parents too attending classes. “Teachers need to be on alert as parents may also pose queries,” says Vadayakkandy Narayanan, a higher secondary teacher from Vadakara and pioneer of the SAVE movement, explaining that teachers have an added responsibility now due to parental interventions. “Classes are not limited to 35-50 students as they used to be. Each class is accessible globally. As a result, teachers are facing the challenge of updating themselves,” says Prof. Mathew. “On the other hand, parents have started sharing some of the responsibilities of teachers, as they monitor academic activities of their children,” says Mr. Narayanan. Teachers also find many positive aspects in the current education system, as it has opened a wide digital world before students, teachers, as well as parents, who, though, despite the initial glitches, have adapted well to it. “A trend these days is that students who used to be a bit inattentive and weak in classes have started excelling, better than bright students sometimes, in the online classes,” notes Mr. Narayanan. About 20% of the students are lagging behind in the activities assigned by teachers, he says. Minister’s message Teachers should be advocates of modernity and humanism, Minister for Education C. Ravindranath has said. In a message to teachers on the occasion of Teachers’ Day on Saturday, the Minister said society expected the most of teachers, and it was their duty to live up to it and rise further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teaching-a-new-ball-game-with-online-classes/article32528304.ece
05 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Food units run by women entrepreneurs take a hit||The huge drop in patronage owing to COVID-19 regulations has badly affected food-based ventures, including traditional messes and food joints, run by women entrepreneurs in Kozhikode district. Ventures by women from low-income groups are the worst-hit. Doorstep delivery of food and home-made snacks too came to an end with the temporary closure of offices and work-from-home system adopted by companies. The owner of a mess run by women near Arayidathupalam said several workers had became jobless after the closure of the unit. “Though we tried to resume the business by delivering parcels, takers were minimal, and we were forced to close it,” she said. A number of women self-help groups (SHGs), which were earlier engaged in food-based ventures under various government schemes, are also facing hard times because of the loss of a steady income from outdoor sales or doorstep delivery. According to members of various SHGs, they may not be even able to pay the monthly instalments for loans taken to start such units. District Kudumbashree Mission coordinator Kavitha Satyan said one of the worst-hit enterprises by Kudumbashree entrepreneurs in the district is the home-shop business, which had around 1,000 active owners. The business, which helped entrepreneurs sell home-made products, worth Rs. 5 crore every year is now off track, she added. “For a few women-led catering units, the sole relief now is the contract for supplying food to various first-line treatment centres. However, the business of joint liability groups earlier engaged in the production of cottage food ventures is totally down,” said Ms. Sathyan. She hoped that the Rebuild Kerala project of the State government would come up with some more relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-units-run-by-women-entrepreneurs-take-a-hit/article32528265.ece
05 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two new species of cockroach wasps found||In a significant development, researchers at the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Kozhikode, have discovered two new species of cockroach wasps in the Western Ghats. The species were discovered from Coonoor in Tamil Nadu and the Peppara Wildlife Sanctuary in Kerala. They belonged to the family Ampulicidae and hunted cockroaches to feed their larvae, thereby helping to control the natural population of cockroaches, P. M. Sureshan, P. Girish Kumar and Junior Research Fellow S. Anagha, the group of researchers which discovered the new species, said The new finds have been named Dolichurus sahyadriensis after Sahyadri or the Western Ghat mountain ranges and Dolichurus chareshi after C. Charesh, laboratory assistant attached to the ZSI, Kozhikode, who has contributed immensely for the collection of the species. The researchers said that the species Dolichurus chareshi was also found from the Aravalli mountain ranges of Rajasthan. Another wasp of the same genus, Dolichurus aridulus, known only from Sri Lanka was also recorded for the first time from Tamil Nadu and Kerala during their present study. With this, seven Dolichurus species are now listed from India, Ms. Anagha said. She said that the findings have been published in the latest issue of Zootaxa, an internationally peer- reviewed journal of animal taxonomy. She said that the wasps of the genus Dolichurus Latreille were among the smallest sphecoid wasps, commonly called ‘cockroach wasps’. These wasps use cockroaches as prey for their larvae and are generally seen on leaf litter, dead stumps, and on tree trunks. Dolichurus are distributed in the Nearctic , the Neotropical, the Palearctic, the Ethiopian, the Oriental and the Australian regions. A total of 51 species have been so far discovered globally with only eight from the Indian subcontinent. Of these, five, namely, Dolichurus amamiensis , Dolichurus albifacies , Dolichurus gilberti , Dolichurus taprobanae and Dolichurus venkataramani , are from India, Ms. Anagha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-new-species-of-cockroach-wasps-found/article32528287.ece
05 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||167 new positive cases reported in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district recorded 167 more COVID-19 cases on Friday, with 137 local transmission cases. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a press release that three health workers had also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. Kozhikode city recorded the highest number of local transmission cases at 54. Mavoor (20) and Velam (9) are close behind. Among the new positive cases are three persons who came from abroad and 12 who returned from other States, besides 15 cases in which the source of infection is unknown. 272 recover On the other hand, 272 persons were cured of the disease and discharged from treatment centres on Friday. So far, 4,505 people have been cured of the infection in the district, while 1,735 are under treatment. Meanwhile, 600 persons have been brought under observation. At present, there are 15,118 people under observation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/167-new-positive-cases-reported-in-kozhikode/article32528266.ece
05 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Lone treks to take joy of letters to tribal group||Come Teachers’ Day (September 5), dozens of tribal youth in a remote jungle hamlet called Alakkal will salute K. Narayanan, their lone teacher who dared the wild to reach out to them with the joy of letters and knowledge. Fondly called Mani Master, this man from Manimooly, near Vazhikkadavu, has been walking 28 km every day through the dense Nilambur forest to teach the Cholanaikar children of the Alakkal hamlet. In the past 30 years, Mr. Narayanan has brought about a perceptible change in the lone primitive tribal group in the Nilambur forest. The long walk through the elephant-infested jungle has become his routine, but never been safe. He escaped from elephants, bears, leopards and wild gaurs several times. He has chronicled 15 kills by elephants in the jungle that he traversed since 1990.  “I take this pain for a noble cause. I don’t think anyone else in the world is more satisfied than I am,” this alternative school teacher told The Hindu . When he reached Alakkal in 1990, the Cholanaikers there were living in caves, and they were half naked. Now they are living in huts and enjoying music and movies on smartphones. He pedals his bicycle for 4 km up to Anamari forest check-post, from where he walks 14 km through the forest. Except in summer, he swims across the Punnapuzha and Korampuzha streams as the recent floods destroyed the bridges across them. He has learned the language of Cholanaikars, a special slang of Kannada and Tamil mix. “Neen ellu odha (where are you going?),” he asked a child who ran past him with a puppy. Soon a group of children greeted him: “Makkei neen olla sela” (good morning, sir). Online classes He has begun offering online classes in Cholanaikar language on the special platform set up by the Samagra Siksha Kerala. He said the children were excited to attend the classes in their mother tongue. Till three years ago, alternative school teachers in the State used to get only Rs. 3,000 as honorarium. Over the past three years, it was raised to Rs. 18,325.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lone-treks-to-take-joy-of-letters-to-tribal-group/article32528312.ece
05 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||RFID-based access control system for mosques||A team of five young engineers, stuck in Alathur during the lockdown, has developed an access control system based on radio-frequency identification (RFID) for mosques to manage the COVID-19 challenge. According to the team, the system can be effectively used to maintain any public utility. The automated access system has been installed at seven mosques in and around Alathur. The system with inbuilt temperature screening facility identifies the person seeking entry into the mosque and grants access as per the COVID-19 protocol. Those below 10 years of age and above 60 years will be denied entry. Entry is also denied when there are 60 or 70 people inside the mosque. The door opens only if the person’s temperature is normal. “People inside mosques maintain a space of six feet between them. If there are enough people inside, the door will be opened only after a person leaves,” said Ramshad Basheer, a team member. Data, including a person’s age, travel history, entry and exit time, and temperature, will be stored locally on a chip as well as on Cloud. Using a single card, a person can enter any mosque within the network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rfid-based-access-control-system-for-mosques/article32528273.ece
05 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||141 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 141 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of these, 103 contracted the virus through local contact. Among the local contact cases, Kadakkad reported 222 cases while the clusters at Nellad and Kollakunnu Colony too reported cases. A 68-year-old woman from Kadapra succumbed to the infection at the Government Medical College, Alappuzha. The woman had been undergoing treatment for cancer and kidney-related ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/141-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32528374.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSTP-II achieves 89.9% target in road upgrade||The Kerala State Transport Project-Phase II has been able to achieve a physical progress of 89.9% in road upgradation in four packages and a financial progress of 87.89%. The World Bank-aided Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) is coming to an end in April 2021. The overall disbursement as of June 2020 is $111.71 million, which is 91.1% of the overall loan amount of $121 million committed in component, as per the half-yearly progress report for January-June 2020 prepared by the project management team of the KSTP. The project envisages upgradation of 363 km of State highways (SH) and main district roads (MDR), road safety management, and institutional strengthening of the Public Works Department. The project cost is $445 million, of which $216 million is loan assistance from the World Bank. The loan effectiveness date is September 6, 2013. The project implementation period was fixed for five years, till December 31, 2018 which was extended to April 2021 and the expected loan closing date is April 30, 2021. Strengthening of the Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) has been completed and the safe corridor demonstration project (SCDP) from Thycode near Kazhakuttam to Adoor completed as part of the KSTP Phase II. Consultancy for road user perception survey has been completed for 363 km of project roads through Sherwood Consultants and report had been shared with the World Bank. Consultancy for prioritisation and detailed project report (DPR) preparation for 1,000 km of improvement of State roads was entrusted with Egis India Consulting Engineers and the final report is ready. The DPR for the first 439 km has been completed. The preliminary project report for 1,106 km was submitted to the government for posting for external financial assistance. Consultancy for strategic option study (SOS) for 8,570 km newly declared MDR was completed by CDM Smith Associates. The study report has been handed over to the PWD and action to improve these roads will be taken using its own funds. Consultancy service for developing multi-model integrated transport hub at Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Kozhikode was completed and report is with the government. The strategic road network programme was replaced with key proposals as per the priorities of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kstp-ii-achieves-899-target-in-road-upgrade/article32528291.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Draft master plan for Corpn. getting ready||The Town Planning Department is now giving the finishing touches to the much-delayed draft master plan of the city Corporation. The draft plan is expected to be submitted to the civic body within a month, but with the local body elections scheduled to happen later this year, further discussions on the draft are set to be delayed further. “The document is being finalised. We expect to submit it to the Corporation at the earliest, probably in September itself. There was a delay of four to five months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to this, not all of the meetings planned before the preparation of the plan could happen. But, it will be entirely different from the previous draft master plan and will certainly not have issues for the public related to zoning regulations,” said an official of the Town Planning Department. Earlier plan withdrawn The Thiruvananthapuram draft master plan 2031, the previous version of the plan, was withdrawn in February 2014 following widespread public protests in the outer areas of the city, especially in Kattayikonam and Attipra, after people found their requests for building permits getting rejected as some of these areas were marked as strategic zones in the master plan. After its withdrawal, land use has been mainly governed by the interim development order, based on which building permit applications were either granted or rejected. The work on a revised draft master plan began early in 2017 with an initial deadline at the end of that year. However, the deadline was revised many times owing to technical and other issues. Surveys done Learning a lesson from the backlash received for the previous master plan, the city Corporation and the Town Planning Department have been cautious this time around, ensuring that the public is taken along at every phase of the preparation. The whole process began with a people’s aspiration survey. Socio-economic survey was conducted at 25,000 selected houses. Long wait The civic body also had a long wait of one-and-a-half years for the satellite images of the city from the National Remote Sensing Centre. To finalise the draft master plan, further discussions have to happen in the Corporation council, which can possibly be delayed due to the local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/draft-master-plan-for-corpn-getting-ready/article32528324.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mani faction will not be orphaned: Kodiyeri||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Thursday said the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) would not find itself in the street if it opposed the BJP and broke away from the United Democratic Front (UDF). After a regular meeting of the CPI(M) State secretariat here, Mr. Balakrishnan said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) would exploit the fissures in the UDF to weaken the Congress. Mr. Mani has turned the tables on the Congress leadership, which expelled him from the coalition. The Election Commission of India had acknowledged that Mr. Mani’s faction was the authentic KC(M). It had awarded it the right to fight elections under the ‘two leaves’ symbol. The party secretariat had factored in the developments. The CPI(M) would not treat Mr. Mani with disdain, Mr. Balakrishnan said. LDF to take final call However, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) would take the final decision on his future role, if at all, in the coalition. First, Mr. Mani had to declare his position against the UDF openly. Mr. Balakrishnan said KC(M) chairman P.J. Joseph had vowed not to allow Mr. Mani back into the UDF. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had made placatory sounds towards Mr. Mani. He had rushed to Kozhikode to seek the help of the UDF “super leader” P.K. Kunhalikutty of the Indian Union Muslime League to usher back Mr. Mani into the Opposition fold. The CPI(M) was ready to fight the byelections in Chavara and Kuttanad. The seats would go to the parties which held them, he said. Against murder politics The CPI(M) would launch a household-level campaign in the State against the politics of murder espoused by the Congress. The party would also highlight the achievements of the government.  The CPI(M) will not treat Jose K. Mani with disdain, says Kodiyeri||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mani-faction-will-not-be-orphaned-kodiyeri/article32528294.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||11 persons arrested, country bomb seized in police raids||The City police arrested 11 persons and recovered a country bomb in raids conducted on Friday in the light of the recent incidents of violence in the capital, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said in a press release. Of the arrested, nine were allegedly involved in the violence at Karimadom Colony, in which a country bomb was thrown. Arrested persons Those arrested in this case are Anshad (27), Dilshad (23), Manoj (29), Anoj (28), Saji (25), Akbar (18), Nishanth (30), Bijuludeen (24) and Seythali (21), all residents of the colony. Two persons were arrested in a case involving the accidental explosion of a bomb, while it was being made, near Kesavadasapuram. The arrested are Ratheesh (35) from Parottukonam and Stephen (29) from Shanthipuram. The police also recovered a country bomb from history sheeter Pananga Rajesh’s house. The accused was not present when the police reached his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-persons-arrested-country-bomb-seized-in-police-raids/article32528326.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New climber species found in Western Ghats||cientists at the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode, have identified a new and rare species of climber of the genus Pothos (family Araceae) from the Western Ghats in Idukki district. The species has been christened Pothos boyceanus after Peter C. Boyce, an expert on Araceae of southeast Asia. The discovery by G. Rajkumar, Nazarudeen Ahammed, T. Shaju, and R. Prakashkumar (Director, JNTBGRI) has been published in Taiwania , an international journal of biodiversity. Exploring its potential “Though a climber, Pothos boyceanus belongs to the same family as Colocasia. We came across it during a floristic survey of the Western Ghats in the evergreen forests of Valara, Idukki,” Dr. Nazarudeen said. “It has potential as an indoor plant. Studies are needed to determine the other properties of this species,” he said.  Pothos boyceanus is characterised by a ligule, slightly-winged petiole, asymmetric lamina, cylindric spadix and ovoid, milky-white berries. With the identification of this climbing aroid, the number of species of the genus Pothos found in Kerala has risen to six. Pothos boyceanus belongs to the subgenus Allopothos and is closely related to Pothos crassipedunculatus reported earlier from the Agasthyamala region of the Western Ghats.  Pothos boyceanus is an ‘extremely rare’ species, Dr. Nazarudeen said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-climber-species-found-in-western-ghats/article32528271.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||477 cases as testing picks up after Onam||The district reported 477 COVID-19 cases on Friday, even as the death toll crossed 100 with three more recent deaths confirmed as due to the infection. The deceased included a 69-year-old man from Amaravila; a 65-year-old man from Vizhinjam; and a 56-year-old woman from Venjaramoodu. All three died on August 30. The pandemic has so far claimed 102 lives in the district. Friday witnessed a spike in cases with tests picking up after Onam. Disease transmission through contact accounted for 445 cases on Friday. In 18 cases, the source of infection was uncertain. Ten more health workers have tested positive. As many as 426 people tested negative for COVID-19 on the day. As on Friday, 4,971 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. Poojappura jail Central Prison, Poojappura, has reported 19 cases. Tests had been restarted on Thursday at the prison following a break for Onam. Twenty-nine people tested positive when 100 people in the Manacaud and Kuriathi wards were tested on Friday. Tests will be undertaken on Saturday also. Ten people have tested positive in Venjaramoodu, while Thiruvallam reported nine cases. Eight people each were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Pappanamcode, Perayam, Mulluvila, Chempazhanthy, and Balaramapuram. Kallayam, Nellathani, and Punnakulam reported seven cases while Parassala, Nedumangad, Mylakkara, Pattom, Santhivila and Muttathara reported six cases each. Chamavilapuram and Perinjamkadavu wards in Kallikadu panchayat were included in the list of containment zones on Friday. The following places are no longer containment zones — Poolanthara, Santhigiri and Theepukal in Manikkal panchayat; Perumala, Thembamoodu, Attukal and Kuttimoodu in Pullambara panchayat; and Moolaman in Vilavoorkal panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/477-cases-as-testing-picks-up-after-onam/article32528327.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State will stick to 14-day quarantine, says Shylaja||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said that those coming to the State from abroad or other parts of the country should mandatorily undergo 14-day home quarantine, since the possibility of disease transmission in the State has gone up in the wake of Onam celebrations. The State has decided to continue with the quarantine stipulation, despite the Union government relaxing the norm in August. The Minister said on Friday that because of the easing of lockdown restrictions during Onam last week, disease spread is likely to increase in the next two weeks. The Health Department has asked the public to ensure that anyone with respiratory infection stay at home in isolation and that in the event of any further symptoms should take follow-up action after contacting DISHA helpline (1056). They should wear a mask when staying home,the Minister said. (Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Thursday said that the people had thrown all caution to the wind during the Onam festive season, crowding in markets and other public places and there were increased social interactions. The impact of Onam on disease transmission would become evident only in the next two weeks when all those who might have had exposure to the virus become symptomatic or test positive.) Ms. Shylaja emphasised the importance of maintaining physical distance and other precautions and reducing social interactions to keep oneself from contracting COVID-19. Considering the high test positivity in all districts in the last week of August, ranging between 6.8 and as high as 17.1 in Malappuram, the Health Department has asked all districts to launch campaigns so as to encourage people “to change behaviour in a sustainable and practical way,” so that they minimise their chances of contracting COVID-19. The department has also asked districts to organise mass campaigns to convince people about the importance of staying home in isolation, if at all anyone experiences even a mild respiratory infection.  The Health Department has asked the public to ensure that anyone with respiratory infection stay at home in isolation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-will-stick-to-14-day-quarantine-says-shylaja/article32528293.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Call centres open for elderly in all districts||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Friday inaugurated call centres for senior citizens in all 14 districts as part of the COVID-19 containment measures. The initiative was undertaken under the Grand Care project for the elderly. The call centres have been started for addressing the health-care requirements of senior citizens under reverse quarantine. The facilities will function from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. Twenty staff will man the centres in two shifts. Counselling services are also provided to the elderly through the call centres. Concerted efforts Inaugurating the facilities, Ms. Shylaja said that the State had been able to reduce the deaths due to COVID-19, especially that of the elderly, through concerted efforts. The elderly are more vulnerable to epidemics. Many senior citizens benefited from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) project for making available medicines at homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-centres-open-for-elderly-in-all-districts/article32528299.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State awards for teachers announced||The State teachers’ awards have been announced. The winners in the primary category are Swaminathan K. (Thiruvananthapuram), Biju K. Thomas (Kollam), Alexander P. George (Pathanamthitta), P.S. Sreekumari (Alappuzha), Prakashan K. (Kottayam), Linsi George (Idukki), Thampi M.B. (Ernakulam), Catherine K.C. (Thrissur), Mohanan M. (Palakkad), P. Anilkumar (Malappuram), Somanathan K.R. (Kozhikode), Roy Varghese (Wayanad), Prakashan M.V. (Kannur), Pramod P.V. (Kasaragod). In the secondary category, the award goes to Nissar Ahmed (Thiruvananthapuram), Thomas K.G. (Kollam), Shaji Mathew (Pathanamthitta), Babu Thomas (Alappuzha), Thomas Jacob (Kottayam), Ajithkumar P. (Idukki), U.A. Ambika (Ernakulam), Mujeeb Rahman (Thrissur), Ajith K. (Palakkad), Mohammed Shajahan K. (Malappuram), Sunilkumar P. (Kozhikode), Shalamma Joseph (Wayanad), Pradeep Kinatthi (Kannur), Babu P. (Kasaragod). Higher secondary In the higher secondary category, teachers selected from the Thiruvananthapuram region are James D. (Kollam) and Asifa Qadir (Alappuzha); from the Ernakulam region Karim V.M. (Thrissur), Anil P. (Palakkad), and Jiji George (Idukki); and from the Kozhikode region Radhakrishnan C. (Malappuram), Muralidharan P.O. (Kannur), and Ganeshan M.K. (Kozhikode). The teachers selected from the vocational higher secondary wing are Premraj A.R. (Kollam region), Janeerlal A.J. (Chengannur region), Roopa Nair (Ernakulam), Jayasankar P. (Thrissur), Habib Rahiman (Vadakara).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-awards-for-teachers-announced/article32528307.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vandalism: KSU member arrested||The Poonthura Police on Friday arrested the 21-year-old son of former Youth Congress (YC) State Secretary G. Leena on charges of vandalising their house at Muttathara two days ago. The accused has been identified as Likhin Krishnan, a member of the Congress’s student wing KSU. The attack, when it was reported first on Wednesday, had led to a political uproar with Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, and other Congress leaders accusing the CPI(M) of orchestrating the attack. The incident happened amid attacks on rival party offices that followed the murder of two DYFI workers in Venjaramoodu, in which Congress workers are among the accused. According to a press release from District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, the accused told the police that he committed the act to frame rival party workers with whom he had a dispute over the fixing of a flagpole. The police zeroed in on him after tracking his cell phone activity at the area at 2 a.m. on Wednesday, when the attack happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vandalism-ksu-member-arrested/article32528325.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special trains||Railways have announced special trains for the benefit of candidates appearing for the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy examinations scheduled for September 6 in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi. The trains will be operated on September 5 and 6. On September 5, a special train from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram Central via Alappuzha will commence journey at 6.30 p.m. to reach the Central station at 5.25 a.m. on September 6. In the return leg, the train will commence journey at 9 p.m. to reach Kasaragod at 7.55 a.m. on September 7. Another special train will be operated from Kasaragod to Ernakulam on September 5. The train will commence journey at 9.35 p.m. to reach Ernakulam Junction at 4.50 a.m. on September 6. The train will commence the return journey at 11.35 p.m. to reach Kasaragod at 6.50 a.m. on September 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-trains/article32528306.ece
05 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trial allotment of Plus One to be out today||The results of trial allotment for admission to higher secondary Plus One course will be published at 9 a.m. on Saturday. Applicants can check out the trial allotment results by visiting the websitewww.hscap.kerala.gov.in, logging in through ‘Candidate Login-SWS,’ and clicking on the link ‘Trial Results.’ Those who are yet to create candidate log-in can do so through the link ‘Create Candidate Login-SWS’ and then check out the trial result. For help, they can approach help desks set up in schools. The trial allotment list can be looked up till 5 p.m. on September 8. They can make any corrections or additions through the ‘Edit Application’ link before 5 p.m. the same day and give final confirmation. Submission of wrong information will lead to cancellation of allotment. This is the last chance to make changes in the applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-allotment-of-plus-one-to-be-out-today/article32528295.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||P. T. Benny takes charge as new ADRM||P.T. Benny has taken charge as the Additional Divisional Railway Manager (ADRM) of Thiruvananthapuram Railway Division. He succeeds P. Jayakumar who has been posted as Chief Engineer (North), Construction, Southern Railway. An associate member of Institution of Engineers, Mr. Benny belongs to the 1997 batch Indian Railway Service of Engineers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/p-t-benny-takes-charge-as-new-adrm/article32528290.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||FSETO protests against forced lay-offs||The Federation of State Employees and Teacher Organisations (FSETO) organised a protest against the Central government’s proposal for forced retirements and lay-offs in government services for those who have completed thirty years of service or are above 50 years of age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fseto-protests-against-forced-lay-offs/article32528297.ece
05 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Consider online mode for BTech supplementary: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) to consider a proposal submitted by students to conduct the supplementary examinations for the BTech course on the online platform. In a direction issued to the Registrar, judicial member of the commission P. Mohanadas said the students had highlighted the difficulties in reaching examination centres during the active phase of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consider-online-mode-for-btech-supplementary-shrc/article32528300.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lone warrior||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lone-warrior/article32528381.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Regular victim||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regular-victim/article32528330.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Digital track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-track/article32528302.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unlocking metro||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unlocking-metro/article32528314.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s clean-up time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-clean-up-time/article32528284.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rage on the street||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rage-on-the-street/article32528309.ece
05 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. man held for smuggling red sanders logs; many flee||A combing party of the Andhra Pradesh State Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force on Friday morning seized 19 red sanders logs and nabbed a smuggling operative from Tamil Nadu, while several trespassers reportedly escaped into the thickets at Bhakarapeta ghat section of the Seshachalam hill ranges near Tirupati. According to the task force officials, a combing party spotted around two dozen smuggling operatives carrying the logs on a slope towards the road point at Bhakarapeta ghat section, 25 km from Tirupati. Seeing the task force, some operatives abandoned the logs in the bushes and fled the scene, while a few others managed to carry the logs deep inside the forest. After a hot chase, the task force managed to nab one operative, identified as Sekhar (30) of Tiruvannamalai district of Tamil Nadu. The task force officials recovered 19 logs from the spot. Senior officials said that additional teams were deployed to flush out the smuggling operatives. Preliminary interrogation of the nabbed operative revealed that fresh batches of woodcutters had arrived into the hills a fortnight ago, and had cut several trees to shift the logs to the road point. The logs were shifted to the Task Force police station at Tirupati, and the accused was sent to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-man-held-for-smuggling-red-sanders-logs-many-flee/article32528637.ece
05 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor seized, 7 held||The police on Friday seized liquor bottles worth over Rs. 11 lakh and three cars at Tangedupalle cross road on Kadapa-Pulivendula road in Veerapunainipalle mandal of Kadapa district. Seven persons in the age group of 20-32 years were arrested. The vehicles were coming from Telangana when they were intercepted. According to Deputy SP (Kadapa) U. Suryanarayana, a special party, acting on a tip-off from Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anbhurajan, rushed to the spot and stopped the cars. Of the seven-member gang, six were from Kadapa district and one from the neighbouring SPSR Nellore district. Their modus operandi was to procure premier brand liquor bottles from Telangana and sell them to their regular customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-seized-7-held/article32527937.ece
05 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man kills daughter, self||The bodies of a 30-year-old man and his four-and-a-half-year-old daughter were found at a private lodge near the railway station here on Friday. The police suspect that driven by family disputes the man had could have hanged his daughter to death, before hanging himself . Deputy SP (Chittoor) K. Eeshwar Reddy said N. Ganesh, a resident of New Prashant Nagar here, married Divya (25) of Chennai, in 2014. Later, the couple, with their daughter Karthika shifted to Chittoor a few years ago. After a fight with his wife over her alleged relationships on Thursday, Ganesh left the house along with his daughter, saying that he would return after getting some eatables for the child. As the two did not return by late night, Ganesh’s mother and relatives launched a search only to be informed by his friends that he had reportedly made a video message of his fatal decision. The two were found dead in the lodge on Friday morning. The police registered a case and sent the bodies to the area hospital for autopsy. A case was registered against Divya and three others, including two youth and a woman. Those in distress can call Dial 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-daughter-self/article32527938.ece
05 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Petrol pump sealed||The Chittoor police on Friday sealed a petrol pump at Kongareddipalle locality here, after a joint raid with the Legal and Metrology department officials, which led to detection that 40 ml less per litre was being supplied to the consumers. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/petrol-pump-sealed/article32527939.ece
05 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newborn abandoned in public toilet||A newborn girl baby was found abandoned at a public toilet abutting the Government Area Hospital at Srikalahasti on Friday. Police said that a patient who came to the toilet was shocked to see a newborn inside. She immediately alerted the hospital staff who rushed to the spot and rescued the baby and handed her over to the ICDS staff. Police said they will track down the mother using CCTV footage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/newborn-abandoned-in-public-toilet/article32528635.ece
05 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two workers killed in quarry mishap||Two workers at a stone quarry were killed on the spot when a huge block of earth caved in near Kurabalakota mandal headquarters, 150 km from here, on Friday. The deceased were identified as Senthil (35) of Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu, and Chillu (32), near Kurdha Road in Odisha. According to the Mudivedu police, the workers were collecting granite chips beneath a hill wall when earth caved in on them from a height of 15 feet, burying the duo. The police rushed to the spot and deployed an earthmover to rescue the duo, but in vain. The bodies were retrieved in the evening, and shifted to the area hospital for autopsy. The police said that after talking to the quarry owner, steps would be taken to transport the bodies to their respective places. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-workers-killed-in-quarry-mishap/article32527852.ece
05 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang pilfering fuel at petrol pumps busted||In a joint operation, the police in association with the Legal Metrology department officials, reportedly busted a national-level fuel pilfering racket on Friday. The teams inspected about 50 petrol outlets and sealed 16 of them in Andhra Pradesh. The Telangana police seized 13 pumps and the raids were continuing when reports last came in. The racket was busted when the Cyberabad Police reportedly took a gang member, Mahaboob Basha, into custody, who reportedly listed out the petrol pumps in which they inserted the electronic chips (e-chips) across the country. “Based on the information provided by Basha, the Legal Metrology and the Police inspected many bunks across the State and seized the e-chips inserted above the display boards,” Legal Metrology Inspector-General of Police (IGP) M. Kanta Rao said. “Raids were conducted in Nellore, Guntur, Chittoor, East and West Godavari, Krishna and other districts and cases were booked against the petrol pump owners for allegedly colluding with the gang and deceiving the customers,” the IG, who is also the Controller of Legal Metrology, said. West Godavari district Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said 10 petrol pumps had been seized in Bheemadolu, Vijayarayi, Bhimavaram, Peravali, Narsapuram, Nallajerla, Satrampadu and other areas in the district. “We recovered the e-chips and booked cases against the owners under Section 420 and 261 IPC and Section 66 (d) of IT Act,” Mr. Naik said. Modus operandi The modus operandi of the gang is to insert e-chips above the display boards in collusion with the petrol outlet managements and deliver less quantity of fuel to customers. “For every litre of fuel supplied , there will be a shortage of 30 ml, but the reading in the display board will show normally,” Mr. Naik said. Legal Metrology Deputy Controller (Enforcement Wing) K. Isaac said the accused were inserting the chip without tampering with the seal affixed by the department. Cases have been registered under Section 8, r/w. 25 of Legal Metrology Act, 2009, Mr. Isaac said. “The staff will operate the pump with two keys. Whenever the officials inspect the outlet, they will operate the pump with first key without activating the chip. For general customers, they will operate the pump with second key and cheat them,” Mr. Isaac said.  “We suspect that the technicians of some private companies of the pumps were also involved in the racket,” the IGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-pilfering-fuel-at-petrol-pumps-busted/article32528412.ece
05 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food processing industry set to get a push||Andhra Pradesh has signed an MoU with the Government of Netherlands for collaboration in food processing, interior architecture, design packaging and containers to provide value addition and boost exports of banana, mango, tomato, chilli, and other horticultural crops. The MoU between the Governments of AP and Netherlands was signed between representative of Netherlands Sanny Geerdana in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy. Ambassador of Netherlands Martin Vander Berg also took part through a video conference. The other MoUs which AP signed with national and global firms include the one with NRC, Tiruchi, in micro food processing and quality testing laboratories. An MoU signed with Futurtech company, Pune, for collaboration in food processing of banana and others also promises value addition to the crop. The government also signed an MoU with Big Basket for establishing basic infrastructure to tomato and banana processing. Company zonal head K. Ramachandra Kiran, who signed the MoU, said that the company processes the produce in Anantapur. The government signed MoU with ITC-ABD for mango and chilli processing. Company vice-president G. Krishna Kumar signed the MoU in the presence of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Lawrencedale Agro Processing CEO Vijaya Raghavan signed MoU for processing of onion. The government also signed MoU with IFB covering processing of prawn and fish produce and signed MoU with Empire Company in retail marketing of aqua products. Stock-taking Earlier, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the food processing industry and said that tying up major industries was essential to provide better marketing support and enhance brand value. This would help women in SHG groups to market the produce. The Chief Minister also directed the AP State Skill Development Corporation to design special courses in food processing in Skill Development Colleges which would be set up in every district. Food testing labs could be set up in integrated testing labs in every district, he added. “Farmers are finding it difficult to add value in seven to eight crops and I advise the Ddepartment of Agriculture to use the latest technology in food processing units. The government will do everything to ensure that aqua farmers get better value for their products,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu, vice-chairman of AP Agriculture Mission M.V.S. Nagireddy, special secretary, Department of Agriculture, Poonam Malakondaiah and officials of Agriculture and Horticulture Department were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/food-processing-industry-set-to-get-a-push/article32528639.ece
05 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop calls for end to trafficking||Police should be proactive and play a key role in prevention of trafficking in persons mainly children, child sexual abuse and exploitation in the wake of COVID-19, said Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, R.N Amireddy. He was addressing a workshop organised by the RAIDS organisation under its Girls Advocacy Alliance A.P. State Programme in association with TdH-NL on Friday. The workshop addressed the issues relating to child trafficking and relevant laws. District Judge Y.V.S.B.G. Pardha Sarathi said that judicial officers would be at hand to provide guidance and facilitate on issues in dealing with the cases of human trafficking. Rani, chairperson, Child Welfare Commission, explained the provisions from Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, in dealing with the cases of children in need of care and protection services. K. Ratna Kumar, senior civil judge, District Legal Services Authority, spoke on the need for coordinated efforts by police and other child protection mechanisms in prevention of child trafficking. Additional SP D. Gangadharam spoke on the enhanced scope of child trafficking and other forms of violence against women and children in the wake of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-calls-for-end-to-trafficking/article32528406.ece
05 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Funds sought for flood relief, says Collector||East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Friday said that Rs. 12.28 crore as flood relief was sought from the government to extend an aid of Rs. 2,000 each to the families affected in the district. Addressing the mediapersons online, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said that about 68,000 people were affected by the Godavari floods between August 19 and 23, during which 164 villages -- 76 in Amalapuram Revenue Division, 57 in Etapaka and 31 in Rampachodavaram --faced the flood fury. Crops damaged As many as 27 mandals in the district, mostly in the Konaseema area, were affected as the floods devastated the horticulture crops in over 10,600 hectares. "The essential commodities and other necessary flood aid have been given to the 99% of the affected 68,000 people. As many as 250 houses have been damaged as per the preliminary estimates,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/funds-sought-for-flood-relief-says-collector/article32527935.ece
05 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Petrol pump manager held for cheating||The Amalapuram divisional police on Friday arrested the manager of a petrol outlet on charges of cheating consumers by installing an electronic chip to manage the fuel readings during a raid on Subhadra Filling Station (SFS) at Modekurru village in East Godavari. Amalapuram DSP Masoon Basha said the petrol pump an electronic chip was installed in the fuel pumping stations two months ago. The chip enables to deliver less fuel than the actual quantity displayed on the reading box. SFS manager has been arrested while itsowner, was absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/petrol-pump-manager-held-for-cheating/article32527942.ece
05 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector vies for PM award||Kurnool Collector G. Veerapandian is one of 12 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers shortlisted from across the country for making a presentation on the Prime Minister’s Award for Innovative Ways of Promoting Livelihood. The Prime Minister awardees’ list under various categories will be announced after the final evaluation by the screening committee which is scheduled on September 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-vies-for-pm-award/article32528634.ece
05 September 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna University gets ISO certification||Krishna University has achieved ISO 9001-2015 Certification and relevant papers have been handed over by HYM International Certification chairman A. Sivaiah and A.P. State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Chairman Prof. K. Hemachandra Reddy to university Vice-Chancellor Prof. K.V. Chandrashekar Reddy and Registrar Prof. K. Krishna Reddy at a programme held on the varsity campus at Rudravaram on Friday. A team of officials of HYM International Certification agency conducted auditing recently and selected the university for awarding the ISO certification, said certification committee convener P.V. Brahmachari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-university-gets-iso-certification/article32528410.ece
05 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Janata Curfew tomorrow in Nellore district as cases spike||South-coastal Andhra Pradesh continues to reel under the grip of COVID-19, with 17 deaths being reported from Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. Both districts also accounted for 2,526 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to health officials. Concerned over the unrelenting rise in new cases, Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu announced a total lockdown in the district on Sunday. The next three to four weeks will be crucial in the fight against the pandemic, he said after reviewing the health situation. The toll in Nellore district rose to 325 with eight more patients succumbing to the virus, while 1,270 persons tested positive, taking the count to 37,099, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Friday night. In Prakasam district, nine more patients died, taking the toll to 307 in the district in the last 24 hours. For the first time, the daily tally rose to 1,256 in the district, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 26,700 in Prakasam district. Health professionals, who have been overburdened with treating around 8,900 active cases, got a little reprieve as close to 2,000 persons recovered in the last 24 hours. In Prakasam district, 390 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovering in the last 24 hours. On the bright side, the recovery rate was encouraging in Nellore district as 28,203 persons were discharged. In Prakasam district, 13,742 patients have recovered so far. Meanwhile, the Prakasam district administration came in for praise from Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan during an online review meeting for identifying almost all the primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons, which resulted in starting of early treatment of vulnerable sections and speedy recovery of the infected patients. Meeting with bankers Holding a meeting with bankers on loan disbursal to entrepreneurs to revive crippled industrial units, Mr.Chakradhar Babu exhorted them to encourage digital transactions and avoid crowding of customers in branches. Semb Corporation donated two haematology analysers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/janata-curfew-tomorrow-in-nellore-district-as-cases-spike/article32527947.ece
05 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police nab two in separate murder cases||The Prakasam police on Friday arrested two persons in connection with two murders that took place in Korisapadu, and Rajanagaram, near Thallur, recently. Addressing the media here, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said special teams were sent to Bengaluru, Chennai and Tirupati and call data record(CDR) analysis was done leading to the arrest of one Rajib Ali, a native of Kamrub district in Assam, at the Tirupati bus station by Darsi sub-division police who traced him with the help of IT core team. The arrest came within four days of the murder taking place. The accused had murdered his friend who chided him for trying to misbehave with the latter’s wife taking advantage of Rs. 55,000 given to the deceased for keeping in safe custody. In the second case, police nabbed one Venkateswarlu from a temple choultry at Somavarapadu village, near Thallur. He had gone underground and switched off his mobile phone after murdering a 65-year-old man, Subba Reddy, while he was watching television at his home in Rajanagaram on August 23. Investigation into the case led to Prakasam police pursuing leads in Bengaluru, where the deceased had business dealings. Police said Venkateswarlu murdered Reddy suspecting that the latter was hatching a plan to kill him in connection with a murder attempt made on the Reddy’s friend in the year 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-nab-two-in-separate-murder-cases/article32527944.ece
05 September 2020||PEDDAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pay farm power charges to Discoms’||Former Home Minister and Peddapuram MLA Nimmakayala Chinna Rajappa on Friday said that farmers would benefit only if the government paid power charges to the power distribution companies instead of depositing the money in the accounts of ryots. He told reporters here on Friday that the initiative would force the farmers to rely upon credit to clear the bills if the government delays the transfer of money. ‘Ryots will be hit’ The small and tenant farmers would be affected in such an event, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-farm-power-charges-to-discoms/article32527940.ece
05 September 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solar power units on banks of canals planned||A plan has been chalked out to set up solar power units on the banks of the Polavaram left canal and the Tadipudi canal in East Godavari district for tapping the solar power, according to Margani Bharat, MP of Rajamahendravaram. In an official release on Friday, Mr. Bharat said the possibility of utilising the space on the banks of the Polavaram left canal, the Tadipudi canal and other open spaces of the government for the generation of solar power in East Godavari district would be discussed with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Talks are on with the officials concerned to set up solar power units at the industrial park at Bhimadole in West Godavari district and such initiative will help produce more solar power and offer employment for locals,” said Mr. Bharat. New substations “There is a possibility of generating at least 1000 MW of solar power if the available space on the banks of the canals is used and planned accordingly,” said Mr. Bharat. Mr. Bharat discussed the proposal of laying a new power line from Lower Sileru power plant, setting up of new sub-stations in West Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solar-power-units-on-banks-of-canals-planned/article32527941.ece
05 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not neglect symptoms, Collector tells people||With the coronavirus caseload in Srikakulam district crossing the 27,000-mark on Friday, Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas appealed to public not to delay going for testing if they developed any of the known COVID symptoms. Bed strength increased He said that around 5,000 beds were arranged in COVID-19 hospitals and COVID Care Centres in the district to accommodate growing number of patients needing hospitalization. As the number touched 27,110 in the district, the administration decided to continue restrictions in 37 containment zones in the city. While there are 7,471 are active cases in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram has 8,555 active cases out of the total 13,488. Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardan directed the personnel posted in the containment zones not to allow free movement of people. Barricades should not be removed at Arasavilli, Killipalame, Thotapalem, Ramalaxmana Junction, Balaga, among other places. Srikakulam Municipal Commissioner P. Nallanayya issued a cautionary note to traders to follow all the protocols diligently. Vehicles will not be allowed to enter Srikakulam town 1 p.m. Telemedicine service Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramanakumari reviewed the situation in the district. A call centre (14410) would provide telemedicine service to patients staying in home isolation. “The exclusive call centre-08922-236947 will provide all information regarding tests and availability of beds,” said Dr. Ramanakumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-neglect-symptoms-collector-tells-people/article32527948.ece
05 September 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials gear up for much larger spike in infections this month||The district has been seeing a steady spike in COVID-19 cases since the last 60 days. From July 1 to as on September 3, the district recorded over 39,000 cases with August alone registering close to 28,000 cases. The district authorities say that as per the predictions, the spike is expected to be larger in September. The prevalence rate in the GVMC limits has already touched 20%, and the spike is expected, as the rate of testing would increase in this month. “We have already taken a decision to test 90% of the population in containment zones, which could range from 5,000 to 7,000 tests per day. And if 20% is the prevalence rate, then the number of positives could range between 1,000 and 1,400,” said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. On the hospital front, Mr. Vinay Chand said that the oncology block in KGH is getting ready and it is likely to be opened on September 5. “This block will have 500 beds and all of them will be oxygenated. Out of them, about 100 will be connected to ventilators and remaining will have a single line oxygen facility. This apart we have installed 40 high-flow nasal oxygen meters,” he said. According to him, the capacity in VIMS have been enhanced from 550 to 650 beds and of them 216 are ICU beds. The required oxygen supply has been received and installed in all tertiary hospitals and the four teaching hospitals and GHCCD. Special Officers for all 10 urban and 5 rural constituencies under GVMC have been appointed and their primary job is to trace and record positive cases, including both primary and secondary contacts. The contact tracing will primarily done through the primary health secretaries in the rural areas and ward secretaries in urban areas. And once done, the data will be uploaded in the app of medical officers in the 72 PHCs in the urban areas and all medical officers posted in rural PHCs, including in tribal areas, who will examine the positive cases. “We basically have divided positive cases into five categories – all pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic and mild cases under one category, moderate cases with mild pneumonia, severe pneumonia with ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) and septic shock or sepsis and positives with hypoxia and dyspnea. In the first two categories, they will recommended home isolation or CCC (COVID Care Centres) for the next three categories hospitalisation will be advised and they will be sent to one out of the tertiary care hospitals, if in serious condition, or to any of the four teaching hospitals such as ENT, Regional Eye Hospital, RCD and Psychiatry Ward or Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable diseases (GHCCD),” said Mr. Vinay Chand. Altogether the four teaching hospitals and GHCCD have an installed capacity of about 560 beds, with GHCCD equipped with 45 ICU beds and 40 ventilators. In the rural areas, hospitalisation cases will be diverted to the nearest 15 Vaidya Vidhan Parishad Hospitals or any of the two district or two area hospitals, he said. “The data of home isolation will be uploaded into the ANMs’ app and the ANMs will monitor the cases on a regular basis. This apart a 15-member call centre is being established to monitor the home isolation cases and we intent to cover every case every two days. If complication is reported, then the medical officers present round-the-clock at the call centre or GVMC Command Control Centre will divert the case to a hospital,” he said. According to Mr. Vinay Chand, the first line of approach is the ward volunteers office and anyone with symptoms or doubt can approach the office or the volunteer, from where it will be taken forward.  ‘More ambulances’ He also informed The Hindu that the issue with ambulance has been sorted out, as 72 ambulances has already been posted in each of the wards and another 53 will be joining shortly after undergoing minor repairs. “We have also sanctioned a budget of Rs. 25 lakh to get the old 108 and 104 ambulances repaired and push them into service,” said the District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-gear-up-for-much-larger-spike-in-infections-this-month/article32528652.ece
05 September 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Road link to 25 villages remains cut off||There has been no road link to over 25 villages for the last three days as flood waters are flowing over the low-level bridges in the Agency areas and in island villages of the district. The Kothuru causeway is under a sheet of water for the last few days, snapping road link to about 19 habitations in Polavaram mandal. A few villages in Velerupadu mandal are also affected due to the floods in the Godavari. Flood waters are flowing over the spillway at the Polavaram village, and officials are strengthening the bund at a few places as the Godavari has been in spate for the last 20 days. “We are living in constant fear as the Necklace bund is weak at Patha Polavaram. Officers have arranged sand bags to strengthen the bund at many places,” said Buchemma, a villager on Friday. Transportationremains cut off to several villages in the V.R. Puram, Yetapaka and other mandals. Officials are supplying medicines, ration and other essential items to the tribal people through boats. “There is no transportation to Tekuru, Koruturu, Telladibbala, Cheeduru, Sirivaka, Kondukota, Tatakommuru and other habitations. Water level on the Kothuru causeway may decrease by Saturday if there is no rainfall,” said Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana. ‘Relief work hampered’ As there is no transportation to many villages in the division, relief works are hampered. As a result, tribal people have been facing a lot of hardship for the last three weeks. “Many huts have collapsed and a few are damaged. We have been staying on the hills and under trees for many days, and there is no relief for us,” said a villager, M. Bakkaiah. Signs of abatement Meanwhile, the flood level in Godavari is receding at Bhadrachalam. The water level there stood at 34 feet on Friday. Similarly, the flood level is slowly decreasing at the Old Railway Bridge in Rajamahendravaram and at the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. Officials engaged country-made and mechanised boats in many villages to shift the affected people from the cut-off areas and island villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-link-to-25-villages-remains-cut-off/article32528630.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work apace to make schools vibrant zones under Nadu-Nedu||Works are apace under ‘Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu’, an educational scheme that envisages augmentation of basic infrastructure facilities in government schools. The plan is to transform the State-run schools into vibrant and competitive institutions in three years by focussing mainly on nine components, including facilities like toilets with running water, total electrification with fans and tubelights, proper drinking water supply, adequate furniture for students and staff, painting of school buildings, carrying out major and minor repairs, installation of green chalk boards in every classroom, construction of compound walls and setting up of English labs. Stating that the future of the next generation was the top priority of the government, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced his decision to transform the government schools with the required infrastructure and by upgrading the skills of teachers and students besides setting up English labs and involving parents’ committee in school affairs. The scheme will be implemented in 15,715 schools in the first phase and will cover all schools in three years' time with a budget of Rs. 12,000 crore. For the first year, Rs. 3,500 crores will be spent for the development of the infrastructure, he had said. NABARD funds The government, last week, accorded administrative approval to the School Education Department to take up 664 works in 11,826 schools in 674 mandals across the 13 districts of the State. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has sanctioned over Rs. 781.12 crore of the total project cost of Rs. 918.97 crore, under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund while the government will spend Rs. 137.84 crore. Mr. Jagan has insructed the officials to ensure completion of the works undertaken in the first phase of the programme before the reopening of the schools. Under the second phase of the programme, facilities at 14,584 educational institutions would be improved at a cost of Rs. 4,732 crore. The plan is to start the works in January 2021 and complete them by June the same year. The second and third phases of the programme would cover the remaining 31,073 schools at an estimated cost of Rs. 7,700 crore. The third round of Nadu-Nedu will focus on development of 16,489 institutions at a cost of Rs. 2,969 crore. The works would be identified in June 30 next year, launched on November 14, 2021 and completed by March 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-apace-to-make-schools-vibrant-zones-under-nadu-nedu/article32528616.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam Party seeks NCSC probe into ‘attack’ on Dalit family||The TDP has urged the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to inquire into the incident of setting fire to the house of a Dalit family at Ainampudi village of Mudinepalli mandal in Kaikaluru Assembly constituency in Krishna district. In a letter to the NCSC on Friday, TDP Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah said that a 19-year-old Dalit girl, pursuing her nursing course, was betrayed allegedly by a youth, Sai Reddy, in the name of love. “The girl had earlier filed a case against Sai Reddy for teasing her in the name of love. Later, they fell in love and were to get married. But the boy’s family turned against the girl and threatened to ostracise her family from the village,” Mr. Ramaiah alleged in the letter. “The boy’s family did not stop at that. Sai Reddy, along with his family members and friends, bolted the door from outside and set fire to the house of the Dalit family on September 1 midnight with an intention to eliminate the entire family,” he alleged. “A comprehensive inquiry will not only help in rendering justice to the victim but also prevent recurrence of such attacks on Dalits,” he said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-party-seeks-ncsc-probe-into-attack-on-dalit-family/article32528623.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers play a key role in moulding students, says Chief Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy extended warm greetings to the teaching fraternity on the eve of Teachers’ Day. In his message, he said teachers imparted knowledge and wisdom thereby showing the path for future citizens and played a key role in building and strengthening the ethical and moral foundations of students. “Our government believes in Right to Education and providing a level- playing field to the students. Teachers should be the torch-bearers in this endeavour,” he stated.  Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan conveyed greetings to teachers on the occasion of Teachers’ Day on Saturday. Guru Puja Dinotsavam (Teacher’s Day) is celebrated on the birth anniversary of the first Vice-President and second President of India, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who was a great scholar, philosopher and statesman, said Mr. Harichandan. Referring to the services of teachers, the Governor said teachers were the architects of society and played a vital role in building the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-play-a-key-role-in-moulding-students-says-chief-minister/article32528408.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Need for new DPR on Gundrevula project’||Work on the Gundrevula project on the Tungabhadra appears to have gained some momentum. With the Telangana government seeking a copy of the detailed project report (DPR), the Andhra Pradesh government has kick-started the process. According to information, the Engineer-in-Chief of Telangana has asked the Chief Engineer (Kurnool) of the Water Resources Department to submit the DPR at the earliest. Meanwhile, it is learnt that the higher-ups are mulling over various options — preparing a new DPR, or making necessary and suitable changes to the one prepared in 2013. In November 2013, the government had given administrative approval of Rs. 54.95 lakh for preparing the DPR. The DPR was submitted to the government in 2015, 2017 and 2018 by incorporating necessary changes and modifications in each of these years. The then government saw need for making changes in the DPR. The copy of the revised DPR (2018) was submitted to the Karnataka government as well. The Karnataka government also wanted to study the DPR, stating that some areas in their State were likely to be submerged, sources said. The officials say that 31.90 tmcft is the assured water to the Kurnool-Kadapa Canal, popularly known as KC Canal. Andhra Pradesh will be able to utilise the assured waters if the Gundrevula project becomes a reality. It is estimated to cost Rs. 4,300 crore, including the 30% share of Telangana. Revised SSR As these estimates were prepared in 2013, it is necessary to revise it as the standard schedule rates (SSR) have changed. “Also, the government wants to look into issues such as soil strata in the site proposed for the project,” says an official on condition of anonymity. “There is a need to change the nomenclature as well. When the DPR was prepared in 2013, it was mentioned as formation of “additional reservoir.” It was “wrongly felt” that Sunkesula was a reservoir. But it is only a barrage. The DPR was prepared hurriedly just before bifurcation of the State. So, we need to change the DPR,” the official says. It takes at least six months to prepare the DPR as field survey has to be done in Telangana also, for which Andhra Pradesh has to take permission of the neighbouring State. Meanwhile, a meeting is proposed to be convened between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the next three months. Bojja Dasaratha Rami Reddy, Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi president, says that the project needs to be seen apolitically as both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will be benefited. Both the governments have to take the project to its logical conclusion, he says. The Gundrevula project, which is considered a game-changer for the drought-hit Rayalaseema region, has remained a non-starter for years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-for-new-dpr-on-gundrevula-project/article32528621.ece
05 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay salaries to contract lecturers, Jagan urged||BJP State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy wrote to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy requesting prompt payment of salaries to contract lecturers working at government junior and degree colleges. He alleged that while the government had issued a G.O. for paying Rs. 37,100 to junior college lecturers and Rs. 40,000 to those working in degree colleges, it had remained negligent in paying them their salaries for the last five months. “This has landed the lecturers, who do not have any other source of income, in deep trouble as they too have been badly affected by the COVID-19 crisis,” the BJP leader said. Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said he wanted to bring to the notice of the Chief Minister that three contract lecturers have succumbed to COVID-19, while many others are suffering due to the financial misery caused by the pandemic. “The contract lecturers have no job security and the pandemic has dealt them a severe blow. A total of 4,414 contract lecturers, a majority of whom are highly educated, are in desperate need of assistance. The Chief Minister should take note of this and take immediate action lest their families be thrown on to the roads,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-salaries-to-contract-lecturers-jagan-urged/article32528631.ece
05 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC posts hearing on writ plea on govt. ads to Sept. third week||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and comprising Justice K. Suresh Reddy, posted to the third week of September the hearing on a writ petition filed by a Vijayawada-based entrepreneur, K. Naga Sravan, on display of huge photographs of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in government advertisements and alleged discrimination in giving them to various publications. Appearing for the government, Advocate-General S. Sriram said the petitioner was close to the TDP, and he would obviously try to keep it (his proximity to the party) a secret in spite of it being in public domain. He insisted that the files related to advertisements start and end with the Commissioner of Information & Public Relations Department, and do not go to the Chief Minister. What the petitioner did was peddling half-truths, he observed. Mr. Sriram told the court that the maintainability of such PILs should be looked into as it became a pattern of “ghosts and phantoms” filing them. Presenting arguments on the petitioner’s behalf, senior advocate Dammalapati Srinivas alleged that giving advertisements with colour compositions of the ruling party (YSRCP) was against the relevant guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court and that the circulation norms were being flouted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-posts-hearing-on-writ-plea-on-govt-ads-to-sept-third-week/article32528619.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu: atrocities against Dalits continuing unchecked||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has accused the YSRCP government of failing to take action against those involved in the atrocities against Dalits and weaker sections in the State. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Naidu alleged that the ruling party leaders had set fire to the house of a Dalit girl, M. Dhana Lakshmi, at Mudinepalli, near Kaikalur, in Krishna district recently. “The girl was targeted because she complained to the police against a local YSRCP leader for betraying her. On coming to know about the police complaint, the ruling party leaders set fire to her house. Her family is now literally on the road,” Mr. Naidu said. “The police were supposed to come to the rescue of the girl. On the one hand, the girl was denied justice and on the other she lost her house and has no place to take shelter,” she said. The TDP president alleged that atrocities against Dalits and other weaker sections had been continuing unabated since the YSRCP came to power. “Those who are legally bound to come to their rescue have turned mute spectators,” Mr. Naidu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-atrocities-against-dalits-continuing-unchecked/article32528622.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism activities to resume soon||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that all tourism-related activity will soon revive in the State as the government gave permission to restart tourism operations in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. In a statement on Friday, the Minister said the officials concerned were asked to make things ready to re-start operations soon. He said orders were issued to tour operators and officials associated with tourist spots and activities such as ropeway operation, boating activity, adventure sports and tourism-related transport operator to strictly abide by the Centre's guidelines. Speaking to the media after a meeting to review the situation, CEO of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Authority and Managing Director of AP Tourist Development Corporation Pravin Kumar said safety and hygiene would be paramount for the department. He said the department would take all precautions to ensure that people enjoy the recreation amid complete precautions .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-activities-to-resume-soon/article32527950.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor to participate in virtual meeting on New Education Policy||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will participate in the virtual Governors’ conference on the role of New Education Policy-2020’ on September 7. President Ram Nath Kovind will deliver the inaugural speech. Mr. Kovind spoke with the Governor over phone on Friday, and invited him to participate in the conference. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, Governors, Lt. Governors , Education Ministers, Vice-Chancellors, Higher Education Principal Secretaries and Secretaries will participate, according to a press release from Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-to-participate-in-virtual-meeting-on-new-education-policy/article32528629.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gadkari to virtually launch projects on Sept. 18||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari will participate in various functions for laying the foundation stones and inauguration of projects in the State on September 18. The Principal Secretary, Roads and Buildings, M.T. Krishna Babu said that Mr. Gadkari would join from Delhi online for the Bhoomi Puja to be performed for 16 projects all worth Rs. 7,584 crore. The foundation stones would be laid for development of 877 km of National Highways. Flyover inauguration Ten projects completed at an estimated cost of Rs. 8,038 crore would be dedicated to the nation. The Union Minister would also take part in the inauguration of 533 km of roads and the Kanaka Durga flyover built in Vijayawada at a cost of Rs. 501 crore, including the State government’s contribution of Rs. 146 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gadkari-to-virtually-launch-projects-on-sept-18/article32528624.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New terminal works to begin soon at airport||Works for an integrated terminal at the airport at Gannavaram are likely to begin in 10 days as the Central government is going to issue all the permissions required, said Collector A. Md. Imtiaz. Mr. Imtiaz along with Vijayawada International Airport director G. Madhusudhan Rao inspected the airport premises on Friday. Mr. Imtiaz said that the integrated terminal which could handle 400 international passengers and 800 domestic passengers at any point of time would be built at a cost of Rs. 470 crore in 3.5 lakh square feet area. The new terminal will have six aero bridges, 24 check-in counters, 14 immigration counters and four customs counters among other facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-terminal-works-to-begin-soon-at-airport/article32528407.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man jumps into Krishna, dies||M. Rajashekara Reddy (27) allegedly committed suicide by jumping into Krishna river on Thursday night. The body was retrieved on Friday. The deceased, a native of Paritala village in Krishna district, was reportedly caught along with six others on September 2 during a raid on a gambling den. The Kanchikacherla police granted station bail to Rajashekara Reddy. Allegedly taking it as insult, he jumped from Prakasam Barrage on Thursday night. He was working in a hotel at Hyderabad as a cashier after completing graduation. But, returned home due to the pandemic. Persons in distress may dial ‘100’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-jumps-into-krishna-dies/article32528409.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be ready for land resurvey, officials told||Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das has asked officials to be prepared to launch a resurvey of lands in the State. Addressing a video conference on Friday, the Minister reviewed the progress and performance of the department. The officials informed him about pending applications relating to the revenue services and that plans were chalked out for distribution of house sites to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-ready-for-land-resurvey-officials-told/article32528617.ece
05 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant: APHSL to borrow Rs. 20 cr. from APMDC||The government gave its approval to the AP High Grade Steels Ltd. (APHSL) for borrowing Rs. 20 crore from the AP Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) to engage various agencies for the establishment of the proposed 3-MTPA integrated steel plant in Kadapa district, according to G.O. RT No.178 issued by Special Chief Secretary (industries and commerce) R. Karikal Valaven. The approval has been given with the exemption from providing government / bank guarantee since both are State government undertakings. The Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of APHSL has been instructed to take steps in this regard. The APHSL is a 100% government-owned entity incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-aphsl-to-borrow-rs-20-cr-from-apmdc/article32528620.ece
05 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vidya Kanuka launch postponed to Oct. 5||The launch of ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’ programme has been postponed to October 5, according to Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, Director of School Education. In a statement on Friday, he said the government was unable to stick to the original schedule of launching the programme, which envisages distribution of school kits to students, on September 5 due to the fresh guidelines under Unlock 4.0 issued by the Centre, which prohibit reopening of schools till September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-kanuka-launch-postponed-to-oct-5/article32528625.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 660 new cases, district tally crosses the 40,000-mark||The COVID-19 tally crossed the 40,000 mark in the district with 660 new cases being reported on Friday. With the new cases, the total number of cases reported in the district is 40,179. The last 10,000 cases were reported in a span of just 12 days. The district also saw six more deaths taking the toll to 279 on Friday. Meanwhile, as many as 924 persons, undergoing treatment, srecovered in the last 24 hours. As per the COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases present in the district is 6,198, while the number of persons discharged is 33,702. According to Special officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the district administration has denotified 21 more clusters for not reporting cases for 28 days. This takes the total denotified clusters till date to 192. It may be recalled that last month, the Collector had denotified 132 clusters. As on date, among the 717 clusters in the district, 52 are very active and 49 are active. As many as 616 clusters are dormant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-660-new-cases-district-tally-crosses-the-40000-mark/article32528650.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC seeks establishment of toy park||MLC and BJP leader P.V.N. Madhav has said that there are many traditional craftsmen families at Etikoppaka in the district, who depend on toy making for their livelihood. Visakhapatnam city has very good connectivity, and establishment of a toy manufacturing park will open up job opportunities for the craftsmen apart from contributing to the revenue of the government, he added. Mr. Madhav has written to Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Nitin Jairam Gadkari, Union Minister for Commerce, Electronics, IT, Law and Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad and A.P. Minister for Industries, Commerce and IT Mekapati Gowtham Reddy on the need to tap the vast potential in toy manufacturing in the district as also in other parts of the country and the need to tap it. Quoting figures given by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), the MLC mentioned that annual turnover of the Indian toy industry is Rs. 25,000 crore. Of this, 65% was captured by the Chinese toy industry. Mr. Madhav underlined the need for a national policy on toy making and constitution of an expert committee to make an in depth study and to set up toy parks/clusters in Visakhapatnam and other parts of the country. The MLC drew the attention of Mr. Gowtham Reddy on the need to formulate a concrete toy manufacturing policy for the State toy manufacturing clusters and to set up a toy park in the State by 2023. Indian mythology concept video gaming industry startups could also be encouraged, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-seeks-establishment-of-toy-park/article32528644.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||US embassy organises VELF graduation ceremony||After successful completion of the VELF (Virtual English Language Fellow) programme taught by American English Language Fellow Vicki Hale, the US Consulate organised a virtual graduation ceremony on Wednesday, at St. Joseph’s College for Women. A total of 58 graduate and post-graduate students from the college received certificates for courses such as English for Employability, Professional Portfolio Development, and Communication and Presentation Skills. In view of the current pandemic situation and growing importance of online learning, the U.S. Consulate General, Hyderabad, in coordination with the Regional English Language Office at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, launched the Virtual English Language Fellow Program at St. Joseph's College for Women (A) Visakhapatnam. Addressing the students, David Moyer, Public Affairs Officer at U.S. Consulate General Hyderabad,said: “English plays a major role in empowering people. That’s why the U.S. Mission to India promotes the learning and teaching of English, which helps to foster mutual understanding between the people of our two nations.” He further said: “At the U.S. Consulate General in Hyderabad, we use English language programmes to advance economic prosperity by expanding access to the local and global job markets, particularly for girls.” Maria Snarski, Regional English Language Officer, U.S. Embassy, New Delhi, and Sister Shyji, Principal St. Joseph Collegefor Women, also addressed the students.During the programme, Mr. Moyer also launched the website for the “St. Joseph’s College Language Center” to promote language learning through reading and conversation clubs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/us-embassy-organises-velf-graduation-ceremony/article32528653.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Anaemia, not strange disease, claimed Agency woman’s life’||A tribal woman, who died recently after suffering from a high fever and boils all over her body, was suffering from severe anaemia and not from any ‘strange disease’, doctors said on Friday. Villagers suspected that Reddy Suseela (25) of Thokarayi village in GK Veedhi mandal was suffering from a mysterious illness after she developed boils all over her body and began running a high fever. A doctor at the Darakonda Primary Health Centre referred her to the Chintapalli CHC. However, the woman died during transit. Additional District Medical and Health Officer Leela Prasad attributed the death of the women to anaemia. “The high fever could have been due to malaria, which is common during the monsoon, and swelling of the body could be due to anaemia. It is estimated that 90% of the people in the Agency areas are anaemic. A survey of 5,000 schoolchildren, screened three years ago, revealed that 578 of them had sickle cell anaemia,” he said. Dismisses rumours Dr. Leela Prasad refuted rumours that some tribal people in Golugonda, Koyyuru and G.K. Veedhi mandals were dying of a mysterious illness that they contracted after being bitten by an insect. “I have seen the messages circulating on social media. There is no truth to it,” he clarified. On the measures being taken to check the spread of malaria, the Additional DMHO said that a second round of spraying was completed. The spraying was done in 2,405 of the 3,800 habitations in the 11 Agency mandals. Habitations that were affected by malaria last year were selected for spraying, he said. Locals lamented that the health condition of tribals was in a precarious state. Villagers’ woes “Suseela had high fever and swelling all over her body. Doctors said it is anaemia, which is worrying because many tribals are at high risk for it. The closure of tribal welfare hostels during the last three months due to COVID-19 has deprived schoolchildren of nutritious meals. The pandemic has added to our woes,” said Killo Surendra, CPI(M) State Committee Member, who lives in the Agency. “COVID-19 is also on the rise in the Agency, with 900 cases being reported from the 11 mandals so far. People coming from other places are infecting our people. Even some educated youths who are coming from outside are seen roaming without masks, whereas our people unfailingly wear them,” he said. Several doctors in the Agency area were also affected by COVID-19. Paderu Area Hospital Superintendent Krishna Rao tested positive recently, and around six doctors and 10 nurses of the health department had also tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anaemia-not-strange-disease-claimed-agency-womans-life/article32528633.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inspects civil works in Pedabayalu||District Collector V. Vinay Chand conducted a series of inspections of Village Secretariat and Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBK) buildings and other development works at Pedabayalu mandal in the Agency area of the district on Friday. He directed the officials to ensure the quality of construction of the Village Secretariat building taken up at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh at Gamparai village. ‘No delays’ He asked the engineering officials about the possible date for completion. He said there should be no delays as four engineers were appointed in each mandal. Later, he inspected the works taken up at a cost of Rs. 62 lakh at the Tribal Welfare Girls school at Turakalavalasa. He inspected the BT road being laid to Thotlagondi village and the RBK, being constructed at Aradakota village at a cost of Rs. 21.80 lakh. He also inspected the YSR Health Clinic, being constructed at a cost of Rs. 14.95 lakh and the secretariat building at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh. The Collector expressed dissatisfaction over the functioning of the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Pedabayalu. He inquired about the availability of drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inspects-civil-works-in-pedabayalu/article32528646.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to be run for NDA candidates||Special trains will be operated between Ichchapuram and Visakhapatnam, for the convenience of over 4,500 candidates from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, who are expected to appear for National Defence Academy and Naval Academy examinations to be conducted by the Union Public Service Commissionin Visakhapatnam on Sunday. Train no.05831 on(Ichchapuram-Visakhapatnam) special will start from Ichchapuram on September 5 at 5 p.m., reach Palasa at 5.39 p.m. and leave at 5.40 p.m, arrive at Srikakulam Road at 6.35 p.m., depart at 6.36 p.m., reach Vizianagaram at 7.30 p.m. and depart at 7.32 p.m. to reach Visakhapatnam at 9 p.m., according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R). In the return direction, train no. 05832 (Visakhapatnam-Ichchapuram) special will leave Visakhapatnam at 6.30 p.m. on September 6 and will reach Vizianagaram at 7.35 p.m. and depart at 7.37 p.m. to reach Srikakulam Road at 8.31p.m., it will leave at 8.32 p.m. to reach Palasa at 9.30 p.m. and depart at 9.31p.m. to reach Ichchapuram at 10.30 p.m.  Stoppages The train will have stoppages at Sompeta, Palasa, Naupada, Kotabommali, Chipurapalli and Kottavalasa stations. Social distancing All the norms of maintaining social distance, wearing mask, etc., are to be strictly followed by the candidates. The aspirants are requested to make use of this facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-be-run-for-nda-candidates/article32528645.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Admissions: IGNOU extends last date||The last date for submission of fresh admission applications for the July 2020 session has been extended to September 15 by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU). Fresh admission applications can be submitted without any late fee till September 15. Admissions are open for all certificate, diploma, PG diploma, graduation and PG courses in ODL (Open and Distance Learning) mode, according to S. Raja Rao, Regional Director, IGNOU. Admissions can be taken through the web link available in INGOU website:https://ignouadmission. samarth.edu.in/ The last date for re-registration for II or III years of graduation and II PG courses has also been extended to September 15. All admissions are available at all the active IGNOU Study Centres in the five districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts. There will be fee exemption for SC/ST candidates for select programmes. The list of programmes and other regulations can be seen on IGNOU website. Students can log on towww.ignou.ac.inor contract the Visakhapatnam Regional Centre through email onrcvisakhapatnam@ ignou.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admissions-ignou-extends-last-date/article32528632.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna Patrudu slams Madanapalle DSP for issuing notice to Naidu||TDP leader and former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has found fault with the Madanapalle DSP for issuing a notice to Opposition leader and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu asking him to submit the evidence he has on the death of auto driver Om Pratap. Om Pratap of Chittoor district had died reportedly under mysterious circumstances in an inebriated condition and Mr. Naidu reportedly made remarks alleging that YSR Congress Party leaders were responsible for his death. Referring to the incident, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said that in a democracy everyone has the right to question and seek investigation into issues. It was for the police to investigate and come out with the truth. He said that during his three-decade political career, he had never seen notices being issued to the Opposition leader by the police. He appealed to the DGP not to degrade the police system by toeing the line of the ruling party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-patrudu-slams-madanapalle-dsp-for-issuing-notice-to-naidu/article32527951.ece
05 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online faculty development programme from Sept. 7||Andhra University College of Engineering (A), University College of Engineering- Vizianagaram, and JNTU-Kakinada jointly in collaboration with the APSCHE are conducting a 50-hour-online faculty development programme (FDP) on Data Science and its applications in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math). The FDP is conducted from September 7 to 21 during 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. daily. According to the officials, the FDP is intended for all faculty, research scholars, final year students and all those who want to gain knowledge in the area of data science. Resource persons from IITs, NITs, reputed state universities and industry will share their knowledge to the participants Those who want to join the programme can do so through the linkhttps://forms.gle/ Gsoz5yv8YUWAbAVf9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-faculty-development-programme-from-sept-7/article32528647.ece
05 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineering college for tribals takes shape||An exclusive and pioneer engineering college for tribal students in the district is going to be reality very soon, thanks to the joint efforts of State government and JNTU-Kakinada University. The government has already sanctioned Rs. 153 crore for the college to be set up in Kurupam constituency, represented by Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani. The college has reserved 50% of the seats for tribals and the rest for others. Recently, a high-level team comprising officials from the government and JNTU-K visited a site close to Kurupam town in Parvatipuram division to finalise the land. The officials have been searching for suitable buildings in Kurupam, Jiyammavalasa, Bobbili so that they can begin the classes in the current academic year itself as it was decided that it would be better to start classes temporarily in Bobbili until the new building is ready. Ms. Pushpa Srivani, JNTU-K-Vizianagaram principal G. Swami Naidu and Special Officer for the proposed college G. Jaya Suma inspected the infrastructure, laboratories and hostel facilities in those buildings. Ms. Pushpa Srivani thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for sanctioning the college in Kurupam while hoping that it would be a big boon for students of tribal areas. She said that faculty and staff allocation would also be completed very soon to begin classes. SO Jaya Suma said that around 300 students would be admitted to the college in branches that include computer science, ECE, EEE, mechanical and civil engineering. YSRCP Araku Parliament in-charge S. Parikshit Raju said the new college would help students of the entire Parliament segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engineering-college-for-tribals-takes-shape/article32528641.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Everyone loves a cool dip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/everyone-loves-a-cool-dip/article32528614.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a joyful mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-a-joyful-mood/article32528655.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sandwiched!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sandwiched/article32527955.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Off for a catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/off-for-a-catch/article32528627.ece
05 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Slain Maoist was ‘commander’||The 25-year-old Maoist, who was killed in Thursday’s encounter in Gundala mandal of Telangana’s tribal dominated Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, has been identified as Dudi Devalu alias Shankar, 25, Maoist commander of special protection team of the outlawed outfit’s Telangana State committee secretary Haribhushan. The deceased, a key Maoist cadre of the rank of an Area Committee Member (ACM), hailed from Arlapalli village of Chhattisgarh’s Konta tehsil. He was killed in a shoot-out with a search party of the police after he opened fire on the policemen, while travelling on a bike along with another ultra in Devalagudem forest area in the early hours of Thursday, the police said. The district police claimed that another Maoist escaped, leaving the bike at the shoot-out site in Thursday’s incident. The body of Devalu was handed over to his relatives after postmortem at the mortuary in the Government area hospital in Kothagudem on Friday, according to police sources. The police stepped up the area domination and search operations in the fringe areas of forests in Gundala and its surrounding mandals in pursuit of the Maoist action team members, who the police suspect are on the prowl to commit some major offences in the district.  ‘Fake encounter’ Meanwhile, in a statement purportedly issued in the name of the CPI (Maoist) Yellandu-Narsampeta area committee, its secretary Shantha alleged that an ailing Devalu alias Shankar was detained by the police while heading to a hospital for treatment and bumped off in a “fake encounter” in Gundala mandal on Thursday. Devalu joined the Maoist squad in his native Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district in 2013 and subsequently was transferred to Telangana. He rose to the rank of commander (ACM) in the outfit in a short span. The CPI (Maoist) area committee will observe a bandh on September 6 in Venkatapuram-Wajedu areas in protest against the "brutal killing" of an ailing Maoist cadre from Adivasi community in a "fake encounter", she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/slain-maoist-was-commander/article32528252.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A woman of substance and a man of steel||While the nation is sharing pride in her story, young IPS officer Kiran Shruthi D.V. herself finds her journey to be ‘ordinary’. In all humble and modest way, the 29-year-old IPS probationer, who graduated from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad, on Friday, looks at her achievement as a fruit of her labour and constant support from her doting parents. Leading with aplomb the Dikshant Parade of her batch of officers, and winning the Prime Minister’s Baton and the Home Minister’s Revolver for being the best all-round probationer officer of the 71st batch of IPS, she has made her doctor parents proud, who had named her after Kiran Bedi, the first female IPS officer and the current Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry. Hailing from Chengalpattu near Chennai, Ms. Kiran completed her engineering in Electronics and Communications from Tagore Engineering College, Chennai. She joined the State Bank of India as a probationary officer in 2013 and quit it after three years to chase her dream of becoming a civil servant. Sharing her journey from a bank employee to the elite IPS, Ms. Kiran said that she was more of a indoor person and NPA helped her push the limits. “Mine is an ordinary story. Both my parents, M Ramula and Durai Venkatesan, are doctors and they always supported in chasing and achieving my dreams,” she said in an exclusive chat with The Hindu . Allotted to home cadre (Tamil Nadu), Ms. Kiran was aspiring to become a civil servant since her childhood. Even when Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked about what made her choose the uniform service, she replied the same.  Daily-wager to elite IPS  Another inspiring story is one that of B Bala Swamy, a native of Vouthampally in Nagarkurnool district in Telangana, who had to undergo several challenges in his struggle to realise his dream. Mr. Bala Swamy, son of a poor farmer, did several odd jobs, believing in the dignity of labour, and came up the ladder by sheer determination, either in the academy or in the chosen profession. The 38-year-old IPS officer, made it to the elite service after more than 20 years of hard work for his family. He was allotted Telangana cadre. He is the first educated person from his home. Although a recipient of a doctorate in mathematics, Mr. Swamy was a daily wager in his teens. “When I came to Hyderabad after finishing Intermediate in 1999, I worked as a daily-wager for Rs. 50 per day,” he said, adding that even during his school vacation, he worked in agriculture fields to support his family. After completing his degree and post-graduation from Dr. BR Ambedkar Open University, he joined the College of Engineering, Osmania University, as an assistant professor in 2007, and worked there for more than eight years, before appearing for civil services. Mr. Swamy finished his Ph.D while working in OU. He quit the job in 2015 to appear for Civils. He got into Indian Revenue Service twice before he cracked IPS. Mr. Swamy says the vast exposure in the university changed his life. “There was no one to mentor me. Only after joining OU, did I get to know about civil services, and a few years later, I started appearing for it. The university gave me exposure to the world and changed my life,” the IPS officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-woman-of-substance-and-a-man-of-steel/article32528250.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2,478 new cases in the State||The State continued to record a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases with 2,478 persons testing positive on Thursday. With this, the virus tally in Telangana has reached 1,35,884. Of the 2,478 cases reported in the State, 247 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. Meanwhile, Rangareddy district recorded 171 cases, Nalgonda 135 cases, Karimnagar 129 cases and Khammam 128 cases. According to the bulletin released by the office of Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, the number of deaths reported on Thursday stood at 10, thus taking the total number of fatalities to 866. While the fatality rate in the country is 1.74%, in the State it is 0.63%. The number of COVID-patients who recovered was 2,011 which pushed the total number of reported recoveries to 1,02,024. The recovery rate in the State was recorded as 75%. The bulletin stated that 62,543 samples were tested on Thursday and the cumulative number of tests stands at 16,05,521. The total samples tested per million of the population was 43,245 and as many as 2,274 tests results are awaited. The bulletin recorded that as many as 28,144 primary contacts and 8,756 secondary contacts of patients were tested on Thursday. The number of symptomatic cases was reported as 42,124 and those who are asymptomatic were 93,760.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2478-new-cases-in-the-state/article32528216.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||City gets more toilets, but raw deal for pedestrians||Hyderabad may be the toilet capital of the country with one toilet per 1,000 persons or one toilet every 500 metres, according to a bureaucrat in the State. The change is evident on the streets of Hyderabad where hundreds of pre-fab toilets have popped up on footpaths, road corners and near parks in assorted shapes and sizes. While some are complete, others are in a state of completion. “The guiding principle has been that 50% of the toilets should be for women with entrances away from the men’s section. The aesthetics in terms of ventilation and minimum size has also been drawn by us,” said V. Srinivas Chary of Administrative Staff College of India, who was part of the team that had facilitated the toilet revolution in the State. According to Principal Secretary MA&UD Arvind Kumar, “Telangana has constructed 16,000 public/community toilet seats one /1,000 citizens, half of which are for women in all ULBs .. of these Hyderabad has >12000 toilet seats. This again is a unique intervention at this scale and we have toilets for every 500 metres.” The numbers totted out today are impressive, considering that Telangana had 4,907 public toilets in urban areas, according to Swachh Bharat Mission-2019, while its target was to have 15,543 toilets. A shortfall of 78%. But in Hyderabad, not everyone is happy with the way the toilets have been positioned on the footpaths. One morning walker counted three toilets on a short stretch of road near Raj Bhavan. On another stretch near Begumpet, there are two toilets within a 50-metre distance. Some of the toilets have rendered the sidewalks useless as they occupy the width of the walking space. Without space for parking vehicles, the utility of toilets for commuters can be guessed. “We will have an independent audit and glitches like missing doors, water supply issues will be fixed. We have a checklist and these toilets will improve the quality of civic life,” said Mr. Chary. One of the key items in the checklist is the connection to septic tank or sewage system to ensure full functionality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-gets-more-toilets-but-raw-deal-for-pedestrians/article32528227.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Basketball buffs get new a platform to dribble and shoot||Basketball enthusiasts can now boast of a world-class facility to pursue their passion in the city, thanks to the launch of Keystone Basketball Academy in Gachibowli here on Friday. The 15,000-square foot, fully air-conditioned indoor arena is equipped with a FIBA standard imported maple wood playing surface, competition grade equipment and a specialised training gym, according to Norman Issac, FIBA Commissioner and also director of the academy. “Managed by a team of career professionals who have been actively involved in the sport at the national and international levels, the academy offers a comprehensive training program catering to a variety of age groups and comprising of regular training sessions, one-on-one coaching, specialised boot camps, leagues and tournaments, international certifications, corporate sessions and more,” he explained. The focus will be on complete player development with maximising a player’s potential through high intensity workouts focusing on ball skills, strength, speed, endurance and enhancing basketball IQ to elevate and prepare each player by analysing their inherent strengths, work on their weaker aspects and prepare them for high level competitive basketball, Mr Isaac added. A part of education For her part, Srilakshmi Reddy, the founder and director of Keystone School, said they believed sport to be an integral part of the culture and education of the community. “Team sports, especially, are effective in building critical skills such as leadership, communication, strategy and influencing. We chose to promote basketball as it is among the fastest growing sports and there is a real need for a high quality facility in our local community to nurture and grow the sport,” she said. Head Coach, P. S. Santosh, a former Indian Army basketball player and a qualified FIBA World Association of Basketball Coach (WABC), also believes in working on holistic development of players by providing them insights into nutrition, preparing them to reduce injuries and also aiding in quicker recovery. In view of the COVID-19 situation, the academy is operating under FIBA health and safety guidelines to provide a safe environment for the players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/basketball-buffs-get-new-a-platform-to-dribble-and-shoot/article32528219.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS testbed for scalable emerging tech: KTR||Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao on Friday said that with a rich data and innovation ecosystem, the State was acting as a testbed for scalable emerging technologies solutions. “If we solve for Telangana, we solve for the world and we welcome the world to come and partner with us. Let’s solve it together,” he told the US India Week organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF). Mr.Rao, who was in conversation with Sanjay Gupta, Vice President and Country Head of Google India, said Hyderabad has claimed its rightful place on the global innovation map and has captured the imagination of global leadership. The State government had formulated actionable strategies for developing robust local ecosystems for AI, Blockchain, drones, IoT, and cyber security. “We are recognized as undisputed thought leaders in these areas among Indian State governments,” he added. A release from his office said the Minister highlighted how Telangana had clearly defined its vision to be a global leader in emerging technologies, including AI, and has made rapid strides towards achieving the vision. Capitalising on the value of emerging technologies has the potential to impact productivity and efficiency at all stages of the agricultural value chain as well. On Telangana government’s measures in transforming the State and Hyderabad into an innovation hub and a favourite destination for global companies, Mr.Rao said several policies and initiatives of the State government are a role model to become self-reliant in various sectors. With its TS-iPASS Telangana is the only State that allows for self-certification-based system for approvals and clearances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-testbed-for-scalable-emerging-tech-ktr/article32528222.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR releases Post-Lockdown Restart Manual for colleges||Minister for Information Technology K T Rama Rao released the “Post-Lockdown Restart Manual: Framework for Prevention and Mitigation of COVID-19” prepared by VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET). KTR appreciated the institution for designing a manual for post-lockdown restart operations at educational institutions. He said educational institutions must proactively engage with students and their parents, and also the local community and support at testing times such as the post-pandemic scenario. D.N. Rao, President-Vignana Jyothi, said the Institute has prepared this Restart Manual, adopting the acronym VJ MEDISCINE as the central theme for devising Standard Operating Procedures, indicating the necessity of Mask (M), e-Resources (E), Distancing (D), Isolation (I), S (Screening through thermal scanning), C (Cleanliness and Sanitisation), I (Immunity), N (Neighbourhood), and E (Empathy and Engagement). T. Papireddy, Chairman-TSCHE; K. Harishchandra Prasad, General Secretary-Vignana Jyothi; K. Durga Prasad, Joint Secretary; C.D. Naidu, Principal; B. Chennakesava Rao, Dean-Administration were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-releases-post-lockdown-restart-manual-for-colleges/article32528225.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cycling corridor in Khairatabad mooted||A pilot project to develop cycling corridor for the first time in the city is being proposed for the Khairatabad zone of GHMC, as part of the ‘India Cycle4Change Challenge’, a Central government initiative under the Smart Cities Mission. Hyderabad is registered as one among the 95 cycle-friendly cities across India under the initiative by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA), apart from Warangal and Karimnagar in the State. Hyderabad Unified Metropolitan Transportation Authority (HUMTA), together with HMDA, GHMC and Traffic Police, is preparing proposals for implementation of the project on a 23-kilometre stretch of Khairatabad zone. A length of 46 kilometres together on both sides of the road, it will cover seven cycling tracks already identified, a statement by MDA said. As per the proposals, initially a 10-kilometre road stretch would be taken up for development of cycling corridor, and based on the feedback and implementation challenges, other tracks would be taken up. As part of the project, necessary signages, road markings, temporary barricading and plug and play bollards would be provided, the statement said. Available spaces at HMRL stations, TSRTC terminals or depots, and MMTS stations would be used for locating Public Bicycle Sharing (PBS) Docks for the purpose of first and last mile connectivity. Post the pilot, it was being proposed to implement cycling lanes in a phased manner on 450 kilometres of road length, in locations such as Hitec City, Kukatpally, Dilsukhnagar, Charminar, Mehdipatnam, Financial District, Hyderabad Knowledge Centre and Kokapet areas. The Cycle4Change Challenge was envisaged to be implemented in two stages, with proposals being accepted in the Stage-I up to October 14. Based on the intervention, implementation, concept plans and scale-up strategies submitted by all the 95 cities, the Centre would short-list 11 cities for the Stage-II by October 28. The 11 cities would be provided a funding of Rs. 1 crore by the MoHUA, apart from expertise and guidance from national and international experts. The project was expected to be completed by May 31 next year. The project was being promoted with the objective of reducing pollution and safeguarding the environment, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cycling-corridor-in-khairatabad-mooted/article32528229.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mentions at HC via video conference from Monday||All mentions may be made only through video conferencing before all benches of Telangana High Court at 10.30 a.m. from Monday, even as physical holding of courts is partially beginning from that day. The Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijayasen Reddy and single benches of Justices P. Naveen Rao, Challa Kodanda Ram, Shameem Akther and G. Sri Devi will hold courts physically from Monday to Friday. Other benches would continue to hear matters virtually through video conferencing. Both online and physical filing of cases is permitted. However, physically filed cases would be scrutinised following disinfection after 48 hours. While holding courts physically, the benches would take up admission matters virtually in the forenoon session. Final hearing and other matters would be undertaken through physical hearing in the afternoon session or after completing admission matters. All stakeholders, including advocates, attending physical courts would have to follow guidelines issued as part of SOPs, a statement from the HC said. No one with symptoms of cough, fever, running nose and those not wearing masks would be allowed to enter the HC. Advocates were requested not to bring their junior counsels or advocate clerks into the court halls. They are, however, permitted up to the court halls. For any assistance or clarifications, the following officers can be contacted: Registrar (Protocol) - 9440621445, Registrar (Management) - 9440621446 and Registrar (IT-cum-CPC) - 9490156554.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mentions-at-hc-via-video-conference-from-monday/article32528238.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana People’s Assembly launched||The Telangana People’s Assembly, a four-day initiative by the NGOs and citizens’ groups, has been kicked off on Friday, with academic and intellectual G. Haragopal expounding the neo-liberal policies prevailing in the State and the country. In the inauguration session, rights activist Kaneez Fatima spoke of discrimination against Muslims by the police and the government representatives, with special reference to the attitude against Tablighi Jamaat followers during early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. Activist Sujatha Surepally expressed concern about the situation wherein NGOs and academicians are not able to do any constructive work, while Rachana, representative of Telangana Hijra and Transgender Collective, called for establishing a Transgender welfare board. In the first session, an overview of the crisis in the employment and livelihood sectors was presented by the editor of Veekshanam magazine, N.Venugopal, Ananth Mariganti of Hyderabad Urban Labs, and representatives of IFTU Beedi Workers Union, besides several others including domestic workers, sanitation workers, construction and brick kiln workers, beedi makers, street vendors, and representatives of cab drivers. A detailed resolution was passed on the policy measures to be taken by the government to address the livelihood distress, which include basic income support of Rs. 10,000 every quarter for every working adult, an urban employment programme to build basic infrastructure, and full implementation of the Unorganized Workers Social Security Act (2008), among others. In the second session, researcher Usha Seetalakshmi, advocate Ch. Ravi, Dalit Bahujan Front activist P Shankar, and anti-Mallannasagar project activist Hayatuddin spoke about land reforms, redistribution, Dalit land rights and problems of the displaced. The discussion also touched upon forest resources, laws, forest rights, adverse effects of green belt, and misuse of CAMPA funds. This was followed by a session about environmental concerns and climate change. At the end, a demand charter was collectively prepared for each sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-peoples-assembly-launched/article32528246.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ensure strict punishment to corrupt officials: VHR||Former PCC president V. Hanmanth Rao has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to ensure stringent punishment to the corrupt Revenue officials to be included in the new Revenue Act. He said the new Act should be discussed extensively in the Assembly and confidence should be given to poor people that they would be spared from the corruption of Revenue Department. In a letter to the Chief Minister, he said if stringent measures for punishment are not included in the Act, all sections of the society would suffer. The biggest losers would be poor people. If the government doesn’t come out with a proper Act to control corruption, the Congress would launch an agitation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-strict-punishment-to-corrupt-officials-vhr/article32528245.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGO sets up help desk at Gandhi hospital||In an effort to assist COVID-19 patients, the Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), an NGO working in the healthcare sector, on Friday stated that it has set up a help desk at the Gandhi Hospital. This help desk will have four patient counsellors and in addition to that, two ambulances will be available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day. According to Mujtaba Hasan Askari of HHF, the counsellors will help in intra-hospital referrals, and will also focus on maternity COVID-positive cases. The counsellors will also help patients who are discharged from hospital and will assist them with transportation in ambulances. Patients will be dropped at their homes within the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation free of cost. Mr Askari also said that volunteers will also work with COVID-positive pregnant women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngo-sets-up-help-desk-at-gandhi-hospital/article32528217.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Former IMS officials arrested||Three former top officials of Insurance Medical Services (IMS) and six private persons, against whom a fresh criminal case was registered by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Wednesday, were arrested on Thursday. They were presented before ACB special court. The judge remanded them in judicial custody for 14 days. The arrested persons were accused of involvement in IMS scam. They had been arrested earlier in IMS scam-related cases registered by the ACB and came out on bail. Among the arrested on Thursday were IMS former director, joint director and deputy director Ch. Devika Rani, Kalakuntla Padma and Kurapati Vasantha Indira respectively. The arrested private persons are Kancharla Srihari Babu of Omni Medi, Kancharla Sujatha of Omni Healthcare, Kukkala Krupasagar Reddy of Legend Enterprises, Tankasala Venkatesh, regional manager of Hemocue, Bandi Venkateshwarlu of Omni Medi and Cherukuri Nagaraju, employee of Omni Medi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-ims-officials-arrested/article32528220.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Driver arrested for ‘selling’ ganja||A car driver in possession of six kg of ganja was apprehended by sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) here on Friday. The accused, Farid Sab (29) from from Gulbarga in Karnataka was held near Shahinayathgunj outpost in Jummerath Bazaz, where he was trying to sell the narcotic substance.They seized his car, mobile phone and recovered the ganja from him. Raids conducted In another case, the Task Force team led by inspector B Gattu Mallu conducted raids in different places on noxious gutka containing tobacco contents at Asif nagar, Humayun Nagar, Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/driver-arrested-for-selling-ganja/article32528234.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teen held on rape charge||A teenager was arrested by the Balapur police on Friday on the charge of sexually assaulting a 34-year-old woman. The victim lodged a complaint on Wednesday stating that three years ago, Mohammed Irfan from Ismailnagar in Bandlgauda, acquainted himself with her and expressed love. Then he allegedly raped her. Based on her complaint, he was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teen-held-on-rape-charge/article32528232.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Crop in 4 lakh acres damaged due to rains’||The Telangana Kisan Congress has said that crop in four lakh acres got damaged in the recent heavy rains in Telangana but the government did not come to the rescue of farmers. Telangana Kisan Congress president Anvesh Reddy said at a press meet on Friday that cotton crop was damaged in almost 50% of cultivation taken up while paddy was damaged in 50% of the crop area. Similar was the situation with most crops but it was shameful that not even a single Minister had visited farmers to see the damage and give confidence to them. He also said that district presidents of the Kisan Congress Committee gave details of the crops lost or damaged at a meeting held at Gandhi Bhavan on Friday. “Based on the reports and the extensive damage done, we demand the government to extend a financial help of Rs. 30,000 per acre to farmers,” he said. Spurious seeds is a major issue and soya crop in 42,000 acres has been lost and farmers were in despair since the last two months, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crop-in-4-lakh-acres-damaged-due-to-rains/article32528239.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAF chief in city (with photo)||Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited the College of Air Warfare (CAW) and addressed officers from all the three services undergoing the 44th Higher Air Command Course (HACC) where he sensitised them about the emerging contours of national security on Thursday. The CAS stressed the unique attributes of air power that would allow its employment in likely scenarios, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iaf-chief-in-city-with-photo/article32528224.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident||Two persons, travelling on different bikes, were killed after a car driver lost control and hit their two-wheelers in Kukatpally on Friday. "While one victim is Ashok, another is yet to be identified," police said. Car driver Srinivas was taken into custody and a case was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-accident/article32528233.ece
05 September 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mecca Masjid to be reopened from today||The Mecca Masjid will be thrown open to the public from Saturday, albeit with permission for a limited congregation. According to Mecca Masjid khateeb , Maulana Rizwan Quraishi, who spoke to the media on Friday, the number of congregants would be limited to 50. Those who wish to take part should face mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mecca-masjid-to-be-reopened-from-today/article32528236.ece
05 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Five killed in accident on Nagarjunasagar highway||Five young men on way to witness the brimming Nagarjunasagar dam, were killed when their car hit a check valve column on the highway-side and crashed into a ditch, here on Friday. All the victims were friends aged between 20 and 25 years. S. Nagendra, the cab driver, Shivabhasker and M. Srinivas Yadav, who hail from Anantapur of Andhra Pradesh, and V. Bharat and Srikanth Reddy from Hyderabad, were MBA students. As per information, locals of Dhairyapuri Thanda on the Nagarjunasagar highway first rushed to the accident site at about 6.45 a.m. when they were alerted by a loud crashing sound. Soon, Chintapally police also reached the scene, and together the victim bodies were extracted from the car debris. The five victims breathed their last at the same site even before the arrival of emergency medical service. Officials of Chintapally police later shifted the bodies to Devarakonda Area Hospital for further procedure. Madgul police investigating the accident said “it appears to be a case of over-speeding”. “The accident occurred after 6.30 a.m., when the speeding compact sedan hit the HMWSSB (Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board) valve column and crashed. The force of the crash so intense that the car was mangled beyond recognition and none of them survived,” an official said. An investigation was opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-killed-in-accident-on-nagarjunasagar-highway/article32528247.ece
05 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||District SP A.V. Ranganath along with Additional SP Narmada, on Friday, flagged off 20 scooters for SHE Team police officers. Ms. Narmada said that the scooters would effectively reduce an official’s reaction and response time in reaching a victim. Nalgonda SHE Team police can be reached at 9963393970 and nlgsheteam@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32528242.ece
05 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Pic BRF||Prohibition and excise officials seized 850 kg dry ganja worth Rs. 1.5 crore during a raid at Doulatabad crossroads in the wee hours of Friday. According to Deputy Commissioner of Prohibition and Excise, Medak, K.A.B. Sastry, officials led by ASP D. Gayatri conducted the raid and seized 425 packets of dry ganja hidden in 10 gunny bags. Each packet weighed two kg. Two persons, Rathod Bansilal and Rathod Shankar, were arrested and a goods vehicle seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pic-brf/article32528244.ece
05 September 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||BRF||The Central Crime Station (CCS) police of Bhongir along with Ramannapet police on Friday busted a burglary gang involved in thefts in Telangana and AP for the last five years. A booty of 51 tola gold, 1.5 kg silver and other items worth Rs. 31.75 lakh were seized from them. According to the police, four persons were stopped at Atmakur (M) junction on Friday when they were found suspicious during a vehicle check exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32528240.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Malegaon blast accused Purohit moves HC||Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Purohit, an accused in the Malegaon blast in 2008 which killed six people and injured 101, on Friday filed a fresh petition before the Bombay High Court, challenging the sanction to prosecute him in the case. Former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi appeared for Mr. Purohit before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik. He filed the petition under Section 197 (prosecution of judges and public servants) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and said that Mr. Purohit was an army officer and was discharging his official duty by gathering intelligence. He said the sanction to prosecute him had to be taken before taking cognisance of the offence. The National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) counsel Sandesh Patil filed an affidavit and said that Mr. Purohit’s application was not maintainable. He said by no stretch of imagination the act committed by him could be termed as official duty. Mr. Rohatgi sought time to file a rejoinder in the case. The matter was adjourned for further hearing on September 23. Mr. Rohatgi had on August 8, 2019, challenged Mr. Purohit’s sanction to prosecute him under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act  (UAPA). He had said that following an amendment to the UAPA on December 31, 2008, the government needed to set up a committee to prosecute anyone under these provisions. Mr. Purohit was charged with murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of  harmony under the Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of the Arms Act, the Indian Explosive Substance Act, and the UAPA. The charge sheet filed by the NIA said, “Mr. Purohit had floated an organisation Abhinav Bharat in 2006 in spite of being a serving Commissioned Officer of the armed forces of India, which is against the services rules.” The Central agency relied upon the statement of a prosecution witness that said, “Mr. Purohit gave him three weapons and ammunition to be kept in his house for a month sometime in 2006. The description of the weapons was also dictated to him. He saw RDX in the house of Mr. Purohit in a green sack at Devlali and that Mr. Purohit confessed to him (witness) about having supplied RDX for the Samjhauta Express blast.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/malegaon-blast-accused-purohit-moves-hc/article32528179.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Judicial custody of Elgaar Parishad accused extended till September 18||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday extended the judicial custody of professor Hany Babu, professor Anand Teltumbde and activist Gautam Navlakha, accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, till September 18. Special judge A.T. Wankhede allowed the judicial custody to be extended after special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, appearing for the NIA, made the request citing investigation was still in progress in the case. On July 12, the court granted the NIA an extension of 90 days to file charge sheets against Mr. Teltumbde and Mr. Navlakha. Mr. Babu, an associate professor at Delhi University’s English department, was arrested by the NIA on July 28. Earlier, while granting the NIA his custody, the court had said, “The investigating officer wants to confront him with the various facts established from the other accused. Looking at the nature of the offence and allegations levelled against the accused, the demand for custody is well-founded.” Mr. Teltumbde and Mr. Navlakha surrendered before the NIA on April 14. They were remanded in NIA custody and are now lodged at Taloja jail. Between August 29 and October 1, 2018, Mr. Navlakha was kept under house arrest. ‘File reply by Sept. 15’ The Bombay High Court on Friday issued a notice to the NIA seeking its response to a criminal appeal filed by Mr. Navlakha. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik directed the NIA to file its reply by September 15. The Bench was hearing a plea filed by Mr. Navlakha, challenging a special court order of July 12 that rejected his plea for default bail. Mr. Navlakha had sought default bail before the special court on the ground that he had been in custody for over 90 days, but the prosecution had failed to file a charge sheet in the case within this period. The NIA, however, had argued that his plea was not maintainable. It had also sought an extension for filing of charge sheet and the special court had at the time accepted the NIA’s plea seeking extension of 90 to 180 days to file the charge sheet against Mr. Navlakha and Dr. Teltumbde. The NIA took over the investigation from the Pune Police on January 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/judicial-custody-of-elgaar-parishad-accused-extended-till-september-18/article32528177.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||2,700 fined for not wearing masks: BMC||Over 2,700 people have been fined Rs. 1,000 each in the last five months for stepping out in public without masks amid the COVID-19 pandemic, an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday. As per the Union government’s guidelines, the BMC made masks mandatory in public places since April 9. The BMC has collected Rs. 27.48 lakh in fines from 2,798 residents between April 9 and August 31, the official said. A total of 9,954 people were issued warnings by the solid waste management department. The BMC said Rs. 5.04 lakh was collected in fines in K West ward, which is the highest in the city. In R-South and C wards, Rs. 4.21 lakh and Rs. 4.08 lakh were collected respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2700-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-bmc/article32528180.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Desperate plea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/desperate-plea/article32528182.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Russia’s COVID-19 vaccine is safe: study||The two-shot vaccine being developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute generated a strong immune response and didn’t produce serious adverse reactions in the 76 volunteers who were inoculated in a trial, according to results of a study reported online in The Lancet on Friday. This is the first time that details of the early human studies — or Phase-1/2 trials, to check the vaccine’s safety and ability to generate an immune response — of the vaccines have been reported in a peer-reviewed journal. Two components The vaccine consists of two components, a recombinant adenovirus type 26 (rAd26) vector and a recombinant adenovirus type 5 (rAd5) vector, both carrying the gene for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike glycoprotein (rAd26-S and rAd5-S). Adenoviruses commonly affect humans and primates and have emerged as a sought-after platform to develop a vaccine against COVID-19. The ChAdOx1 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University is based on a chimpanzee adenovirus vector platform and the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology and CanSino Biologics Inc. of China too are developing a vaccine on an adenovirus platform. Last month, Russian scientists said they had begun Phase-3 trials of their vaccine in 40,000 volunteers, results of which are likely to be publicly known by November. In The Lancet , the scientists said the vaccines were given to the selected volunteers 21 days apart — the spacing meant to generate a boosted response — and checked for whether it induced protective antibodies as well as if it managed to stimulate the body’s cells into producing a class of cells that can destroy viral cells, a process known as a ‘humoral response.’ Both of these happened, the scientists claim, and no “serious adverse events” were reported. However, between 28% and 50% of the volunteers reported pain at injection site, hyperthermia, headache, asthenia and muscle and joint pain. “Most adverse events were mild and no serious adverse events were detected,” the authors note. Shahid Jameel, virologist and CEO, DBT-Welcome Trust, who read The Lancet study, told The Hindu that these were typical responses when vaccines were administered and based on what was reported, the vaccine candidates looked encouraging enough to be tested in large populations or a Phase-3 trial. “I would have liked to see a bigger number of volunteers in the Phase-2 component, at least in the hundreds, to capture the variety of population who are likely to get the vaccine. However the results look promising enough to progress to a Phase-3,” he said in a phone interview. In comparison, the ChAdOx1 vaccine candidate has been tested in 1,100 volunteers under Phase-2 trials. Experimental studies “We are in close dialogue, agreements with certain companies in India. We appreciate that they didn’t ‘attack’ the vaccine but carefully sought to understand its mechanism of action. We are very grateful to India for the openness shown,” Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of Russian Direct Investment Fund, said in response to questions at a press briefing on Friday. The RDIF is in collaboration with the Gamaleya Institute to develop and market the vaccine. So far, adenoviral vector vaccines have never been tested in commercial human vaccines except for a rabies vaccine but have been tested on people as part of experimental studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russias-covid-19-vaccine-is-safe-study/article32527830.ece
05 September 2020||Athens,||Greece rejects NATO mediation||Turkey on Friday accused Greece of shunning dialogue and lying after Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said NATO-brokered talks to reduce tension in the eastern Mediterranean could only be held if Ankara stopped making “threats”. “Greece showed once more than it’s not in favour of dialogue,” Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu told reporters in Ankara. NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg on Thursday said Greek and Turkish leaders “agreed to enter into technical talks at NATO to establish mechanisms for military de-confliction to reduce the risk of incidents and accidents”. But Athens said it had never agreed to the technical talks, which in any case did not constitute dialogue with Turkey. “Published information claiming Greece and Turkey have agreed to hold so-called ‘technical talks’ on de-escalating tensions in the eastern Mediterranean do not correspond to reality,” Greece’s Foreign Ministry said. Greek government spokesman Stelios Petsas on Friday said Mr. Stoltenberg’s initiative “is very far from being termed an agreement to restart dialogue.” The Greek Foreign Ministry stressed that “de-escalation will only take place with the immediate withdrawal of all Turkish vessels from the Greek continental shelf”. ‘Stop making threats’ “Let threats go away so that the contacts can begin,” PM Mitsotakis said on Friday as he met a visiting senior member of the Chinese Communist party. In Ankara, Mr. Cavusoglu said Greece did in fact agree to the proposal when it was made. “Greece denied the secretary general’s (remarks) but the one lying here is not the NATO secretary general, it’s Greece itself,” Mr. Cavusoglu told reporters in Ankara. Greek media on Friday said Mr. Stoltenberg had handed a “single-sheet document” outlining his thoughts to the military representatives of Greece and Turkey “in a five-minute meeting”. The document was forwarded to Athens for deliberation, the reports said. Tensions are running high over Turkey’s drilling activities in the eastern Mediterranean which Greece and Cyprus say violate their sovereignty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/greece-rejects-nato-mediation/article32527836.ece
05 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Film questions Sri Lankan society’s ‘silence’ on past brutalities||Like many Sri Lankans, academic and filmmaker Visakesa Chandrasekaram has been struggling to come to terms with the civil war’s gory end in 2009. The graphic visuals of the bloodshed, which some “shared like trophies”, made him question what he’d thought were basic human norms. When he decided to give it creative expression, he chose to tell the story of a mother’s quest for justice, after her son was forcibly disappeared by soldiers. Except, the story is not from the war zone where armed forces fought the LTTE for three decades. It is from an earlier chapter of brutal violence and state repression in Sri Lankan history Mr. Chandrasekaram’s recently-released Sinhala film Paangshu , or Earth , zooms into the agony of dealing with an enforced disappearance of a loved one. It follows an aged mother from the marginal dhobi caste group in the island’s Sinhala-majority south, looking for her son, who, like scores of rural Sinhala youth, is drawn to the leftist-nationalist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP)-led armed insurrection in the late 1980s. The period connotes the second JVP uprising — the first was in 1971 — against the widening inequality in the decade after economic liberalisation in Sri Lanka, mass youth unemployment, widespread state repression and Indian “expansionism”, at the time of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987 and intervention of the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF). Having drawn acclaim at many international film festivals, Paangshu is perhaps the first mainstream Sinhala film to foreground the struggle of a missing person’s family. Enforced disappearances in Sri Lanka have a long and dark history, beginning well before the period shown in the film. They continued well after, especially in the island’s Tamil-majority north and east, during and after the civil war years. Hundreds of Tamil women are agitating for years, braving intimidation, demanding the truth about their disappeared loved ones, including those who surrendered to the Army and never returned. Reluctance to speak up’ Sri Lanka has one of the world’s highest number of disappearances, Amnesty International notes, pointing to an estimated 60,000 to 1,00,000 alleged disappearances. “The trauma of 2009 is engraved in my mind. But there is a silence in Sri Lanka around the 2009 massacre, in which scores of civilians died. It is as if the country is in denial. There is mass amnesia. I thought about it and felt may be a country that was silent in one instance, cannot break it in another,” says Mr. Chandrasekaram, speaking to The Hindu . He turned the spotlight on the 1980s, as there was a “similar refusal” to talk about what happened at the time. “First, the J.R. Jayewardene government turned its guns southward, against the insurgent youth, and when the Indian Army left the country in 1989, the government [subsequently led by R. Premadasa] turned its guns 180 degrees against rebels in the north. Much of the Sinhalese society was silent all through.” All the same, an ethnically charged narrative didn’t speak to him. Raised by a Sinhalese mother and Tamil father, and having spent 17 years in Australia before returning to Colombo two years ago, the filmmaker saw how any conversation about the country’s turbulent past tended to further polarise people on ethnic lines. His work as a human rights lawyer took him closer to the individual stories of the most vulnerable and he saw similarities — in their pain, helplessness and relentless quest for justice. “I began questioning the ethnic construct,” says Mr. Chandrasekaram, who teaches law at the University of Colombo. Over time, he also began reflecting on the dynamic between the JVP and its support base, or the LTTE and the Tamil society that the movements’ critics deem hegemonic, with little room for any questioning, and even less for dissent. Regardless of the different views on the insurgencies, appreciating the context of the uprisings, the filmmaker notes, is crucial, particularly in this political moment in Sri Lanka, when the Rajapaksas — whose earlier government faces accusations of grave rights abuses — are back in power, with a super majority in Parliament. “I worry that the current context is not too different to those that sparked past conflicts. I am not predicting another armed struggle, but knowing the government’s authoritarian tendencies, I am very concerned about those on the margins of our society and the minorities,” says Mr. Chandrasekaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/film-questions-sri-lankan-societys-silence-on-past-brutalities/article32527841.ece
05 September 2020||Paris,||Macron defends blasphemy, decries ‘Islamic separatism’||French President Emmanuel Macron criticised on Friday what he called “Islamic separatism” in his country and those who seek French citizenship without accepting France’s “right to commit blasphemy.” Mr. Macron defended satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo , which published caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad that helped inspire two French-born Islamic extremists to mount a deadly January 2015 attack on the newspaper’s newsroom. The weekly republished the images this week as the trial began of 14 people over the attacks on Charlie Hebdo and on a kosher supermarket. Speaking at a ceremony on Friday celebrating France’s democratic history and naturalising new citizens, the French President said, “You don’t choose one part of France. You choose France... The Republic will never allow any separatist adventure.” Freedom in France, Mr. Macron said, includes “the freedom to believe or not to believe. But this is inseparable from the freedom of expression up to the right to blasphemy.” Noting the trial that opened on Wednesday, he said, “To be French is to defend the right to make people laugh, to criticise, to mock, to caricature.” The 2015 attacks killed 17 people and marked the beginning of a wave of violence by the Islamic State group in Europe. Mr.Macron’s centrist government has promised a law in the coming months against “Islamic separatism” but it is not clear yet exactly what it would police. Some critics fear it could unfairly stigmatise France’s largely moderate Muslim population, the largest in western Europe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/macron-defends-blasphemy-decries-islamic-separatism/article32527839.ece
05 September 2020||Washington,||Trump calls marines killed in First World War ‘losers’||U.S. President Donald Trump referred to U.S. marines buried in a First World War cemetery in France as “losers” and “suckers” for getting killed in action, according to a report on Thursday in the Atlantic magazine. The report, penned by the magazine’s editor-in-chief Jeffrey Goldberg, said Mr. Trump had refused to visit the Aisne-Marne American Cemetery near Paris in 2018 because “he feared his hair would become dishevelled in the rain,” although the official explanation offered by aides was that the helicopter due to take him there could not fly due to weather. “In a conversation with senior staff members on the morning of the scheduled visit, Mr. Trump said, ‘Why should I go to that cemetery? It’s filled with losers,’” the article said. “In a separate conversation on the same trip, Mr. Trump referred to the more than 1,800 marines who lost their lives at Belleau Wood as ‘suckers’ for getting killed,” the Atlantic added, citing four unnamed people who had firsthand knowledge of the discussions. Mr. Trump slammed the report on Thursday. “Somebody makes up this horrible story that I didn’t want to go,” he told reporters after returning from a rally.  Allegations denied “If they really exist, if people really exist that would have said that, they’re low lifes and they’re liars. And I would be willing to swear on anything that I never said that about our fallen heroes,” he said. “No animal, nobody, what animal would say such a thing?” However, some critics pointed to Mr. Trump’s denigrating comments about late Senator John McCain, who was captured in Vietnam and was regarded as a war hero. Mr. Trump said in the run-up to the 2016 election: “He’s not a war hero. He was a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-calls-marines-killed-in-first-world-war-losers/article32527842.ece
05 September 2020||BEIJING,||U.S. newspaper says staffer held in China||An American newspaper has said that one of its journalists was detained and then expelled from China’s Inner Mongolia region while covering tensions over a new policy that reduces the use of the Mongolian language in education. The Los Angeles Times said in a story published online on Thursday that the reporter was interrogated at a police station, grabbed by the throat and pushed into a cell and held for more than four hours before being forced to leave the northern Chinese region. The story did not identify the journalist, but the paper’s Beijing bureau chief, Alice Su, confirmed that it was her. She declined further comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-newspaper-says-staffer-held-in-china/article32527843.ece
05 September 2020||DUBAI,||Bahrain to allow Israel flights to UAE over its airspace||Bahrain said on Thursday it will allow UAE flights to and from Israel to overfly the kingdom, a day after a similar decision was announced by Saudi Arabia. Bahrain, has no official diplomatic relations with Israel, but its decision to allow overflights marks a sign of cooperation with the Jewish state.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bahrain-to-allow-israel-flights-to-uae-over-its-airspace/article32527834.ece
05 September 2020||Vienna,||Vienna, Sept 4, 2020 (AFP) -||The UN’s nuclear watchdog said on Friday that Iran had granted its inspectors access to one of two sites where undeclared nuclear activity may have taken place in the early 2000s. “Iran provided Agency access to the location to take environmental samples,” it said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vienna-sept-4-2020-afp/article32527837.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Life and death in the spotlight||Last year, Sushant Singh Rajput shifted to the Mount Blanc apartment on Carter Road in Mumbai’s tony neighbourhood, Bandra. The actor had always longed for a sea-facing apartment, and Mount Blanc overlooked the Arabian Sea. The move was also important for other reasons. Bandra is where several top actors of India live. For Sushant it had been a long journey from growing up in a middle class family in Patna, Bihar, to this prime locality. Sushant was a brilliant student. He had a passion for science, especially astronomy. He was a voracious reader. He won the National Olympiad in Physics. He joined the Delhi College of Engineering to pursue mechanical engineering, but left the course midway to pursue his dream of becoming an actor. Sushant tried his hand at theatre and then television. His career as an actor began with the popular television serial on Zee TV, Pavitra Rishta , produced by Ekta Kapoor. Then, a silver screen debut in Abhishek Kapoor’s Kai Po Che gave him a much-needed toehold in the competitive Mumbai film industry. Sushant then slowly climbed up the ladder acting in popular commercial films such as Shuddh Desi Romance and M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story and critically acclaimed ones such as Sonchiriya and Chhichhore . In an interview to this newspaper in 2017, Sushant said he was a very shy child, an introvert. He confessed that he constantly craved approval. In another interview to this newspaper in 2016, when asked whether it was difficult for an outsider to make a name in the Mumbai film industry, Sushant said, “Of course, it is. Tomorrow, if two of my films do not do well consecutively, I may not get another chance. You have to be sure of what you want. You have to keep thinking that you will survive, no matter what.”  Unfortunately, however, on June 14, Sushant was found dead in his home. His unexpected demise has not only overshadowed his struggle but has also led to an outpouring of emotions, pitted his loved ones against one another, led to a trial by sections of the media and triggered a political slugfest. Investigation by three agencies Public outrage over Sushant’s death has dominated the social media space over the last few months, despite the pandemic. Grief and shock over the 34-year-old actor’s sudden demise swiftly snowballed into a huge online campaign demanding an independent probe into his death. The case is now being pursued by three premier Central agencies: the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and the Narcotics Control Bureau. The ED stepped in when allegations of large amounts of money being transferred into the accounts of Sushant’s girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, surfaced. The ED has been sifting through piles of documents and questioning suspects, including Rhea, and witnesses over the last one month, to determine if there was any money laundering. The ED has scrutinised Sushant’s bank accounts, investments, and the papers of three companies co-founded by him: Innsaei Ventures Private Limited, set up in 2018; Vividrage Rhealityx Private Limited, which was incorporated in September 2019; and Front India for World Foundation, a non-profit company dedicated to social service, set up in January 2020. The agency has also questioned Sushant’s chartered accountant multiple times. Meanwhile, a CBI team has surveyed the house where Sushant died, questioned Rhea and other accused, recorded witness statements, and is also taking the help of medical and forensic experts in a bid to reconstruct the sequence of events surrounding his death. Based on prima facie evidence shared by the ED, in view of the allegations that Sushant was administered drugs illegally, the Narcotics Control Bureau also joined the investigation on August 26. It has arrested four people so far, including Rhea’s brother Showik and Sushant’s close aide Samuel Miranda. While the scope of investigation has widened, the picture remains unclear. To make matters worse, video clips and photographs capturing Sushant’s body, his post-mortem report, statements of his bank accounts, pages of his personal journal, and the call records of those under scrutiny have all been leaked to sections of the media, infringing the basic principles of investigation. Violating the code of ethics on confidentiality, a therapist has issued a statement making claims about the actor’s mental health. “Any such leak weakens the case, as it gives an opportunity to the accused, if any, to prepare their defence. The element of surprise while confronting them with facts is also lost,” said a retired CBI official. Following his death, some claimed that “nepotism” in Bollywood claimed the actor’s life; others said he suffered from depression. However, the Mumbai Police, which first investigated the case, said prime facie no foul play came to light. It was in the midst of a stream of emotional statements and demands by the general public that the Mumbai Police started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (police to enquire and report on suicide) to determine the apparent cause of Sushant’s death. The post-mortem was conducted on June 14 night, and Sushant’s body was cremated the next day in the presence of his father K.K. Singh, other family members, and friends. The day Sushant died As purportedly disclosed by those living with Sushant, two cooks — Neeraj Singh and Keshav Bachner — lived in the same house. Deepesh Sawant looked after the housekeeping work. Sushant’s flatmate, Siddharth Pithani, stayed in another room. Rhea, who was staying with Sushant, left the house on the afternoon of June 8, after which the actor’s sister, Meetu Singh, came to stay with him for about three days. One version of what transpired on that fateful day is that Sushant woke up in the morning, drank some water and then some coconut water and fruit juice before locking himself up in his room. When Keshav went to ask him what he wanted for lunch, there was no reply. Keshav realised that something was amiss. The others in the house started looking for the key to the door. Finally, they called a locksmith, who disabled the lock. Siddharth reportedly opened the door and found Sushant lifeless. Meetu, who had been alerted, reached the flat soon after, and the police were called in.   There are multiple witness accounts claiming that Sushant had not been keeping well since his Europe tour with Rhea last year and was on some medication. As part of the inquest, the Mumbai Police recorded several statements, including those of Sushant’s family members, his flatmates, friends, employees, Rhea, film critic Rajeev Masand, and Bollywood personalities including Mahesh Bhatt, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Mukesh Chhabra and Aditya Chopra. Filmmaker Shekhar Kapur also sent his statement through email. “We spoke to around 40 people over two months and recorded their statements,” said an official from the Mumbai Police. The official refused to say anything more since the investigation has been taken over by the CBI. The Mumbai Police neither has jurisdiction over the case nor is it aware of new developments, he said. From Mumbai to Patna During the Mumbai Police investigation, things took a political turn. Representatives of all political parties in Bihar, where Assembly elections are due before November 29, started demanding a thorough investigation. The ruling coalition government in Maharashtra comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress came under severe criticism. On July 25, the Patna Police registered a case based on a complaint by K.K. Singh alleging abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, breach of trust, cheating, theft, wrongful restraint and confinement under the Indian Penal Code. Rhea, Showik, their parents Indrajit and Sandhya Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda, and Rhea’s former manager Shruti Modi were named. K.K. Singh, 74, alleged that Rhea, her family members, and associates entered Sushant’s life to take advantage of his contacts in the film industry. His trusted employees were replaced, and in a short span of time, Rs. 15 crore was transferred from his account. His son was subjected to drug overdose, Singh claimed. Singh also claimed that Sushant wanted to leave Mumbai and do organic farming in Coorg in Karnataka, but Rhea opposed it and threatened that she would share his medical records with the media and declare him “mad”. Rhea left Sushant’s house on June 8. The next day, when Sushant found out about the death of Disha Salian, his former manager who was allegedly hired by Rhea to work for him, he feared that attempts would be made to implicate him, said Singh. After registering the FIR, a Patna Police team reached Mumbai on July 27 to pursue the leads. A few days later, claiming that the Mumbai Police were not cooperating in the probe, the Bihar government told the Supreme Court that the CBI should probe the case. It said that on August 2, a Superintendent of Police Vinay Tiwari, who was sent to Mumbai from Bihar to supervise the probe, was “forcibly” quarantined. Meanwhile, Rhea, who had on July 16 taken to social media to request Home Minister Amit Shah to order a CBI probe, moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of the case to Mumbai. On July 31, the ED too initiated money laundering investigations based on the FIR and recorded the statements of Sushant’s family members. The CBI steps in On August 4, the Bihar government recommended a CBI probe. Following intimation from the Department of Personnel and Training, the agency took over the case on August 6. The next day, the top trending hashtag, Warriors4SSR, generated 2.1 million messages from across India. The CBI entrusted the probe to a Special Investigation Team (SIT) that has handled several high-profile cases. The team comprises Joint Director Manoj Shashidhar, Deputy Inspector General Gagandeep Gambhir, Additional Superintendent of Police Anil Yadav, and Superintendent of Police Nupur Prasad. “The experience of these IPS officers is crucial in such circumstances,” said a retired officer who, while serving the CBI, was instrumental in cracking the case involving a legislator in north India in 1989. The SIT head, Shashidhar, is a 1994-batch IPS officer of the Gujarat cadre. He held several key positions in the State, including as Police Commissioner of Vadodara and Deputy Commissioner of Police. He joined the CBI in February. Gambhir is a 2004-batch officer from the same cadre. She joined the Central agency in 2016 and has been part of teams probing important cases like the illegal mining scam in Uttar Pradesh, the Srijan scam in Bihar, the Vijay Mallya case, and the AgustaWestland scam. Yadav, a recipient of the Police Medal, was involved in the investigation of the Vyapam scam, the Commonwealth Games scam, and the Shopian rape and murder case. Prasad, an officer from the 2007 batch, was earlier posted with the Delhi Police where she served as the Deputy Commissioner of Police of Shahdara. She has been involved in the investigation of many cases of heinous crimes and online financial frauds. She joined the CBI last year. While Rhea’s plea was sub judice, the CBI team started examining Sushant’s family members. Following a go-ahead from the Supreme Court on August 19, the team reached Mumbai where the Defence Research and Development Organisation guest house became its workspace. In its order, the Supreme Court observed that as both States were making allegations of political interference against each other, the legitimacy of the investigation had come under a cloud. “These developments unfortunately have the propensity to delay and misdirect the investigation. In such a situation, there is reasonable apprehension of truth being a casualty and justice becoming a victim,” it said. The CBI probe was approved by the Court to “ensure public confidence in the investigation and to do complete justice in the matter”. Since then, the agency has questioned Rhea and several others multiple times to verify their claims. Senior advocate Vikas Singh representing Sushant’s family said, “It is definitely abetment of suicide. It could also be murder. We are not ruling out murder because the person who opened the room and claimed to have lowered the body, Siddharth, used to be Sushant’s friend and he  used to say Rhea spoilt Sushant’s life. When the FIR was registered and he was not named as an accused, he started supporting Rhea. The way he has turned around, there are several aspects to it. The family was not present at the moment on June 14. Siddharth is a photographer. He could have taken a photograph on his phone of the body, of the lockwala, but he didn’t. Even before the FIR he would say Rhea made Sushant commit suicide. Such a person cannot be trusted. The whole story of what he saw is his version and there is no corroboration.” Advocate Satish Maneshinde appearing for Rhea said, “She has been charged with abetment of suicide. Proximate to the time, the factors that were there in the mind of the deceased are taken into consideration. Rhea was not in the house from June 8 to June 14, the day Sushant died. She cannot be considered a person proximate to the cause of death. Sushant’s sister Meetu was there; she should come and explain. The ED has found nothing so far.”  A political game Sushant’s father’s claim that he suspects foul play in his son’s death provided a much-needed opportunity for the Opposition party in Maharashtra, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to attack the ruling government. Soon after Singh filed the complaint with the Patna Police, NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s grand-nephew Parth Pawar met the Maharashtra Home Minister, Anil Deshmukh, and handed him a letter seeking a CBI inquiry into the case. Until then, BJP leaders were making the same demand and indirectly claiming the involvement of a young leader. In his letter, Parth said, “I join the youth of this nation in their collective mourning. I have received many emails, messages and phone calls from the youth of States like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh seeking my intervention in this matter. I understand the youth of this nation demands a logical and fair closure of this case, so that justice is delivered to Sushant.” The letter made the coalition government look divided on this issue. NCP office-bearers immediately swung into damage control mode. Party spokesperson and the State Minority Affairs Minister, Nawab Malik, reiterated that the party stands with the Mumbai Police and the letter was Parth Pawar’s personal opinion. The letter gave the BJP an opportunity to jump into action. On July 30, senior leader and Bandra West MLA Ashish Shelar alleged that a “Yuva leader is pulling strings” in the investigation of the Mumbai Police. Yuva Sena chief and State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray is known for his close relations with personalities from Bollywood. Making an indirect reference to him, the BJP leadership alleged that there were inconsistencies in the police probe in the Sushant case. “The strategy was very clear,” said senior political journalist Amey Tirodkar. “Make the Shiv Sena uncomfortable. Keep on hinting at a Yuva leader. Create an atmosphere where the government looks weak and vulnerable. The NCP handles the Home Ministry in Maharashtra. The BJP also wanted to create infighting within the government.” As the Mumbai Police continued to delay filing an FIR in the case, they also failed to win the perception battle on the Internet, especially regarding claims of money laundering and the alleged involvement of a young Minister in the investigation. Their alleged non-cooperation with the Bihar Police team and the fact that they placed IPS officer Vinay Tiwari under quarantine raised suspicion, helping the BJP. “It is really strange why the Maharashtra government is coming under unnecessary suspicion by not allowing the Bihar Police to perform their duties,” said Devendra Fadnavis, former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly. Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh clarified that the police found no money laundering in their probe. He said all possible assistance was extended to the Bihar Police, but public perception did not improve. On August 12, NCP chief Sharad Pawar publicly slammed Parth Pawar and called him immature for seeking a CBI probe. He said, “There is no value to what he says. I have 100% trust in Maharashtra and the Mumbai Police. But if somebody wants to make a demand, then nobody can object.” His statement reignited the speculation that all is not well within the Pawar family but the party downplayed the episode saying it was the family’s internal matter. Last week, however, the BJP found itself on the backfoot. Sandip Ssingh, who has been named in the drug cartel allegedly involved in the death of Sushant, was the producer of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s biopic and a beneficiary of the Vibrant Gujarat 2019 summit despite his company’s poor balance sheets. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said Ssingh was also accused of child sexual harassment in Mauritus. “Who helped him escape? He has made over 53 calls to a number saved as BJP Maharashtra in 2019. Who’s his handler in the Maharashtra BJP,” asked Sawant, demanding a CBI inquiry. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said he has decided to forward the complaint demanding a probe into the relationship between Ssingh and the BJP to the CBI. The agencies continue their probe into the death of Sushant amid immense social media pressure, endless debates on television, wild rumours, and a thicket of political allegations. Only a fair and thorough investigation will reveal the truth.  The strategy was very clear. Make the Shiv Sena uncomfortable. Keep on hinting at a Yuva leader. Create an atmosphere where the government looks weak and vulnerable. The BJP also wanted to create infighting within the government. Amey Tirodkar Senior journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/life-and-death-in-the-spotlight/article32527829.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Parliament stifled, business, and a word of advice||The upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, from September 14, is emblematic of the issues faced by legislatures during the novel coronavirus pandemic. How do these bodies fulfil their central role in a democracy while maintaining health safety of legislators and the staff working in the legislatures? Several States have held very short sessions — some met just for a day — in which they ratified a number of ordinances, and hardly questioned any executive action over the last few months. Parliament will maintain physical distancing, has truncated the Zero Hour (in which members raise issues pertinent to their constituents and of wider public interest), and cancelled Question Hour (in which Ministers have to answer questions raised by members). At the risk of stating the obvious, let us quickly recap the roles of the key organs of state. The government has the mandate to take decisions and perform various public tasks. It is accountable to the legislature which can question it, and, as an extreme step, even replace it. The legislature is accountable to citizens through regular elections and can be voted out if it is not perceived to be making laws and policies beneficial to the public. Finally, constitutional courts are expected to ensure that all actions are made within the boundaries of the Constitution and laws made by the legislature. The case of contact tracing Our Parliament has allowed its role to be diluted over the last few decades. It has not questioned and monitored the activity of the executive. One example will illustrate the contrast between the actions of the British Parliament and ours. When the idea of a contact tracing app was mooted, the United Kingdom’s joint parliamentary committee on human rights examined the proposals. In a report, “Human Rights and the Government’s Response to Covid-19: Digital Contact Tracing”, published in early May (https://bit.ly/35hS1rB), it recommended that an app could be used only if there was a specific primary legislation to enable it, and such legislation should ensure that data is collected only for the limited purpose of preventing the spread of COVID-19, prohibit sharing the data with third-parties, upload the data to a central database only if the person is tested or suspected to be positive, and limit the time for which any data was stored. The Minister would have to report every 21 days on the efficacy of contact tracing as well as data security and privacy. India, in contrast, rolled out Aarogya Setu through executive decision, and has created a grey zone on whether it is mandatory (for example, while flying, or on metro rail when operations resume next week). All this has been done without a specific legislation or any parliamentary oversight. In fact, parliamentary oversight has been largely absent through the last six months. A slew of notifications Parliament will be meeting after 175 days, the longest gap without intervening general elections and just short of the six-month constitutional limit. Parliamentary committees did not meet for about four months, and after that have had only in-person meetings, which have led to low attendance, given travel risks and restrictions. This is unlike many other countries where both the plenary and committees have adopted technology to enable members to participate from home. In this period, over 900 central and nearly 6,000 State government notifications have been issued (https://bit.ly/3bsLprq) which are related to managing the pandemic. This is in addition to notifications on other subjects. The absence of a functioning Parliament or Committees implies that there has been no check or guidance on government action. When it meets, Parliament should look at the government’s response to the crisis. However, the function would become more of a post-mortem analysis rather than an ongoing guidance mechanism. Contrast this with a well-functioning committee system such as the British example of the contact tracing app which guides government action before the event. As an aside, this reminds me of the old stock market advice of “buy low, sell high”, which while being a sound maxim does not guide anyone in making an investment decision. The only thing one can do later if things go wrong is to rue the loss. Court interventions The lack of parliamentary oversight has been compounded by judicial intervention in many policy issues. For example, the government’s actions related to the lockdown and the hardships caused to migrants should have been questioned by Parliament. Discussions in parliamentary forums would have helped the government get feedback on the ground situation across the country and fine-tune its response. However, this was taken to the Supreme Court, which is not equipped (and dare I say, mandated) to balance policy options. Directions of the Court have to be followed which removes flexibility needed to tackle evolving issues with implementation. To take another example, the Court decided to limit the period in which telecom companies have to pay their dues to the government, and overruled a cabinet decision. This is a policy matter that balances interests of telecom companies, consumers (who suffer through price hikes or potential formation of a monopoly), and banks (which may face defaults by telecom companies). This issue is best judged by the government with oversight by Parliament. Of course, if there is illegality (say, corruption), then the matter should be judged by courts. Short session, much business Parliament should recover lost ground by fulfilling its constitutionally mandated role. It has a large number of issues to discuss in the short 18-day session. The fact that the two Houses are working in shifts to use the same physical space limits the scope of extended sittings on any day. In the period since the last session, the government has issued 11 ordinances. Five of these relate to the COVID-19 crisis and the lockdown: extending tax filing dates, moratorium on new insolvency cases, protection for health workers, and temporary cuts in salaries and allowances of Members of Parliament and Ministers. Of the other six, two relate to supersession of the Boards of the councils that regulate homoeopathy and Indian systems of medicine, one allows the Reserve Bank of India to regulate cooperative banks (a similar Bill is pending in Parliament), and three relate to agricultural markets (allowing contract farming and trading outside mandis ). While the ordinances related to COVID-19 have a temporary application, Parliament should refer those with long-term implications (such as the farming and the banking ones) to the respective committees for detailed scrutiny. Core issues Several events have taken place over the last six months that need thorough discussion. This includes ways to tackle the spread of the novel coronavirus and limit mortality, and possible paths in the months ahead that could guide government action. Economic growth, which has been decreasing for the last couple of years, has had a sharp fall in the first quarter of this fiscal year. This has far-reaching implications for creating jobs, stability of the banking system, and government finances. The government is likely to bring in a supplementary budget; indeed, a fresh look at the Union Budget may be required given the changes in basic assumptions since January. The situation at the China border also needs to be discussed. The absence of Question Hour and a shorter Zero Hour restricts the ability of Members of Parliament to hold the government accountable and represent public interest. That said, Members of Parliament must use other available interventions to ensure that new laws and expenditure proposals are passed only after detailed discussion. Parliamentarians have a duty towards Indian citizens to fulfil their role in scrutinising the work of the government and guiding policy. Despite the curtailed session and the constraints due to the coronavirus, they should make the best of the limited time to do so. They need to wrest back their rightful role in our democracy. M.R. Madhavan is the President and co-founder of PRS Legislative Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/parliament-stifled-business-and-a-word-of-advice/article32527822.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Dignity regained in a Calcutta oasis||It was 1996. I was on one of my visits to Calcutta to spend a little time with Mother Teresa. She had been very unwell, in and out of hospital. I found her sitting in a wheelchair outside her small office. I presented her an updated Hindi edition of my biography of her. There was a queue of people waiting to meet her. Giving shape to an idea She introduced me to a few monks visiting from Japan. She then asked me if I had been to Shanti Dan where these monks from Japan had helped her. The story began, she said, when she responded to a request from the West Bengal Chief Minister, Jyoti Basu (She always prefaced his name with the words “my friend”). “Mother, take care of some very unfortunate women, they have been long years under confinement in an institution attached to a Kolkata jail.” When she went there she found several hundred inmates, all women, in great distress. Some had been in confinement for 40 years. She agreed to do something. In her practical way, she asked the Chief Minister for land. She would create the institution herself. That was a few years ago. Sister Bella took me around. There were three dormitories on two floors, a small recreational centre, a few small workshops. The rooms were bright and airy. Unlike the Sisters rooms which were spartan on account of their vows of poverty, here there were bright and pleasant dormitories with ceiling fans and mosquito nets. Colourful bed covers had been specially woven by her leprosy community in Titagarh. There were real and paper flowers everywhere. Not a pin was out of place. The utensils in the kitchens were spotless. The women cooked their own meals and cleaned up after. There was no sign of any volunteers, who were a feature of her other homes. Here, Sister Bella encouraged them to keep themselves and their environment clean as a necessary part of occupational therapy. As I walked past groups of inmates in the grounds, I had expected to encounter sullenness or hostility. Instead, everywhere there were smiles, a namaste or a wave. A new life “When they came here two years ago, they would not put on the clothes,” said Sister Bella. “When we tried to go near them, they would cower with fear. Now they do most things themselves. Some of these women have been in jail wards for years on end. We have come very far in this time. It is only when they are really sick or feeling low that they go inside to lie down. Otherwise they tend the gardens or do simple work in the craft centre. See these dolls here, said the Sister pointing to the shelf. A benefactor gave us wool and items for embroidery. Another benefactor donated school exercise books, simple story books and items of stationery. Some teachers have volunteered to give them lessons. They really look forward to the classes. Small things make them so happy,” she added. I saw groups of them in clean saris, sitting under the shade of the fruit trees that they tended or in the gardens where they grew vegetables and flowers. In this oasis that Jyoti Basu and Mother created, these unfortunate souls had finally found some peace and dignity. The next day I recounted my visit to Mother Teresa. She nodded, not particularly surprised. “You remember the Buddhist monks who came yesterday,” she asked. They were part of a group from Japan who came to see me some years ago. I told them we have a practice that on Fridays none of us Sisters eats during the day. We forego one meal. With the money saved we buy food for the poor. When the group of Buddhist monks went back to Japan, they told other monks about our practice. Soon the word spread in Japan, and many people began to give up a meal a day and put money aside. They sent me the money they saved. With that money I was able to build another dormitory building and to take 100 more women from the jail. Wonderful, no? In fact, 20 more are coming next week. God has such wonderful ways of providing!” In the course of my visits to Kolkata, I met Jyoti Basu a few times. I once asked him whether it was true that soon after he became Chief Minister, some of his party workers asked him to drive Mother Teresa out of Kolkata. She was converting people to Christianity. He asked them if they had ever seen her taking care of leprosy sufferers. The day they would clean the wounds of the leprosy affected, he would ask her to stop her work. That day never came. The thread In the course of writing my book, I needed to ask him what he, a Communist and atheist, could possibly have in common with a Catholic nun for whom god was everything. With a smile he replied, “We both have a love for the poor.” Whenever she was hospitalised, he would visit the hospital for a few minutes almost each day. I met him there sometimes. And, in turn, when he was ill, she would visit his house with her Sisters and say a quiet prayer. Navin B. Chawla, former Chief Election Commissioner of India, is Mother Teresa’s biographer. September 5 marks her 23rd death anniversary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dignity-regained-in-a-calcutta-oasis/article32527825.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A new dimension||In what will be seen as a significant shift of the government’s posture towards the India-U.S.-Australia-Japan Quadrilateral (Quad), Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat stated on Thursday that India believes the Quad would be a “good mechanism” to “ensure Freedom of Navigation Operations” (FONOPs) in the Indian Ocean and surrounding oceans including the Indo-Pacific. Unless he misspoke, the suggestion is that India is now prepared to join Quad military patrols, which marks a departure from its earlier reticence and public statements by the leadership. The Indian Navy has not taken part in any joint patrols outside of the Indian Ocean, and even within it, held its first one, with France, only recently. In terms of the engagement with the Quad, India has not yet formally announced a decision to include Australia in the annual Malabar exercises with the U.S. and Japan, although it is expected to do so. However, the move from conducting exercises together to joint operations would take time, something that makes the CDS’s assertion significant. It is easy to surmise that his contention that the Quad operations are needed to ensure there is no “fear of any other nation singularly trying to dominate the oceans”, is a veiled reference to China. It is also clear that the LAC tensions and clashes, as well as the PLA’s refusal to implement border agreements, have convinced New Delhi that new strategies will be required to deal with Beijing. While India continues to engage China diplomatically, and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh have spoken of the importance of a resolution through talks, there is no doubt that an outcome of the tensions will be a strengthening of India’s ties with global powers such as the U.S., as well as formations like the Quad. An indication of this is the government’s plans to host a ministerial-level meeting of the Quad in the next month, possibly when the India-US “2+2” meet of Foreign and Defence Ministers is held. While India considers its options, it is necessary to remember some of the reasons for its reticence in terms of militarising the Quad in any way. Prime Minister Modi said in 2018 that India sees the Indo-Pacific as a “geographical concept”, not a “strategy or a club of limited members”, and it would be important to know whether that formulation has changed. India is the only Quad member not already tied in a treaty alliance with the others, and Mr. Jaishankar’s statement that India would never be part of any “alliance system” would run counter to what the CDS suggests. Finally, India is the only country in the Quad that shares a land boundary with China, and it is unclear how the militarisation of the Quad in Indo-Pacific waters would alleviate the territorial threat it faces. If, however, New Delhi’s view of its Quad engagement has shifted, clarity and an expansion of Gen. Rawat’s statement are essential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-new-dimension/article32527816.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Appropriate strategy||The blocking of a hundred more Chinese mobile applications suggests that the Indian government, not for the first time in recent months, wants to make it amply clear that it will not shy away from leveraging its position as a massive market for technology in dealing with potentially dangerous geopolitical issues. Since June, when border tensions between India and China turned ugly, the government has till now stepped in thrice to block many Chinese applications in one go. In the latest such decision, on Wednesday, it blocked 118 apps, including the widely popular gaming app, PUBG, as well as WeChat Work and Baidu, owing to these being “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of State and public order”. Over 200 Chinese apps, which were accessed by millions of Indian users, have been blocked in all till date. The decision has been taken based on several complaints, a press release said, of these apps “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India”. It could be argued that loss of access to the Indian market will sharply affect the ambitions of the Internet giants emerging from China, but it remains to be seen if this tech-side intervention is effective as a counter in a geopolitical fight. Also, how far can India go to keep the Chinese players, who are well entrenched in the global tech supply chain, off the Indian market without prejudicing its own growth? It is difficult to argue against decisions that are taken on the plank of national security, especially one arrived at by invoking the government’s power under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, a section upheld by the courts previously. But it would be well argued that the Indian approach should have followed due process, where the focus was on ensuring compliance with the law. Instead, the Indian response to complaints has been to straight away block these apps en masse. Meanwhile, millions of Indians who were engaging with these platforms, some gainfully, have to scramble for alternatives. To add to this, the data protection law, a dire need in this age, is not yet there. All this does not bode well for a country with aspirations of global leadership of tech, an industry which thrives on global networks and rules. Ironically, China, which for years has unleashed widespread censorship of information and kept apps from outside off its Internet, has found a rare chance to take the moral high ground. It has criticised India’s move, accusing it of “abusing the concept of national security”. The last thing India needs is to be compared with China as far as its Internet regulation goes. It certainly needs a more considered approach to tech regulation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/appropriate-strategy/article32527817.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Piped gas suppliers may gain from norms on force majeure’||City Gas Distribution (CGD) entities implementing projects to supply piped natural gas to households as well as CNG for automobiles and industries are likely to save on penalties for work delays triggered by the pandemic, with the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) issuing guidelines on force majeure considerations. “To examine the requests of CGD entities for time extension… the board has approved the guidelines for consideration of Force Majeure in CGD networks,” PNGRB said. Sources working on different CGD projects said several entities had approached the regulator in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. An official said little work was possible at the height of the lockdown, till the third week of April. Some relaxation in construction activity that followed was not of much use as, by then, many migrant labourers had returned to their native places. With many factories closed, access to material was also a challenge. Most CGD entities, especially those awarded projects in the 9th and 10th round of bidding by the PNGRB, were likely to benefit from the guidelines. Indian Oil Corporation Executive Director (Southern Region Pipelines) D.S. Nanaware said a minimum work programme had been agreed to by the CGD entities and non-compliance would attract penalties. As per the force majeure norms, “in the event of authorised entity rendered unable to perform any obligation... the relative obligation of the entity affected by such force majeure shall be suspended for the period during which such force majeure lasts.” Consumers may face a delay to the extent of the period for which force majeure is invoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piped-gas-suppliers-may-gain-from-norms-on-force-majeure/article32527797.ece
05 September 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI alters priority sector norms to help start-ups, farmers avail loans||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday released revised priority sector lending guidelines to augment funding to segments including start-ups and agriculture. Bank finance of up to Rs. 50 crore to start-ups, loans to farmers both for installation of solar power plants for solarisation of grid-connected agriculture pumps, and for setting up compressed biogas (CBG) plants have been included as fresh categories eligible for finance under the priority sector. Higher weightage has been assigned to incremental priority sector credit in ‘identified districts’ where priority sector credit flow is comparatively low. The targets prescribed for ‘small and marginal farmers’ and ‘weaker sections’ are being increased in a phased manner and higher credit limit has been specified for farmer producer organisations (FPOs)/farmers producers companies (FPCs) undertaking farming with assured marketing of their produce at a pre-determined price. Besides, loan limits for renewable energy have been doubled. Commercial banks have been instructed to adhere to the revised guidelines. “The RBI’s revision in PSL guidelines will incentivise credit flow to specific segments like clean energy, weaker sections, health infrastructure and credit deficient geographies,” commented Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, CRISIL Ratings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-alters-priority-sector-norms-to-help-start-ups-farmers-avail-loans/article32527805.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Need govt. support to tide over crisis: SIAM||Seeking government support to tide over “one of the toughest times” in history, by way of GST reduction, introduction of a scrappage policy and a stable regulatory roadmap, the auto industry on Friday said it was not in a position to invest further towards implementing new, upcoming regulations. Meanwhile, expressing hope that the auto sector might very soon get some ‘good news’, Heavy Industries Minister Prakash Javadekar added that he would take up the industry’s concerns with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as also with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Pointing out that the industry had made significant investments towards the implementation of BS-VI emission norms and new safety regulations, Rajan Wadhera, the outgoing president of the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers said commensurate revenues had not been realised due to lack of consumer demand. “We make a very strong plea and request to you that the industry is not in a position to invest in new regulations like CAFE and RDE which are likely to come in the next two years,” he appealed to Mr. Javdekar, while speaking at SIAM’s 60th annual convention. Kenichi Ayukawa, MD and CEO of the country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India, reiterated long-pending demands, including GST reduction on automobiles and an incentive-based vehicle scrappage scheme. “We believe that taxes on the increasing turnover will be more than the government expenditure on the scrappage scheme and GST reduction,” Mr. Ayukawa, who will take over from Mr Wadhera as the president of the industry body, said. Replying to queries at the session, Mr. Javadekar added that the proposal for the auto scrappage policy was ready and all stakeholders had provided inputs; therefore its announcement was likely “very soon”. On the possibility of a GST rate cut, he said the details of proposals are being worked out by the Finance Ministry. “... in a logical sequence... two wheelers, three wheelers, public transport vehicles, then four wheelers... in that order, it should come,” the Minister said. ‘FTAs playing havoc’ Pawan Goenka, MD and CEO, M&M, speaking at a session attended by Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, pointed out that unfavourable FTAs were impacting competitiveness of India’s automobiles and component exports. “... unfavourable FTAs are playing havoc on our competitiveness... we request you [the Centre] to keep this high on the agenda as you negotiate trade agreements.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/need-govt-support-to-tide-over-crisis-siam/article32527809.ece
05 September 2020||Chennai,||‘Infra spend may aid cement demand’||The expectations of increased spending on infrastructure and other projects, along with the pick-up in individual homebuilding activity could likely improve cement demand, resulting in better prices, said a top industry leader. A good harvest and forecast of a normal monsoon rain “augur well for the rural economy,” said N. Srinivasan, vice chairman and MD, The India Cements Ltd., in a shareholders note. He said there were also reports of green shoots in terms of certain indicators in some sectors reflecting economic recovery. Asserting that cement demand had begun to recover, along with new initiatives by some State governments, he said: “The outlook for the industry for the foreseeable future appears to be cautiously optimistic, given the smart recovery of cement prices and softening of crude prices.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infra-spend-may-aid-cement-demand/article32527812.ece
05 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Moody’s cuts ratings on BoB, Canara, two others||Moody’s Investors Service has downgraded the long-term local and foreign currency deposit ratings of four public sector banks — Bank of Baroda (BoB), Bank of India, Canara Bank and Union Bank of India (UBI) — to Ba1 from Baa3 and their baseline credit assessments (BCAs) to b1 from ba3. “The outlook on the ratings of the four banks is negative,” Moody’s said on Friday. However, the ratings agency affirmed Punjab National Bank’s (PNB) long-term local and foreign currency deposit ratings at Ba1 and its BCA at b1. But PNB’s ratings outlook has been changed to negative from stable. It said the BCA downgrades take into consideration rising risks to the banks’ asset quality as a result of the severe economic contraction, which will result in an increase in credit costs. On the affirmation of PNB’s Ba1 long-term local and foreign currency deposit ratings, which incorporates a three notch uplift for government support from its b1 BCA, Moody’s said this reflected its expectation that deteriorating asset quality and profitability would weigh on its capitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/moodys-cuts-ratings-on-bob-canara-two-others/article32527803.ece
05 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Norway’s Orkla to buy 68% in Eastern Condiments||Orkla, a Norwegian supplier of branded consumer goods to the grocery, out-of home, specialised retail, pharmacy and bakery sectors, has entered into an agreement to acquire 67.8% stake in Kochi-based Eastern Condiments. The parties had agreed on a purchase price that values Eastern Condiments at Rs. 2,000 crore, on a debt and cash-free basis. On Friday, Orkla, through its wholly owned subsidiary MTR Foods, signed agreements to buy a 41.8% stake in Eastern from members of the Meeran family, and to acquire the entire ownership stake held by McCormick Ingredients SE Asia PTE. Ltd, which will give Orkla 67.8% ownership stake after completion of the transactions. Following the completion of these transactions, a merger application would be filed to merge Eastern into MTR Foods. The merged company would be jointly owned by Orkla and the two Meeran brothers Firoz and Navas, with an ownership stake of 90.01% and 9.99%, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/norways-orkla-to-buy-68-in-eastern-condiments/article32527801.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Future Retail logs Q4 loss of Rs. 477.6 crore||Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) reported a consolidated net loss of Rs. 477.6 crore for the quarter ended March. The company, which owns brands like Big Bazaar, fbb, Foodhall, Easyday and Nilgiris, had posted a net profit of Rs. 199.3 crore in the January-March quarter a year ago. Reliance Industries recently acquired Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses for Rs. 24,713 crore. FRL’s revenue from operations was down 17.8% to Rs. 4,492.4 crore against Rs. 5,462.2 crore. Total expenses were Rs. 5,006.5 crore, down 5%. For the fiscal year 2019-20, FRL’s net profit was down 98.4% to Rs. 11.3 crore. Revenue from operation was flat at Rs. 20,331.7 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/future-retail-logs-q4-loss-of-rs-4776-crore/article32527813.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Goyal: exports, imports show positive trends||The country’s exports as well as imports are showing positive trends as the outbound shipments are approaching last year’s levels, after making a sharp dip in April this year due to the COVID-19, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said. The Minister said this during his meeting with export promotion councils (EPCs) on September 3.  On imports, Mr. Goyal said inbound shipments of capital goods have not declined, and the reduction has been seen mainly in crude, gold and fertilisers. He added the trade deficit is reducing drastically and India’s share in the global trade is improving due to resilient supply chains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goyal-exports-imports-show-positive-trends/article32527799.ece
05 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Builders seek one-time roll over of loans||The Builders’ Association of India (BAI), in consultation with Assocham, has recommended to the Centre for a one-time roll over of loans to developers to save the sector from the adverse impact of COVID-19. “The real estate sector in India has been one of the worst-affected sectors because of the pandemic,” BAI said in a statement. “The situation has come to the stage where bank finances have tightened as banks and NBFCs have almost halted funding. While NBFC started tightening funding after collapse of IL&FS, banks have also slowed down disbursal of funds for existing projects,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/builders-seek-one-time-roll-over-of-loans/article32527802.ece
05 September 2020||Mumbai,||Root Mobile unveils Rs 600 crore IPO||Route Mobile Ltd., an omni-channel cloud communication service provider, said its initial public offering (IPO) will open on September 9 to raise Rs. 600 crore. The price band is between Rs. 345–Rs. 350 per equity share.The issue will close on September 11. The offer comprises a fresh issue of up to Rs. 240 crore and an offer for sale of up to Rs. 360 crore, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/root-mobile-unveils-rs-600-crore-ipo/article32527807.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||VIL board approves Rs 25,000 crore fund-raising plan||Vodafone Idea said its board of directors has approved plans to raise up to Rs. 25,000 crore. The crucial decision comes just days after the Supreme Court directed all telecom operators to pay 10% of total adjusted gross revenue (AGR)-related dues this year. The fund-raising will throw a potential lifeline to the cash-strapped telco facing outstanding AGR dues of about Rs. 50,000 crore.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vil-board-approves-rs-25000-crore-fund-raising-plan/article32527811.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,||For Business Pages India initiates anti-dumping probe on Vitamin C imports from China||India has started an anti -dumping investigation into imports of vitamin C from China in the wake of the domestic manufacturers making a case for imposition of the levy. The investigation is being initiated following Bajaj Healthcare alleging that the domestic industry is getting impacted due to ‘dumped imports’ of vitamin C from China, a notification on Friday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/for-business-pages-india-initiates-anti-dumping-probe-on-vitamin-c-imports-from-china/article32527798.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Thiem proves a step too steep for Nagal||Dominic Thiem may have brought a high-flying Sumit Nagal quickly down to earth, beating him 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 in the second round of the US Open on Thursday, but the India No. 1 called the match an “eye-opener.” Nagal, who this week became the first Indian in seven years to win a Grand Slam singles match, did well to stay with the second seed early on, even coming back from a 0-3 deficit in the opening set. But hopes of him matching his feat from last year, when he took a set off Roger Federer at the same Arthur Ashe Stadium, quickly dissipated once the World No. 3 found his groove. Too many errors “It told me how far I am from someone who I want to play like,” Nagal said later. “He has more experience and knows how to play better on courts like this. I was always trying to chase him and made too many errors.” The mistakes that will rankle him the most came in his service games. Like in the first-round win, Nagal continued to land a high percentage of his first serves (71%). Disappointingly, he won just 56% of those points. Thiem, in contrast, got 64% of first serves in, but won three-fourths of the points. “I think I will get better with experience,” the 23-year-old Nagal added. “The more matches I play, the more I will learn to be disciplined, stick to a game-plan and not get carried away.” Regardless of the loss, the World No. 124 said the last few weeks were educative. “The experience will help. You don't get to play against such big players and Slam champions often. They are so consistent at what they do. I need to include that in my game: how to start and finish with good focus, energy and discipline.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiem-proves-a-step-too-steep-for-nagal/article32527959.ece
05 September 2020||Chennai,||CSK’s Harbhajan Singh opts out||Chennai Super Kings suffered another blow on Friday when senior off-spinner Harbhajan Singh pulled out of IPL 2020 for personal reasons. This follows the COVID positive tests of Deepak Chahar and Ruturaj Gaikwad and the pulling out of the influential Suresh Raina. The vastly experienced 40-year-old Harbhajan has 417 Test wickets, 269 ODI scalps and 235 victims in the Twenty20 format. Also, he has kept himself fit. Last season he had picked up 16 wickets in 11 matches at 7.09. He has been with CSK for the past two years. Harbhajan said on Twitter: “Dear friends, I will not be playing in IPL this year due to personal reasons. These are difficult times and I would expect some privacy as I spend time with my family. @Chennai IPL CSK management has been extremely supportive and I wish them a great IPL. Stay safe and Jai Hind.” Talking to The Hindu from Dubai, CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said, “Yes, he has pulled out. He informed us on Friday. He said his mother was old and he had personal reasons for not taking part.” Harbhajan was expected to join the squad on September 1 — the rest of the team reached Dubai on August 21. Viswanathan said he would discuss with captain M.S. Dhoni about seeking a replacement for Harbhajan. CSK does not have another off-spinner in the squad, but according to Viswanathan, “Kedar Jadhav [essentially a batsman] can chip in with a few overs of off-spin.” On the positive side, CSK players — apart from Chahar and Gaikwad — tested negative in their second and final COVID test and began practice on Friday under lights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csks-harbhajan-singh-opts-out/article32527997.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Sumit is faster, fitter and smarter’||Multiple-time Grand Slam champion Mahesh Bhupathi was happy with Sumit Nagal’s progress despite the loss to Dominic Thiem at the US Open. The former Davis Cup captain has mentored Nagal since 2008. ‘’From last year Sumit has become faster, fitter and smarter,” said Bhupathi from London. ‘’Playing against one of the favourites, he was able to hold his own for a specific period of time.” ‘’He is just about maturing as a player. Playing big matches on the big courts is very different from playing the Challengers. So, he needs to focus on giving away less free points. He will definitely get better. The more ATP matches he plays, he will learn how to win them’’, remarked Mahesh. World-class forehand Arjuna awardee Sandeep Kirtane felt Nagal had the ability to be in the top-60. ‘’Sumit is definitely playing well, but needs to improve his serve and net game. His forehand is world-class. He is a great mover, and a gutsy player with a fierce attitude. He has the capability to be in the top-60.” If the match against Roger Federer last year gave him the first taste of Grand Slam tennis, the contest against Dominic Thiem would have given him valuable experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sumit-is-faster-fitter-and-smarter/article32527957.ece
05 September 2020||LONDON,||Messi decides to stay on at Barcelona||Lionel Messi said on Friday he will stay at Barcelona, insisting he could never go to court against “the club of his life”. But he launched a stinging attack on Barca president Josep Maria Bartomeu, whom he accused of going back on an agreement to let him leave for free at the end of last season. Not keeping his word “The president always said that at the end of the season I could decide if I wanted to go or if I wanted to stay and in the end he didn’t end up keeping his word,” Messi said in an interview with Goal.com , released on Friday. “I thought and we were sure that I was free...now they hold on to the fact that I did not say it before June 10, when it turns out that on June 10 we were competing for the league in the middle of this disease that altered all the dates. “And this is the reason why I am going to continue in the club... because the president told me that the only way to leave was to pay the €700 million release clause. “This is impossible, and then the other way was to go to trial. “I would never go to court against Barca because it is the club that I love, that gave me everything since I arrived, it is the club of my life, I have made my life here.” “Of course, I had a hard time deciding. It does not come from the Bayern result... I wanted a winning project and to win titles with the club, to continue expanding the legend of Barcelona. “And the truth is that there has been no project or anything for a long time, they juggle and cover holes as things go by. As I said before, I always thought about the welfare of my family and the club.” Full support Despite his unhappiness, Messi insists he will give his all for Barcelona under new coach Ronald Koeman. “My attitude is not going to change, no matter how much I have wanted to go. I will do my best. I always want to win, I am competitive and I don't like to lose ever.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-decides-to-stay-on-at-barcelona/article32527985.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Thiem proves a step too steep for Nagal||Dominic Thiem may have brought a high-flying Sumit Nagal quickly down to earth, beating him 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 in the second round of the US Open on Thursday, but the India No. 1 called the match an “eye-opener.” Nagal, who this week became the first Indian in seven years to win a Grand Slam singles match, did well to stay with the second seed early on, even coming back from a 0-3 deficit in the opening set. But hopes of him matching his feat from last year, when he took a set off Roger Federer at the same Arthur Ashe Stadium, quickly dissipated once the World No. 3 found his groove. Too many errors “It told me how far I am from someone who I want to play like,” Nagal said later. “He has more experience and knows how to play better on courts like this. I was always trying to chase him and made too many errors.” The mistakes that will rankle him the most came in his service games. Like in the first-round win, Nagal continued to land a high percentage of his first serves (71%). Disappointingly, he won just 56% of those points. Thiem, in contrast, got 64% of first serves in, but won three-fourths of the points. It wouldn’t have helped even if he had ramped up the serve speed, the 23-year-old felt. Where his average first serve was 160kmph, Thiem’s was 182. “If I want to, I can hit 200[kmph]. The plan was to play with a high percentage of first serves. But I gave away too many free points.” “I think I will get better with experience,” Nagal added. “The more matches I play, the more I will learn to be disciplined, stick to a game-plan and not get carried away.” Educative Regardless of the defeat, the World No. 124 said the last few weeks were educative. Prior to New York, at the ATP Challenger in Prague, he stretched three-time Major champion Stan Wawrinka to three sets before losing. “The experience will help. You don't get to play against such big players and Slam champions often. They are so consistent at what they do. I need to include that in my game: how to start and finish with good focus, energy and discipline.” If Nagal can put these lessons into practice at his next tournament — the French Open qualifiers in less than three weeks’ time — it will be a job well done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiem-proves-a-step-too-steep-for-nagal/article32528079.ece
05 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Jaiswal ready for the desert storm||Life has been a fascinating journey for Yashasvi Jaiswal, from Bhadohi to Dubai. As a young boy, he left his hometown near Varanasi for Mumbai, with cricketing dreams in his eyes. Life wasn’t easy in the city of dreams. He slept in a tent and sold snacks on the streets when he was not clobbering bowlers out of Azad Maidan. The southpaw batted his way out of those hard times. The next leg of his journey saw him hopping onto the bus that carried the senior Mumbai team. He shone brightly, becoming the world’s youngest player to score a List A double hundred. That innings against Jharkhand at Bengaluru, and a few others in the Vijay Hazare tournament last year, did not go unnoticed by the IPL franchises. Rajasthan Royals secured his services for Rs. 2.4 crore, 12 times his base price. Jaiswal showed the Royals were right to be so keen on him at the under-19 World Cup earlier this year in South Africa, the most recent stop in his journey. He smashed 400 runs from six matches at an average of 133.33 to lead the run charts and was adjudged the Player of the Tournament. There is, understandably, a lot of excitement about what he could do in the IPL. “I am happy that I am part of Rajasthan Royals, where you feel like part of a family,” the 18-year-old told The Hindu over phone from Dubai. “The seniors are humble; they help me out in the nets and I feel free to chat with them.” Living in the IPL’s bio-secure bubble has been a strange experience, but he has become used to it. “We cannot go outside, but we have enough things to do inside,” he said. “We have the beach, the swimming pool, the workout area, so it is all right. After all, we have to follow the COVID-19 guidelines to keep us and others safe.” Jaiswal is itching to make his IPL debut. “Being part of the IPL is an amazing feeling,” he said. “I have already learnt how different the senior level is from the junior.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashasvi-jaiswal-ready-for-the-desert-storm/article32528002.ece
05 September 2020||Dubai,||Capitals’ Tushar, Lalit keen to make a mark||Rookie paceman Tushar Deshpande wants to learn from seasoned pros like Kagiso Rabada and Ishant Sharma, while teammate Lalit Yadav is aspiring to join the list of young guns who have done well for Delhi Capitals in the previous seasons of the IPL. The 25-year-old right-arm fast-medium Deshpande said, “It is my first ever IPL so it is always special. But for me, what makes it extra special is the fact that I am getting to do the thing I love the most, which is bowling. I am finally bowling after almost six months so it is a different challenge.” Lalit, a big-hitting middle-order batsman and a handy off-spinner, said, “Delhi Capitals is the team known to give a good platform to the youth. We have so many examples already in our team. Our captain Shreyas Iyer, Prithvi Shaw and even Rishabh (Pant) were all identified by Delhi”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/capitals-tushar-lalit-keen-to-make-a-mark/article32527998.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rahul is very mature and knows the players well’||Having been part of the Kings XI Punjab side for the past couple of seasons will be an advantage for K.L. Rahul when he leads the side in the IPL, feels Anil Kumble. The Director of Cricket operations at the franchise insisted that it had a balanced squad and Rahul’s knowledge of the players would help the side. “KL (Rahul) is very relaxed, very mature. I have known him for a long time, he has international experience having played this long. The last couple of seasons he’s been part of the Kings XI side, their main player so he knows the team and the youngsters really well,” Kumble said after a training session.  “We have really high hopes, we have a very good and balanced squad, experienced and youngsters. I am just getting to know them now and seeing some of them play for the first time in the nets. “Really looking forward to the next couple of weeks to just build up the preparations and be ready for the IPL,” he added. Kumble admitted that the multiple roles played by Rahul would not be easy and that the support staff would do its best to ease the pressure. “He (Rahul) is very keen and excited but he has his hands full — keeping wickets, batting and captaining — so, as a support team, we have enough experience to sort of ease things into him and make sure he’s ready with his own preparations for the game,” Kumble said. Admitting it was a strange but nice feeling to finally be able to train outdoors at the ground, Kumble added that the absence of fans would be felt. “We will miss seeing fans at the ground but I know you all are supporting and backing KXIP so please keep doing that right through the IPL,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-is-very-mature-and-knows-the-players-well/article32528004.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Need practice games before the IPL: Rhodes||Skills are not a concern but “match mindset” certainly is, Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) fielding coach Jonty Rhodes said, stressing on the need for practice games before the IPL to give the competition-starved players a feel of what awaits them. Rhodes, who is returning to the IPL after a two-year gap, also feels that coaching staff like him has an additional responsibility of providing emotional support to the players this time given that most of them would be without their families and friends. “I think from a skills point of view, batting wise, all the boys have their skills back, they are playing ramp shots in the nets and playing shots all around the ground,” Rhodes, who was part of the Mumbai Indians camp for nine seasons, said from Dubai. “You tend to pick up the skills quickly but it is the match practice or the lack of it that will take a while to get used to. Playing in the nets is one thing, if you can get the match mindset, especially in a tournament like the IPL, it is very important.” Like other teams, Rhodes said KXIP too is keen on having a few practice games before the tournament. “We are tying to arrange one or two practice games just because of this reason. The balls are just flying out of the ground and it is good to see the bowlers hitting the right areas.” Role of support staff Since most of the players won’t have family support to turn to when things are not going their way, Rhodes feels the role of support staff will also include taking care of the players’ mental well being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-practice-games-before-the-ipl-rhodes/article32527999.ece
05 September 2020||New York,||Auger-Aliassime shows Murray the door||Andy Murray crashed out of the US Open second round in straight sets to 15th seed Felix Auger-Aliassime on Thursday. The former World No. 1 was demolished by the 20-year-old Canadian 6-2, 6-3, 6-4 in 2hr 8min.  The Canadian smashed 24 aces and 52 winners in a one-sided affair. Murray mustered just two aces and nine winners. Meanwhile, Serena Williams, Victoria Azarenka and Tsvetana Pironkova made up a 'Band of Mothers' who marched into the third round. The three were part of a cluster of nine mums who started this week at Flushing Meadows. Six of the nine — Kim Clijsters, Vera Zvonareva, Tatjana Maria, Kateryna Bondarenko, Patricia Maria Tig and Olga Govortsova — have been eliminated. But unranked Bulgarian Pironkova — playing her first tournament in three years after a break to have her first child — prolonged her participation with a 7-5, 6-3 upset of Spanish 10th seed Garbine Muguruza. Former World No. 1 Serena also advanced with a 6-2, 6-4 win over Russia's Margarita Gasparyan. Azarenka beat Belarusian compatriot and fifth seed Aryna Sabalenka 6-1, 6-3.  Pironkova, who gave birth to her son Alexander in April 2018, says motherhood has given her a new perspective on her tennis career. “Your priorities have nothing to do with what they did before,” she said. “Nothing is the same really. Right now I'm just happy to be playing. Having the opportunity for him to watch me also makes me really happy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/auger-aliassime-shows-murray-the-door/article32527961.ece
05 September 2020||LAVAUR,||Wout Van Aert wins another stage||Wout Van Aert picked up a second win of the 2020 Tour de France on Friday as aggressive tactics and crosswinds combined to produce an enthralling race that claimed several victims. British rider Adam Yates retained the yellow jersey while Peter Sagan took the green points jersey after his Bora team led a carefully plotted and brilliantly executed attack to drop his sprint rivals. The plot unfolded from 150km as Bora launched an unexpected assault, cranking up the pace with attacks which succeeded in exploiting the crosswinds, splitting the pack and shedding Sagan’s rivals in the points classification, Irishman Sam Bennett who started the day in green, and Australian Caleb Ewan. Saturday's run from Cazeres-Sur-Garonne to Loudenvielle features two category one mountains and one beyond-category climb.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wout-van-aert-wins-another-stage/article32527988.ece
05 September 2020||Hyderabad,||HCA Apex Council members object to Azharuddin’s letter||Four members of the Apex Council of the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) have termed the move by president Mohd Azharuddin to write a letter seeking approval of Justice Deepak Verma (retd.) as Ombudsman and Ethics Officer as a violation of the HCA constitution. HCA secretary R. Vijayanand, joint secretary Naresh Sharma, vice-president K. John Manoj and treasurer Surender Agarwal wrote a letter on Thursday to Justice Verma and marked a copy to the BCCI secretary Jay Shah. “The letter dated September 2, 2020 by Azharuddin is illegal and improper and therefore be treated withdrawn. “The office-bearers of the HCA hereby categorically state that the letter has been sent unilaterally by the president (Azharuddin) without the approval or consent of the office-bearers,” they said in the letter. Clarifying his stand Meanwhile, late on Friday, Azhar dashed off a letter to all affiliated Clubs of HCA clarifying his stand. “I would like to bring to your kind notice that the Apex Council in it’s June 6 meeting has decided to appoint Lordship Deepak Verma as Ombudsman and Ethics Officer,” he said. “We have conveyed our decision of his appointment to his Lordship after obtaining his consent earlier,” Azhar mentioned in the letter. “This important decision though to be taken up in the AGM was necessitated due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation and also due to the fact that his appointment has been pending for a long time. The decision was taken for your kind perusal, I request all the members to cooperate,” Azhar concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-apex-council-members-object-to-azharuddins-letter/article32528204.ece
05 September 2020||New York,||Auger-Aliassime shows Murray the door||Andy Murray crashed out of the US Open second round in straight sets to 15th seed Felix Auger-Aliassime on Thursday. The former World No. 1 was demolished by the 20-year-old Canadian 6-2, 6-3, 6-4 in 2hr 8min. Meanwhile, Serena Williams, Victoria Azarenka and Tsvetana Pironkova made up a 'Band of Mothers' who marched into the third round. The three were part of a cluster of nine mums who started this week at Flushing Meadows. But unranked Bulgarian Pironkova — playing her first tournament in three years after a break to have her first child — prolonged her participation with a 7-5, 6-3 upset of Spanish 10th seed Garbine Muguruza. Serena advanced with a 6-2, 6-4 win over Russia's Margarita Gasparyan. The two mothers were later joined by Azarenka who beat Belarusian compatriot Aryna Sabalenka 6-1, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/auger-aliassime-shows-murray-the-door/article32528080.ece
05 September 2020||Stuttgart,||Gaya gives Spain last-gasp draw with Germany||Jose Luis Gaya snatched a late point for Spain in its UEFA Nations League match against Germany on Thursday. Germany was seconds away from victory in the League A, Group 4 clash after Chelsea’s new signing Timo Werner gave the host a second-half lead, only for Gaya to tap home a Rodrigo Moreno header in the sixth minute of added time.  The results: League A: Group 4: At Stuttgart: Germany 1 (Werner 51) drew with Spain 1 (Gaya 90+6). At Lviv: Ukraine 2 (Yarmolenko 14, Zinchenko 68) bt Switzerland 1 (Seferovic 41).   League B: Group 3: At Sivas: Turkey 0 lost to Hungary 1 (Szoboszlai 80). At Moscow: Russia 3 (Dzyuba 48-pen, 81, Karavaev 69) bt Serbia 1 (A. Mitrovic 78).   Group 4: At Sofia: Bulgaria 1 (Kraev 56) drew with Rep. of Ireland 1 (Duffy 90+3). At Helsinki: Finland 0 lost to Wales 1 (Moore 80).   League C: Group 3: At Parma (Italy): Moldova 1 (Nicolaescu 20) drew with Kosovo 1 (Kololli 71). At Ljubljana: Slovenia 0 drew with Greece 0.   League D: Group 1: At Riga: Latvia 0 drew with Andorra 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gaya-gives-spain-last-gasp-draw-with-germany/article32527990.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘We want to hit our best closer to the start’||Trevor Bayliss, head coach of Sunrisers Hyderabad, had his first training session with the team preparing for the IPL starting from September 19. “The boys played well, batters were striking the ball cleanly, bowlers are working on variations. The one thing I will say is there are some young players here with a lot of talent here,” Bayliss was quoted as saying on the team’s social media sites on Friday. “We want to be hitting our best closer to the start of the tournament, hopefully at our absolute best late in the tournament as well. We will have a good time as well. We will have a bit of fun,” said the 57-year-old Australian. Assistant coach Brad Haddin also felt it was good to have Trevor back after the quarantine. “We have been dealing with him in the last couple of days. “But now we are getting more into the roles of what the guys will play in the tournament,” he said. Williamson raring to go New Zealand captain and star opener Kane Williamson, who has arrived in the UAE, said he was looking forward to playing soon. “It has been a long time between any sort of normality. Make sure I go through some fitness and exercises and do a bit of reading,” he said. “I am sure we will get a whole of support, although from far away, as we represent Orange Army. Everybody is excited to start playing and hopefully it is an amazing competition like usually it is.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/want-to-hit-our-best-closer-to-the-start-bayliss/article32528006.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ISL organisers invite bids for a new team||The Indian Super League (ISL) organisers on Friday invited bids for a new team for the upcoming season, a development which is expected to clear the decks for East Bengal joining the cash-rich football event. East Bengal on Wednesday got an investor in Kolkata-based Shree Cements and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who played a big role in the negotiations, made a strong pitch for the century-old club’s inclusion in the ISL. “FSDL invites bids from interested parties for the award of one (01) additional team to enrol and participate in the Hero Indian Super League, from its seventh edition to be staged in 2020-2021,” the tender notice issued by the organisers said. “Bids are invited in respect of 06 cities — Delhi, Ludhiana, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Siliguri and Bhopal. Under and subject to the Invitation to Bid (ITB), one (01) new winning bidder and accordingly one new team shall be enrolled and awarded the right to participate in the ISL from the seventh edition onwards,” the FSDL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-organisers-invite-bids-for-a-new-team/article32528000.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Frames from the desert||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/frames-from-the-desert/article32527983.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sumit fitter and smarter, says Mahesh||Multiple-time Grand Slam champion Mahesh Bhupathi was happy with Sumit Nagal’s progress despite the loss to Dominic Thiem at the US Open. The former Davis Cup captain has mentored Nagal since 2008. “From last year Sumit has become faster, fitter and smarter,” said Bhupathi from London. “Playing against one of the favourites, he was able to hold his own for a specific period of time.” “He is just about maturing as a player. Playing big matches on the big courts is very different from playing the Challengers. So, he needs to focus on giving away less free points. He will definitely get better. The more ATP matches he plays, he will learn how to win them’’, remarked Mahesh. Sandeep Kirtane felt Nagal had the ability to be in the top-60. “His forehand is world-class. He is a gutsy player with a fierce attitude”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sumit-fitter-and-smarter-says-mahesh/article32528077.ece
05 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Valvoline to be Sunrisers’ principal sponsor||Valvoline Cummins Pvt. Ltd. will be the principal sponsor of Sunrisers Hyderabad for the 13th edition of the Indian Premier League starting on September 19. The players will sport Valvoline’s logo on their jerseys. “We are excited to extend our partnership with such a strong and dedicated team as Sunrisers Hyderabad.” Sandeep Kalia, MD of Valvoline, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/valvoline-to-be-sunrisers-principal-sponsor/article32528205.ece
05 September 2020||KOCHI,||Roads named after Anju, Bharathan||Two sporting greats, Olympian long jumper Anju Bobby George and the late volleyball international P. Bharathan Nair, now have roads in their name in their hometown Changanassery in Kottayam District. The Changanassery Municipal Council passed a resolution on Friday to name the roads after the two stars. “We had this in mind for a long time, so when I got the chance, we did this. I took over a chairman just two months ago,” said Sajan Francis, Chaganassery Municipal Council chairman. “The council took a decision on this today.” Paris was also among the high points of Bharathan’s volleyball career. For, the attacker played the World Championships there in 1956, the last time India figured in the event. He also guided India to its first-ever Asian Games medal in volleyball, a bronze in 1958 in Tokyo. “My mom and I are very happy but this is not exactly a surprise because there has been a move regarding this in the last couple of years,” said Bharathan's son Pravin B. Nair from Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roads-named-after-anju-bharathan/article32528253.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 09:35 IST,||Sudoku - September 5, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-5-2020/article32528835.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Demanding your attention||Dulquer Salmaan is a compulsively likeable star. It probably has something to do with his warm smile or perhaps his easy demeanour. Over a Zoom call from his home in Kochi, he notices the bookshelf behind me. “I like your collection,” he tells me. Perhaps his endearing on-screen roles like Faizi (Ustad Hotel), Charlie (Charlie) and Aadi (OK Kanmani) influence our perception of his off-screen persona. Even when he plays a conman — as he did in his last Tamil film that released earlier this year, Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal — it is easy to root for his character. So it isn’t surprising to see his Instagram post, revealing a new hairstyle (with long curls) get over 1,00,000 likes. I ask if the look is for an upcoming role and he denies it, laughing. “I did it because I can. As actors, we constantly have to get into different characters and looks. So when my shooting stopped in March [due to the pandemic], I thought of letting loose and not cut my hair,” says Salmaan, who spent lockdown cooking, reading and playing with his three-year-old daughter, Maryam. After a long break, his attention is now occupied with films once again following the release of Maniyarayile Ashokan this Onam. His latest production venture features American-Indian actor Jacob Gregory in a lead role for the first time, and despite opening to mixed reviews (it was panned for being “largely dull” and “predictable”), it was trending at No 3 in India on Netflix this week. Edited excerpts from the interview: How have you coped with the pandemic? You have good days and bad days. Initially it was nice to get some much-needed family time but soon, I started to worry about the future of the world, of our work. We just started a production house and there are mounting interest costs every month. There are days when I am staring at the ceiling, unable to sleep. But I have spent some amazing time with my daughter who turned three during lockdown. I’ve mostly been a ‘visiting dad’ because of shoots. Now, she is speaking to me a lot more and is involving me in her everyday life. Maniyarayile Ashokanis your second production venture this year. It is our second release, but the first film we made. It would have been easy to ask a famous EP [executive producer] to produce the film and take care of the budget, but I was keen on getting a new team under my production house. [Jacob] Gregory wanted my opinion on a script that a bunch of youngsters had approached him with, asking him to play the lead. Continued on page 3  After hearing it, I thought ‘Why don’t we produce the film? Even if it went wrong, it would give a new team an opportunity’. But it was a lovely experience. With so many newcomers [five departments] it reminded me of my first film as an actor, Second Show. I wasn’t the only one messing up and we were all learning together. So, in that sense, I love that we began with this film. There seems to camaraderie in Malayalam cinema. Directors play small roles in others’ films; Fahadh Faasil did a voiceover in your movie, CIA. I don’t think anything is planned. Because we are so small, we all know each other and reach out to our friends and associates for help. And they are willing to do it. The thing is, you start working on a film with a team and by the time you start your next film, some of those teammates might have started working on another film with a competing actor. Then you can’t be like ‘I am not going to like you because you are working with this guy’. You are insecure only early in your career. Once you feel like people have accepted you, you are open to doing these little things. Fahadh Faasil’s Onam release, CU Soon, was shot during the lockdown. It proved that working from home is an option in cinema as well. It is amazing. I love that the team got together during this time and wanted to experiment. And everyone has enjoyed the film. A lot of people are now thinking of overcoming limitations in terms of resources or location. It is encouraging for filmmakers and the industry when movies reach far and wide just because of the concept and execution; language is not a barrier any more. Does the success of such films mean there will be more OTT-specific Malayalam content? It is going to be more organic. My film Kurup, for instance, won’t be viable for OTT. It is meant to be watched in theatres. You need a crowd to react to it. At the same time, we all want to keep working. If people are consuming content only online, we will make content for OTT. So they decide what they want.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/demanding-your-attention/article32527724.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Big Butterfly Month: This September, expect your timelines to be filled with Indian butterflies. Cartoonist and illustrator Rohan Chakravarty (@green_humour) created a comic to mark the return migration of the Blue Tiger. Follow @bigbutterflymonth on Instagram, upload butterfly sightings on ifoundbutterflies.org, and join butterfly walks with @bombaynaturalhistorysociety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapick/article32528119.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||LFW calls eco-warriors||The second edition of Lakmé Fashion Week’s Circular Changemakers is calling for applications from start-ups working with sustainable and alternative materials. Six applicants will be part of a bootcamp led by industry experts, and will focus on giving them visibility and teaching them how to raise capital and create a viable business model. And on Sustainable Fashion Day at LFW, they will pitch to a panel of investors. Last date for entries is September 15. Details: circulatdesignchallenge.net.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lfw-calls-eco-warriors/article32528122.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||PUBG Ban: Following TikTok, the next Gen Z group to be affected is the mobile gaming community in India, as the government has included PUBG in a list of 118 banned Chinese apps. The multiplayer game was developed by Bluehole, a South Korean firm, but was made popular on mobile by Chinese tech giant Tencent. All eyes are now on an Indian alternative, Scarfall — but will it be a lost battle?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article32528123.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||House of fans||How well do you know your favourite celebrity? Find out on TrueFan, a newly-launched platform that allows fans to connect with A-listers from Bollywood, including Ranveer Singh, Tiger Shroff, Kareena Kapoor and Hrithik Roshan. For a minimal fee of Rs. 50, users can answer a series of fun questions around the life of their preferred star, and the winner stands a chance to win a personal interaction or personalised video message from them, while other participants get cashbacks. Details: truefan.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/house-of-fans/article32528124.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning to film||The third edition of Chennai Photo Biennale, which was slated to take place this year, has been officially moved to December 2021. The theme and the first list of artists for CPB3 will be announced on December 9, 2020, via a virtual event. Meanwhile, 14- to 18-year-olds with an interest in filmmaking can sign up for #TeenFilmAcademy, a five-week online filmmaking workshop. From September 8 to October 9, on Tuesdays and Fridays from 4.30 pm to 6 pm. Details: chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/learning-to-film/article32528125.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Watch with Weekend||Watch the video interviews of this week’s cover stars, Abhay Deol and Dulquer Salmaan. Deol was in conversation with film journalist Karishma Upadhyay on his upcoming OTT show, why Bollywood loves to hate him and his new-found love for painting. Actor, and now producer, Salmaan spoke toThe Hindu’s Praveen Sudevan about his upcoming movies, working from home in the film industry and his lockdown life. Catch both interviews on weekend.thehindu.com and on IGTV @thehinduweekend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/watch-with-weekend/article32528126.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Art from the heart||Did you know that Arshad Warsi, Sonu Sood and Chitrangada Singh had an artistic streak? Smile Foundation, with Lay’s, has launched Artwork for Heartwork, bringing together these celebrities as well as leading artists such as Aniruddh Mehta, Sabeena Karnik and Srishti Gupta Roy. The aim is to generate funds for hygiene kits for farmers, shopkeepers, truck drivers and daily wagers. So far, close to 35,000 kits have been distributed. Artwork for sale on artandfound.co. Details on theheartwork.support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/art-from-the-heart/article32528127.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||No real trends to w a t c h||The past few months have seen big ticket shows like Baselworld and Watches and Wonders (WW2020) cancel their physical events, whereas in a regular year, nine out of 10 luxury watches would launch at the same time. This year, the launches have been sporadic and opportunistic. Dubai Watch Week 2020 — a private event hosted by the LVMH group — was the only one to have taken place before the global lockdown. WW2020 (erstwhile SIHH) hosted a digital launch in April for the Richemont brands and some independents. Last week, several major Swiss luxury watch brands, including Breitling, Bulgari, De Bethune, Gerald Genta, Girard-Perregaux, H Moser & Cie, MB&F, Ulysse Nardin and Urwerk came together to create Geneva Watch Days (GWD 2020, August 26-29). Carl F Bucherer and Rolex also timed the launch of their novelties around the same time. So what are the noticeable trends? Quite clearly, nothing. Here is why: a typical product launch by any fine watchmaking brand takes 18 to 24 months, sometimes even longer. Watches that are being launched this year have been in planning since 2018 or earlier. While brands have taken their time to announce the novelties of 2020, they still have no relation to the changing equation in a recessionary world. It is probably coincidence if they get it right. However, there is an increasing emphasis on e-commerce. Even Patek Philippe, a company that never allowed their watches to be sold online, temporarily relaxed their rules in April to help their authorised retailers. Others like IWC are collaborating with online partners like Mr Porter, while Grand Seiko and Omega have extended their online offerings to more countries. Watches of Switzerland now have Richemont brands like Vacheron Constantin, Panerai and Jaeger-LeCoultre on their e-commerce platform. Jean-Christophe Babin, Bulgari’s CEO, says, “We accelerated our e-commerce expansion, opening in seven new countries in just 90 days, including major markets such as Brazil and Russia.” However, the move to online won’t be complete unless the industry eliminates counterfeits and addresses issues of discount negotiations in an online-only model. Since October 31, 2019, Swiss watchmaker Ulysse Nardin, owned by luxury group Kering, has relied on blockchain technology to issue digital certificates of authenticity to track originals. We are also seeing online enquiries being directed offline to sales specialists, as seen with Indian luxury watch retailer, Ethos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/no-real-trends-to-w-a-t-c-h/article32527721.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking news! Or broken?||Good morning from today’s news bulletin of calamity and catastrophe. And if there isn’t any, don’t worry, we will create some. Breaking news! The biggest reveal, sensational in-depth reportage, absolutely never-seen-before footage of — WhatsApp messages. For the first time ever: WhatsApp messages! Remember, you see them only on our channel. Some of the latest messages are over three years old! Watch carefully while we build them into a government-toppling political scam. Politicians who have no connection to any persons in this case are demanding that the other apologises, resigns, names, shames, sanitises… We can see the devious hand of China in this. Or the head of Trump. If nothing else, rest assured, we can link it back to Nehru. In other news, fires rage, causing grievous harm to... Next story please. Shift to our reporter who is in a flood-ravaged village, dangling upside down from a tree, while houses are swept away. Oh look, the WhatsApp message has an emoji. Let’s spend prime time talking about what was not in the message now. Let’s read in between the lines. Pardon these seven seconds of a daring helicopter rescue by the Air Force to evacuate flood-hit villagers. Quick, back to our Main Story! Exciting developments! Scandalous, sensational... (Oh sorry, jumped up in excitement and knocked my mic down. Sorry for the disruption.) Look at what’s appearing live before your eyes, dear viewers — only on this channel. Unbelievable! A car! The excitement is unbearable. A car is approaching the gate. Its windows are shaded. In this car is... is not/could be the secretary’s ex-landlord’s friend-in-law. Only we bring you the blurred image of a finger. Let’s replay it for the next two days every 10 minutes. Rare footage of a finger. In other news, Covid cases are spiralling… blah blah... Riots in the BLM movement. Lebanon explosion. Yawn. The economy is diving… Time for a commercial break! Back to Belarus, JEE, potential vaccines blah, blah — Yesssss! Finally... A world-changing scoop, only on this channel. Someone visited this building that evening. In confidence, at risk to life and limb, from the heat of action, our reporter reports it was a boy. Who came to retrieve his cricket ball. Oh! Or was he a drug dealer with Dubai mafia connections? Don’t leave, viewers, we will be right back with more sensational reveals, created especially for you, right after these ads. And that brings us to the end of this bulletin. Stay tuned. We will investigate, pursue every message, expose every finger, plug our own political agenda non-stop, hold panels to shout over all our expert guests, storm people’s privacy, conduct trials of our own, reach conclusions, hurl accusations, prove guilt and — all throughout — punish. We’ve solved it, the CBI should thank us for doing it all. Our TRP is through the roof. Advertising money is pouring in. People are watching our news more than the matchmaking series. Team, take a bow. 2020’s the best year ever. Where Jane De Suza, author of Flyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/breaking-news-or-broken/article32527730.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Demanding your attention||Unconventional. Original. Individualistic. Conversations with actor and producer Abhay Deol are liberally peppered with these adjectives and it is no surprise for anyone familiar with his filmography. His next release, Sony LIV’s JL50 is a series based on a plane crash that’s discovered decades after it went down. The whodunit that also stars Pankaj Kapur and Piyush Mishra has elements of time travel. While the show is the 44-year-old’s first attempt at serialised storytelling (“though it was shot like a film”), it is experimental and high-concept enough to fit right in with his past work. “It doesn’t pander to the mainstream or a formula. It has got its own originality,” is how he describes the show on a Zoom call from his home in Los Angeles.  No labels  In the early noughties, the buzzword in Bollywood was ‘multiplex films’ and Deol was the undisputed poster child of the indie film world. He might have debuted with Imtiaz Ali’s sweet but predictable rom-com Socha Na Tha (2005), but his choices after that were anything but. He played a North Indian migrant in Mumbai who misses the last train home in Sanjay Khanduri’s black comedy Ek Chalis Ki Last Local ; a government engineer and wannabe writer in Navdeep Singh’s neo-noir film Manorama: Six Feet Under (2007); and a West Delhi con man in Dibakar Banerjee’s Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye (2008). In Anurag Kashyap’s retelling of the age-old tale of tragic defeatism Dev D (2009), his performance as the scumbag Dev only cemented his position. With Zoya Akhtar’s Zindagi Na Milegi Dobora (2011) and Banerjee’s Shanghai (2012), he continued to cock a snook at the Bollywood establishment who couldn’t figure out how to peg the youngest Deol in the business (Dharmendra is his uncle, and Sunny and Bobby his cousins).  MIA in Bollywood  In the last decade, however, though Deol tasted commercial success with Raanjhanaa (2013) and Happy Bhag Jayegi (2016), he took a wrong turn and has been mostly missing from our screens. The few releases — such as Nanu Ki Jaanu (2016), Chopsticks (2018) — were duds. His reputation of being “painfully difficult to work with” could have contributed to his stumbling in showbiz. Navdeep Singh reminisced with Huffpost India recently about how the actor had “wanted to do artistic movies but also wanted the mainstream benefits... of being a ‘Deol’. He would stay in a five-star hotel while the entire crew stayed in Paharganj for a film that was made on a very tight budget. [It is] also the reason a lot of his directors went away from him.” But Deol explains his absence as a function of industry mechanics. “My career really picked up when multiplexes were brand new. Just for a brief moment, there was more exhibition space and fewer products.” As the advent of OTT has brought about another paradigm shift in the industry, he believes the tide is in favour of those like him who want to continue pushing the envelope. “OTT, unlike multiplexes, is an endless exhibition space. And they’ll experiment more than what traditional Bollywood producers would do,” he adds. In the last few years, he’s been trying to get his career back on track. He’s turned producer (with films like Netflix’s 2020 release What Are the Odds? ) and now divides his time between Mumbai, Goa and LA. “I have executive produced a horror movie. It is an American film that releases at the end of the year. There’s a project I’m working on as an actor as well, which will be announced by the studio. I’m also developing an Indo-American film where the script’s already been written, and I produce and act. I’m just having fun,” he says.  The disruptor  The last 15 years might have been a rollercoaster, but Deol is not sure if he’d want to change anything if he gets a do-over. “Maybe five years ago I’d have considered it. Today I don’t because of the freedom I have. I don’t have the pressure of being in the Top 5. A lot of being a star is just holding on to that,” he explains. This freedom has meant that he has never been afraid to stand up to the powers-that-be. Even if it has meant that people in the industry became wary of working with him. “If you want to continuously work in this business, then you should be friendly and approachable; you shouldn’t come across as somebody with too many strong opinions because it is just going to be seen as arrogance,” he says. In the past he has been vocal about issues like the wage gap, sexism, patriarchy and colour-ism. Last month, he addressed nepotism on Instagram (where he has over 7 lakh followers), stating how it is prevalent everywhere and “we need a cultural revolution”. Most recently he shared a fan’s observation that his film Raanjhanaa glorified sexual harassment, writing, “History will not look kindly at this film for its regressive message”. He’s also carried the freedom, and his penchant for going against the grain, into his work as a producer — working with newcomers when even “big name directors rarely work with newcomers [except star kids]”. His Netflix film, What Are the Odds? , starred newbie Karanvir Malhotra who recalls Deol having a “very mentor kind of vibe”. Whether it is on- or off-screen, Deol isn’t afraid of challenging his audience. “They need to be led towards spaces that they’ve never seen before because film is a form of art and art can be provocative very easily. As a culture, we have the ability to be as provocative as anybody else in the world. But we are limited by the powers around us. I don’t have to censor myself as much on OTT platforms as I would have had to in theatricals. At the same time, I still feel like if I would have pushed 70% provocation with a theatrical, with OTT it might be 80%. It is never a 100%. That would be too scandalous,” he says, signing out with a laugh.  JL50 is now streaming   on Sony LIV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/demanding-your-attention/article32527758.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Demanding your attention||Dulquer Salmaan is a compulsively likeable star. It probably has something to do with his warm smile or perhaps his easy demeanour. Over a Zoom call from his home in Kochi, he notices the bookshelf behind me. “I like your collection,” he tells me. Perhaps his endearing on-screen roles like Faizi (Ustad Hotel), Charlie (Charlie) and Aadi (OK Kanmani) influence our perception of his off-screen persona. Even when he plays a conman — as he did in his last Tamil film that released earlier this year, Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal — it is easy to root for his character. So it isn’t surprising to see his Instagram post, revealing a new hairstyle (with long curls) get over 1,00,000 likes. I ask if the look is for an upcoming role and he denies it, laughing. “I did it because I can. As actors, we constantly have to get into different characters and looks. So when my shooting stopped in March [due to the pandemic], I thought of letting loose and not cut my hair,” says Salmaan, who spent lockdown cooking, reading and playing with his three-year-old daughter, Maryam. After a long break, his attention is now occupied with films once again following the release of Maniyarayile Ashokan this Onam. His latest production venture features American-Indian actor Jacob Gregory in a lead role for the first time, and despite opening to mixed reviews (it was panned for being “largely dull” and “predictable”), it was trending at No 3 in India on Netflix this week. Edited excerpts from the interview: How have you coped with the pandemic? You have good days and bad days. Initially it was nice to get some much-needed family time but soon, I started to worry about the future of the world, of our work. We just started a production house and there are mounting interest costs every month. There are days when I am staring at the ceiling, unable to sleep. But I have spent some amazing time with my daughter who turned three during lockdown. I’ve mostly been a ‘visiting dad’ because of shoots. Now, she is speaking to me a lot more and is involving me in her everyday life. Maniyarayile Ashokanis your second production venture this year. It is our second release, but the first film we made. It would have been easy to ask a famous EP [executive producer] to produce the film and take care of the budget, but I was keen on getting a new team under my production house. [Jacob] Gregory wanted my opinion on a script that a bunch of youngsters had approached him with, asking him to play the lead. Continued on page 3  After hearing it, I thought ‘Why don’t we produce the film? Even if it went wrong, it would give a new team an opportunity’. But it was a lovely experience. With so many newcomers [five departments] it reminded me of my first film as an actor, Second Show. I wasn’t the only one messing up and we were all learning together. So, in that sense, I love that we began with this film. There seems to camaraderie in Malayalam cinema. Directors play small roles in others’ films; Fahadh Faasil did a voiceover in your movie, CIA. I don’t think anything is planned. Because we are so small, we all know each other and reach out to our friends and associates for help. And they are willing to do it. The thing is, you start working on a film with a team and by the time you start your next film, some of those teammates might have started working on another film with a competing actor. Then you can’t be like ‘I am not going to like you because you are working with this guy’. You are insecure only early in your career. Once you feel like people have accepted you, you are open to doing these little things. Fahadh Faasil’s Onam release, CU Soon, was shot during the lockdown. It proved that working from home is an option in cinema as well. It is amazing. I love that the team got together during this time and wanted to experiment. And everyone has enjoyed the film. A lot of people are now thinking of overcoming limitations in terms of resources or location. It is encouraging for filmmakers and the industry when movies reach far and wide just because of the concept and execution; language is not a barrier any more. Does the success of such films mean there will be more OTT-specific Malayalam content? It is going to be more organic. My film Kurup, for instance, won’t be viable for OTT. It is meant to be watched in theatres. You need a crowd to react to it. At the same time, we all want to keep working. If people are consuming content only online, we will make content for OTT. So they decide what they want.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/demanding-your-attention/article32527759.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||baromarket.in||Srila Chatterjee, co-founder of now defunct Mumbai lifestyle store, Baro, has a large camphor chest in her home. “Friends and family call it my present box. They often raid it because I store all the things I bought that I thought were lovely [but not necessarily needed],” she says. Her week-old online venture, Baro Market, is an extension of this present box. The site is simple, laid out in a grid format that is easy to navigate. As we scroll through the brands — 58 vendors (a mix of designers and craftspeople) showcasing everything from clothing and home décor to edibles — there are plenty of discoveries. A pen and quill brooch by Absynthe Design shares space with upcycled cushion covers and crop tops from Kolkata-based Sienna. Other pages reveal handmade soaps by Kaisori (with packaging featuring original artwork by miniature artists inspired by the Chitrashala in Ajmer’s Bundi Fort), Shola art from West Bengal, pickles from Shillar House (that empowers women from the local community), and much more. With each item chosen by Chatterjee, 56 — who enjoys “working with small designers who believe in small-batch, unique things” — the virtual marketplace’s USP is its sensible pricing and the stories behind the products. “I believe if there aren’t stories attached to things, they don’t mean anything,” says Chatterjee, who used to run the production house, Highlight Films, before opening Baro in 2017. They are also working on small videos, where customers can watch the artisans in conversation.  Up next: A special bazaar with Goa-based Rangeela’s home products. “We will also launch Padukas, who work with Maharashtra’s Worli tribe to make products out of scrap fabric, such as toys and jackets.”  Soaps at Rs. 300 and artwork upwards of Rs. 1 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/baromarketin/article32527732.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||valaya.com||JJ Valaya was possibly one of the first Indian designers with a website back in the day. So the relaunch of his e-commerce platform last week brought with it high expectations. For now, these are met with gorgeous photographs (mostly by Valaya) and memories with a three-decade timeline. And the option of stocking up soon on luxury interiors — tapestry, carpets, furniture and designer tiles. But first, there are his couture lehengas (price on request) and sherwanis as well as gilets, jackets and the new Valaya Phoenix belts (Rs. 9,900). Valaya regulars will be happy to take stock of the Tabriz collection, which celebrates mystical Persia. And his saris (Rs. 1,24,500) and dresses with the trademark black and white chevron print borrowed from Rajasthani architecture. Jhalamand House, his cotton and linen menswear collection where black shirts and kurtas come with ivory piping, has also been highlighted. “Maximum traction is coming in the form of appointments, with 203 enquiries in five days,” says Valaya, always a stickler for detail. “Jhalamand House has had great response, as well as the accessories (check out the compact safa selection, at Rs. 15,000 each)," he adds. With more than 900 subscribers to the newsletter already, the e-store comes just in time for post-pandemic weddings. And Couture Week (September 18), where Valaya will be participating as usual.  Up next: The launch of the pret version of Valaya’s popular ‘made to order’ Alika jacket. IKA is reversible and offers a choice of colour, print, embroidery and piping. Clients can book 30-minute online appointments for customisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/valayacom/article32527734.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||evoluzionestyle.com||“When the lockdown was first announced, everything we knew about retail was turned on its head,” says Ahaanaa Malhotra. The 22-year-old daughter of Atul and Tina Malhotra of multi-brand designer boutique Evoluzione spearheaded their e-commerce move, joining brother Arnav (who curated a menswear edit last year) and sister Ananya (a jewellery designer) in the family business. The result is a minimalist site that went live in late August. Evoluzione is the latest multi-brand fashion store to go online during the pandemic, following Le Mill and Ensemble. Known for their bespoke and bridal wear, the Evo Edits reflect those categories. Featured designers include IRL bestsellers like Anamika Khanna, Sabyasachi and Rohit Gandhi + Rahul Khanna with brands like Bodice, Lovebirds and Kshitij Jalori for everyday wear. Sneha Arora and Koai have entry-level options in the Rs. 5,700 to Rs. 7,500 range. While the ‘price on request’ format continues for some occasion wear, the selection is wide ranging, from saris to co-ord sets. The menswear section has considerably fewer designers, but the usual suspects like Rajesh Pratap Singh and Rohit Bal share space with young brands like Countrymade. Interestingly, a tidy collection of wellness products, like Indian borage honey from Pahadi Local or a spiced candle from Bombay Perfumery, have been added to the list. And styling gets a fillip with jewellery from Out House and Isharya, and men’s oxfords from Bridlen. The site may have a few niggles — the designers’ names for the garments are not immediately visible, for example — but Ahaanaa explains that it is a precursor of a “more modern, sophisticated site that will be launched at the end of the year”. And when you do fill up your shopping cart, you will be happy to know that payment options include current favourites like Paytm and UPI.  Up next : Athleisure and loungewear brands will be added to the site, and the online pantry will soon be stocked with gourmet brands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/evoluzionestylecom/article32527733.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Big Butterfly Month: This September, expect your timelines to be filled with Indian butterflies. Cartoonist and illustrator Rohan Chakravarty (@green_humour) created a comic to mark the return migration of the Blue Tiger. Follow @bigbutterflymonth on Instagram, upload butterfly sightings on ifoundbutterflies.org, and join butterfly walks with @bombaynaturalhistorysociety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article32527736.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Right at home||Popular décor store The Purple Turtles has moved to the Amethyst premises on Whites Road with their sister brands Oorjaa (lighting) and Beruru (garden accessories). The Bengaluru-based firm is offering a flat 20% discount till September 15. From 11 am to 7 pm.9811103775. For international shopping, ThaiGroove, Thailand's first virtual multi-brand show, brings together 100 vendors on one platform. Shop food, well-being, furniture, fashion and more. From September 15 to 17 on thaigroove.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/right-at-home/article32527738.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion and a cause||Multi-brand designer boutique Collage is showcasing Paradisia, a collection of floralkurtasandshararasby designer Gopi Vaid. In a bright colour palette, the line features simple silhouettes with embellished embroidery, shell and sequin details. Till September end.28291443. DesignOne Online, a flagship initiative of Sahachari Foundation, puts high-end homegrown brands and NGOs on the same platform. An extension of their not-for-profit designer shopping event, designonebysfe.com launches on October 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fashion-and-a-cause/article32527740.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||LFW calls eco-warriors||The second edition of Lakmé Fashion Week’s Circular Changemakers is calling for applications from start-ups working with sustainable and alternative materials. Six applicants will be part of a bootcamp led by industry experts, and will focus on giving them visibility and teaching them how to raise capital and create a viable business model. And on Sustainable Fashion Day at LFW, they will pitch to a panel of investors. Last date for entries is September 15. Details: circulatdesignchallenge.net.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lfw-calls-eco-warriors/article32527742.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||PUBG Ban: Following TikTok, the next Gen Z group to be affected is the mobile gaming community in India, as the government has included PUBG in a list of 118 banned Chinese apps. The multiplayer game was developed by Bluehole, a South Korean firm, but was made popular on mobile by Chinese tech giant Tencent. All eyes are now on an Indian alternative, Scarfall — but will it be a lost battle?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article32527744.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||House of fans||How well do you know your favourite celebrity? Find out on TrueFan, a newly-launched platform that allows fans to connect with A-listers from Bollywood, including Ranveer Singh, Tiger Shroff, Kareena Kapoor and Hrithik Roshan. For a minimal fee of Rs. 50, users can answer a series of fun questions around the life of their preferred star, and the winner stands a chance to win a personal interaction or personalised video message from them, while other participants get cashbacks. Details: truefan.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/house-of-fans/article32527747.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning to film||The third edition of Chennai Photo Biennale, which was slated to take place this year, has been officially moved to December 2021. The theme and the first list of artists for CPB3 will be announced on December 9, 2020, via a virtual event. Meanwhile, 14- to 18-year-olds with an interest in filmmaking can sign up for #TeenFilmAcademy, a five-week online filmmaking workshop. From September 8 to October 9, on Tuesdays and Fridays from 4.30 pm to 6 pm. Details: chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/learning-to-film/article32527749.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Watch with Weekend||Watch the video interviews of this week’s cover stars, Abhay Deol and Dulquer Salmaan. Deol was in conversation with film journalist Karishma Upadhyay on his upcoming OTT show, why Bollywood loves to hate him and his new-found love for painting. Actor, and now producer, Salmaan spoke toThe Hindu’s Praveen Sudevan about his upcoming movies, working from home in the film industry and his lockdown life. Catch both interviews on weekend.thehindu.com and on IGTV @thehinduweekend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/watch-with-weekend/article32527751.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Art from the heart||Did you know that Arshad Warsi, Sonu Sood and Chitrangada Singh had an artistic streak? Smile Foundation, with Lay’s, has launched Artwork for Heartwork, bringing together these celebrities as well as leading artists such as Aniruddh Mehta, Sabeena Karnik and Srishti Gupta Roy. The aim is to generate funds for hygiene kits for farmers, shopkeepers, truck drivers and daily wagers. So far, close to 35,000 kits have been distributed. Artwork for sale on artandfound.co. Details on theheartwork.support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-from-the-heart/article32527753.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ Kurup is not for OTT’||Dulquer Salmaan is a compulsively likeable star. It probably has something to do with his easy demeanour. Over a Zoom call from his home in Kochi, he notices my bookshelf. “I like your collection,” he tells me. Perhaps his endearing on-screen characters such as Faizi ( Ustad Hotel ), Charlie ( Charlie ) and Aadi ( OK Kanmani ) influence our perception of his off-screen persona. Even when he plays a conman — as he did in his last Tamil film that released earlier this year, Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal — it is easy to root for his character. So it isn’t surprising to see his latest Instagram post, revealing a new hairstyle (with long curls) get over 1,00,000 likes. I ask if the look is for an upcoming role and he laughs. “I did it because I can. As actors, we constantly have to get into different characters and looks. So when my shooting stopped in March [with the pandemic], I thought of letting loose and did not cut my hair,” says Salmaan, who spent lockdown cooking, reading and playing with his three-year-old daughter, Maryam. After a long break, his attention is now occupied with films once again following the Onam release of Maniyarayile Ashokan . His latest production venture features American-Indian actor Jacob Gregory in a lead role for the first time, and despite opening to mixed reviews (it was panned for being “largely dull” and “predictable”), it has been trending at No 3 in India on Netflix this week.   Edited excerpts from the interview:   How have you coped with the pandemic? You have good days and bad days. Initially it was nice to get some much-needed family time but soon, I started to worry about the future of the world, of our work. We just started a production house and there are mounting interest costs every month. There are days when I am staring at the ceiling, unable to sleep. But I have spent some amazing time with my daughter who turned three during lockdown. I’ve mostly been a ‘visiting dad’ because of shoots. Now, she is speaking to me a lot more and is involving me in her everyday life. Maniyarayile Ashokanis your second production venture this year. It is our second release, but the first film we made. It would have been easy to ask a famous EP [executive producer] to produce the film and take care of the budget, but I was keen on getting a new team under my production house. Gregory wanted my opinion on a script that a bunch of youngsters had approached him with, asking him to play the lead. After hearing it, I thought ‘Why don’t we produce the film? Even if it went wrong, it would give a new team an opportunity’. But it was a lovely experience. With so many newcomers [five departments] it reminded me of my first film as an actor, Second Show . I wasn’t the only one messing up and we were all learning together. So, in that sense, I love that we began with this film. There seems to be camaraderie in Malayalam cinema. Directors play small roles in others’ films; Fahadh Faasil did a voiceover in your movie,CIA. I don’t think anything is planned. Because we are so small, we all know each other and reach out to our friends and associates for help. And they are willing to do it. The thing is, you start working on a film with a team and by the time you start your next film, some of those teammates might have started working on another film with a competing actor. Then you can’t be like ‘I am not going to like you because you are working with this guy’. You are insecure only early in your career. Once you feel like people have accepted you, you are open to doing these little things.  Fahadh Faasil’s Onam release,CU Soon, was shot during the lockdown. It proved that working from home is an option in cinema as well. It is amazing. I love that the team got together during this time and wanted to experiment. And everyone has enjoyed the film. A lot of people are now thinking of overcoming limitations in terms of resources or location. It is encouraging for filmmakers and the industry when movies reach far and wide just because of the concept and execution; language is not a barrier any more. Does the success of such films mean there will be more OTT-specific Malayalam content? It is going to be more organic. My film Kurup[his most expensive film till date] , for instance, won’t be viable for OTT. It is meant to be watched in theatres. You need a crowd to react to it. At the same time, we all want to keep working. If people are consuming content only online, we will make content for OTT. So they decide what they want.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/kurup-is-not-for-ott/article32527764.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Demanding your attention||Unconventional. Original. Individualistic. Conversations with actor and producer Abhay Deol are liberally peppered with these adjectives and it is no surprise for anyone familiar with his filmography. His next release, SonyLIV’s JL50 is a series based on a plane crash that’s discovered decades after it went down. The whodunit that also stars Pankaj Kapur and Piyush Mishra has elements of time travel. While the show is the 44-year-old’s first attempt at serialised storytelling (“though it was shot like a film”), it is experimental and high-concept enough to fit right in with his past work. “It doesn’t pander to the mainstream or a formula. It has got its own originality,” is how he describes the show on a Zoom call from his home in Los Angeles.  No labels  In the early noughties, the buzzword in Bollywood was ‘multiplex films’ and Deol was the undisputed poster child of the indie film world. He might have debuted with Imtiaz Ali’s sweet but predictable rom-com Socha Na Tha (2005), but his choices after that were anything but. He played a North Indian migrant in Mumbai who misses the last train home in Sanjay Khanduri’s black comedy Ek Chalis Ki Last Local ; a government engineer and wannabe writer in Navdeep Singh’s neo-noir film Manorama: Six Feet Under (2007); and a West Delhi con man in Dibakar Banerjee’s Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye (2008). In Anurag Kashyap’s retelling of the age-old tale of tragic defeatism Dev D (2009), his performance as the scumbag Dev only cemented his position. With Zoya Akhtar’s Zindagi Na Milegi Dobora (2011) and Banerjee’s Shanghai (2012), he continued to cock a snook at the Bollywood establishment who couldn’t figure out how to peg the youngest Deol in the business (Dharmendra is his uncle, and Sunny and Bobby his cousins).  MIA in Bollywood  In the last decade, however, though Deol tasted commercial success with Raanjhanaa (2013) and Happy Bhag Jayegi (2016), he took a wrong turn and has been mostly missing from our screens. The few releases — such as Nanu Ki Jaanu (2016), Chopsticks (2018) — were duds. His reputation of being “painfully difficult to work with” could have contributed to his stumbling in showbiz. Navdeep Singh reminisced with Huffpost India recently about how the actor had “wanted to do artistic movies but also wanted the mainstream benefits... of being a ‘Deol’. He would stay in a five-star hotel while the entire crew stayed in Paharganj for a film that was made on a very tight budget. [It is] also the reason a lot of his directors went away from him.” But Deol explains his absence as a function of industry mechanics. “My career really picked up when multiplexes were brand new. Just for a brief moment, there was more exhibition space and fewer products.” As the advent of OTT has brought about another paradigm shift in the industry, he believes the tide is in favour of those like him who want to continue pushing the envelope. “OTT, unlike multiplexes, is an endless exhibition space. And they’ll experiment more than what traditional Bollywood producers would do,” he adds. In the last few years, he’s been trying to get his career back on track. He’s turned producer (with films like Netflix’s 2020 release What Are the Odds? ) and now divides his time between Mumbai, Goa and LA. “I have executive produced a horror movie. It is an American film that releases at the end of the year. There’s a project I’m working on as an actor as well, which will be announced by the studio. I’m also developing an Indo-American film where the script’s already been written, and I produce and act. I’m just having fun,” he says.  The disruptor  The last 15 years might have been a rollercoaster, but Deol is not sure if he’d want to change anything if he gets a do-over. “Maybe five years ago I’d have considered it. Today I don’t because of the freedom I have. I don’t have the pressure of being in the Top 5. A lot of being a star is just holding on to that,” he explains. This freedom has meant that he has never been afraid to stand up to the powers-that-be. Even if it has meant that people in the industry became wary of working with him. “If you want to continuously work in this business, then you should be friendly and approachable; you shouldn’t come across as somebody with too many strong opinions because it is just going to be seen as arrogance,” he says. In the past he has been vocal about issues like the wage gap, sexism, patriarchy and colour-ism. Last month, he addressed nepotism on Instagram (where he has over 7 lakh followers), stating how it is prevalent everywhere and “we need a cultural revolution”. Most recently he shared a fan’s observation that his film Raanjhanaa glorified sexual harassment, writing, “History will not look kindly at this film for its regressive message”. He’s also carried the freedom, and his penchant for going against the grain, into his work as a producer — working with newcomers when even “big name directors rarely work with newcomers [except star kids]”. His Netflix film, What Are the Odds? , starred newbie Karanvir Malhotra who recalls Deol having a “very mentor kind of vibe”. Whether it is on- or off-screen, Deol isn’t afraid of challenging his audience. “They need to be led towards spaces that they’ve never seen before because film is a form of art and art can be provocative very easily. As a culture, we have the ability to be as provocative as anybody else in the world. But we are limited by the powers around us. I don’t have to censor myself as much on OTT platforms as I would have had to in theatricals. At the same time, I still feel like if I would have pushed 70% provocation with a theatrical, with OTT it might be 80%. It is never a 100%. That would be too scandalous,” he says, signing out with a laugh.  JL50 is now streaming   on SonyLIV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/demanding-your-attention/article32527768.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking news! Or broken?||Good morning from today’s news bulletin of calamity and catastrophe. And if there isn’t any, don’t worry, we will create some. Breaking news! The biggest reveal, sensational in-depth reportage, absolutely never-seen-before footage of — WhatsApp messages. For the first time ever: WhatsApp messages! Remember, you see them only on our channel. Some of the latest messages are over three years old! Watch carefully while we build them into a government-toppling political scam. Politicians who have no connection to any persons in this case are demanding that the other apologises, resigns, names, shames, sanitises… We can see the devious hand of China in this. Or the head of Trump. If nothing else, rest assured, we can link it back to Nehru. In other news, fires rage, causing grievous harm to... Next story please. Shift to our reporter who is in a flood-ravaged village, dangling upside down from a tree, while houses are swept away. Oh look, the WhatsApp message has an emoji. Let’s spend prime time talking about what was not in the message now. Let’s read in between the lines. Pardon these seven seconds of a daring helicopter rescue by the Air Force to evacuate flood-hit villagers. Quick, back to our Main Story! Exciting developments! Scandalous, sensational... (Oh sorry, jumped up in excitement and knocked my mic down. Sorry for the disruption.) Look at what’s appearing live before your eyes, dear viewers — only on this channel. Unbelievable! A car! The excitement is unbearable. A car is approaching the gate. Its windows are shaded. In this car is... is not/could be the secretary’s ex-landlord’s friend-in-law. Only we bring you the blurred image of a finger. Let’s replay it for the next two days every 10 minutes. Rare footage of a finger. In other news, Covid cases are spiralling… blah blah... Riots in the BLM movement. Lebanon explosion. Yawn. The economy is diving… Time for a commercial break! Back to Belarus, JEE, potential vaccines blah, blah — Yesssss! Finally... A world-changing scoop, only on this channel. Someone visited this building that evening. In confidence, at risk to life and limb, from the heat of action, our reporter reports it was a boy. Who came to retrieve his cricket ball. Oh! Or was he a drug dealer with Dubai mafia connections? Don’t leave, viewers, we will be right back with more sensational reveals, created especially for you, right after these ads. And that brings us to the end of this bulletin. Stay tuned. We will investigate, pursue every message, expose every finger, plug our own political agenda non-stop, hold panels to shout over all our expert guests, storm people’s privacy, conduct trials of our own, reach conclusions, hurl accusations, prove guilt and — all throughout — punish. We’ve solved it, the CBI should thank us for doing it all. Our TRP is through the roof. Advertising money is pouring in. People are watching our news more than the matchmaking series. Team, take a bow. 2020’s the best year ever. Where Jane De Suza, author of Flyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/breaking-news-or-broken/article32527769.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for Tenet?||The first rule of Christopher Nolan’s Tenet is, ‘Don’t talk about Christopher Nolan’s Tenet .’ If one does, some spoilers are inevitable. For the best possible Tenet experience, do what I did and read nothing about it, don’t watch the trailers, and scroll past the myriad posts of that great curse of our times, social media. If you do, when you enter the cinema on September 18, the date Warner Bros has announced for its India release (if cinemas have been reopened, that is), you are in for a treat. If not, it is the day when Alankrita Shrivastava’s Dolly Kitty Aur Woh Chamakte Sitare , which I had the great fortune of watching at Busan last year, drops on Netflix, and you are in for a treat there too. Some bad news first. By now, you must have heard a tidal wave of noise — I use the term aptly — about the perplexing sound mix of Tenet , where large parts of dialogue are incomprehensible because of actors wearing masks and other obstructions, or simply being drowned out by the music. Sadly, this is true. I was watching it in a brand new Odeon Luxe cinema and thought it was just my ears that were playing up. I am not alone, as many around the world have had the same issue. Secondly, kindly don’t bring your logic A-game to the cinema, because if you do, you’ll be so busy applying it that you’ll lose sight of the sheer pleasure that is Tenet . Leave your reasoning outside the temple steps and let Nolan’s magic wash over you. Some poster or the other describes the film as ‘James Bond on acid.’ Whichever genius came up with that is absolutely right. For those wanting no spoilers, now is the time to look away and move on to J Mathrubootham. I am tempted here to discuss Back To The Future Part II (1989), but instead, let’s talk about a Spanish film called Timecrimes (2007), by Nacho Vigalondo. Roger Ebert, in one long 142-word sentence, described a part of the films thus: “Hector has a main squeeze named Clara (Candela Fernandez), but leaves her to go into the woods, and finds The Girl (Barbara Goenaga), who has been assaulted by — don’t get ahead of me here — and then a little later he meets the Scientist (Nacho Vigalondo, the movie’s director), who puts him into what turns out to be a time- travel machine, which had earlier, or maybe later — now you’re getting behind me — done something to lead Hector to sit on the lawn, or maybe see himself sitting on the lawn, or maybe — but now I’m ahead and behind — and now (earlier, or later?) Hector wraps his bloody head (which I have explained in a review I still haven’t written) so he will not be recognized by two of the three Hectors, although I am not sure whether this is Hector 1, 2 or 3.” Did you get that? If yes, you’ve got Tenet . If you haven’t, even better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ready-for-tenet/article32527786.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||evoluzionestyle.com||“When the lockdown was first announced, everything we knew about retail was turned on its head,” says Ahaanaa Malhotra. The 22-year-old daughter of Atul and Tina Malhotra of multi-brand designer boutique Evoluzione spearheaded their e-commerce move, joining brother Arnav (who curated a menswear edit last year) and sister Ananya (a jewellery designer) in the family business. The result is a minimalist site that went live in late August. Evoluzione is the latest multi-brand fashion store to go online during the pandemic, following Le Mill and Ensemble. Known for their bespoke and bridal wear, the Evo Edits reflect those categories. Featured designers include IRL bestsellers like Anamika Khanna, Sabyasachi and Rohit Gandhi + Rahul Khanna with brands like Bodice, Lovebirds and Kshitij Jalori for everyday wear. Sneha Arora and Koai have entry-level options in the Rs. 5,700 to Rs. 7,500 range. While the ‘price on request’ format continues for some occasion wear, the selection is wide ranging, from saris to co-ord sets. The menswear section has considerably fewer designers, but the usual suspects like Rajesh Pratap Singh and Rohit Bal share space with young brands like Countrymade. Interestingly, a tidy collection of wellness products, like Indian borage honey from Pahadi Local or a spiced candle from Bombay Perfumery, have been added to the list. And styling gets a fillip with jewellery from Out House and Isharya, and men’s oxfords from Bridlen. The site may have a few niggles — the designers’ names for the garments are not immediately visible, for example — but Ahaanaa explains that it is a precursor of a “more modern, sophisticated site that will be launched at the end of the year”. And when you do fill up your shopping cart, you will be happy to know that payment options include current favourites like Paytm and UPI.  Up next : Athleisure and loungewear brands will be added to the site, and the online pantry will soon be stocked with gourmet brands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/evoluzionestylecom/article32527771.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||baromarket.in||Srila Chatterjee, co-founder of now defunct Mumbai lifestyle store, Baro, has a large camphor chest in her home. “Friends and family call it my present box. They often raid it because I store all the things I bought that I thought were lovely [but not necessarily needed],” she says. Her week-old online venture, Baro Market, is an extension of this present box. The site is simple, laid out in a grid format that is easy to navigate. As we scroll through the brands — 58 vendors (a mix of designers and craftspeople) showcasing everything from clothing and home décor to edibles — there are plenty of discoveries. A pen and quill brooch by Absynthe Design shares space with upcycled cushion covers and crop tops from Kolkata-based Sienna. Other pages reveal handmade soaps by Kaisori (with packaging featuring original artwork by miniature artists inspired by the Chitrashala in Ajmer’s Bundi Fort), Shola art from West Bengal, pickles from Shillar House (that empowers women from the local community), and much more. With each item chosen by Chatterjee, 56 — who enjoys “working with small designers who believe in small-batch, unique things” — the virtual marketplace’s USP is its sensible pricing and the stories behind the products. “I believe if there aren’t stories attached to things, they don’t mean anything,” says Chatterjee, who used to run the production house, Highlight Films, before opening Baro in 2017. They are also working on small videos, where customers can watch the artisans in conversation.  Up next: A special bazaar with Goa-based Rangeela’s home products. “We will also launch Padukas, who work with Maharashtra’s Worli tribe to make products out of scrap fabric, such as toys and jackets.”  Soaps at Rs. 300 and artwork upwards of Rs. 1 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/baromarketin/article32527770.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||valaya.com||JJ Valaya was possibly one of the first Indian designers with a website back in the day. So the relaunch of his e-commerce platform last week brought with it high expectations. For now, these are met with gorgeous photographs (mostly by Valaya) and memories with a three-decade timeline. And the option of stocking up soon on luxury interiors — tapestry, carpets, furniture and designer tiles. But first, there are his couture lehengas (price on request) and sherwanis as well as gilets, jackets and the new Valaya Phoenix belts (Rs. 9,900). Valaya regulars will be happy to take stock of the Tabriz collection, which celebrates mystical Persia. And his saris (Rs. 1,24,500) and dresses with the trademark black and white chevron print borrowed from Rajasthani architecture. Jhalamand House, his cotton and linen menswear collection where black shirts and kurtas come with ivory piping, has also been highlighted. “Maximum traction is coming in the form of appointments, with 203 enquiries in five days,” says Valaya, always a stickler for detail. “Jhalamand House has had great response, as well as the accessories (check out the compact safa selection, at Rs. 15,000 each)," he adds. With more than 900 subscribers to the newsletter already, the e-store comes just in time for post-pandemic weddings. And Couture Week (September 18), where Valaya will be participating as usual.  Up next: The launch of the pret version of Valaya’s popular ‘made to order’ Alika jacket. IKA is reversible and offers a choice of colour, print, embroidery and piping. Clients can book 30-minute online appointments for customisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/valayacom/article32527772.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Big Butterfly Month: This September, expect your timelines to be filled with Indian butterflies. Cartoonist and illustrator Rohan Chakravarty (@green_humour) created a comic to mark the return migration of the Blue Tiger. Follow @bigbutterflymonth on Instagram, upload butterfly sightings on ifoundbutterflies.org, and join butterfly walks with @bombaynaturalhistorysociety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article32527773.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Right at home||Popular décor store The Purple Turtles has moved to the Amethyst premises on Whites Road with their sister brands Oorjaa (lighting) and Beruru (garden accessories). The Bengaluru-based firm is offering a flat 20% discount till September 15. From 11 am to 7 pm.9811103775. For international shopping, ThaiGroove, Thailand's first virtual multi-brand show, brings together 100 vendors on one platform. Shop food, well-being, furniture, fashion and more. From September 15 to 17 on thaigroove.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/right-at-home/article32527774.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion and a cause||Multi-brand designer boutique Collage is showcasing Paradisia, a collection of floralkurtasandshararasby designer Gopi Vaid. In a bright colour palette, the line features simple silhouettes with embellished embroidery, shell and sequin details. Till September end.28291443. DesignOne Online, a flagship initiative of Sahachari Foundation, puts high-end homegrown brands and NGOs on the same platform. An extension of their not-for-profit designer shopping event, designonebysfe.com launches on October 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fashion-and-a-cause/article32527775.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||LFW calls eco-warriors||The second edition of Lakmé Fashion Week’s Circular Changemakers is calling for applications from start-ups working with sustainable and alternative materials. Six applicants will be part of a bootcamp led by industry experts, and will focus on giving them visibility and teaching them how to raise capital and create a viable business model. And on Sustainable Fashion Day at LFW, they will pitch to a panel of investors. Last date for entries is September 15. Details: circulatdesignchallenge.net.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lfw-calls-eco-warriors/article32527776.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||PUBG Ban: Following TikTok, the next Gen Z group to be affected is the mobile gaming community in India, as the government has included PUBG in a list of 118 banned Chinese apps. The multiplayer game was developed by Bluehole, a South Korean firm, but was made popular on mobile by Chinese tech giant Tencent. All eyes are now on an Indian alternative, Scarfall — but will it be a lost battle?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article32527777.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||House of fans||How well do you know your favourite celebrity? Find out on TrueFan, a newly-launched platform that allows fans to connect with A-listers from Bollywood, including Ranveer Singh, Tiger Shroff, Kareena Kapoor and Hrithik Roshan. For a minimal fee of Rs. 50, users can answer a series of fun questions around the life of their preferred star, and the winner stands a chance to win a personal interaction or personalised video message from them, while other participants get cashbacks. Details: truefan.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/house-of-fans/article32527778.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning to film||The third edition of Chennai Photo Biennale, which was slated to take place this year, has been officially moved to December 2021. The theme and the first list of artists for CPB3 will be announced on December 9, 2020, via a virtual event. Meanwhile, 14- to 18-year-olds with an interest in filmmaking can sign up for #TeenFilmAcademy, a five-week online filmmaking workshop. From September 8 to October 9, on Tuesdays and Fridays from 4.30 pm to 6 pm. Details: chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/learning-to-film/article32527779.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Watch with Weekend||Watch the video interviews of this week’s cover stars, Abhay Deol and Dulquer Salmaan. Deol was in conversation with film journalist Karishma Upadhyay on his upcoming OTT show, why Bollywood loves to hate him and his new-found love for painting. Actor, and now producer, Salmaan spoke toThe Hindu’s Praveen Sudevan about his upcoming movies, working from home in the film industry and his lockdown life. Catch both interviews on weekend.thehindu.com and on IGTV @thehinduweekend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/watch-with-weekend/article32527780.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Art from the heart||Did you know that Arshad Warsi, Sonu Sood and Chitrangada Singh had an artistic streak? Smile Foundation, with Lay’s, has launched Artwork for Heartwork, bringing together these celebrities as well as leading artists such as Aniruddh Mehta, Sabeena Karnik and Srishti Gupta Roy. The aim is to generate funds for hygiene kits for farmers, shopkeepers, truck drivers and daily wagers. So far, close to 35,000 kits have been distributed. Artwork for sale on artandfound.co. Details on theheartwork.support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-from-the-heart/article32527781.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Is recovery around the corner?||Like other industries, the construction sector was also severely impacted after the nationwide lockdown was imposed in late March. The unavailability of workers (a majority being migrants) coupled with the rising cost of materials were additional blows. Projects were stalled, delivery dates pushed, and several buyers postponed their decision to buy a property. Sales dipped by nearly 30% in Q1 2020 on a y-o-y basis, says Rajesh Gurumurthy, Senior Director, Head, Strategic Consulting, Tamil Nadu & Sri Lanka, at Jones Lang LaSalle. Market sentiment in Q2 2020, according to the Knight Frank-FICCI-NAREDCO Real Estate Sentiment Index Survey, dropped to its lowest at 22. The sentiment score had hit a low of 31 in Q1, but with the impact of the crisis becoming more apparent in Q2, sentiments slid further. According to Shishir Baijal, CMD, Knight Frank India, quoted in the report, some macroeconomic indicators have shown marginal improvement. This coupled with the coming festive season has improved sentiments even though they still remain “in the pessimistic zone”. He says the few stimulus measures announced by the RBI and the government have provided some reprieve, but there is a need for further demand-boosting measures such as tax benefits for buying and renting a house, ease of credit availability, and so on. After June, construction activities resumed in many places in a phased manner. The RBI’s announcement on lowering interest rates, the reduction in stamp duty and registration charges in many States, and the six months loan moratorium appear to have helped marginally. Many States are already claiming to have registered more properties sales compared to the March-June period, says Gurumurthy. Signs of revival The first signs of recovery in the residential market will emerge in the affordable and mid-segments across top cities, says Gurumurthy. “More than 50% of the prospective homebuyers we surveyed are likely to buy their dream house within the next six months. The markets of Hyderabad, Pune and Chennai provide indications of relatively healthy inventory management in terms of average construction period and YTS (years to sell). Recovery signs may appear first in the southern markets of Bengaluru and Chennai,” he adds. “While there was initial ambiguity among buyers, the Covid situation has made many realise the importance of owning their own home,” says Eshwar N, Chief Marketing Officer, Casagrand. He adds that lower interest rates on home loans and some attractive deals are the reasons behind the realty segment seeing these revival signs. With several States mulling a reduction in stamp duty charges, this could work in favour of both builders and buyers. Maharashtra has been the first to announce a cut in prices and according to Prashant Thakur, Director & Head – Research, Anarock Property Consultants, ready-to-move-in homes are now the most compelling option for homebuyers in MMR and Pune. “The combination of GST exemption, reduced stamp duty, and the lowest home loan interest rates (in almost two decades) are favouring ready homes. If we factor in ongoing incentives being offered by developers, buyers focussed on ready homes are at a distinct advantage,” In the under-construction category, properties due to be completed in the next 6-7 months are the next best bet. While these are not exempt from GST, they are invariably priced 5-10% lower than their ready-to-move-in counterparts, adds Thakur, based on a recent report. Developers have been pushed to think beyond the repercussions and understand the changing needs of buyers, says T. Chitty Babu, Chairman and CEO, Akshaya. The real estate market in Chennai can see a change in fortunes due to the proposed expansion of industries, and manufacturing and commercial activity in the State. “It will be important to understand the change in consumer behavioural patterns in the post-Covid era. Hygiene, safety, comfort, and convenience will take centre stage and its effect will rub off on developers,” he says. Chennai-centric In Chennai, prices remained unchanged between April and June this year, compared to the previous quarter. As per Insite, the quarterly report by property portal 99acres.com, the three-month period witnessed increased interest from serious homebuyers (several opting for virtual tours) for projects nearing completion. In terms of demand, over 60% was reported for homes priced below Rs. 40 lakh. Confirming the rise of the mid-segment, Gurumurthy says there is a demand for ready homes priced between Rs. 40 lakh and Rs. 60 lakh. “However, there is an inherent demand for the affordable segment (below Rs. 40 lakh) and plots at any point of time.” Localities with good social infrastructure and connectivity in the northern and southern belts remain popular among tenants. Two-bedroom units remain a popular choice, as do localities such as Sholinganallur, Thoraipakkam, and Tambaram, which have a high inventory of properties under Rs. 50 lakh, according to Insite. Kelambakkam saw a sharp 9% rise in rentals, y-o-y, owing to its proximity to Siruseri IT Park and road connectivity. Localities such as Pallavaram, Egmore and Porur remained popular, reporting an average rental hike of 7% each, y-o-y. The affordable to mid-income segment is the Rs. 4,000-Rs. 6,000 per sq.ft. segment, and has attracted the most demand from home buyers in the IT sector. “This has been the best performing segment historically in Chennai. One of the key reasons for this segment to recover the quickest is the relative resilience of the IT sector in the last six months. The luxury sector has been the most impacted and will be the slowest to recover,” says Sharad Mittal, CEO, Motilal Oswal Real Estate. Going forward Across the board, ongoing projects were delayed and completion deadlines pushed indefinitely. Now, developers are slowly getting back on track. “We resumed construction after labour and construction materials became available again. Work has resumed with new deadlines,” says Eshwar of Casagrand. Liquidity, already a concern before the pandemic, worsened after March as lenders delayed disbursements to buyers and developers. According to Mittal, projects will be delayed by six to eight months on average, and RERA has extended all project timelines by six months. This is why buyers now prefer completed projects over under-construction ones. “Over the last couple of months, activity has picked up and developers have 80-90% of labour back on site. Going forward, we expect fewer delays,” he says. The slew of MoUs signed by the government, inviting investors into the State, can further drive demand for residential spaces in Chennai. “New project launches continue to be delayed but real estate activity is expected to pick up,” says Babu. He adds that millennials are moving into apartments in urban locations and are not open to PG digs or shared living. “This year, affordable and mid-segment homes will see more demand than villas and luxury homes. The trend will change once things return to normal. Ready homes will help revive the city’s housing market in the upcoming festive season,” says Babu. While residential property prices have remained stable, Babu says that a price revision “is certainly on the cards”. A price rise is inevitable in the short-term, he says, “due to the rise in prices of raw materials, approval delays for new land parcels [generally takes 12-18 months], ultimately leading to a supply shortfall.”  In Chennai, there is a demand for ready homes priced between Rs. 40 lakh and Rs. 60 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/is-recovery-around-the-corner/article32527787.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Fishing in troubled waters||Did you know that Chennai is home to one of India’s last remaining natural marshlands? The Pallikaranai wetland was once spread across 6,000 hectares, with several rivers and lakes draining into it. Of these lakes, one is the 100 acre Sembakkam Lake and efforts to rejuvenate it have been on for the last couple of years. Late last month, the announcement that an IT company would join hands with a global pumping solutions provider to revive the lake turned our attention back to the pitiable state of urban water bodies. Around the same time, the construction of tenements by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) on a lake in Pammal was put on hold after the local people protested. TNSCB has also been allegedly providing illegal power connections to encroachers, which is obviously leading to an increase in squatters on the city’s lake beds. Encroachments and illegal constructions in such zones lead to flooding almost every monsoon. And despite the disaster of the 2015 floods, officials continue to turn a blind eye to the root cause. In the last 50 years, the Pallikaranai wetland has been reduced to a shocking 600 hectares, that is, literally a tenth of its original size. Poor urban planning, rampant encroachment by developers, and large-scale polluting has turned the ecologically-rich zone into an eyesore over the years. It isn’t surprising that in the devastation of 2015, the Pallikaranai-Velachery stretch was among the worst-hit areas in the city. After the floods, various environmental reports showed that this was the state of many water bodies in the city. Lakes like Villivakkam and Ambattur have shrunk more than 80% over the last five decades — and it is all due to the indiscriminate destruction of water bodies carried out in the name of development, which translates into rampant construction. Water bodies are declining rapidly in number across the country. Bengaluru had 262 lakes in the 1960s; now only 10 hold water, according to a report in Down To Earth . Ahmedabad had at least 137 lakes listed in 2001; construction work has started on 65 of them. Hyderabad has, over the last 12 years, lost 3,245 hectares of its wetlands. While there is no doubt that partnerships — as in the case of the Sembakkam Lake project — are one way out for our lakes, where does this leave the government’s accountability? While ‘public-private partnerships’ can step in to save the day, at least in the case of Pallikaranai there is definite evidence of how local authorities are behind the gradual decline of the wetland. Why then are they not held accountable for their actions or made to pay for the revival of water bodies? Various responsible citizens and environmental groups are working tirelessly to restore the city’s urban bodies, depending heavily on private donations, only to have more lakes and marshes taken over illegally by developers while local authorities look on. Who will bring them to book? Last year, the government allocated Rs. 23.7 billion and this year, Rs. 13.7 billion for restoring and cleaning of water bodies in Tamil Nadu, states a report in Mongabay India . ‘The government expressed its concern over the amount of raw sewage flowing through the river and allocated this amount mainly to clean the drains which empty into the river. However, the enormity of the problem is often difficult to comprehend.’ Officials ‘expressing concern’ over something that is not only in their control but something they actively oversee even today is hard to swallow. Despite the bleak scenario, there is always a glimmer of hope. Reports are emerging of the Cooum restoration project, where experts say that signs of recovery can be seen as the water spread is increasing. This was made possible by bringing back lost plant species and coastal vegetation. In February this year, the State government also announced taking up the eco-restoration of Buckingham Canal and its drains as well as the drains of the Cooum and Adyar rivers at a total cost of Rs. 5,439.76 crore. The budget looks good. Here’s hoping the restored water bodies are not once again sacrificed by local bodies to developers. A fortnightly column onenvironmental sustainability and urban issues    In the case of Pallikaranai there is definite evidence of how local authorities are behind the gradual decline of the wetland||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/fishing-in-troubled-waters/article32527793.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Impact of WFH on corporate realty||The IT sector has been the key driver of India’s office market that contributed to 44% of cumulative office space demand in the last 10 years (2010-2019). Keeping this in mind, Knight Frank India’s recent report analysing the impact of the work-from-home (WFH) on corporate realty looks into saving yields from WFH. It is based on financial statements of the 119 listed IT companies representing 37% of the industry operating income, and 28% of the employee base. As per the analysis, with consideration for an assumed 50% of employees working from home, net cost savings yielded for IT firms stood at around 1%. This is after adjusting for additional costs borne by them for setting up home office infrastructure. Further, there is not much variation in savings across large, mid or small segment companies. While business continuity planning (BCP) stands as a reasonable argument in favour of a WFH model, cost-saving as a parameter does not support this ideology. In the case of large IT companies with owned premises and campus developments, the cost-saving will be even lesser compared to companies operating from leased premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/impact-of-wfh-on-corporate-realty/article32527788.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Retirement community near Mamallapuram||City-based developer Arun Excello’s latest project is Ziva, a retirement gated community. Located along East Coast Road, the 18-acre property comprises 1BHK, 2BHK apartments and villas. Amenties include an air-conditioned dining area, a vegetable farm, coffee shop, temple, wellness garden, a gym and a swimming pool. There’s also a doctor and pharmacy on the premises. Popular during the lockdown, the likes of landscape architect Viraj Chatterjee (of the firm ONE Landscape) and ad-film director Babu Shankar have been residing at Ziva since March. Details: arunexcello.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/retirement-community-near-mamallapuram/article32527795.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ Kurup is not for OTT’||Dulquer Salmaan is a compulsively likeable star. It probably has something to do with his easy demeanour. Over a Zoom call from his home in Kochi, he notices my bookshelf. “I like your collection,” he tells me. Perhaps his endearing on-screen characters such as Faizi ( Ustad Hotel ), Charlie ( Charlie ) and Aadi( OK Kanmani ) influence our perception of his off-screen persona. Even when he plays a conman — as he did in his last Tamil film that released earlier this year, Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal — it is easy to root for his character. So it isn’t surprising to see his latest Instagram post, revealing a new hairstyle get over one lakh likes. I ask if the look is for an upcoming role and he laughs. “I did it because I can. As actors, we constantly have to get into different characters and looks. So when my shooting stopped in March [with the pandemic], I thought of letting loose and did not cut my hair,” says Salmaan, who spent lockdown cooking, reading and playing with his three-year-old daughter, Maryam. After a long break, his attention is now occupied with films once again following the Onam release of Maniyarayile Ashokan . His latest production venture features American-Indian actor Jacob Gregory in a lead role for the first time, and despite opening to mixed reviews (it was panned for being “largely dull” and “predictable”), it has been trending at No. 3 in India on Netflix this week. Edited excerpts: How have you coped with the pandemic?  You have good days and bad days. Initially it was nice to get some much-needed family time, but soon I started to worry about the future of the world, of our work. We just started a production house and there are mounting interest costs every month. There are days when I am staring at the ceiling, unable to sleep. But I have spent some amazing time with my daughter who turned three during lockdown. I’ve mostly been a ‘visiting dad’ because of shoots. Now, she is speaking to me a lot more and is involving me in her everyday life. Maniyarayile Ashokanis your second production venture this year. It is our second release, but the first film we made. It would have been easy to ask a famous EP [executive producer] to produce the film and take care of the budget, but I was keen on getting a new team under my production house. Gregory wanted my opinion on a script that a bunch of youngsters had approached him with, asking him to play the lead. After hearing it, I thought ‘Why don’t we produce the film? Even if it went wrong, it would give a new team an opportunity’. But it was a lovely experience. With so many newcomers [five departments] it reminded me of my first film as an actor, Second Show . I wasn’t the only one messing up and we were all learning together. So, in that sense, I love that we began with this film. There seems to be camaraderie in Malayalam cinema. Directors play small roles in others’ films; Fahadh Faasil did a voiceover in your movie,CIA. I don’t think anything is planned. Because we are so small, we all know each other and reach out to our friends and associates for help. And they are willing to do it. The thing is, you start working on a film with a team and by the time you start your next film, some of those teammates might have started working on another film with a competing actor. Then you can’t be like ‘I am not going to like you because you are working with this guy’. You are insecure only early in your career. Once you feel like people have accepted you, you are open to doing these little things.  Fahadh Faasil’s Onam release,CU Soon, was shot during the lockdown. It proved that working from home is an option in cinema as well. It is amazing. I love that the team got together during this time and wanted to experiment. And everyone has enjoyed the film. A lot of people are now thinking of overcoming limitations in terms of resources or location. It is encouraging for filmmakers and the industry when movies reach far and wide just because of the concept and execution; language is not a barrier any more. Does the success of such films mean there will be more OTT-specific Malayalam content? It is going to be more organic. My film Kurup[his most expensive film till date] , for instance, won’t be viable for OTT. It is meant to be watched in theatres. You need a crowd to react to it. At the same time, we all want to keep working. If people are consuming content only on online platforms, then we will make content for OTT. So viewers decide what they want.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kurup-is-not-for-ott/article32528315.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking news! Or broken?||Good morning from today’s news bulletin of calamity and catastrophe. And if there isn’t any, don’t worry, we will create some. Breaking news! The biggest reveal, sensational in-depth reportage, absolutely never-seen-before footage of — WhatsApp messages. For the first time ever: WhatsApp messages! Remember, you see them only on our channel. Some of the latest messages are over three years old! Watch carefully while we build them into a government-toppling political scam. Politicians who have no connection to any persons in this case are demanding that the other apologises, resigns, names, shames, sanitises… We can see the devious hand of China in this. Or the head of Trump. If nothing else, rest assured, we can link it back to Nehru. In other news, fires rage, causing grievous harm to... Next story please. Shift to our reporter who is in a flood-ravaged village, dangling upside down from a tree, while houses are swept away. Oh look, the WhatsApp message has an emoji. Let’s spend prime time talking about what was not in the message now. Let’s read in between the lines. Pardon these seven seconds of a daring helicopter rescue by the Air Force to evacuate flood-hit villagers. Quick, back to our Main Story! Exciting developments! Scandalous, sensational... (Oh sorry, jumped up in excitement and knocked my mic down. Sorry for the disruption.) Look at what’s appearing live before your eyes, dear viewers — only on this channel. Unbelievable! A car! The excitement is unbearable. A car is approaching the gate. Its windows are shaded. In this car is... is not/could be the secretary’s ex-landlord’s friend-in-law. Only we bring you the blurred image of a finger. Let’s replay it for the next two days every 10 minutes. Rare footage of a finger. In other news, Covid cases are spiralling… blah blah... Riots in the BLM movement. Lebanon explosion. Yawn. The economy is diving… Time for a commercial break! Back to Belarus, JEE, potential vaccines blah, blah — Yesssss! Finally... A world-changing scoop, only on this channel. Someone visited this building that evening. In confidence, at risk to life and limb, from the heat of action, our reporter reports it was a boy. Who came to retrieve his cricket ball. Oh! Or was he a drug dealer with Dubai mafia connections? Don’t leave, viewers, we will be right back with more sensational reveals, created especially for you, right after these ads. And that brings us to the end of this bulletin. Stay tuned. We will investigate, pursue every message, expose every finger, plug our own political agenda non-stop, hold panels to shout over all our expert guests, storm people’s privacy, conduct trials of our own, reach conclusions, hurl accusations, prove guilt and — all throughout — punish. We’ve solved it, the CBI should thank us for doing it all. Our TRP is through the roof. Advertising money is pouring in. People are watching our news more than the matchmaking series. Team, take a bow. 2020’s the best year ever. Where Jane De Suza, author of Flyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/breaking-news-or-broken/article32528115.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Demanding your attention||Unconventional. Original. Individualistic. Conversations with actor and producer Abhay Deol are liberally peppered with these adjectives and it is no surprise for anyone familiar with his filmography. His next release, Sony LIV’s JL50 is a series based on a plane crash that’s discovered decades after it went down. The whodunit that also stars Pankaj Kapur and Piyush Mishra has elements of time travel. While the show is the 44-year-old’s first attempt at serialised storytelling (“though it was shot like a film”), it is experimental and high-concept enough to fit right in with his past work. “It doesn’t pander to the mainstream or a formula. It has got its own originality,” is how he describes the show on a Zoom call from his home in Los Angeles.  No labels  In the early noughties, the buzzword in Bollywood was ‘multiplex films’ and Deol was the undisputed poster child of the indie film world. He might have debuted with Imtiaz Ali’s sweet but predictable rom-com Socha Na Tha (2005), but his choices after that were anything but. He played a North Indian migrant in Mumbai who misses the last train home in Sanjay Khanduri’s black comedy Ek Chalis Ki Last Local ; a government engineer and wannabe writer in Navdeep Singh’s neo-noir film Manorama: Six Feet Under (2007); and a West Delhi con man in Dibakar Banerjee’s Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye (2008). In Anurag Kashyap’s retelling of the age-old tale of tragic defeatism Dev D (2009), his performance as the scumbag Dev only cemented his position. With Zoya Akhtar’s Zindagi Na Milegi Dobora (2011) and Banerjee’s Shanghai (2012), he continued to cock a snook at the Bollywood establishment who couldn’t figure out how to peg the youngest Deol in the business (Dharmendra is his uncle, and Sunny and Bobby his cousins).  MIA in Bollywood  In the last decade, however, though Deol tasted commercial success with Raanjhanaa (2013) and Happy Bhag Jayegi (2016), he took a wrong turn and has been mostly missing from our screens. The few releases — such as Nanu Ki Jaanu (2016), Chopsticks (2018) — were duds. His reputation of being “painfully difficult to work with” could have contributed to his stumbling in showbiz. Navdeep Singh reminisced with Huffpost India recently about how the actor had “wanted to do artistic movies but also wanted the mainstream benefits... of being a ‘Deol’. He would stay in a five-star hotel while the entire crew stayed in Paharganj for a film that was made on a very tight budget. [It is] also the reason a lot of his directors went away from him.” But Deol explains his absence as a function of industry mechanics. “My career really picked up when multiplexes were brand new. Just for a brief moment, there was more exhibition space and fewer products.” As the advent of OTT has brought about another paradigm shift in the industry, he believes the tide is in favour of those like him who want to continue pushing the envelope. “OTT, unlike multiplexes, is an endless exhibition space. And they’ll experiment more than what traditional Bollywood producers would do,” he adds. In the last few years, he’s been trying to get his career back on track. He’s turned producer (with films like Netflix’s 2020 release What Are the Odds? ) and now divides his time between Mumbai, Goa and LA. “I have executive produced a horror movie. It is an American film that releases at the end of the year. There’s a project I’m working on as an actor as well, which will be announced by the studio. I’m also developing an Indo-American film where the script’s already been written, and I produce and act. I’m just having fun,” he says.  The disruptor  The last 15 years might have been a rollercoaster, but Deol is not sure if he’d want to change anything if he gets a do-over. “Maybe five years ago I’d have considered it. Today I don’t because of the freedom I have. I don’t have the pressure of being in the Top 5. A lot of being a star is just holding on to that,” he explains. This freedom has meant that he has never been afraid to stand up to the powers-that-be. Even if it has meant that people in the industry became wary of working with him. “If you want to continuously work in this business, then you should be friendly and approachable; you shouldn’t come across as somebody with too many strong opinions because it is just going to be seen as arrogance,” he says. In the past he has been vocal about issues like the wage gap, sexism, patriarchy and colour-ism. Last month, he addressed nepotism on Instagram (where he has over 7 lakh followers), stating how it is prevalent everywhere and “we need a cultural revolution”. Most recently he shared a fan’s observation that his film Raanjhanaa glorified sexual harassment, writing, “History will not look kindly at this film for its regressive message”. He’s also carried the freedom, and his penchant for going against the grain, into his work as a producer — working with newcomers when even “big name directors rarely work with newcomers [except star kids]”. His Netflix film, What Are the Odds? , starred newbie Karanvir Malhotra who recalls Deol having a “very mentor kind of vibe”. Whether it is on- or off-screen, Deol isn’t afraid of challenging his audience. “They need to be led towards spaces that they’ve never seen before because film is a form of art and art can be provocative very easily. As a culture, we have the ability to be as provocative as anybody else in the world. But we are limited by the powers around us. I don’t have to censor myself as much on OTT platforms as I would have had to in theatricals. At the same time, I still feel like if I would have pushed 70% provocation with a theatrical, with OTT it might be 80%. It is never a 100%. That would be too scandalous,” he says, signing out with a laugh.  JL50 is now streaming   on Sony LIV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/demanding-your-attention/article32528128.ece
05 September 2020||Chandigarh,||No posters outside houses of COVID-19 patients: Punjab CM||The Punjab government on Friday decided to rescind its earlier decision of putting posters outside the houses of COVID-19 patients under home isolation or quarantine to mitigate the stigma attached to the pandemic. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the move was aimed at minimising the stigma resulting from the affixing of such posters at the front doors of such patients, thus also negating the fear of testing. “The psychological trauma which patients were seen suffering as a result of these posters, which were meant to protect neighbours, was defeating the very purpose,” Capt. Singh said, adding that these posters were actually found scaring people away from testing. “The undesirable and unintended consequences of these posters included social isolation and stigma, leading to anxiety and prejudices against the patients. People would refrain from getting tested to avoid this stigma instead of extending support to the patients and their families, which had prompted a rethink on the decision of affixing posters,” he added. The Chief Minister urged the people to continue taking all necessary precautions and follow all applicable guidelines for home isolation-quarantine notwithstanding the removal of the posters. Violation of these guidelines was a punishable offence under the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Indian Penal Code, he pointed out.  AAP criticised Separately, Capt. Singh accused the AAP leaders in the State of putting their petty vested political interests above the security concerns of the State. “On the one hand they (AAP leaders) talk of working together to fight the unprecedented crisis, and on the other, they are blatantly ignoring the persistent attempts by Pakistan to foment fresh trouble in our State by spreading false propaganda over the pandemic,” said the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister said AAP leaders seemed more focused on launching a personal attack against him rather than on condemning the COVID disinformation campaign being spread by anti-social elements in the State’s villages. “Not a word from AAP on the fake news videos, which appear to have emanated from Pakistan, to spread fear and disinformation among the people of Punjab on COVID-19. No reaction to the arrest of an AAP activist for disseminating such a video,” said the Chief Minister. “This clearly indicates that they do not want the people to become aware of the fabrication, but in fact want to leverage it to their political benefit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-posters-outside-houses-of-covid-19-patients-punjab-cm/article32528146.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Police following script in investigating riots case’||Nearly 1,000 people, including activists, filmmakers, former government officials and academics signed an open letter on Friday condemning the way the police has been investigating the riots that erupted in north-east Delhi in February. Activists who are part of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests hit out at the investigations, calling it a conspiracy instead of an attempt to probe a conspiracy. The Delhi police spokesperson refused to comment on the allegations. Speaking at an online press conference, activists Umar Khalid, Kawalpreet Kaur, Apoorvanand, Harsh Mander and Yogendra Yadav argued that a narrative of the riots as a conspiracy hatched by anti-CAA protesters had been set out by those close to the ruling dispensation before the start of the investigations and that the police was carrying out the probe along those lines. All India Students’ Association (AISA) activist Ms. Kaur pointed to an allegedly faulty fact-finding report by “RSS-backed persons” submitted to Home Minister Amit Shah on March 11. She said the report pointed a finger at student groups such as AISA and Pinjra Tod, and alleged that the report was later used as a “script” for the police’s probe. Mr. Khalid questioned the legitimacy of ‘information’ tweeted by BJP social media head Amit Malviya that found its way into the police’s FIR — attributed to a “secret informer”. The signatories argued that by targeting activists, the police was trying to cover up the role of BJP members such as Kapil Mishra, Union Minister Anurag Thakur, local leaders such as Jagdish Pradhan and others in instigating communal violence. They argued the police was going after “exactly those people against whom hate speeches were made”. The activists also questioned why the role of BJP men was not being probed despite reports surfacing on their conduct. They highlighted a rally undertaken by Mr. Mishra in central Delhi in December 2019, calling for the ‘shooting of traitors’ and other instigating statements reportedly caught on camera, near the site of the riots. Premeditated conclusions The activists poked holes in the police’s probe, asking whether it was “a facade to arrive at premeditated conclusions already announced before the investigation had even commenced?”, referring to statements made by Mr. Shah in Parliament. They further questioned why shootings near Jamia Millia Islamia and Shaheen Bagh were not accounted for in the police’s version. They also questioned the police’s inability to identify personnel involved in the assault of four men, who were made to sing the National Anthem; the alleged custodial torture of Khalid Saifi; the lack of a probe into police involvement; the use of preventive detention acts against activists; among other parts of the investigation. In the open letter, signatories such as filmmaker Aparna Sen; academics Ramchandra Guha, Zoya Hussain, Partha Chatterjee, Jayati Ghosh; former civil servants such as Wajajat Habibullah, Madhu Bhaduri; former chief of naval staff Admiral Ramdas, among several others demanded that “confessional statements not be coerced in order to manufacture evidence”, that people not be falsely implicated in the riots, and to stop invoking the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to “give the colour of conspiracy against the State”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-following-script-in-investigating-riots-case/article32528158.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Highest single-day spike in 69 days||The Capital recorded 2,914 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 1,85,220, stated a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The spur witnessed on Friday was the highest single-day spike in 69 days. With 13 new death cases and 1,751 recoveries total number of deaths has risen to 4,513 deaths and recoveries in the city to 1,61,865 . There are 18,842 active cases in Delhi at present. The heath bulletin shows that the number of test conducted has increased to 8488 RTPCR tests and 27,731 rapid antigen tests conducted in the past 24 hours. There are 949 containment zones in the city and 9,822 patients are under home isolation now. Out of the 14,159 beds available in hospitals, 9,429 are vacant. Dedicated COVID care centres and dedicated COVID health centres that have a total of 10,143 and 601 beds have 6,354 and 209 beds vacant respectively. A source in the Delhi government said that 33% of hospital beds available in Delhi are occupied by patients who do not belong to Delhi. “Close to 70% beds in Delhi are still vacant. Only 3 out of the 131 COVID-19 hospitals [private and govt] are full. There is no shortage of beds right now. However, increasing number of patients from outside Delhi is a cause of big concern,” the source added. The government had earlier requested that beds in Delhi government hospitals be reserved only for patients who are residents of the city, but the proposal was rejected by the Lieutenant-Governor. “ICU beds in only a few top private hospitals are fully occupied,” the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/highest-single-day-spike-in-69-days/article32528170.ece
05 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Amrik Sukhdev dhaba sealed after 65 workers test positive||Sixty-five employees of the popular Amrik Sukhdev dhaba in Haryana’s Sonipat have tested positive for COVID-19. The eatery, which is near Murthal, has been shut for two days for sanitisation. Samples of around 350 employees at the eatery were taken on August 31 as part of a drive across Sonipat district to check prevalence of the infection at eateries along NH-44. District Surveillance Officer (Sonipat) Dinesh Chillar told The Hindu that reports of 65 of these samples came positive. “Around a hundred workers from Bihar had come to the eatery for work four days before the samples were taken. The results came on Wednesday. All of those found positive are from this group. Senior Medical Officer, Gannuar, has been entrusted with contacts tracing. The authorities in Bihar have also been informed,” said Dr. Chillar. Mr. Chillar said though hundreds of guests visited the eatery every day, there are no record available. “We, therefore, make an appeal to all those who have visited the eatery over the past one week to get tested for COVID-19 or to go for self-isolation,” he said, adding that it was not immediately known if those infected had joined duty at the eatery. Meanwhile, two employees of Garam Dharam dhaba have also tested positive for the virus. However, test reports of samples collected from around 20 popular Murthal dhabas, including Gulshan and Pehalwan, are negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amrik-sukhdev-dhaba-sealed-after-65-workers-test-positive/article32528176.ece
05 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Innovations ensure food supply to needy during pandemic||Innovations adopted by the Rajasthan government’s Food and Civil Supplies Department, accompanied by a record procurement of 22 lakh tonnes of wheat, have ensured food supply to the poor and needy people across the State during the COVID-19 pandemic. Free distribution of foodgrains has benefited 4.46 crore people registered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). A review of the department has revealed that special efforts to feed the hungry have benefited those requiring direct help because of their inability to take care of their food requirement, the NFSA beneficiaries and those who could afford to buy raw materials. The strategies helped open up a supply chain without spreading the virus.  Distribution challenge State Food and Civil Supplies Secretary Hemant Kumar Gera said here on Friday that the challenge of supplying foodgrains to the NFSA beneficiaries through more than 25,000 public distribution system dealers had increased manifold following the announcement of an additional 5 kg wheat per person and 1 kg pulses per beneficiary family per month. Among the innovations adopted by the department, nearly 50% of fair price shops provided door to door delivery of wheat and pulses and a dedicated control room working round the clock was established to monitor the grievance of the affected and stranded people. The feedback obtained by the consumer helpline from the PDS beneficiaries and dealers, kirana shop owners and wholesalers was analysed daily and improvements made in the system. Mr. Gera said the department’s officers remained in touch on the social media platforms to ensure a smooth running of the entire system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/innovations-ensure-food-supply-to-needy-during-pandemic/article32528148.ece
05 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Judge recuses from hearing bail plea of ex-DGP of Punjab||A judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday recused from hearing the anticipatory bail application moved by former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, in connection with the case of disappearance and murder of a man in year 1991. Justice Suvir Sehgal, while recusing himself from the case referred the matter to the Chief Justice for listing. “As the case came up for hearing Justice Suvir Sehgal recused himself from the case. The matter will now be put up before the Chief Justice for listing before another Bench,” Special Public Prosecutor advocate Sartej Singh Narula told The Hindu . Mr. Saini who faces arrest in the wake of no interim protection orders from the court, had absconded, leaving his security detail behind, according to Punjab police.  Allegation refuted Amid the allegation of Mr. Saini’s wife that the ex-DGP’s security had been withdrawn, a spokesperson of Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the case, said there had been no change whatsoever in the security detail and the paraphernalia, including the security box and Jammer vehicle, provided to the former police chief, who is a ‘Z+’ category protectee of the State government. “The fact of the matter was that Saini seemed to have left his Chandigarh residence without Punjab Police security personnel and security vehicles, including Jammer vehicle, on his own, thus jeopardizing his own security,” said the spokesperson. Last week, Punjab police had raided Mr. Saini’s house in Chandigarh besides other locations but could not find the ex-DGP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/judge-recuses-from-hearing-bail-plea-of-ex-dgp-of-punjab/article32528150.ece
05 September 2020||CUTTACK,||HC sore over counsels’ online conduct||Expressing shock and anguish over the conduct of some advocates during the online court proceedings, the Orissa High Court has sought the indulgence of the State Bar Council and the High Court Bar Association in instructing the advocates not to breach the decorum and decency of the Court during the online proceedings. Justice Biswanath Rath while adjudicating over a Civil Miscellaneous Petition (CMP) on August 31 learnt that a counsel was attempting to argue his case from a moving car.  ‘Wife in frame’ Justice Rath went on to share other horrible experiences the Court has witnessed in recent days ever since the cases are being conducted through video conferences due to the pandemic situation. He said a counsel brought his wife into the frame of the video and even after requests when the position did not improve, the counsel’s link was disconnected. In another instance, a counsel tried to argue his case from the garden lawn of his house on a false plea of poor network inside house. “He was requested not to repeat (it) in future”, Justice Rath said adding that the Court has also witnessed some counsels appear before the camera to argue their cases and start eating food during the course of the proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-sore-over-counsels-online-conduct/article32528149.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DIAL sets up COVID-19 testing facility at IGIA for international passengers||Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) has set up an on-site COVID-19 testing lab at Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) that will declare the results of samples of incoming international passengers within 4-6 hours so that they may continue their journey, if tested negative. DIAL has collaborated with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, a Delhi-based laboratory, to set up the facility at the multilevel car parking of Terminal 3. Officials said that this is the first such arrangement to be made at an Indian airport and is expected to start by mid-September. “Results of samples collected at the laboratory will be declared within 4-6 hours to the incoming passengers. Until the results are confirmed, passengers will be isolated at the waiting lounge or they may opt to stay in a hotel. In case of a positive result, the passenger will be processed in line with applicable Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR] protocols by the State authorities,” DIAL said. It added that as the Government of India is preparing to open the sky with rising air bubbles, the laboratory will be a key element in facilitating a safe journey for all the passengers. Commenting on the development, Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of DIAL, said that the pilot initiative has been taken to ensure testing of all arriving international transfer passengers. According to Ministry of Health & Family Welfare guidelines, international arriving passengers with RT-PCR negative certificate would be exempted from institutional quarantine granted by the State authorities and will be allowed for onward air journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dial-sets-up-covid-19-testing-facility-at-igia-for-international-passengers/article32528173.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. praises teachers for bridging digital divide amid outbreak||The COVID-19 pandemic has brought along a lot of challenges for Delhi government school teachers, who had to quickly adapt and come up with out-of-the box ideas to ensure that learning continues and that none of their students are left behind, either due to the digital divide or financial issues. Ahead of Teachers’ Day, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia saluted the teachers who went above and beyond their call of duty during the pandemic and praised them for their contribution. Many of the teachers who received praise from Mr. Sisodia worked towards ensuring that none of their students missed out on the online classes. Ravinder Kaur, a science teacher from Kautilya Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, said she started taking video classes much before online classes were announced by the government. Her students, studying in Class 10, were already done with six chapters when the material for online classes started coming in. But it was a challenge to keep them interested. “After a few classes, students lost interest in the subject and this made me think of new, innovative ideas to generate curiosity among them,” Ms. Kaur said, adding that during the lockdown, many of her students have developed a mindset to carefully observe the world around then and not rely only on textbooks. Rajendra Prasad Sharma from Government Boys Senior Secondary School in Jharoda Kalan said he had to put in extra effort to ensure that no child is left behind due to not having access to a mobile phone. “I started making audio notes and sending it to my students. For some of them that did not have access to mobile phones, I contacted their neighbours or relatives and ensured that they could access the notes or worksheets,” Mr. Sharma said. On the frontline Many teachers were given the dual responsibility of taking online classes as well as helping the government in the COVID-19 relief work. Alok Kumar Mishra, a Social Science teacher from Government Senior Secondary School in Mangolpur Khurd, said he has been serving at the quarantine center it Narela since March 30. “Working this way has given me a great deal of satisfaction as I am able to help my fellow citizens. I am very thankful to the government for giving me this opportunity to serve the country and society in a time of crisis,” he said. Raj Kumar Dhaliya, from Rashtriya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 21, is the team leader at the storeroom of a quarantine Centre also at Narela. “My task is to provide goods and services for daily use for people in quarantine. We are working 24 hours to provide them with food and snacks and cater to other requirements,” Mr. Dhaliya said about his new role during the pandemic.  I started making audio notes and sending it to my students. For those who did not have access to mobile phones, I contacted their neighbours or relatives and ensured that they could access the notes or worksheets Rajendra Prasad Sharma Teacher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-praises-teachers-for-bridging-digital-divide-amid-outbreak/article32528160.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||baromarket.in||Srila Chatterjee, co-founder of now defunct Mumbai lifestyle store, Baro, has a large camphor chest in her home. “Friends and family call it my present box. They often raid it because I store all the things I bought that I thought were lovely [but not necessarily needed],” she says. Her week-old online venture, Baro Market, is an extension of this present box. The site is simple, laid out in a grid format that is easy to navigate. As we scroll through the brands — 58 vendors (a mix of designers and craftspeople) showcasing everything from clothing and home décor to edibles — there are plenty of discoveries. A pen and quill brooch by Absynthe Design shares space with upcycled cushion covers and crop tops from Kolkata-based Sienna. Other pages reveal handmade soaps by Kaisori (with packaging featuring original artwork by miniature artists inspired by the Chitrashala in Ajmer’s Bundi Fort), Shola art from West Bengal, pickles from Shillar House (that empowers women from the local community), and much more. With each item chosen by Chatterjee, 56 — who enjoys “working with small designers who believe in small-batch, unique things” — the virtual marketplace’s USP is its sensible pricing and the stories behind the products. “I believe if there aren’t stories attached to things, they don’t mean anything,” says Chatterjee, who used to run the production house, Highlight Films, before opening Baro in 2017. They are also working on small videos, where customers can watch the artisans in conversation.  Up next: A special bazaar with Goa-based Rangeela’s home products. “We will also launch Padukas, who work with Maharashtra’s Worli tribe to make products out of scrap fabric, such as toys and jackets.”  Soaps at Rs. 300 and artwork upwards of Rs. 1 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/baromarketin/article32528116.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||valaya.com||JJ Valaya was possibly one of the first Indian designers with a website back in the day. So the relaunch of his e-commerce platform last week brought with it high expectations. For now, these are met with gorgeous photographs (mostly by Valaya) and memories with a three-decade timeline. And the option of stocking up soon on luxury interiors — tapestry, carpets, furniture and designer tiles. But first, there are his couture lehengas (price on request) and sherwanis as well as gilets, jackets and the new Valaya Phoenix belts (Rs. 9,900). Valaya regulars will be happy to take stock of the Tabriz collection, which celebrates mystical Persia. And his saris (Rs. 1,24,500) and dresses with the trademark black and white chevron print borrowed from Rajasthani architecture. Jhalamand House, his cotton and linen menswear collection where black shirts and kurtas come with ivory piping, has also been highlighted. “Maximum traction is coming in the form of appointments, with 203 enquiries in five days,” says Valaya, always a stickler for detail. “Jhalamand House has had great response, as well as the accessories (check out the compact safa selection, at Rs. 15,000 each)," he adds. With more than 900 subscribers to the newsletter already, the e-store comes just in time for post-pandemic weddings. And Couture Week (September 18), where Valaya will be participating as usual.  Up next: The launch of the pret version of Valaya’s popular ‘made to order’ Alika jacket. IKA is reversible and offers a choice of colour, print, embroidery and piping. Clients can book 30-minute online appointments for customisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/valayacom/article32528118.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||evoluzionestyle.com||“When the lockdown was first announced, everything we knew about retail was turned on its head,” says Ahaanaa Malhotra. The 22-year-old daughter of Atul and Tina Malhotra of multi-brand designer boutique Evoluzione spearheaded their e-commerce move, joining brother Arnav (who curated a menswear edit last year) and sister Ananya (a jewellery designer) in the family business. The result is a minimalist site that went live in late August. Evoluzione is the latest multi-brand fashion store to go online during the pandemic, following Le Mill and Ensemble. Known for their bespoke and bridal wear, the Evo Edits reflect those categories. Featured designers include IRL bestsellers like Anamika Khanna, Sabyasachi and Rohit Gandhi + Rahul Khanna with brands like Bodice, Lovebirds and Kshitij Jalori for everyday wear. Sneha Arora and Koai have entry-level options in the Rs. 5,700 to Rs. 7,500 range. While the ‘price on request’ format continues for some occasion wear, the selection is wide ranging, from saris to co-ord sets. The menswear section has considerably fewer designers, but the usual suspects like Rajesh Pratap Singh and Rohit Bal share space with young brands like Countrymade. Interestingly, a tidy collection of wellness products, like Indian borage honey from Pahadi Local or a spiced candle from Bombay Perfumery, have been added to the list. And styling gets a fillip with jewellery from Out House and Isharya, and men’s oxfords from Bridlen. The site may have a few niggles — the designers’ names for the garments are not immediately visible, for example — but Ahaanaa explains that it is a precursor of a “more modern, sophisticated site that will be launched at the end of the year”. And when you do fill up your shopping cart, you will be happy to know that payment options include current favourites like Paytm and UPI.  Up next : Athleisure and loungewear brands will be added to the site, and the online pantry will soon be stocked with gourmet brands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/evoluzionestylecom/article32528117.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Allot Rajiv Awas Yojana flats to slum dwellers’||Delhi BJP unit chief Adesh Gupta on Friday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting the allotment of available and vacant Rajiv Awas Yojana flats with the Delhi government to the residents of about 48,000 slums to be removed from ‘Railway Safety Zones’ around the railway tracks on the directions of Supreme Court. It was important that proper rehabilitation of slum dwellers be done immediately in a safe place, he wrote. “Proper rehabilitation requires proper resources. The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana could have been very helpful in this task, but it is regrettable that this scheme has not been implemented in Delhi,” he said. “Sir, according to our information, the government of Delhi has more than 50,000 flats available under the Rajiv Awas Yojana. The opinion of Delhi BJP is that these 50,000 flats should be allotted to slum dwellers living around the railway tracks,” he wrote. The apex court has ordered the removal of the slum clusters along railway tracks in Delhi, within three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allot-rajiv-awas-yojana-flats-to-slum-dwellers/article32528167.ece
05 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||8% Haryana population exposed to virus: survey||Eight per cent population in Haryana has been exposed to the deadly COVID-19 virus so far, revealed the sero prevalence survey results for the State. The sero-positivity rate for the rural and urban areas is around 6.9% and 9.6% respectively. Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday declared the results for the survey that was conducted last month in collaboration with Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. A total of 18,905 samples were taken from across the State, including both urban and rural population. Three of the four districts bordering Delhi recorded sero-positivity rate above the State average with Faridabad being the worst affected at 25.8%. Sonipat and Gurugram has positivity rate of 13.3% and 10.8%. Jhajjar, the fourth district bordering the national Capital, recorded the positivity below the State average at 5.9 %. The other districts having positivity rate above State average are: Nuh (20.3%), Karnal (12.2%), Jind (11%), Kurukshetra (8.7%), Charkhi Dadri (8.3%) and Yamunanagar (8.3%). Rohtak has been the least affected with the positivity rate of 1.1%. In Gurugram, 18.5% population in urban areas has been found infected. The positivity rate for rural areas is just 5.7%. However, 13.80% females were found infected in the district compared with 7.30 % males. In terms of occupation, 5.5% shop owners were found infected compared with 4.6% migrant workers. The sero prevalence among the health workers and government employees was 1.7 and 1.5 % respectively. The sero prevalence among males and females in the state is 8.06% and 7.86%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/8-haryana-population-exposed-to-virus-survey/article32528147.ece
05 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab rice exporters demand clarity on agriculture ordinance||With Punjab opposing the Centre’s agriculture-related ordinance, rice exporters in the State are in quandary as the fresh rice crop is about to arrive in the market but there is no clarity on issues surrounding the market fee and rural development fund (RDF), according to a trade association. The Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association has asked the State government to clarify its stand on the issue of levying fee as the neighbouring States have already accepted the new ordinance. “We are in a total state of confusion. The Central government’s ordinance [Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance] has created a parallel system, allowing farmers to sell their produce directly to exporters, while the Punjab government has opposed the ordinance. The basmati growing States, including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and Jammu-Kashmir (UT), have notified that they would be levying only 1% user charges on the produce brought to their mandi yards while adhering to the new norms under the ordinance. On the other hand, Punjab, which had been levying 2% market fees and 2% RDF, needs to immediately take a decision on the issue,” said Mr. Ashok Sethi, director, Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-rice-exporters-demand-clarity-on-agriculture-ordinance/article32528152.ece
05 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||49 virus deaths in Punjab||Punjab recorded 1,498 new COVID-19 cases on Friday and reported 49 more deaths taking the toll to 1,739. The number of positive cases have reached 60,013 in the State. In Haryana, 1,884 new cases surfaced. The State also reported 19 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/49-virus-deaths-in-punjab/article32528151.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Duo held for misbehaving with couple in west Delhi||Two men were arrested for allegedly misbehaving with a couple on Outer Ring Road in west Delhi in an inebriated condition, the police said on Friday. The accused have been identified — Karan Chopra (36) and Satpreet Singh (35) — are both from Paschim Vihar. A video of the clip went viral on social media where two men can be seen drinking and misbehaving with the couple. “Based on the complainant, Akshit Nanda’s statement, a case under sections 341 [punishment for wrongful restraint], 509 [word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman], 506 [punishment for criminal intimidation] and 34 [common intention] of the IPC was registered and investigation was taken up,” a senior officer said. Following investigation, the accused duo were arrested and their car was seized. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tweeted: “Open liquor consumption is a crime in Delhi. Have directed ‘Excise Commissioner’ to take strict & exemplary action. Hope Delhi police would also take strict action. Let’s establish that ‘Car-o-bar’ can result into ‘behind bars’ @CPDelhi [sic].” The incident was captured by the couple on their mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duo-held-for-misbehaving-with-couple-in-west-delhi/article32528156.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Will give relief in fixed power charges, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has met traders’ and industrial associations and assured them that adequate steps will be taken to provide relief in relation to the fixed power charges that commercial and industrial units are obliged to pay, despite economic losses due to the pandemic. During these meetings, Mr. Kejriwal clarified that the revenue situation has taken a hit owing to the complete shutdown of businesses. He said that while the decision to impose a complete lockdown then was essential, Delhi had now decided to lift it.  Stakeholders meet CM Various stakeholders and representatives of these units have been meeting Mr. Kejriwal, requesting his intervention as most of the units have remained closed due to lockdown, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-give-relief-in-fixed-power-charges-says-cm/article32528163.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||22-year-old man arrested for killing sister’s partner||A 22-year-old youth and his friend have been arrested for allegedly killing a man – who was in a relationship with the former’s sister – in Shahbad Dairy area, the police said on Friday. The accused — have been identified as Armaan from Shahbad Dairy and his friend Karan Singh (28) from Rohini, they said. On Thursday at 4.56 p.m., the police received information regarding a body lying near Prahladpur, an officer said. "The throat of the deceased was slit by a sharp weapon. He was identified as Dharmender from JJ Colony," said DCP (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma. A case was registered following which the accused were nabbed. Interrogation revealed that Armaan didn’t like the fact that Dharmender was in a relationship with his sister, said an officer. He asked Dharmendra to not be in contact with her but he did not pay any heed following which the accused hatched a plan to kill him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/22-year-old-man-arrested-for-killing-sisters-partner/article32528165.ece
05 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. attacks AAP, BJP over resettling of slum residents||The Delhi Congress on Friday said that the Supreme Court judgment to clear the railway tracks of all JJ clusters will render over 10 lakh poor people homeless at a time when they are under great stress and strain due to the pandemic. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar hit out at the Delhi government as well as the BJP-ruled civic bodies for not resettling the residents despite promising to do so. Mr. Kumar said that the Congress will file a review petition in the Supreme Court as it was a question of the lives of lakhs of poor, who play a very important role in the progress and prosperity of the Capital. “Out of around 64,184 flats, construction of, which was started by the Congress government headed by Sheila Dikshit, for the resettlement of these JJ colony residents, only 1,931 have been allotted. The remaining houses have been lying vacant, but the Kejriwal government has not bothered to allot these flats to the residents of the JJ clusters,” Mr. Kumar alleged. He added that the Congress government had in 2010 set up the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board with a clear mandate to provide safe housing to the residents of JJ clusters, but the successive governments treated JJ clusters as mere vote banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-attacks-aap-bjp-over-resettling-of-slum-residents/article32528174.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Have set aside Rs. 1 crore for ex gratia to advocates’||The Advocates’ Welfare Trust on Friday informed the Delhi High Court that it has decided to earmark Rs. 1 crore to pay ex gratia to indigent lawyer-members, whether they are suffering from COVID-19 or not. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the trust, in his capacity as its chairperson, told a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that the decision was taken on Wednesday and applications have been invited from advocates who are in need of the relief. Online process The trust said it had earlier set aside Rs. 2 crore towards the COVID-19 relief fund for its members, who are indigent and suffering from COVID-19. Mr. Jain said the money will be transferred through online mode and the process of inviting applications for the release of financial assistance would begin soon. Taking note of the steps being taken by the trust, the court decided there was no need to further monitor the plea, by advocate Vaibhav Sharma, seeking ex gratia payment of Rs. 25,000 to each member of the trust, suffering financially due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/have-set-aside-rs-1-crore-for-ex-gratia-to-advocates/article32528154.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||Gahlot meets DMRC officials over SOP||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday met Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and Transport Department officials to review the standard operating procedures in place for reopening of metro services in the Capital. Metro operations in Delhi will resume in a phased manner, with staggered timings, from September 7 and will be fully operational by September 12. Mr. Gahlot said: “We had a fruitful discussion on the SOP for graded reopening of metro services. As glad as I am that the metro will be resuming, I understand the threat any mismanagement could pose to the public of Delhi.” “In this regard, we will ensure that we resume Delhi’s transport lifeline only after putting in place all necessary precautions. I would also like to appeal to Delhiites to travel only if it is absolutely necessary, and ensure strict compliance to COVID-19 protocols at a personal level.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gahlot-meets-dmrc-officials-over-sop/article32528161.ece
05 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Retail traders suffered loss of Rs. 19 lakh cr. in five months’||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Friday said retail traders in India had faced losses of nearly Rs. 19 lakh crore during the past five months. With low footfall, the business has been languishing and retail markets have been gripped in an acute financial crisis as payments for supplies made in November-December of 2019 have not been cleared till now. Estimates of loss to trade have been arrived at taking into consideration 20 cities across the country. Unless immediate steps are taken to curb this downturn, nearly 20% of shops in India will have to down their shutters, leading to a further rise in unemployment, CAIT warned. The group appealed to Central and State governments to take immediate cognisance of the current situation. Among suggestions, it called for banks to not charge interest or penalty from traders on loans for the time being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/retail-traders-suffered-loss-of-rs-19-lakh-cr-in-five-months/article32528162.ece
05 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Soren demands GST dues||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday termed the Narendra Modi Government’s inability to compensate States for GST losses an act of sovereign default and was against the spirit of co-operative federalism. Mr. Soren shot off a letter to Mr. Modi demanding his intervention for early release of GST compensation dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/soren-demands-gst-dues/article32528153.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Right at home||Popular décor store The Purple Turtles has moved to the Amethyst premises on Whites Road, Chennai, with their sister brands Oorjaa (lighting) and Beruru (garden accessories). The Bengaluru-based firm is offering a flat 20% discount till September 15. From 11 am to 7 pm.9811103775. For international shopping, ThaiGroove, Thailand's first virtual multi-brand show, brings together 100 vendors on one platform. Shop food, well-being, furniture, fashion and more. From September 15 to 17 on thaigroove.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/right-at-home/article32528120.ece
05 September 2020||September 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion and a cause||Multi-brand designer boutique Collage is showcasing Paradisia, a collection of floralkurtasandshararasby designer Gopi Vaid. In a bright colour palette, the line features simple silhouettes with embellished embroidery, shell and sequin details. Till September end.28291443. DesignOne Online, a flagship initiative of Sahachari Foundation, puts high-end homegrown brands and NGOs on the same platform. An extension of their not-for-profit designer shopping event, designonebysfe.com launches on October 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fashion-and-a-cause/article32528121.ece
