06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Border actions violate bilateral agreements, Rajnath tells China||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe at a meeting in Moscow that the actions of Chinese troops, including “amassing a large number of troops and their aggressive behaviour” and attempts to “unilaterally alter the status quo” along the disputed boundary were in violation of the bilateral agreements, the Defence Ministry said on Saturday. In a statement issued by China’s official media, Gen. Wei was quoted as saying India was “entirely” responsible for the border tensions and Beijing not give up “an inch of its territory”. The Defence Ministry said, “The Defence Minister stated clearly that the Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management, but at the same time there should also be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.” Mr. Singh “categorically” conveyed India’s position to China on the developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the past few months, including in the Galwan Valley, the Ministry stated. Wei sought meeting The two Ministers met on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) late on Friday evening. In the meeting that lasted more than two hours, they had “frank and in-depth discussions” about the border developments as well as on India-China relations. The meeting, sought by the Chinese side, is the first between the Defence Ministers since the stand-off began in early May along the disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh and comes in the midst of a major escalation on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) last week. Mr. Singh further said the current situation should be handled responsibly and neither side should take any action that could either complicate the situation or escalate matters in the border areas. “The Chinese Defence Minister suggested that both sides should maintain communication at all levels including between the two Ministers,” the Ministry said. Both Ministers agreed to resolve the ongoing situation and outstanding issues in the border areas peacefully through dialogue. Chinese state-run Xinhua news agency quoted Gen. Wei as saying that “recently the relations between the two countries and the two militaries have been seriously affected by the border issue” and it was “very important for the two defence ministers to have a face-to-face and candid exchange of views on relevant issues”. Gen. Wei reiterated China’s stand in the talks, echoing several statements last week where Beijing blamed India for the latest tensions. China on Wednesday said “the responsibility lies entirely with the Indian side” and had “kept maximum restraint to prevent potential escalation”, calling on India to “immediately withdraw its troops”. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) last week said Chinese troops engaged in “provocative action” on August 31 while discussions between ground commanders were on. This followed earlier moves on the night of August 29 which, the Indian Army said, were “provocative” military movements to change the status quo. To pre-empt these moves, the Army said, India undertook measures “to strengthen our positions” near the south bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/border-actions-violate-bilateral-agreements-rajnath-tells-china/article32533596.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry clears COVID-19 tests without prescription||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday issued an updated advisory for COVID-19 testing simplifying the process and giving more flexibility to State authorities to facilitate greater ease of testing. “For the first time, along with more simplified modalities, the updated guidelines provide for ‘on demand’ testing to ensure higher levels of testing,” a release issued by the Ministry said. “A totally new section, “Testing on Demand”, has been added in the advisory which does away with prescription by a registered medical practitioner although the State governments have the freedom to decide on the simplified modalities,” the Ministry said.  This advisory came on a day India overtook Brazil to become the country with the second highest number of COVID-19 cases in the world. Cumulative cases stood at 41,04,497 at the time of going to press, nearly 11,600 more than Brazil’s tally. However, Brazil’s death toll is about 1.7 times more than India’s. Saturday saw 84,385 confirmed cases and 1,019 deaths till 10.15 p.m., with data yet to come from Assam, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Meghalaya. This marked the fourth straight day when more than 80,000 infections were identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministry-clears-covid-19-tests-without-prescription/article32533598.ece
06 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Three arrested for setting up fictitious bank to dupe people||The Navi Mumbai police have busted a gang that created a fictitious cooperative bank and swindled money from people by promising loans. Acting on a complaint, the police nabbed Rohit Nagwekar (30), Bhalchandra Palav (27) and Omkar Mhatre (35) on Wednesday. The police said the accused would allegedly furnish bogus documents stating that they were bank officials and then make the victims pay different charges to get loans. The complaint was registered by a resident of Nerul, who accused the trio of cheating him of Rs. 8,000. The complainant wanted a loan of Rs. 50,000 and approached the trio after seeing an advertisement of the cooperative bank on a pamphlet. The accused asked him to meet them at Satra Plaza in Vashi with copies of his identity cards and bring Rs. 8,000 as processing fee for the loan. After collecting the money, the accused left and switched off their phones. According to the police, the gang has been operating for the past three months. Senior police inspector Satish Nikam, APMC police station, said, “They are history-sheeters and have various cases registered against them. They were released on bail from Thane jail just three months ago. They soon started conning people. We have learnt that they have cheated 18 people so far.” The police said the accused printed fake chequebooks and letters of loan applications under the name of Vijaydeep Co-operative Bank. The police said the accused promised loans at lucrative interest rates to lure clients. Mr. Nikam said, “They also printed pamphlets under the name of Akruti Finance Services and promised loans. The accused used to advertise about the bank through pamphlets. Once a client approached them, they would pose as officials of the bank. They claimed that the bank was located in Dahanu.” The police have seized two cars and forged documents, including letters, chequebooks and rubber stamps, from the accused. The trio has been charged with cheating and forgery under sections of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a magistrate court and have been remanded in police custody till Monday.  They are history sheeters ... were released on bail from Thane jail just three months ago Satish Nikam APMC police station||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-arrested-for-setting-up-fictitious-bank-to-dupe-people/article32534023.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 2,655 fresh cases||Shaking off the temporary deceleration in its progress during the Onam season, the State’s COVID-19 daily case graph shot up again to touch 2,655 on Saturday, in proportion to the sharp increase in testing post Onam which reached 40,162 in the past 24 hours. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 2,111. The cumulative case burden has reached 84,759. With the total number of recoveries reaching 62,555, the number of active cases at present is 21,800. Eleven more deaths which occurred between August 17 and September 1 were added on to the “provisional COVID death list” on Saturday, taking the toll to 337. Four deaths each were reported in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam and the rest in Thrissur, Kasaragod and Kannur. Thiruvananthapuram leads with an all-time high of 590 cases, of which all except three cases are locally acquired infections. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing media, said the focus of disease transmission in the district had moved away from the coastal belt into urban areas and that new cases were being reported from various parts of the district. Kasaragod reported 276 cases, Malappuram 249, Kozhikode 244, Kannur 222, Ernakulam 186, Kollam 170, Thrissur 169, Pathanamthitta 148, Alappuzha 131, Kottayam 119, Palakkad 100, Idukki 31 and Wayanad 20. The number of hotspots at present is 551.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-2655-fresh-cases/article32533907.ece
06 September 2020||Mumbai,||Fresh high of 20,801 cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday reported its highest single-day spike of 20,801 COVID-19 cases, taking the total case tally to 8,83,862, the State Health Department said. With 312 fatalities, the death toll went up to 26,276. This is the fourth consecutive day that the State has seen a record-high surge in cases. On Friday it had recorded 19,218 new cases. With 10,801 people being discharged, total recoveries are now 6,36,574, an official said. The State currently has 2,20,661 active cases. Of the 312 deaths reported on Saturday, 190 deaths had occurred in the last 48 hours and 90 in the past one week. The remaining 32 deaths had occurred before the last week, but were added to the data on Friday. Mumbai city reported 1,737 new cases and 33 deaths, taking its tally to 1,53,712 and death toll to 7,832, the official said. The number of active cases in Mumbai is 22,978. Pune reported 2,366 cases along with 32 deaths, taking its case tally to 1,10,565 and the death toll to 2,724, the official said. So far, 45,56,707 tests have been carried out in the State. There are 14,81,909 people under home quarantine and another 37,196 under institutional quarantine. Nashik division has reported 1,11,276 cases and 2,526 deaths so far. Kolhapur division has reported 49,368 cases and 1,475 deaths and Aurangabad reported 34,442 cases and 976 deaths. Latur division has reported 31,100 cases and 893 deaths so far while Akola has reported 20,113 cases and 513 deaths. A total 841 people from other States have been treated in Maharashtra so far, including 80 who died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-high-of-20801-cases-in-maharashtra/article32534022.ece
06 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Many hands ensure green fields for Odisha’s tribal villages||Eight years ago when Minda Kadarka, a tribal woman from Odisha’s Rayagada district, lost her husband, she had very little money to rely on. However, her field was not left barren nor was her granary empty. Ms. Kadarka, 55, has no need to ask for help. Her fellow villagers have helped till her land, sow and harvest the paddy and make the grain available to her every year in Udrubali village under Kalyansinghpur block — all without demanding any wages. Such altruism may sound strange to most, but among the tribal communities of Odisha, the tradition of taking everyone along is still strong and sustained. “What if she cannot work or she is a single woman? We cannot leave her to die of starvation. By putting in extra labour, all villagers have ensured that Ms. Kadarka’s field is tilled every season and she has access to grain,” said Bhaskar Rao Kadarka, another resident of Udrubali, a tiny hamlet of just 13 families of the Kandh tribe. “It does not surprise me. The woman’s story is definitely not unusual. The tribal society has umpteen examples of camaraderie, strong societal bonds and mutual help through exchange of labour,” explained A. B. Ota, director of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute and a prominent researcher on indigenous communities. The concept of labour cooperatives is still in vogue in almost all tribal communities, including the Dongria Kandh, Juanga, Lanjia Saura, Saura, Didayi, Paudi Bhuyan and Kandh in Odisha. However, not many are aware of these resilient traditions. When the Odisha State Tribal Museum recently screened a short film focusing on labour cooperatives of the Dongria Kandh, their structures and functioning, it left everyone awestruck. The Dongria Kandh, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, who live in the State’s Niyamgiri Hill range rising to 4,500 ft above sea level, practice at least 10 types of cooperative labour sharing within the community. “Here farming [on the steep hill slopes] requires more labour which a single family cannot provide. Therefore, they have evolved an indigenous system to engage the labour available in the community to accomplish the farming tasks of all the families of the village,” said Trilochan Sahoo, a leading researcher on tribal societies. Community members come together to reduce costs as well as ensuring dignity to all members. Through the cooperative, adolescent boys and girls, men, women and the elderly contribute equally in terms of labour towards the village’s fields and orchards. In the sahabati system, all Dongria households of the village work in turns for a day on the land of one villager. Traditionally, the host-labourer would offer a feast of rice, dal, curry and fermented gruel for the workers in return. Now the community feast has been done away with but the host pays a token amount to the village fund. The collected money is used for organizing a feast for the whole village. In a variation, under the pundabati system , 10 to 15 members of the community are called upon when fewer workers are required in the fields. Members of the village are also organised into specialised groups depending on the nature of the work. The daasibati is a cooperative of younger, unmarried girls from the village who dormitory. They provide labour within the clan. The group is made of all the unmarried girls and they are called upon to take up less strenuous but tedious work such as weeding, fencing of fields, cleaning or harvesting of crops. Their counterparts, the dhangdabati, young bachelors are required to take up work such as felling trees, hoeing, carrying logs and digging pits. Under datarubati , older men help each other in their respective fields for a share of liquor. During 1982-87, a young anthropologist who was appointed as a special officer of the Dongria Kandh Development Agency harnessed the tribal labour cooperatives for creating infrastructure in the Niyamgiri Hill range. Similarly, among the Lanjia Saora community, all members are bound to participate in constructing terraces for farming on the slopes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-hands-ensure-green-fields-for-odishas-tribal-villages/article32533601.ece
06 September 2020||Kolkata,||Despite arrests, Bengal’s FICN hub still active||On September 3, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested an alleged smuggler of Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN), Enamul Haque, from Mohanpur village in Malda. A press statement by the NIA said he was wanted in a case of FICN smuggling in Hyderabad since 2018 and carried a reward of Rs. 25,000 on his head. In August, two more people were arrested by the NIA and the Border Security Force (BSF) on charges of being involved in smuggling FICN. Sadek Mia (51) was arrested on August 19 and Rahaman S.K. (34) on August 8. Information obtained from the South Bengal Frontier of BSF revealed that 12 cases have been registered for smuggling of FICN so far this year and nine arrests have been made. FICN of face value Rs. 26.13 lakh have been seized by the BSF alone. “The BSF and other security agencies are vigilant not to allow any FICN to get into the system. The seizures and arrests are an outcome of our efforts,” S.S. Guleria, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) and public relations officer, South Bengal Frontier BSF, said. Smugglers hub Officers of several security agencies said Malda, particularly Kaliachak and Baishnabnagar border, has emerged as the hub of smuggling of FICN. Despite repeated crackdowns there are still instances of smuggling of FICN from across the border in this region, they said. In fact, months after demonetisation (November 8, 2016) the first incident of smuggling of counterfeit new currency in the country came to fore in mid February 2018, where a consignment of Rs. 2,000 notes was seized at Churiantpur in Kaliachak. The brief stretch remains a concern for intelligence agencies because of the porous border, populations living close to the international border on both sides and organised criminal networks operating on both sides of the borders. Not high quality For the security agencies the advantage is that FICN seized is not of high quality as it was in the pre-demonetisation period. “In some cases we find that the fake currency seized are just photocopies of currency mainly pushed as a test case,” Mr. Guleria said. A senior officer, involved in coordination with different agencies, said with multiple agencies cracking down on the criminal network there have been arrests all across the country which has come as a major setback to the operatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/despite-arrests-bengals-ficn-hub-still-active/article32533967.ece
06 September 2020||Kolkata,||Variations in allocations made to States for COVID-19, reveals RTI||The Union government released Rs. 4,113.21 crore to States and Union Territories in March and April 2020 for management of COVID-19 in the country, revealed a response to a Right to Information (RTI) query. The funds were to be released to all States and UTs under the National Health Mission. The RTI response under “Central Release of grants in India under National Health Mission for management for COVID-19” showed a significant increase from March 2020 to April 2020. The amount released in the month of March was Rs. 1,113. 21 crore, which increased by nearly three times to Rs. 3,000 crore in April 2020. Biswanath Goswami, a socio-legal researcher and activist, who obtained this information, said he had filed the queries in March, and they were transferred over 40 times between 10 Ministries and Departments. The reply revealed that the Centre had classified the States under various categories like ‘High Focus States’, ‘Hilly States’, ‘North Eastern High Focus States’, ‘Union Territories with Legislatures’, ‘Union Territories without Legislatures’ and ‘Other States’. For instance, the States grouped under the category of ‘High Focus States’ — Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh —  were allocated Rs. 428. 94 crore in March and Rs. 752.39 crore in April 2020. For the category ‘Other States’, which include Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka , Kerala, Maharashtra, Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, Rs. 946.21 crore was allocated in March and Rs. 2,503.24 crore in April. The amount allocated to ‘North Eastern High Focus States’ was Rs. 111.34 crore in March and Rs. 124.25 crore in April. Mr. Goswami said the response raised more questions than answers as to the basis for allocation of the funds, and why amounts allocated to States with the same population were at variance. “Maharashtra was allocated Rs. 468 crore in March and April 2020, while the amount for West Bengal for these months was only Rs. 125.67 crore. Uttar Pradesh, the State with the highest population, was allocated about Rs. 368 crore,” he said. “It is important for the Union government to inform the people on what basis these allocations were made, and the States should tell people how the money was spent. There is a need for more transparency and accountability when it comes to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/variations-in-allocations-made-to-states-for-covid-19-reveals-rti/article32533968.ece
06 September 2020||Kolkata,||IISER scientist summoned in Elgaar Parishad case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has summoned Partho Sarathi Roy, associate professor of biological sciences at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research ( IISER), Kolkata, in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case, later this month. The NIA took over the case from the Pune Police, which is related to the violence in Bhima-Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The scientist is also a well-known social worker and Convenor of Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee, West Bengal chapter. Prof. Roy, who holds a Ph.D. in molecular virology from the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, was arrested in 2012 by the Trinamool Congress government for participating in a protest against an eviction drive of slum dwellers at Nonadanga. He had to spend 10 days behind the bars then. Members of the Association of Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR), a civil rights group, held the protest during the day at Garia in connection with the summons issued to the scientist. “The government is trying to clamp down on all the dissenting voices. We protest the summons issued to Prof. Roy. He has been vocal against the various policies of the government including the management of COVID-19 in the country,” said Ranajit Sur, central secretariat member, APDR. Earlier this month, the NIA also questioned Chatradhar Mahato, former leader of an ultra left outfit who had recently joined the Trinamool Congress, in connection with the blockade of the Rajdhani Express and murder of a CPI (M) leader. Highlighting the issue, the APDR wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urging her to stop the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iiser-scientist-summoned-in-elgar-parishad-case/article32533969.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI/THOOTHUKUDI,||Decision soon on reopening cinema halls, says Minister||The State government will shortly take a decision on reopening cinema halls on the basis of directions from the Centre, Information Minister Kadambur Raju said on Saturday. Tamil film industry representatives have renewed their appeal to open cinema halls. The nearly Rs. 1,500-crore industry will be in the doldrums if cinema halls remain shut, they have said. With multiple restrictions being lifted, the government has to take a decision on speedy reopening of theatres, they have said. Almost all stakeholders — producers, actors, filmmakers and even the unions — have urged the Central and State governments to reopen theatres as other trades, including restaurants, air travel, Metro services and malls, have been allowed to operate. Mr. Raju said at a media interaction that the producers’ decision to release films on OTT digital streaming platforms had affected the film industry workers hard. “This is an unprecedented situation. Even high-level meetings of officials are being conducted online, given the gravity of the situation in the wake of the pandemic. We’ve understood that the OTT release of films has hit the workers hard... Hence, you can expect the government to take the right decision with guidance from the Centre,” he said. While producers supported Suriya’s decision to release his film Soorarai Pottru on Amazon Prime Video, the theatre-owners were unhappy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-soon-on-reopening-cinema-halls-says-minister/article32533691.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||School in the woods||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/school-in-the-woods/article32533590.ece
06 September 2020||GUNTUR,||State tops in ease of doing business rankings||Andhra Pradesh has topped the country in the latest Ease of Doing Business rankings, according to the State Business Reform Action Plan 2020 (State BRAP) ranks released on Saturday. Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) is a joint initiative by the Department for Promotion of Industries and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and the World Bank to improve the overall business environment in the States. The State has stood first in the overall ranking of the State business process reforms undertaken during 2019. These rankings represent the ease of doing business in the State with increased transparency, efficiency and effectiveness of the government regulatory functions vis-a-vis the business enterprises. The ranks were released by the DPIIT through a video conference by Minister for Finance Nirmala Seetharaman. Union Minister of Commerce Piyush Goyal was also present. Minister for Industries M. Gowtham Reddy said the ranking encapsulated the effort of the government in ensuring true business reforms leading to actual ease of doing business with low cost of starting an enterprise and quick single desk approvals. Revival measures “A.P. is the first State to take measures to revive the economy hit by the pandemic and revive the small and medium scale industries with a ReSTART package fulfilling 90% of the promises made to the electorate and businesses in the very first year of governance. We are happy that the investors have reposed faith in us,” said Mr. Gowtham Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-tops-in-ease-of-doing-business/article32533516.ece
06 September 2020||Guwahati,||5 ‘abducted’ by PLA in Arunachal||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has reportedly abducted five people from Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. Officials said no one has lodged any formal complaint with the police or the armed forces that guard the LAC. But they said there had been instances of the PLA having “abducted” and released people — usually hunters who venture deep into the jungles straddling parts of the vague boundary — in the past. “We came to know from social media that five people belonging to the Tagin community were abducted by the PLA from a jungle near Nacho when they were out hunting. The families of the missing people have not lodged any formal complaint,” Upper Subansiri SP Keni Bagra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-abducted-by-pla-in-arunachal/article32533599.ece
06 September 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal near 1.8 lakh||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 3,042 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total case tally to 1,77,701. The State also recorded 58 fatalities in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 3,510. With more patients being discharged than the new infections, the recovery rate further improved to 84.86%. There are currently 23,390 active cases in the State. Of the 58 new fatalities, 18 were from Kolkata, 14 from North 24 Parganas, and six from Howrah. The death toll due to COVID-19 has climbed to 1,368, 797 and 402 in the three districts respectively. These three districts account for over 73% of all deaths in the State. In terms of fresh cases, North 24 Parganas recorded the highest (559), taking its total case tally to 37,121. Kolkata recorded 548 new cases, taking its tally to 42,543. Howrah registered 122 infections, taking its tally to 14,087. The three districts account for almost 52% of all the infections in the State. A total of 45,781 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking total samples tested to 21.12 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-near-18-lakh/article32533970.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Bypolls a referendum on LDF rule: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the byelections at Chavara and Kuttanad in November will be a public vote on the performance of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. The Election Commission of India (ECI) was the last word on the conduct of elections. Kerala would not oppose its decision. It would be politically improper for any government to ask the ECI to defer an election. State in poll mode He said Kerala would go into the Assembly election mode from April 2021. Hence, the winners of the byelections would only have technically four months as lawmakers. The State Election Commission (SEC) will soon take the final call on the conduct of the local body elections. The Chief Minister accused Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran of exhorting government employees to betray the trust the State had placed on them by asking them to pass on files to the Opposition. He said Mr. Ramachandran and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had become the laughing stock of the public after a police investigation revealed that Youth Congress leader G. Leena had orchestrated an attack on her own house. The police had arrested her son in connection with the attack that came on the heels of the murder of two DYFI activists at Venjaramoodu on Onam eve. The Congress had attempted to foist the attack on the CPI(M) but failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bypolls-a-referendum-on-ldf-rule-cm/article32533908.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal attributes rise in cases to increased testing||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the COVID-19 situation in Delhi is “under control” and attribu-ted the rise in the number of cases to an increase in the number of tests, which has gone up to 40,000 per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-attributes-rise-in-cases-to-increased-testing/article32533778.ece
06 September 2020||new delhi,||Disclosure for public good, Ramani tells court||Journalist Priya Ramani told a Delhi court on Saturday that her remarks alleging sexual harassment by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar were her truth, which she disclosed in “good faith” for the “public good” and therefore did not amount to defamation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disclosure-for-public-good-ramani-tells-court/article32533779.ece
06 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||8 Odisha workers on way to Surat die in accident||Eight migrant labourers from Odisha died in a road accident near Raipur in Chhattisgarh early on Saturday. The workers were on their way to Surat for work in textile units. The victims were among a group of 67 workers from Ganjam district who were returning to work in Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-odisha-workers-on-way-to-surat-die-in-accident/article32533780.ece
06 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Merge Congress, NCP; make Pawar chief'||Observing that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are not keen on donning the mantle of Congress president, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Saturday suggested that the Nationalist Congress Party be merged with the grand old party and Sharad Pawar be made the new chief of the merged entity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/merge-congress-ncp-make-pawar-chief/article32534020.ece
06 September 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19: next 3 months challenging, says CM||The spike in COVID-19 cases in Mumbai over the past two days shows the State administration will have to face the challenge of containing the outbreak more vigorously in the next two to three months, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. He said 5,000 to 6,000 more beds can be arranged in Mumbai. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said over 165 police personnel in Maharashtra have died of COVID-19 so far. The minister also praised the Maharashtra Police for their exemplary job during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-next-3-months-challenging-says-cm/article32534019.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,||First case of reinfection reported in Bengaluru||In what doctors claim to be a first case of COVID-19 reinfection in south India, a 27-year-old woman from Bengaluru has tested positive again nearly a month after she was treated and discharged from hospital. Doctors, who confirmed that the hospital had reported the first reinfection case, said the woman had no history of any co-morbidities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-case-of-reinfection-reported-in-bengaluru/article32533647.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Drug bust: Late politician’s son, realtor named in FIR||The CCB’S investigation into the high-profile drug racket has opened a can of worms. In its FIR, the police have named 12 accused, including Bollywood star Vivek Oberoi’s brother-in-law Aditya Alva, who is the son of the former Minister Jeevaraj Alva and classical dancer Nandini Alva. While CCB officials confirmed his involvement, they are yet to ascertain his exact role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drug-bust-late-politicians-son-realtor-named-in-fir/article32533646.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 5,870 new cases, 61 fatalities||A total of 5,870 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. As many as 5,859 persons were discharged after treatment, while 61 deaths were recorded in the State. For the third consecutive day, Chennai recorded less than 1,000 cases at 965.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-5870-new-cases-61-fatalities/article32533689.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. moves up in ease of doing business ranks||Tamil Nadu moved up one spot to get to the 14th position in ease-of-doing-business ranking 2019, from the 15th place in 2018. The rankings have come at a time when the State has been steadily attracting investors, signing agreements in 2019 as well as this year. The State did not make it to the top 10, nor was it in the list that had registered the maximum improvement in the State Business Reform Action Plan Ranking, released by the Union Commerce and Industry Ministry on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-moves-up-in-ease-of-doing-business-ranks/article32533688.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Railway reservation counters see huge rush||Hundreds of passengers thronged railway reservation counters in Chennai on Saturday as bookings opened for special trains that will start running from September 7. Forty-three counters were operated across Chennai, including at Chennai Central, Egmore, Beach, Tambaram and a few MRTS stations. Sources said till Saturday afternoon, around 3,000 tickets were booked at these counters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railway-reservation-counters-see-huge-rush/article32533690.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India shares a robust defence system with both U.S., Russia’||India values its emerging relationship with the U.S. and cherishes its traditional relationship with Russia, the Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, said on Saturday while stating that seismic changes were being witnessed in geopolitics shaped by a “nation first approach and geo-economics”. “With both these powers, we share a mature and robust defence and security framework,” he said at a webinar. In the emerging security paradigm, Gen. Rawat said, India’s security “would be maintained not, as hitherto, on the International Border (IB), Line of Control (LoC) or the Line of Actual Control (LAC) alone,” but in the strategic space of the “extended neighbourhood” and the “strategic frontier”. Military modernisation On the ongoing military modernisation, Gen. Rawat said keeping in mind the macroeconomic parameters and socioeconomic requirements, “we have to work through the budgetary constraints by finding the best solutions through new acquisitions and optimisation or upgradation of legacy systems”. “The creation of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) headed by the CDS, having a central staffing scheme along with amendments to Government of India business rules, in effect, admits the military into the central edifice of the government,” Gen. Rawat said. Robust interaction between the CDS, the Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC) and the political executive, the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), must ensure single-point military advice, strategic direction and resource optimisation, he.  India values its emerging relationship with the U.S. and its traditional relationship with Russia Gen. Bipin Rawat Chief of Defence Staff||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-shares-a-robust-defence-system-with-both-us-russia/article32533548.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Cut the chain now, says Centre||The Centre has asked Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to focus on undertaking aggressive measures to break the chain of COVID-19 transmission and to ensure that mortality is kept below 1%. The States, on Saturday, have been advised to proactively ensure higher testing, effective clinical management to lower fatality, and save lives along with efficient monitoring at various levels. “Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka account for about 46% of active cases reported nationally in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra alone accounts for 22% of all active cases reported in the last 24 hours,” said a release issued by the Ministry. It added that these three States account for 52% of all COVID-19 deaths reported across the country in the last 24 hours with Maharashtra alone accounting for 35% of all deaths reported in the last 24 hours. “In Maharashtra, Pune, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Raigad, Jalgaon, Solapur, Satara and Palghar were highlighted on need for effective containment and contact tracing,” said the Ministry. Prakasam and Chittoor districts in A.P., and Koppal, Mysuru, Davanagere and Bellari in Karnataka were highlighted as districts of concern. According to the release in cumulative terms, five States account for more than 60% of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra contributes the most to the active case load amounting to almost 25%, followed by Andhra Pradesh (12.06%), Karnataka (11.71%), Uttar Pradesh (6.92%) and Tamil Nadu which stands at 6.0%. Of these, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka account for nearly 49% of the active case and more than 57% of COVID-19 deaths. “Of the total deaths in the country, 70% are recorded in just five States of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra alone accounts for 37.33% of the total deaths,” said the Ministry release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cut-the-chain-now-says-centre/article32533568.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Karnataka adds 9,746 cases to tally, logs 128 fatalities||Eleven more people died of COVID-19 in Telangana on Friday, taking the toll to 877, while total cases rose to 1,38,395 as 2,511 samples tested positive for the virus. The State administration said 62,132 more samples had been tested. There were 305 cases from Greater Hyderabad, 184 from Rangareddy, 170 from Nalgonda, 150 from Karimnagar, 142 from Khammam and 134 from Medchal Malkajgiri. There was no relief in Andhra Pradesh, and at 10,825 new cases, the State recorded its second biggest single-day spike in the pandemic. The toll rose as 71 more deaths were reported on Saturday. It was the eleventh day of over 10,000 new infections. Testing in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 40-lakh mark at 40,35,317 samples, including 69,623 in the past day, with a positivity rate of 12.08%. The State COVID-19 dashboard showed that nearly half of the tests were conducted in Kurnool, East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna and Chittoor districts. East Godavari had the highest positivity rate at 16.44%. East Godavari also reported the highest single-day tally of infections and five districts reported more than a thousand new infections. Nellore reported the highest number of new deaths. Kerala’s COVID-19 daily cases shot up again to touch 2,655 on Saturday, as testing covered 40,162 samples. The case burden was 84,759 and active cases, 21,800. Eleven more deaths which occurred between August 17 and September 1 were added on to the “provisional COVID death list” by the Health department on Saturday, taking the toll to 337. These deaths would be re-assessed by the State death audit committee. Four deaths each were reported at Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam and the rest at Thrissur, Kasaragod and Kannur. Continuing the trend, 94% of new cases – 2,503 – were locally acquired infections. Thiruvananthapuram district registered an all-time high of 590 cases, of which all except three were locally acquired infections. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that the disease transmission had moved from the coastal beltto the urban areas. On Saturday, a total of 5,870 persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu. While 5,859 persons were discharged after treatment, 61 persons died in the State. Till date, a total of 4,57,697 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. The number of persons discharged after treatment is nearing the four-lakh mark. As of date, a total of 3,98,366 persons have been discharged and 7,748 persons have died. For the third consecutive day, Chennai recorded less than 1,000 cases. As many as 965 persons tested positive, taking the city’s overall tally to 1,40,685.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuran, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-ap-lead-in-deaths-new-cases/article32533533.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath to meet Iranian Defence Minister Hatami||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to meet the Iranian Defence Minister during a refuelling stop on his return journey from Russia. “Leaving Moscow for Tehran. I shall be meeting the Defence Minister of Iran, Brigadier General Amir Hatami,” Mr. Singh said on Twitter on Saturday. A defence source said Mr. Singh’s aircraft will make a refuelling halt in Iran. The Minister was on a three-day visit to Russia for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Defence Ministers meeting , in which Iran is an Observer. He also held a bilateral meeting with Major General Kurbanov Bakhodir Nizamovich, Defence Minister of Uzbekistan. This is the first visit by an Indian Minister to Iran since the killing of Islamic Revolutionary Guard commander Major General Qasem Soleimani by the U.S. in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-to-meet-iranian-defence-minister-hatami/article32533539.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Single confirmatory test enough’||A senior official of the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday that as per the revised advisory a single RT-PCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT/ Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) test was to be considered confirmatory, without any repeat testing. “No retesting is recommended prior to discharge from a COVID-19 facility after clinical recovery, including for transfer from a COVID area/ facility to a non-COVID area/ facility,” he said. He added that if symptoms developed following a negative RAT test, a repeat RAT or RT-PCR should be done. As per the new addition, testing will be provided to all individuals undertaking travel to countries/Indian States mandating a negative COVID-19 test at the point of entry and also to all individuals who wish to get themselves tested. “Tracking and contact tracing mechanisms should be ensured by the testing laboratories by notifying the public health authorities,” the Ministry says. Home quarantine for 14 days is recommended for all individuals before undergoing elective surgery to minimise chances of infection before the procedure. The Ministry states that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of a COVID-19 test. However, samples could be sent for testing under specific conditions. “Pregnant women should not be referred for lack of testing facility. All arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities. Mothers, who test positive for COVID-19, should be advised to wear a mask and undertake frequent hand-washing while handling their baby for 14 days,,” the Ministry said. In hospital settings, RT-PCR or TrueNat or CBNAAT, RAT – can be used for patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), all symptomatic (ILI symptoms) patients presenting in a healthcare setting and asymptomatic high-risk patients who are hospitalised or seeking immediate hospitalization.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/single-confirmatory-test-enough/article32533557.ece
06 September 2020||Srinagar,||Soldier killed, two injured in Pak. firing in Kupwara||An Army soldier was killed and two others were injured in Pakistani firing in Kupwara. An official said Pakistan resorted to “unprovoked firing and mortar shelling” along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara’s Nowgam Sector on Saturday. “Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation in Nowgam Sector by firing mortars and other weapons ... One soldier laid down his life in the line of duty. Two soldiers sustained injuries and have been evacuated to 92 Base Hospital. Their condition is stable,” the Srinagar-based Army spokesman said. The deceased soldier was identified as gunner Bupinder Singh. This is the third such encounter in the past two days. Three militants were killed in Baramulla on Friday. In a separate incident in Bandipora, two bodies were recovered from a river in the Gurez sector. “Arms and ammunition was recovered from them,” police said. Police suspect they may be missing youth from south Kashmir and may have gone to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir for arms training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldier-killed-two-injured-in-pak-firing-in-kupwara/article32533541.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Brief nation on talks with China: Cong.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh should inform the nation about the outcome of “repeated talks” with China over the border row in Ladakh, the Congress said on Saturday. The Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, said it was the rajdharma of the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister to take the nation into confidence on such an important issue. “What is the conversation about; what is happening? Will Prime Minister Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh take the country into confidence,” Mr. Surjewala asked in a video posted on Twitter. The Congress’s questions came a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Wei Fenghe, met in Moscow on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Defence Ministers’ meeting, on “de-escalating” border tensions in eastern Ladakh. “The important part is what is the outcome of the repeated conversations with the Chinese counterparts by our government... How will we ensure that Chinese transgressions are defeated,” Mr. Surjewala added. Listing the various levels at which talks have been held with the Chinese — from the Foreign Ministers’ level and Corps Commanders level to the Defence Ministers’ discussions — Mr. Surjewala asked the government what the outcome of these talks was. Shringla’s comment The Congress leader also referred to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s remarks on the situation being “unprecedented” at the India-China border and his comment that “We’ve never had this sort of a situation since 1962.” Mr. Surjewala said, “We hope Prime Minister Modi and the Defence Minister will come forward and take the nation into confidence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brief-nation-on-talks-with-china-cong/article32533543.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI,||Sushant’s housekeeper arrested in drug case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Dipesh Sawant, housekeeper of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, for his alleged role in procuring drugs. The development came after the agency arrested Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and Sushant’s housekeeping manager Samuel Miranda under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The two are in the NCB custody till September 9. Mr. Sawant had joined the investigation around 10 p.m. on Friday. “He was subjected to interrogation and confronted with Showik, Samuel, Kaizan Ebrahim and Zaid Vilatra. His statement under Section 67 of the NDPS Act was recorded and on the basis of enough corroborative evidence, he has been placed under arrest,” said an NCB official. Alleged drug peddlers Mr. Ebrahim and Mr. Vilatra are already in the NCB custody. The official said that Mr. Sawant would be produced before the court in Mumbai on Sunday morning. The agency had got first leads in the Sushant case after it carried out searches in a separate case in the last week of August and arrested two persons, Abbas Ramzan Ali Lakhani and Karn Arora, for allegedly possessing bud (cured marijuana). In the follow-up probe, the investigators uncovered Mr. Lakhani’s links with Mr. Vilatra , who ran an eatery in Bandra. As his business was not doing well during the lockdown period, he took to peddling drugs, it is alleged. Mr. Vilatra led the NCB officials to Basit Parihar, who during questioning allegedly disclosed that he procured drugs from Mr. Ebrahim and Mr. Vilatra on the instructions of Mr. Chakraborty. He was also in touch with Mr. Miranda. Subsequently, searches were conducted on the premises of Mr. Chakraborty and Mr. Miranda and the two were questioned before being arrested. The agency may soon confront Mr. Chakraborty with Mr. Sawant and Rhea. Mr. Chakraborty has been charged under Sections 8(c) — produce, manufacture, possess, sell and purchase; 20 — punishment for contravention in relation cannabis plant and cannabis; 27 (a) — punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders; 28 — punishment for attempts to commit offences; 29 punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy, of the NDPS Act. On August 28, an NCB team apprehended Mr. Lakhani, 21, with 46 gm of marijuana. In a statement, he said he purchased the drug from Mr. Arora. He was taken into custody and 13 gm of marijuana was recovered. The premises of Mr. Vilantra was searched and Rs. 9,55,750, $2081, 180 UK pounds and 15 UAE dirhams were recovered on September 1. Supplied to many Mr. Vilantra’s statement was recorded by the NCB, where he stated that the seized money was the sales proceeds of contraband and he had supplied marijuana to many persons. He disclosed the name of Abel Parihar and the latter said he bought and sold marijuana and used to procure drugs from Mr. Vilantra and Mr. Ebrahim as per instructions from Mr. Chakraborty. The NCB’s remand application said, “There are instances where Mr. Parihar has facilitated drugs and has been in contact with Mr. Miranda and Mr. Chakraborty. He is an active member of the drug syndicate connected with high-profile personalities and drug suppliers. He used to pay and receive money via credit cards, cash and payment gateways.” Mr. Parihar disclosed the name of Mr. Ebrahim as a supplier of the charas/hashish and the NCB recovered 0.5 gm of dark brown coloured substance purported to be hashish/charas. Based on the disclosure of Mr. Parihar, the NCB summoned Mr. Chakraborty and sought his and Mr. Miranda’s custody for seven days. The magistrate court remanded Mr. Ebrahim in judicial custody for 14 days but he was granted bail by the sessions court.  (With inputs from Devesh K. Pandey)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushants-housekeeper-arrested-in-drug-case/article32533565.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army rescues three Chinese citizens in north Sikkim||Three Chinese citizens who lost their way in the plateau area of north Sikkim at an altitude of 17,500 feet were given a helping hand earlier this week, the Army said on Saturday. “Realising the danger to the lives of the Chinese citizens — two men and one woman — in sub-zero temperatures, the soldiers immediately reached out and provided medical assistance including oxygen, food and warm clothes to protect them from the vagaries of extreme altitude and harsh climatic conditions,” the Army said. The incident occurred on Thursday. The troops also gave them guidance to reach their destination, after which they moved back, said the Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-rescues-three-chinese-citizens-in-north-sikkim/article32533537.ece
06 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||8 Odisha workers en route to Surat die in road accident||Eight migrant labourers from Odisha died in a road accident near Raipur in Chhattisgarh early on Saturday. The workers were on their way to Surat for work in textile units. The victims were among a group of 67 workers from Ganjam district who were returning to work in Gujarat after months of being idle after having returned to Odisha due to the COVID-19 lockdown. A Surat-based employer is said to have sent a bus to transport the skilled workers back to his textile units. The accident took place when the bus was trying to overtake another vehicle. While seven men died on the spot, one died later in hospital. As many as 59 labourers were safe and under care of the Raipur administration. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik expressed deep grief at the death of the workers from his home district of Ganjam and announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. He also said the State would bear the cost of treatment of the injured. Medical care Odisha’s Labour Minister Sushant Singh has been sent to Raipur to coordinate with the Chhattisgarh authorities on medical care for the injured and to oversee the return of the victims’ bodies to their respective villages. Director General of Police Abhay also got in touch with his counterpart in Chhattisgarh to ensure that the injured did not face any problems. An Odisha police team led by Sub Divisional Police Officer of Padampur rushed to Raipur for assistance. Following the pandemic-induced lockdown in March, over four lakh people, most of them migrant workers employed in Gujarat, returned to Ganjam. More than two lakh people from the district are employed in the apparel industries of Surat alone. Towards the end of May and early June, the workers began receiving calls to return from their employers through labour agents. In July, employers started sending buses to transport workers back. The labourers, too, had by then run out of savings and were unable to support their families without a source of income. By August, the frequency of buses from Surat to ferry workers back to the textile units rose dramatically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8-odisha-workers-en-route-to-surat-die-in-road-accident/article32533555.ece
06 September 2020||Srinagar,||WhatsApp ‘clinics’ help flatten the curve in Valley||Over 330 doctors from the Kashmir Valley have turned WhatsApp groups into COVID-19 clinics and managed nearly 10,000 patients and their families by turning hundreds of houses into mini-hospitals, helping flatten the curve. These online clinics were set up in the last week of July, when the Valley’s three top hospitals, the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital (SMHS), the Chest Disease Hospital and the Sher-i-Kashmir Medical Institute, started running out of beds due to an unprecedented flow of critically ill patients, mainly complaining of bilateral pneumonia. “The first aim of these WhatsApp COVID clinics was to create a data bank of patients and their line of treatment. We were all blank initially about what works because it was a novel virus. The data about patients across the length and breadth of the Valley did help us to identify drugs and conditions where patients were responding well,” Nasir Shams, a physician at the Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial (JLNM) Hospital in Srinagar, told The Hindu . Dr. Shams was one of the admins of two WhatsApp clinics. “The government decision to allow COVID patients with mild symptoms to be treated at home provided a rare opportunity to reduce crowds at the hospitals. Each doctor decided to handle four or five families, 25 persons on an average, beyond their duties. It was voluntary and free. It did yield results,” Dr. Shams said. Around 330 doctors joined hands to run two such WhatsApp groups and started grading critically ill patients who required hospitalisation and those who need at-home monitoring. “It was not possible unless a housemate could volunteer as a nurse. In many cases, these ‘nurses’ also got affected but their tending did help patients recover faster because of the emotional support,” Dr. Shams said. Homes turn hospitals Hundreds of houses in Srinagar functioned like mini-hospitals, maintaining the pandemic protocols. In a cluster of houses at Lal Bazaar, four families contracted COVID-19, affecting 21 people in the last week of July. “All were managed at home with multiple lines of medicine. Oximeters and oxygen concentrators were kept available to ensure patients are shifted before any complication,” said another doctor. Athrout Kashmir and the Social Reforms Organisation, both non-governmental organisations, helped with oxygen concentrators donated by philanthropists in the Valley. “We have received six consignments of oxygen concentrators so far. It did help in reaching out to the needy. We were receiving around 100 distress calls a day,” said a volunteer of Athrout Kashmir. The effort was backed by info videos online and Zoom meetings arranged where doctors and the affected population posed queries. Masood Rashid, also part of the effort, was handed over a certificate of appreciation by J&K Health and Medical Education Department Commissioner Atal Dulloo recently for his “courage and strength as a COVID warrior”. According to official figures, the number of patients in the JLNM Hospital has come down by 40%. Similarly, the bed occupancy at the SMHS and the CD Hospital has improved significantly, according to officials. The Valley, which saw over 700 patients a day, is slowly witnessing a decline with 554, 457, 376 cases reported in the past three days, official figures show. “We are still on a flat plateau but hopeful to see a further decline in coming weeks,” Dr. Shams said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/whatsapp-clinics-help-flatten-the-curve-in-valley/article32533562.ece
06 September 2020||Colombo,||Rajapaksa thanks defence teams for fighting fire on ship||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Saturday thanked Indian and Sri Lankan Naval personnel for their ongoing efforts in dousing the fire onboard oil tanker MT  New Diamond. The vessel went ablaze off Sri Lanka’s east coast three days ago, following an engine room explosion. “Thank you! to the #SLNavy , the #SLAirforce, the #SLPA and the Indian Defense Forces for their efforts in controlling the fires in MT New Diamond. I greatly appreciate your Contribution in conserving Marine biodiversity by preventing a disastrous situation out in the ocean,” he said in a tweet. The vessel, classified as a very large crude carrier (VLCC), is about 330 metres long. Carrying 2,70,000 metric tonnes of crude oil, it was headed to a Odisha from Kuwait, officials said. Amid fears of a likely oil spill, at least nine vessels from the two countries, besides tugboats and aircraft, have been deployed into action. “The flames are being contained and the vessel has been towed further way from our coast, at 40 nautical miles. So far, there is no oil spill,” Sri Lanka Navy spokesman Captain Indika de Silva told The Hindu . One crew member died in the fire, while another was injured and is undergoing treatment. A total of 20 crew members have been safely rescued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajapaksa-thanks-defence-teams-for-fighting-fire-on-ship/article32533570.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||New Secretariat to have mosques, temple, church: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday assured a delegation of Muslim religious leaders that the State government would lay the foundation stone for two mosques, a temple and a church, on a single day inside the new Secretariat complex after the ensuing Assembly session. Led by Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, the delegation called on Mr. Rao at his camp office to take up the reconstruction of mosques in the Secretariat, which were pulled down as part of demolition of buildings to pave way for new constructions. Mr. Rao told them that the religious places would be constructed at government cost reflecting the secular outlook of the State government, a release said. While admitting the damage to mosques during demolitions, Mr. Rao said that new ones would be constructed at the same places where they existed and would have all amenities. Two mosques, each of 750 square yards, would have attached residential quarters for Imams, which would be handed over to the Wakf Board. A temple of 1,500 sq. yards would also be constructed and left to the endowments department, along with a church for Christians. Mr. Rao convinced the leaders that the government would observe religious tolerance as it was committed to treating all faiths on an equal footing. The construction of an orphanage for Muslim children at Nampally ‘Anees-ul-Gurba’ would be expedited too, and 80% of the work was already completed. An amount of Rs. 18 crore was required for the balance work that will be released shortly. He recalled that the government had decided to construct an Islamic centre of international standards in the city but it was delayed due to COVID. The construction would begin soon as the location was already identified. He stressed the need for burial grounds all around the city. The Collectors of Ranga Reddy and Medak districts had identified certain spots on government instructions. The government would construct them over 150 to 200 acres at different places. The Narayanpet Collector was told to allot land and construct an alternate Ashoorkhana, a religious place, which was damaged during road widening. Discussing the importance given to promotion of Urdu in the State, he said the government had recognised it as the second official language and would take up developmental programmes for it through the official language commission. A representative of Urdu would be appointed as the vice-chairman of the commission. Apart from Mr. Asaduddin Owaisi, others present were Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi, All India Muslim Personal Law Board member Maulana Mufti Khaleel Ahmed and secretary Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-secretariat-to-have-mosques-temple-church-kcr/article32533518.ece
06 September 2020||Srinagar,||J&K govt. announces 3rd phase of village-level outreach||The J&K administration on Saturday announced that the third phase of the public outreach initiative, Back to Village (B2V) programme, will be conducted from October 2 to 12 to address local issues at the doorstep of the villagers. Spokesman Rohit Kansal said this unique programme had received tremendous respect from the people when 4,000 Gazetted Officers visited each and every panchayat last year. “The flagship programme has generated huge interest, affection and respect among people and the administration has decided another version in the form of Phase-III,” Mr. Kansal said. The Phase-I of B2V was an introductory and interactive programme to understand the people’s grievances and demands. Phase-II focused on the devolution of powers to panchayats and tried to understand how they are functioning and what the grievances and demands are. “Phase-III has been designed in the format for grievance redressal,” he said. Mr. Kansal said the three pillars would be the redressal of grievances (Jan Sunvaiyee), public service delivery (Adhikar Abhiyan) and delivery of development at the panchayat level (Unat Gram Abhiyan). “Yaum-e-Block would be observed for three consecutive weeks at pre-designated location or at block headquarters on every Wednesday with coordination from officers. Grievances would be listened to and would be sorted out on the spot or the following week or the next. Many would be tried to be disposed of on the spot,” Mr. Kansal said. All Deputy Commissioners and SPs will visit every block over three weeks. “This will be the month of progress of grievances and development on public grievances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-govt-announces-3rd-phase-of-village-level-outreach/article32533784.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Ex-minister’s son, realtor named in drug case||The Central Crime Branch’s investigation into the high-profile drug racket has opened a can of worms with alleged links not just to the Kannada film industry but also the business and political establishment. In its FIR, the police have named 12 accused, including Bollywood star Vivek Oberoi’s brother-in-law Aditya Alva, who is the son of the late minister Jeevaraj Alva and classical dancer Nandini Alva. While CCB officials confirmed his involvement, they are yet to ascertain his exact role in the drug racket. “They are part of a network of people who either organised parties in star hotels, pubs, resorts and farm houses, or sourced and supplied drugs to guests. Entry to such parties was based strictly on invitation and included businessmen, celebrities, and actors, said a senior CCB official. Accused had a fight The FIR names Shivaprakash – a realtor and former friend of actress Ragini Dwivedi – as the prime accused. “He clashed with Ravi Shankar, a second division assistant at the Jayanagar RTO, another accused in the case. In March 2019, Shivaprakash had a fight with Ravi Shankar in a hotel in Ashok Nagar after learning that he had dinner with the actress. A case was registered. If that incident had been probed in detail at the time, the racket would have come to light much earlier,” said a senior police official. CCB officials suspect that Shivaprakash was peddling drugs and organising high-end parties. The CCB on Saturday arrested Loum Pepper Samba, from Africa, for allegedly supplying drugs to the persons who are accused of organising these parties. “Loum Pepper Samba was arrested based on information given by Ravishankar, a second division assistant in the RTO office in Jayanagar and a close associate of film star Ragini,” said a CCB official. Foreigner questioned Ravi Shankar allegedly claimed to have procured party drugs from Samba, according to Assistant Commissioner of Police K.C. Goutham, who filed the FIR on Friday. “We are questioning Ragini and Samba to get information on the parties, and have prepared a list of people who attended them even during the lockdown,” said the CCB official. Meanwhile, the police are waiting for the forensic report on items seized during the search of Ragini’s house the day she was arrested. These include three mobile phones, a laptop and a pack of cigarettes. “The evidence was handed over to the FSL for analysis. We are waiting for the reports while questioning Ragini. She is at the State home for women under tight security,” said the police. The other accused mentioned in the FIR include Prashanth Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Prashanth Raju, Ashwin, Abhiswami, Rahul Thonshe and Vinay. They have been booked under Sections 21C, 27B, 27A, 29, 21 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and also under criminal conspiracy. “The accused having contacts with peddlers from Goa, Mumbai, Punjab, AP and Kerala, and also with the peddlers from foreign countries who are settled in various parts of the country,” a senior police officer said.  They are part of a network of people who either organised parties in star hotels, pubs, resorts and farm houses, or sourced and supplied drugs to guests. Entry to such parties was based strictly on invitation and included businessmen, celebrities, and actors A senior official, Central Crime Branch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-ministers-son-realtor-named-in-drug-case/article32533527.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,||Centre stifling democracy: Bhushan||The people of India, especially the youth, must set aside differences and effectively channelise their energy and creative ideas to reclaim our Republic. Else it would be too late since the situation in India was precarious, senior lawyer Prasanth Bhushan said while addressing a Constitution-Protection Conclave organised by women's organisations under the banner of 'If we do not rise - Kerala' on Facebook page on Saturday. The event was conducted in connection with the third anniversary of the murder of journalist-turned-activist Gauri Lankesh. Around 500 women's organisations from across India spearheaded the conclave.  “Judicial independence too is under threat and the institution is not playing the role it has been mandated with. A concerted campaign is needed to ensure transparency of the judiciary. It must also become accessible to the common man even without the help of lawyers. Similar campaigns are needed to redeem agriculture and to remove communal poison that is being injected in people's minds,’’ he said. Even worse, the Election Commission of India was acting like an agent of the government. The Prime Minister was not adhering to the model code of conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-stifling-democracy-bhushan/article32533913.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Six months on, races to resume at Bangalore Turf Club||The Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) will soon come alive with the club being given the green signal to resume races. However, as it has to go spectator-less, BTC is planning to introduce online betting for the first time. Senior steward at BTC Harimohan Naidu said it will take at least four to five weeks for races to resume. “We are resuming after six months. There are many things to take care of. We will be looking at fast-tracking the timeline. The committee has to meet to make decisions,” he said. With there being no question of allowing any spectators, the BTC is turning to online betting, which they say is a first in India. This July, the Karnataka government gave in-principle approval to the turf club to conduct online betting, after which the club announced that it will develop a mobile application where punters can place bets on races and receive dividends through a digital wallet. The proposal to introduce online betting itself is not a new one, as the club had made the proposal two years ago when its turnover dropped after the bets were charged 28% GST. With the introduction of online betting, BTC is looking at expanding its customer base and shore up its revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-months-on-races-to-resume-at-bangalore-turf-club/article32533535.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Five ‘abducted’ by PLA in Arunachal||“We are trying to verify the fact and are in touch with the Army since there have been past instances of the PLA capturing locals from the LAC and releasing them,” he added. Army officials said they have no information about the missing persons. But Nacho resident Prakash Ringling said his brother Prasad Ringling and the four others were working as porter for the Army along the LAC and were abducted by PLA personnel from Sera-7 on the international border. “He is a student and had returned home due to the COVID-19 restrictions. He took up the job of an Army porter for sustenance. I request the State government and the Army to help bring the boys back,” Mr. Ringling said. Nacho, about 130 km from district headquarters Daporijo, is a village with less than 400 people but has a police station. Mr. Bagra said the officer in charge of the police station had been asked to find out the details. District officials said the PLA had caught a person, also a hunter from the Tagin community, from near the LAC more than two months ago. He was released a month later after meetings between Army officials of the two countries. “Apart from instances of local people straying into each other’s country, we are not aware of any Ladakh-like tension along the LAC, stretches of which are an average of 260 km away from Daporijo,” a district official said. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) has condemned the repeated incursions by the PLA to create “tensions” along the LAC. “We are very much shocked and agitated that even in times of COVID-19-induced sufferings, the Chinese are resorting to war-mongering and mentally harassing the peaceful people living along the LAC by their rhetoric and notorious antics,” the union said in a statement. “Arunachal Pradesh and the AAPSU stand strong with the brave jawans of our Army. We will never propagate anything other than peace. However, we strongly urge our Army for giving a befitting reply to any misadventures from across the border,” the union said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-abducted-by-pla-in-arunachal/article32533529.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Border actions violate bilateral agreements’||Chinese state-run Xinhua news agency quoted Gen. Wei as saying that “recently the relations between the two countries and the two militaries have been seriously affected by the border issue” and it was “very important for the two defence ministers to have a face-to-face and candid exchange of views on relevant issues”. Gen. Wei reiterated China’s stand in the talks, echoing several statements last week where Beijing blamed India for the latest tensions. China on Wednesday said “the responsibility lies entirely with the Indian side” and had “kept maximum restraint to prevent potential escalation”, calling on India to “immediately withdraw its troops”. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) last week said Chinese troops engaged in “provocative action” on August 31 while discussions between ground commanders were on. This followed earlier moves on the night of August 29 which, the Indian Army said, were “provocative” military movements to change the status quo. To pre-empt these moves, the Army said, India undertook measures “to strengthen our positions” near the south bank of Pangong Tso. India has said the latest tensions followed China’s similar moves along the the border since early May, where it has sought to redraw the LAC in the Galwan valley, the Depsang Plains, the north bank of Pangong Tso and the Gogra-Hot Springs area, besides mobilising a large number of troops. Gen. Wei said: “The cause and truth of the current tension on the China-India border are very clear, and the responsibility lies entirely with the Indian side. Not an inch of China’s territory can be lost. The Chinese military has the resolve, capability and confidence to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity.” He added that the two sides should earnestly implement the important consensus reached by President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Modi and stay committed to resolving the issue through dialogue and consultation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/border-actions-violate-bilateral-agreements/article32533528.ece
06 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Court orders removal of PM’s name from civil suit||A local court in Gujarat on Saturday directed that the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi be deleted from a civil suit seeking damages for the gruesome killing of four British citizens during the 2002 riots. Four British nationals were killed in a rioting incident in Sabarkantha district of north Gujarat during the communal riots in 2002. The local court in its order held that there was no substantive material to link the defendant (Narendra Modi) in his personal or official capacity with the incident, and termed the allegations made in the civil suit as “vague and general” in nature. The court passed the order after a lawyer, S.S. Shah, moved an application on behalf of Mr. Modi, contending that his name as a defendant was not legally sustainable in the suit. Principal senior civil judge in Prantij town court, Suresh Gadhavi, directed that the name of Narendra Modi, who was the then Chief Minister of the State, be removed, along with former IPS officers K. Chakravarty, Amitabh Pathak and Ashok Narayan, whose names were also mentioned as defendants in the civil suit filed by the relatives of the deceased. The civil suit was filed in 2004 by Sameema Dawood, a British national, and others, against Mr. Modi, then minister of State for Home Gordhan Zadaphia, and 12 others. In the riots, British nationals Saeed Dawood, Shakeel Dawood and Mohammed Aswat were killed by a mob on NH8 on February 28, 2002 while they were returning from Rajasthan. Three of them were killed on the spot, while the body of the fourth was never found. In 2015, a special designated trial court acquitted all the six accused for want of evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-orders-removal-of-pms-name-from-civil-suit/article32533549.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘India only nation not to gain from lockdown’||As the number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 40 lakh mark on Friday, former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Saturday said the country may touch the 65 lakh mark by September-end. In a series of tweets, he took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement of winning the battle in 21 days, and claimed that India was the only country that could not gain from the lockdown. “By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh,” the Congress leader said. “PM Modi who promised that we will defeat coronavirus in 21 days must explain why India failed when other countries seem to have succeeded,” Mr. Chidambaram added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-only-nation-not-to-gain-from-lockdown/article32533554.ece
06 September 2020||Kannur,||Bomb blast near Panoor||Two steel bombs kept in a cover behind a house exploded when the owner tried to dispose them of in a river on Saturday evening near Padanakara in Panoor. The owner, who is residing in Bangaluru, had gone there to tidy up his ancestral house. The house had remained closed for a while. Unaware of the bombs, he tried to dispose of the cover thinking that someone had kept it there to do black magic. He carried the packet in a car and threw it in a river, when the bomb exploded. The Chockli police have initiated a probe into the incident. Meanwhile, the police on Saturday arrested a person who escaped after a bomb he was making along with four others exploded injuring three persons at Kathirur here on Friday. The police identified the suspect as Ashwanth, 22, a CPI(M) worker and native of Ponniyam. He is the second accused in a case registered in connection with the murder bid on COT Nazir. The police said Ashwanth was on guard duty, while four others, purportedly CPI(M) workers, were allegedly making the bomb. Rameesh (33) from Mahe, Sajootty (36) from Chundangapoyil, and Dheeraj (34) from Azhiyur who sustained injuries were taken to the Thalassery Cooperative Hospital. Rameesh, who lost both his hands, is undergoing treatment at the hospital. Sajootty, who suffered eye injuries, was later taken to the AKG Hospital in Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bomb-blast-near-panoor/article32533914.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Many hands ensure green fields for Odisha’s villages||The concept of labour cooperatives is still in vogue in almost all tribal communities, including the Dongria Kandh, Juanga, Lanjia Saura, Saura, Didayi, Paudi Bhuyan and Kandh in Odisha. However, not many are aware of these resilient traditions. When the Odisha State Tribal Museum recently screened a short film focusing on labour cooperatives of the Dongria Kandh, their structures and functioning, it left everyone awestruck. The Dongria Kandh, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, who live in the State’s Niyamgiri Hill range rising to 4,500 ft above sea level, practice at least 10 types of cooperative labour sharing within the community. “Here farming [on the steep hill slopes] requires more labour which a single family cannot provide. Therefore, they have evolved an indigenous system to engage the labour available in the community to accomplish the farming tasks of all the families of the village,” said Trilochan Sahoo, a leading researcher on tribal societies. Community members come together to reduce costs as well as ensuring dignity to all members. Through the cooperative, adolescent boys and girls, men, women and the elderly contribute equally in terms of labour towards the village’s fields and orchards. In the sahabati system, all Dongria households of the village work in turns for a day on the land of one villager. Traditionally, the host-labourer would offer a feast of rice, dal, curry and fermented gruel for the workers in return. Now the community feast has been done away with. but the host pays a token amount to the village fund. In a variation, under the pundabati system , 10 to 15 members of the community are called upon when fewer workers are required in the fields. Members of the village are also organised into specialised groups depending on the nature of the work. The daasibati is a cooperative of younger, unmarried girls from the village who are called upon to take up less strenuous but tedious work such as weeding, fencing of fields, cleaning or harvesting of crops. Their counterparts, the dhangdabati, young bachelors are required to take up work such as felling trees, hoeing, carrying logs and digging pits. Under datarubati , older men help each other for a share of liquor. “At a time when agriculture faces huge labour crisis, the prevailing labour cooperative in tribal communities appears to be a silver-lining. The community participation ensures that no field remains barren,” said Prasant Mohanty, a social activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-hands-ensure-green-fields-for-odishas-villages/article32533530.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ex gratia announced for families of fire victims||Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) has announced an ex gratia of Rs. 75 lakh each to the families of five engineers and two plant assistants, who died in the major fire at the Srisailam LBHES on the night of August 20. This is in addition to the ex gratia announced by the State government and suitable employment to one of the eligible members from each bereaved family on compassionate grounds. The State government had announced Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia to the family of a Deputy Executive Engineer and Rs. 25 lakh each to the families of four Assistant Engineers and two plant assistants. Two other employees of a private company were also killed in the fire and the government announced the ex-gratia to them too. Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao announced the ex gratia from the power utility on Saturday and stated that including the amount announced by the government, the total ex gratia amount would go up to Rs. 1.25 crore to the family of DEE and Rs. 1 crore each to four AEs and two plant assistants. He stated that the decision to pay the ex gratia was taken at its board meeting held here on Saturday. The employees and engineers associations of power utilities have also been demanding higher ex-gratia to the families of the deceased employees and the demand has been in the range of Rs. 2 crore to Rs. 5 crore per family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/genco-announces-ex-gratia/article32533891.ece
06 September 2020||Patna,||Tejashwi and Nitish spar over jobs claim||A day after Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar decided to provide government jobs to the next kin of any SC/ST person killed in the State, Leader of the Opposition and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday said the move, “was like encouraging murder of SC/ST people”. Ahead of the Assembly election later this year, Mr. Yadav listed several measures to deal with unemployment. “Why shouldn’t jobs be given to kin of people of OBC, or general category, who are killed? This is like encouraging murder of SC/ST people,” he said. He further said Bihar has one of the highest unemployment rates in India at 46%. “Around 4.5 lakh posts are vacant in different departments of the State government … if given a chance, our government will fill all the vacant posts and create new vacancies...” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejashwi-and-nitish-spar-over-jobs-claim/article32533546.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul flays Centre over jobs circular||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Central government over recruitment to government jobs, accusing it of following the philosophy of “minimum government, maximum privatisation”. The Congress also demanded the withdrawal of the September 4 circular of the Finance Ministry that puts a freeze on creating new governments posts without the approval of the Expenditure Department. “Modi government's thinking — 'Minimum Govt Maximum Privatisation'. The COVID-19 pandemic is just an excuse and the intention is to make government offices "free" of permanent staff. Rob the future of the youth and promote friends,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Party leader Rajeev Shukla asked the government to create more jobs as private jobs were shrinking because of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-flays-centre-over-jobs-circular/article32533551.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CDS remarks ‘unwarranted’, CPI tells PM||The remarks of the Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) on the India-U.S.-Australia-Japan quadrilateral are “unwarranted” and run counter to India’s stated position, CPI MP Binoy Viswam said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. He also asked the PM to clarify the CDS’ comments and lay out the country’s position. On Thursday, CDS General Bipin Rawat had said India believes that Quad engagement was a good mechanism to ensure there is “no fear of any nation singularly trying to dominate the oceans”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cds-remarks-unwarranted-cpi-tells-pm/article32533550.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. to frame Parliament strategy||The Parliamentary Strategy Group of the Congress will meet virtually on Tuesday to decide the party’s strategy for the monsoon session of Parliament that gets under way on September 14. Party president Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi are likely to join the meeitng. On Thursday, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad chaired a meeting where it was decided to take up issues such restoration of the Question Hour, border crisis , COVID-19 cases, migrant workers, job losses and the contraction in the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-frame-parliament-strategy/article32533552.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Centre has no funds to pay GST’||The Central government too has been staring at an empty barrel due to dwindling revenues on account of COVID-19 and it was not fair to attribute any other motive for being unable to pay GST compensation to states, observed Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Saturday. At a press conference, Mr. Reddy said it was not as if the Centre was flush with funds and was reluctant to part with them for states when the reality was otherwise as there has been a more than 60% dip in revenues. “We should all sit together and discuss on how to come out of this present unprecedented situation that has ravaged the entire world and every country. We should go about in the spirit of cooperative federal system instead of adopting a stiff attitude,” he averred. The Minister claimed that the Centre has been saddled with many other issues, including providing funds for the ‘Atmanirbhar’ programmes, loan schemes to the industry, small scale units, agriculture, supplying free foodgrains to the poor, for many months and so on even while keeping an eye on issues concerning international relations. The Centre had already enhanced borrowing limits for states and had offered to pay interest as well as stand guarantee to loans if taken by states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-has-no-funds-to-pay-gst-kishan-reddy/article32533894.ece
06 September 2020||Balrampur (U.P.),||Former SP MLA held in land grabbing case||Former SP MLA Aarif Anwar Hashmi was on Saturday arrested in connection with a land grabbing case, the police said. A case was registered in connection with the construction of a school on government land in 2018 by tampering with records. The charges against Mr. Hashmi were found to be true during a probe by the District Magistrate, Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma said. The former Utraula MLA was arrested from the party office in Sadullah Nagar.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-sp-mla-held-in-land-grabbing-case/article32533785.ece
06 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Cong. hits out at BJP-JJP govt.||The Congress in Haryana hit out at the ruling BJP-JJP government after the State’s ranking in ‘ease of doing annual business’ in 2019 dropped to 16th position, according to the data released by the Centre. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the drop in the ranking has exposed the failure of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-hits-out-at-bjp-jjp-govt/article32533786.ece
06 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM accuses AAP of spreading propaganda||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday appealed to the people of the State to get themselves tested for COVID-19 as the oximeters the Aam Aadmi Party is offering them are no substitute for testing. “These oximeters will not tell you if you have COVID-19 or not, they just measure the oxygen level in the body,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-accuses-aap-of-spreading-propaganda/article32533782.ece
06 September 2020||Guwahati,||Mahanta hospitalised for ‘very high pressure’||Former Assam Chief Minister Prafulla Kumar Mahanta was on Friday admitted to a private hospital in Guwahati after complaining of “very high pressure”. He is the second former Chief Minister to be hospitalised after 85-year-old Tarun Gogoi, who is undergoing treatment after testing COVID-19 positive on August 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahanta-hospitalised-for-very-high-pressure/article32533559.ece
06 September 2020||Lucknow,||Man dies after being assaulted by mob over theft allegations in U.P.||A 32-year-old man accused of stealing iron plates from a government office died in Bareilly district after he was tied to a tree and thrashed by a mob, the police said on Saturday. A case of murder was registered at the Aonla police station against seven accused while two were arrested, said the police. Footage of Basid Ali surrounded by the mob has been widely shared on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-dies-after-being-assaulted-by-mob-over-theft-allegations-in-up/article32533560.ece
06 September 2020||Bhopal,||Akhilesh Gundecha steps down from Dhrupad Sansthan amid sexual harassment charges||The Dhrupad Sansthan here has said it has launched an inquiry into allegations of sexual misconduct against Akhilesh Gundecha, a pakhawaj player and a music teacher, who had voluntarily recused himself from all activities of the organisation, which promotes the ancient style of Hindustani classical music. The organisation said an internal committee will look into complaints brought to its notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-gundecha-steps-down-from-dhrupad-sansthan-amid-sexual-harassment-charges/article32533563.ece
06 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Anubhav Mohanty in trouble over domestic violence allegations||Varasha Priyadarshini, a prominent actress in the Odia film industry, has accused Anubhav Mohanty — her husband and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) Deputy Chief Whip in the Lok Sabha — of domestic violence. Ms. Priyadarshini moved the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Cuttack alleging that she was subjected to mental and physical torture at the hands of Mr. Mohanty. She sought a compensation of Rs. 13 crore for loss of earnings as an actress and Rs. 2 crore for medical expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anubhav-mohanty-in-trouble-over-domestic-violence-allegations/article32533566.ece
06 September 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||V. Santosh Kumar and R Alagu Diwakar, aged 9 years, drowned in a irrigation tank near A. Mukkulam on Saturday. The boys, who were studying 4th standard in a local school, went to the Ayakulam tank to take a bath but they drowned. Their bodies were taken to the GH in Tiruchuli.    Unidentified persons decamped with valuables from a house in Tirunagar near Chinnamanur on Saturday. Police said that Sait Mohamed, a businessman, locked his house and left for Madurai. Neighbours spotted the front door lock broken and informed the house owner. It was found that some persons had broken the almirah and escaped with 8.5 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 1.25 lakh in cash.     Condemning the Centre and State for hike in diesel and for not giving any relief, mechanised boat owners and fishermen stayed off from fishing on Saturday. “Despite several appeals to give subsidy on petroleum products, nothing has been done. So, we decided to keep off from the sea from today”, said Karunamoorthy, CITU district secretary of the fishermen associations here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article32533992.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,870 fresh cases, 61 fatalities raise toll to 7,748||A total of 5,870 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. As many as 5,859 persons were discharged after treatment, while 61 deaths were recorded in the State. Till date, 4,57,697 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, while the number of persons discharged is nearing the four-lakh mark. As of date, 3,98,366 persons have been discharged and 7,748 persons have died of the disease. For the third consecutive day, Chennai recorded less than 1,000 cases. As many as 965 persons tested positive, taking the city’s tally to 1,40,685. The toll climbed to 2,845. Coimbatore continued to report 500-plus cases, with 545 persons testing positive for the infection, while 434 cases were recorded in Cuddalore. In Chengalpattu, 293 persons tested positive, while Salem recorded 250 cases and Tiruvallur 244. Tiruvannamalai, which has been witnessing a rise in daily cases in the last few days, recorded 239 infections. Cases surged in Tiruppur as 196 persons tested positive, while Nagapattinam recorded 169 cases. Vellore and Villupuram had 162 and 145 cases, respectively. The case counts in other districts were: Kancheepuram (152), Erode (140), Tirunelveli (127), Pudukottai (126) and Dindigul (122). The fresh cases took Tirunelveli’s tally past 10,000. Nine returnees also tested positive for COVID-19. Of the 61 fatalities (40 in government hospitals and 21 in private hospitals), 19 had died in Chennai. There were six deaths in Salem, five in Kanniyakumari and four each in Chengalpattu and Cuddalore. A 27-year-old man from Kanniyakumari with chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension was admitted to the Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital on August 22. He died on September 4 due to respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. Three persons in their 30s succumbed to the infection. Two of them did not have co-morbidities. They included a 35-year-old man from Tirupattur, who was admitted to a private hospital in Vellore with complaints of cough for three days on August 29. He died on September 4 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia.  Till date, 50,42,197 individuals have been tested for the infection in the State. As many as 81,793 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 52,12,534. Another five private laboratories were approved for COVID-19 testing — Molecular Diagnostics Division, Sri Gokulam Hospitals, Salem; Quality Care Diagnostic Centre Pvt Ltd, Dindigul; Raks diagnostic centre, Madurai; Shifa Health Centre, Tirunelveli; and Sri Narayani Hospital and Research Centre, Vellore. With this, there are a total of 160 testing facilities in the State — 64 in the government sector and 96 in the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-5870-fresh-cases-61-fatalities-raise-toll-to-7748/article32533705.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on integrated parking project begins||Preliminary work on Integrated Chennai Parking Project has started with Greater Chennai Corporation hiring a consultant to study all aspects of parking in the city. The consultant is expected to submit a report on locations that are congested in the city after assessing the chaotic conditions at busy intersections and commercial areas. Private parking lots developed by land owners are expected to be operated in various congested areas of the city as part of the project. “Any private land owner will be permitted to develop a parking lot and collect parking charges. The private parking lots will be linked with the Integrated Chennai Parking Project,” said an official. A meeting of officials will be held in a few days to discuss various aspects of the project which is different from other initiatives taken in the past. Last year, the government proposed to develop parking lots for two lakh cars and two lakh two-wheelers in the city. “All the earlier projects initiated to promote parking in the city will be integrated with the new project. New proposals will also be included,” said an official. For instance, the parking management system launched by the Greater Chennai Corporation will be integrated with the new project after its launch. After relaxation of the COVID-19 lockdown, parking management system has resumed operations in areas such as T. Nagar and Anna Nagar. “The parking management system on Thyagaraya Road and Second Avenue Anna Nagar has started operations. More areas will be included in the system shortly,” said an official. At least 12,000 vehicles are expected to get parking spaces in the parking management system. At least 91 locations managed by TEXCO will also be integrated with the new system. “Most of the congested roads will get underground parking lots. Some parks may be used for development of underground parking lots without affecting the greenery. We are exploring technology available for such projects,” said another official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-integrated-parking-project-begins/article32533693.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People with disabilities seek extension of bus pass validity||The Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) on Saturday asked persons with disabilities to collect bus passes from the respective rehabilitation offices. This, despite the Department of Welfare of Persons with Disabilities requesting the Department of Transport to extend the validity of last year’s free passes till December. However, the beneficiaries want the pass validity to be extended till March 2021. According to the MTC, around 6,000 persons with disabilities, in Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, are provided free bus passes every year. These passes are issued in April and are valid till March next year. However, in the wake of COVID-19, the government extended the validity of the passes till August. Earlier, beneficiaries in Chennai had to get the renewal application form from the rehabilitation office, and after verification, submit them at the MTC headquarters. Only 100 passes are issued a day. “To ease the process, we have handed over 2,056 passes to the rehabilitation offices. Beneficiaries can collect them after submitting the application form. They need not come to the MTC headquarters,” said an MTC official. These passes will be valid till April. “The passes were valid till August. But many beneficiaries could not submit renewal forms due to lack of transport. Now, they will struggle as bus services have resumed,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers. He said the body condemned the MTC’s hasty act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-with-disabilities-seek-extension-of-bus-pass-validity/article32533703.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds throng counters as bookings open for special trains||Hundreds of passengers thronged ticket-booking counters in Chennai on Saturday, as reservations for intra-State special trains, that will start running from September 7, opened.  The Southern Railway had announced that 13 special trains would be operated to different districts in Tamil Nadu from September 7, and only reserved passengers would be allowed to travel in these trains. A total of 43 counters were operated across Chennai, including at Chennai Central, Egmore, Beach, Tambaram and a few MRTS stations. Sources said till Saturday afternoon, around 3,000 tickets were booked at these counters. “Many have also booked tickets online,” said a Railways official. Many people were seen waiting at booking counters at railway stations, including at Egmore and Central, on Saturday morning. “To ensure adherence to physical distancing norms, people were asked to sit on alternate chairs. Those who came to book tickets were asked to use sanitisers and wear masks. The premises was disinfected continuously. RPF personnel ensured that all safety measures were followed,” said a ticket-booking staff at the Central railway station. There was a huge demand for trains to Kanniyakumari and other southern districts. “People are willing to travel now. They should ensure that distancing and other safety measures are followed,” a Railways official said. Suburban train services The Southern Railway is, however, awaiting the Railway Board’s permission to resume Chennai’s suburban train services Officials said they were hopeful that suburban train services would resume soon. “Since Metro services have been allowed, we expect to get the nod for operating suburban services as well. We will run a minimum number of trains initially,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hundreds-throng-counters-as-bookings-open-for-special-trains/article32533711.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. moves up a spot to 14th rank in ease-of-doing-business||Tamil Nadu moved up one spot, to get to the 14th position in ease of doing business ranking 2019, from the 15th place in 2018. The State did not make it to the top 10, nor was it in the list that had registered the maximum improvement in the State Business Reform Action Plan Ranking, released by the Union Commerce and Industry Ministry on Saturday. The rankings have come at a time when the State has been on a spree, signing investment agreements in 2019 as well as this year. At the beginning of 2019, the State held the second edition of the Global Investors’ Meet (GIM), during which it signed MoUs with as many as 304 companies, securing investment pledges worth Rs. 3,00,431 crore. In December 2019, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had said that 53 projects, resulting from deals inked during GIM 2019 had commenced commercial production, while another 219 were under various stages of implementation. He had also said that subsequent to GIM 2019, the State had attracted 63 projects, including those that came from his visits to the U.S. and the U.A.E., with an investment of Rs. 19,000 crore. This would create 83,300 jobs, the Chief Minister had said. Recently, Mr. Palaniswami said the government had signed 42 MoUs, involving an investment of Rs. 31,464 crore, with the potential to generate 69,712 jobs. Other metrics Government officials said the ease-of-doing-business ranking was just one subset among various factors deciding the State’s investment climate. The State had topped the Good Governance Index, was ranked third in export preparedness and second in the Investment Potential Index, they added. The officials said that the State was working on aspects beyond what was prescribed in the Business Reform Action Plan and had attracted the highest number of investment commitments during COVID-19. The government would continue to work on improving the ease-of-doing-business rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-moves-up-a-spot-to-14th-rank-in-ease-of-doing-business/article32533720.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable prices hit new high||The price of many vegetables, which has been on a steady rise, has hit a new high as arrivals to the wholesale market in the city dip this week. This has had a cascading effect on retail market as well. For instance, the price of beans has touched an average of Rs. 100 a kg in retail stores. Carrots sold Rs. 80-Rs. 100 a kg depending on the locality. Wholesalers say crop damage in neighbouring States like Karnataka due to rains and delay in harvest due to lockdown period were some of the reasons for 20% rise in prices of vegetables. The surplus produce in Andhra Pradesh is used to bridge the shortage owing to rains and transport of some of the vegetables to Chennai had been largely stopped. S. Chandran, president, Koyambedu Market Licensed Merchants Association, said price of most vegetables had gone up by Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 this week in the market at Thirumazhisai. Besides rains playing spoilsport in the neighbouring districts, the issues faced by farmers over the last few months led to the increase in prices. “Many marginal and small farmers delayed cultivation and harvest as they had been selling produce at a low price and suffered loss for the past few months,” he said. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, said although the price in wholesale market fluctuated every hour, it did not reflect in retail market. Wholesalers said prices may stabilise by December when arrivals may improve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-prices-hit-new-high/article32533696.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tourism-dependent Mamallapuram pins hopes on revival package||The usually busy coastal town of Mamallapuram looks desolate. The serpentine roads around various archaeological monuments are devoid of traffic. Shops selling clothes, stone sculptures and trinkets are waiting for customers. The tourist guides, photographers, sea shell sellers, sculpture makers and sellers, postcard vendors and autorickshaw drivers who populate this tourist destination are all jobless, and look eagerly at every passing vehicle. With tourist spots yet to reopen, those who depend on the industry are in dire straits. “We have borrowed heavily. We don’t know what to do. A few kind people, including hoteliers, have helped us with provisions. But we need to pay school and college fees for our children and rent as well,” said V.A. Balan, who has worked as a guide for 30 years in Mamallapuram. There are around 150 guides, 250 photographers, 350 stone sculpture sellers, 50 tender coconut sellers, 100 autorickshaw drivers and 150 trinket sellers whose livelihoods depend on tourism in the town. Some of the guides are recognised by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation as well. “After the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chinese President [Xi Jinping] last year, there was a surge in visitors. We used to be busy till 9 p.m. But all of a sudden, in March this year, due to the lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, our lives turned topsy-turvy. Most of us are daily-wage earners. But now, we have no income. If the government gives us some cash assistance like it did for other sectors, it would be very timely,” said S. Balu, a stone sculpture seller. These men, who are all friends, gather near Arjuna’s Penance almost every day to discuss their difficulties. They have been urging the State and Central governments to come up with some kind of a revival package for their town. “We don’t know whom to approach. We require help immediately. There are people like D. Gnanaprakash, who leaves his six-year-old daughter with his neighbours while going for construction work twice a week since his tender coconut shop remains closed, who need urgent help. Many are in a bad shape,” said J. Sethuraman of Mamalla Hotels Group. A tourism sector expert said that a revival package was a must for the industry. “The Kerala government recently announced a package. They have also decided to reopen tourist spots to domestic travellers. This is an important sector which brings in revenue to the government,” he said. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said that the affected persons in the tourist town could petition the District Collector, who would take immediate steps to help them.  Most of us are daily-wage earners. But now, we have no incomeS. BaluA stone sculpture seller||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-dependent-mamallapuram-pins-hopes-on-revival-package/article32533714.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Customers attracted to staycations’||Just days after they reopened following months of lockdown, hotels have been getting enquiries about staycations from individuals and families. “Of course they have doubts and fears, which we are trying to address. But this is a positive trend that we are seeing. We are getting calls from corporates too, asking for details of offers,” said Krishnakumar Menon of Aloft Hotels. Hotels are now trying out fresh menus that will suit the new norms. “We won’t have buffets. Many hotels are conducting trials at their restaurants with additional spacing. Though we have reopened officially, our store rooms are still being stocked and kitchens trying out new menus,” said another hotelier. Hotels that had offered space to emergency personnel and to corporates have already put safety protocols in place. “The standard operating procedures given by the Tamil Nadu government will be implemented properly since it is for the welfare of customers and hotels. In fact, most of us have stringent norms already in place. Hotels have also ensured that the staff are trained in the new protocol,” said T. Nataraajan, honourary secretary, South India Hotels and Restaurants Association. Taking safety practices to the next level, ITC Grand Chola has begun implementing WeAssure practices certified by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare and DNV GL Business Assurance. Zubin Songadwala, general manager of the hotel, said they were looking forward to curating wedding festivities and other banqueting events which have been awaiting the lifting of the lockdown. “With people craving for a break from home, but reluctant to travel far, we have designed some very inviting safe staycation packages for guests to indulge in, work, or unwind,” he said. Kerrie Hannaford, Vice President (Commercial), Accor India, said they have a ‘Let Us Take Care of You’ campaign in all hotels, by which they are extending a 20% discount on the best available rates on room rents, which include a breakfast and one major meal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customers-attracted-to-staycations/article32533707.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rules eased for availing agricultural power supply||The Tamil Nadu Electricity and Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has notified simplified procedures for availing new service connections for agriculture, and for shifting existing connections.  As per the revised procedure, ownership certificate from the Village Administrative Officer is sufficient and no other certificate can be insisted in normal cases for getting a new agriculture service connection. Farmers need not buy pump-sets in advance and they can buy them within the 30 days notice issued by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco). On receipt of readiness from the farmer with installation of pump-sets, Tangedco shall give supply within three days. In case a farmer is unable to get supply within six months, Tangedco will wait for five years before cancelling the application. In case of other categories of service connections, it will be cancelled after six months. Within a survey field number or in a sub-divided field number, a farmer can get more than one agricultural service connection to different wells, subject to the condition that the wells are independent and physically separated from each other. More than one agricultural service connection shall be given to a well in a survey field number or in a sub-divided field number, provided the co-owner(s) should own an extent of irrigated land of minimum 0.5 acre per service. A separate service connection for water pumping for non-agricultural purposes under appropriate tariff is permitted in the well having agricultural service connection. Installation of changeover switch in an agricultural service connection will be permitted for using the supply either for a motor-pump set or for a motor-compressor set to lift water from another well or borewell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rules-eased-for-availing-agricultural-power-supply/article32533728.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear temple cases on September 10||The Madras High Court has decided to pass comprehensive orders on frequent complaints related to alleged mismanagement of temple properties and funds by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department after hearing all related cases together on September 10. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha has directed the Registry to club all pending litigations on the issue and list them for hearing before the court on Thursday. The judges clubbed cases filed by the Indic Collective Trust, and those by Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam and A. Radhakrishnan. They also added yet another case filed by advocate B. Jagannath who claimed that land sharks were eyeing land belonging to the Kandaswamy Murugan temple in Thiruporur and to Alavandan Naicker Charity in Mamallapuram. The Bench passed an interim order restraining the Thiruporur sub-registrar from registering the temple properties in question until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-hear-cases-relating-to-temples-on-sept-10/article32533715.ece
06 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Builder has to fulfil obligations of erstwhile promoter’||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has ruled that a builder who has acquired an ongoing project, has to fulfil all obligations of the erstwhile promoter to home buyers, and is liable for any breach or delay. In their complaint, Bhoomijha Murali and K.V. Murali said that they entered into an agreement in 2011 for the purchase of a flat with Hiranandani Palace Gardens Private Limited, the developer, and Green Habitats Private Limited, the land-owning company, in a project located at Senthamangalam Village, Chengalpattu Taluk, Kancheepuram District. The agreed price was about Rs. 74.4 lakh and the property was supposed to be handed over in January 2013. They claimed to have paid an amount of about Rs. 68.6 lakh and only Rs. 5.8 lakh remains towards amenities, payable at the time of handing over. They said the flat has not been handed over as yet. Meanwhile, the project was acquired by Lucifer Constructions in 2014 via an auction sale held by HDFC Bank for non-payment of dues by Hiranandani , and Evita Constructions was appointed as developer for the project. The new owner and developer of the project argued that there was no ‘privity of contract’ between them and the buyers prior to take over of the project, and delay in handing over is only attributable to the erstwhile promoters. TNRERA rejected the argument and said the new promoters, having purchased immovable property of the project, are stopped from claiming that there is no obligation on their part. Under section 15(2) of the Act, the new promoters are required to comply with all pending obligations as per the sale agreement between the erstwhile promoter and allottees. It directed the new promoters to hand over the flats completed in all respects to the buyers by September 30, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builder-has-to-fulfil-obligations-of-erstwhile-promoter/article32533694.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senthil Balaji moves HC in cheating case||Former Minister V. Senthil Balaji has moved the Madras High Court with a criminal revision petition against the refusal of a special court to discharge him from a case of allegedly having taken money from many people by promising them jobs in the transport department. The revision has been filed against the order passed by the special court on August 26. The petitioner urged the High Court to stay the proceedings in the case pending before the special court till his revision petition was disposed of. He said the Central Crime Branch chargesheet contained vague allegations. Claiming to have been following a tight schedule as a Minister between December 2014 and January 2015 when the alleged offence was committed, the petitioner said it was impossible that people like the complainant approached him and had a tete-a-tete regarding public employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senthil-balaji-moves-hc-in-cheating-case/article32533699.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||12 police officers transferred||As many as 12 police officers in the rank of Superintendent of Police (SP)/Deputy Commissioner (DC) were transferred and given new posts. R.V. Varun Kumar, SP, Ramanthapuram, who was on compulsory wait at the office of the DGP, has been posted as SP, Office Automation and Computerisation, replacing J. Mutharasi, who has been posted as SP, Crime Branch, CID-II. Pravesh Kumar, who was posted as SP, Railways, Chennai, on Thursday after he was transferred from Vellore, has been posted as SP, Dharmapuri, in place of P. Rajan who has been appointed to the former’s previous post. R. Krishnaraj, Asst. SP, Devakottai sub-division, has been promoted as SP and posted as DC, Traffic, North, Chennai. T.K. Rajasekaran, the incumbent, was shifted and posted as DC, Headquarters, City Police. S. Vimala has been posted as the DC, Intelligence Section-I. R. Thirunavakarasu, who held the post previously, has been posted as the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Law and Order, in the DGP office. E.T. Samson was transferred from the AIG post and appointed DC, High Court Security. P. Sundaravadivel was transferred from the post of DC, High Court Security, and is now DC, Headquarters, Tiruppur city. K. Sridhar Babu, who was AIG, High Court Cases Monitoring Cell for the DGP’s office, has been posted as DC, Intelligence Section of the Chennai City Police. M. Sudhakar was shifted from intelligence and posted as the AIG, High Court Cases Monitoring Cell (DGP’s office).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twelve-police-officers-transferred/article32533716.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 2 lakh persons given emergency care: Minister||Since March, 2,41,615 persons received emergency medical care at government hospitals in the State. In a press release issued on Saturday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that 1,52,118 persons received treatment for injuries sustained in accidents at the accident and trauma care centres functioning under the Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Care Initiative (TAEI) in government hospitals and government medical college hospitals. Life-saving surgeries were performed on 63,633 of these patients. A total of 52,849 persons were treated for poisoning and self-inflicted injuries at these centres, while 19,947 persons received immediate treatment for snake bites. A total of 4,494 children underwent emergency life-saving treatment, 4,432 persons were treated for cardiac arrest and 7,775 persons for strokes, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2-lakh-persons-given-emergency-care-minister/article32533701.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plan submitted for modular hospital||Saipem India, a multinational company in Chennai, on Thursday submitted a design plan for building a portable prefabricated 24-bed intensive care modular hospital to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. According to a release, the hospital can be dismantled and assembled seamlessly at any site. M.B. Madhusudanan, senior general manager- HR, and Ravi Teja, head of engineering, Saipem India, handed over the plan to the Minister. K. Senthil Raj, mission director, National Health Mission- T.N.; R. Jayanthi, dean of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and E. Theranirajan, dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, were present, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-submitted-for-modular-hospital/article32533708.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider helping traditional musicians’||The Madras High Court has directed the State government to consider providing relief of Rs. 1,000 to traditional musicians, such as those playing thavil, nadaswaram and similar instruments, after soliciting applications and getting them registered with a welfare board for folk artistes. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha passed the orders while disposing of a batch of PIL petitions that said that hundreds of traditional musicians, dependent on temple events, marriages and such occasions, had suffered financially during the COVID-19 lockdown. The petitioners said that many such musicians had not received any benefit, since they were not registered with the welfare board for folk artistes. Responding to the petitions, Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal informed the court that the government had provided an assistance of Rs. 1,000 each to 37,000 beneficiaries who had registered with the welfare board. The judges directed the government to consider if it would be possible to grant the relief even to those submitting applications in future to get registered with the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-helping-traditional-musicians/article32533709.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drug cartel busted||Madhavaram police busted a drug cartel from Andhra Pradesh that was supplying ganja to Chennai and Madurai on receipt of online payment. With air, rail and road transportation hit by lockdown since March, the gang was transporting the contraband in the guise of vegetables and other commodities in goods carriers from A.P. After getting info on the movement of drugs, Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal asked his staff to tighten vigil on border areas. On August 18, the police nabbed two suspects, Arun Pandi and Vignesh from Madurai, and seized 451 kg of ganja which was smuggled from Andhra Pradesh along with onions. A special team headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Madhavaram K. Balakrishnan, camped at Nasripatnam in A.P. for three days. The team conducted a joint combing operation with the A.P. police in the town and nabbed Nakka Banu Prakash, 23, and Gandi Krishna, 23. Based on the information given by them, N. Sirajudeen, 33, of Madurai was held in Ennore. Saravanan, 30, also from Madurai, who had made online payment of Rs. 7.5 lakh to the gang in A.P., was arrested. The police are on look out for other suspects Navin and Thulasi of Nasripatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-bust-drug-cartel-operating-from-ap/article32533721.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||App launched||MedIndia Hospitals has launched a free mobile application, Med-Hap, to assist people in ensuring personal hygiene and safety amid the pandemic. Addressing mediapersons over a virtual conference, T.S. Chandrasekar, chairman and chief gastroenterologist, MedIndia Hospitals, said the app would help ensure safety of the people, as COVID-19-related restrictions were being relaxed. He said the app focused on 10 points, which included wearing masks, washing hands with soap or using sanitiser, adhering to physical distancing norms and covering nose and mouth while sneezing or coughing. “We are hoping that more people will use it to self-audit and monitor themselves. The application will also remind users to answer the questions on the 10 points, every night,” he said. He stressed that Med-Hap was being launched at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for the promotion of indigenously-developed applications. He said the app was available on Android platforms and will be available on iOS platform in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-app-that-helps-ensure-adherence-to-covid-19-safety-norms-launched/article32533724.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-way traffic to be allowed on RBI subway||On completion of repair works on the railway tracks over RBI subway, the traffic police said normal traffic will be resumed along the subway from Sunday. Since September last year, the railways took up work on replacing steel girders on the tracks. During the execution of the work, there was a need to partially close the road and it was made a one way. Now that the work has been completed, two way traffic will be reintroduced from 10 a.m. on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-way-traffic-to-be-allowed-on-rbi-subway/article32533697.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro extends timings, validity of trip cards||Metro has decided to extend services by an hour and now the first train will start at 7 a.m., instead of 8 a.m., as earlier announced, and the last one at 8 p.m. This has been done to help office-goers. Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) officials said passengers should get the validity of their trip cards and parking pass extended before October 7 using a travel card reader, which has been installed at all stations. “Passengers have to just bring their card and tap it on the device and the validity will be extended. And we urge passengers to top up their cards through the web top-up or through mobile app and then get it recharged through this device in station, ” an official said. CMRL officials said the QR code facility that is launched allows users to buy anything — a single trip, round trip and trip passes too. Minister M.C. Sampath reviewed the arrangements ahead of the resumption of services on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-extends-timings-validity-of-trip-cards/article32533698.ece
06 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Official, teachers take coracle ride to tribal hamlet to enrol students||A Block Education Officer (BEO) and teachers from a government school near Sirumugai in Coimbatore took a coracle ride on Friday and visited the residences of students in a tribal hamlet to ensure those students continued their studies. Karamadai BEO M. Ramesh Babu along with four teachers from Panchayat Union Middle School, Lingapuram, decided to visit the hamlet on Friday morning on a coracle to traverse Kanthayar river and reach out to the students who had completed Class V at a government tribal residential primary school in Kanthavayal hamlet. “The headmistress of the [Lingapuram] school said in a recent meeting that admissions for Class VI was low this year,” Mr. Babu told The Hindu on Saturday. He said that the headmistress P. Gajalakshmi and the teachers at the Lingapuram school had told him that none of the students from the tribal residential primary school at Kanthavayal, who completed class V had enrolled for Class VI at the Panchayat Union Middle School. In an attempt to persuade the children, Mr. Babu and four of the teachers took the coracle ride and reached the other side of the river on Friday and met with the children and parents. They succeeded in enrolling seven students. “We distributed textbooks notebooks, bags and uniforms to the seven students,” Mr. Babu said. Once the school reopens, the Revenue Department will arrange for coracles and motor boats to help the students cross the river and reach the Lingapuram school every day, he noted. “This is the highest number of students we have had for Class VI so far,” said M. Sivakumar, mathematics teacher at Panchayat Union Middle School, Lingapuram, who was one of the four teachers in the coracle. The Class VI will have this year a total of 28 students, which comprises the seven students from the Kanthavayal tribal hamlet, six other students from the Primary School at Kanthavayal whom the teachers reached out for admissions last month and 15 students already enrolled through the regular admission process, he said. With six teachers available at the Lingapuram school, they will visit the houses in the Kanthavayal hamlet twice a week from Monday to teach the seven students till the schools reopen. “Four teachers will take turns and visit them on Mondays and Thursdays,” Mr. Sivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-teachers-take-coracle-ride-to-tribal-hamlet-to-enrol-students/article32533759.ece
06 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Reservation commences for special trains at Coimbatore Junction||Reservations for the five special trains to be operated from Monday began at the passenger reservation system (PRS) counters at the Coimbatore Railway Station on Saturday. Officials from the Salem Division of Southern Railway said that only 102 applications for around 250 passengers were received at the PRS counters and the rest of the bookings were done online . A total of six counters were opened for the bookings from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. at the railway station. Stickers were pasted on the floor in front of the counters to indicate personal distancing as a COVID-19 precautionary measure and no overcrowding was reported on Saturday, according to the officials. From Monday, Train No. 02675/76 Superfast Intercity Special, Train No. 02679/80 Intercity Superfast Special and Train No. 02673/74 Superfast Express Special will be operated every day between Coimbatore Junction and Dr. M.G.R Chennai Central Junction. Train No. 02083/84 Janshatabdi Special will be operated between Coimbatore and Mayiladuthurai Junction except for Tuesdays. Train No. 02671/72 Superfast Special will be operated between Mettupalayam Junction and Dr. M.G.R Chennai Central Junction on all days. All five special trains received good bookings, particularly the Mettupalayam-Chennai train, on the first day of booking, officials said. The Southern Railway operated an unreserved special train from Coimbatore to Chennai for the benefit of candidates appearing for the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examinations. The counters for the train were opened at around 6 p.m. and the train left the station at 9 p.m., officials said. MP plea Meanwhile, Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan wrote to Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas seeking extension on validity of season train tickets purchased prior to the lockdown. Financial relief The MP said in the letter that the extension of tickets would bring financial relief for the passengers whose livelihoods were hit due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reservation-commences-for-special-trains-at-coimbatore-junction/article32533743.ece
06 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NEP has a bottom-up approach: academic||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 had a bottom-up approach with its focus on colleges, said M.K. Sridhar, member, University Grants Commission and the Policy drafting committee, at a webinar organised by the Association of Self-Financing Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu on Saturday. “If the Central government implements the Policy, colleges, not universities, will be the focus and in their strength lies the strength of higher education in the country. Thus far, the quality of universities mattered. It will not be the case henceforth.” Mr. Sridhar told an online group of teachers, principals and representatives of college managements that the universities mattered because they set the syllabus, question paper and evaluated the answer papers in the affiliating system. Degrees Now with the Policy proposing to do away with the affiliation system and colleges attached to the universities getting varying degree of autonomy depending on various parameters, it would be the colleges that would matter as they would offer degrees. The Policy also wanted the colleges to offer multi-disciplinary courses saying 40% of the 40,000-odd higher education institutions in the country offered a programme or programmes in a discipline. This as excluding the B.Ed. colleges. Diverse platform If the colleges were to offer multi-disciplinary programmes it would help widen the students’ intellectual horizon and provide them a diverse platform to choose various courses. And, such a multi-disciplinary academic environment would also help the faculty learn from one another or collaborate. The Policy, Mr. Sridhar said, gave freedom to students in that they could enter and exit any time, choosing courses at their convenience. This would mean that students could choose a course from college and another course from another college. Credit bank This would also mean that he could store the earned credits for a course in a credit bank, take a break from academics and return to complete the remaining credits for a degree. Taking this farther would mean that faculty also need not be restricted to a college. A faculty could be offering a course in different institutions, if needed, he added. The Association office-bearers also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-has-a-bottom-up-approach-academic/article32533770.ece
06 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Antlers, air rifle seized from four houses during raid, two arrested||Special teams of the Forest Department attached to the Coimbatore Forest Division and personnel from Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Saturday raided houses of people who were suspected to be involved in the making and use of country-made crude explosive for hunting wild animals. They seized one country-made explosive, locally called avittukai , an air rifle, nets, snares and antlers of spotted deer from four houses. The raids were conducted in villages of Pooluvapatti forest range and in villages near Kattanjimalai coming under Periyanaickenpalayam forest range based on specific information that some people were using crude bombs as bait to hunt wild animals like wild boar, said Forest Department officials. Two sniffer dogs, Dixley from Anamalai Tiger Reserve, and Tiger from Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, were also used during the raids headed by Assistant Conservator of Forests C. Dinesh Kumar and M. Senthil Kumar. According to officials with the Forest Department, the joint drive was conducted following recent incidents involving the use of crude explosive for hunting. A cow belonging to a farmer from Mettupalayam was recently killed after it accidentally chewed a food item stuffed with crude bomb which poachers kept for wild boar. Crude bombs were seized from poachers in early months of the nationwide lockdown too. The special teams also conducted door to door awareness campaign, requesting the cooperation of people to curb the use of crude bombs for hunting. Separate cases were registered against the four persons from whose houses one crude bomb, air rifle, nets, snares and antlers of spotted deer were seized. Two of them were held while two others were at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/antlers-air-rifle-seized-from-four-houses-during-raid-two-arrested/article32533761.ece
06 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Air India to begin service between Coimbatore-Mumbai on Sept. 9||Air India’s direct flight between Coimbatore and Mumbai after the lockdown relaxations will begin on September 9. According to officials with Air India office here, it will operate an Airbus A 320 Neo 162 seater aircraft with 12 business class seats and 150 economy class seats on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The flight will leave Mumbai at 10.55 hours and reach Coimbatore at 12.40 hours. The return flight will leave Coimbatore at 13.30 hours to arrive in Mumbai at 15.20 hours. This is one of the first flight service between the two cities launched about 30 years ago and it continues to receive good support from the passengers, says a release issued by Air India. IndiGo will commence a daily flight in Chennai-Ahmedabad-Coimbatore-Chennai segment on September 9. The flight will leave Chennai for Ahmedabad at 6.30 hours. It will reach Ahmedabad at 8.55 hours and depart for Coimbatore at 9.30 hours. The flight will reach Coimbatore at 12 hours and leave for Chennai at 12.50 hours. The flight will reach Chennai at 13.55 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-india-to-begin-service-between-coimbatore-mumbai-on-sept-9/article32533765.ece
06 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nominated||Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who is also the Chancellor, Bharathiar University, has nominated P. Kanagasabapathi, professor, School of Management and Adjunct Professor, School of Law, SASTRA University, and C.A. Vasuki, Secretary and Director, Kongunadu Arts and Science College, to the Bharathiar University Syndicate. A communication from the University registrar they would hold the membership for three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominated/article32533762.ece
06 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested on murder charge||Six days after a 60-year-old man was beaten to death with cricket bat on Avinashi Road at Neelambur when he was on morning walk, the Sulur police on Saturday arrested his wife and tenant. Investigation by the police revealed that K. Rajamani (58) and tenant N. Arikrishnan (41) conspired and the latter killed G. Kaliappan on August 31. According to the police, Kaliappan allegedly misbehaved with Arikrishnan’s wife on several occasions following which he complained to Rajamani about it. The woman told Arikrishnan that Kaliappan used to misbehave with other women and he used to harass her. As per Arikrishnan’s statement to the police, the woman allegedly requested him to kill Kalippan for which she offered him money. Arikrishnan waited near a private college on Avinashi Road at Neelambur and assaulted Kaliappan. He was admitted to a private hospital where he died. The police found that Arikrishnan made phone calls to Rajamani before and after the incident. The accused were produced before court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-on-murder-charge/article32533766.ece
06 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||September 7  Masakoundanchettipalayam sub-station (9 am to 2 pm) Masakoundanchettipalayam, Ponne Goundanpudur, M. Rayarpalayam, Sunda Medu, Chennappa Chettipudur, Manickampalayam, Kallipalayam, part of Thottiyanur, and Oraikaalpalayam.  September 8  Kavundampalayam, Seeranaikenpalayam, Madhampatty, and Devarayapuram sub-stations (9 am to 4 pm) Housing Board, AR Nagar, Thamami Nagar, Driver Colony, Samundeswari Nagar, Suguna Nagar, Union Road, Ashok Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Dhayal Street, Fire Service area, Nallampalayam Road, TVS Nagar Road, Gen nagar, Ohm Nagar, Amirtha Nagar, Ganesh Layout, Sabari Garden, Ranga Layout, part of Maniakarampalayam, 24 hours water supply Athikadavu scheme, Kavundampalayam, Subbathal Layout, Sastri Street, Maruthakutty Layout, Sampath Street, Periyar Street, VOC Street, CG Layout, Nedunchezian Street, Dheivanagi Nagar, Pudhu Thottam, Kannappa Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Karupparayan Koil Street, Thair Etteri Road, Balusamy Nagar, Seeranaickenpalayam, PN Pudur, Vadavalli, Vedapatty, Veerakeralam, Telugupalayam, Velandipalayam, Saibaba Colony, part of Sundapalayam, Selvapuram, Madhampatty, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondi, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Devarayapuram, Boluvampatty, Viraliyur, Narasipuram, JN Palayam, Kaliannanpudur, Puthur, Thennamanallur, Kondayampalayam, Thendral Nagar, Thondamuthur, Kembanur, Muthipalayam, Kalikkanakckenpalayam, Poochiyur, Puthupalayam, Dheenampalayam, Uliyampalayam, Dhaliyur, Kulathupalayam, and west Chithirai Chavadi.    Due to maintenance work at Perundurai Thingalur sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on September 7 at Thingalur, Grey Nagar, Kallakulam, Vettaiyankinaru, Pappampalayam, Mandiripalayam, Nallampatti, Suppaiyanpalayam, Thandacoundanpalayam, Mettur, Sukkakaranpalayam, Seenapuram West areas only, Dasampudur, Chellapampalayam, Veerachipalayam, Veeranampalayam, Karandipalayam, Thalayampalayam, Ponmudi, Naduvalasu, Ayicoundanpalayam, Kullampalayam, Netta Chellapalayam, Keezheri Palayam, Kombaiyan Valasu, Velankadu, Manoorkadu and Mamutti Thoppu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32533744.ece
06 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Action against schools that demand more fees: Minister||Action will be taken against private schools that demand a fee higher than 40%, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan told mediapersons at Gobichettipalayam on Saturday. The Minister said the Madras High Court had permitted private schools to collect only 40% of the fees that was fixed for the academic year 2019-2020 and the Chief Educational Officers in their respective districts had been asked to instruct the schools to follow the court ruling. CEOs to monitor “The CEOs will monitor private schools and if parents lodge complaints against schools for demanding more fees, action will be taken”, he added. The Minister also said 10 eggs along with dry rations would be given to the students every month until the schools reopen. 375 teachers selected for Radhakrishnan award Mr. Sengottaiyan said 375 teachers in the State had been selected for the Dr. Radhakrishnan Award. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will present the awards on September 7. Asked about the decision of the Kerala government to reopen schools only in January 2021, the Minister said that no decision on reopening schools in Tamil Nadu had been taken yet. Asked about teachers in private schools not receiving their salaries during the lockdown, Mr. Sengottaiyan said teachers could lodge their complaints with the School Education Department. Surplus teachers To a question on whether teachers in private schools, who lost their jobs, will be provided jobs in government schools, the Minister said there were 7,500 surplus teachers in the State and after filling existing vacancies, if needed, they could be appointed on a temporary basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-will-be-taken-against-schools-that-demand-more-fees-minister/article32533727.ece
06 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against Minister for failing to provide jobs||Stating that School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has failed to keep up his words in recruiting candidates who had cleared their Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) in August 2013, a few candidates submitted a petition to Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai demanding action against the Minister for breach of trust. A petition by members of “2013 TET Passed Candidates’ Welfare Association” submitted on Saturday said the Minister had assured to provide jobs to 80,000 candidates who had cleared their exam in 2013. On January 28, 2018, the Minister had reportedly again said that they would be provided job orders within a week which gave confidence to the candidates. TET certificate is valid only for seven years and the Minister had recently said that they should take up the exam again. “We were waiting for the jobs for seven years trusting the Minister. But his contradicting statement is affecting all of us,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-minister-for-failing-to-provide-jobs/article32533768.ece
06 September 2020||erode,TAMIL NADU||Solatium given to accident victims’ kin||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh each to the family of four victims, who were fatally knocked down by a TNSTC bus at Lakkapuram Puduvalasu on September 3. The victims, C. Balasubramani, his mother Pavayammal, his sister Pongi Ammal and her husband R. Mohampuri, all from Kulur village in Modakurichi block, were returning to their native on two two-wheelers from Solar when the TNSTCS bus hit them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-given-to-accident-victims-kin/article32533753.ece
06 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||State powerloom federation formed||Various powerloom associations have formed Tamil Nadu Powerloom Federation with Erode as its headquarters here recently. While L.K.M. Suresh of Erode has been elected as its president, R. Velusamy of Palladam has been elected as its secretary and K. Balasubramaniam as its treasurer. The federation also has zonal in-charges for Madurai, Salem and Chennai. Their key demands were continuation of electricity tariff concessions to powerlooms, waiver of Rs. 65 crore loan borrowed by powerloom owners, allowing production of free dhotis, saris and school uniforms throughout the year only in powerlooms and removal of anti-dumping duty for import of viscose yarn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-powerloom-federation-formed/article32533752.ece
06 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers affected by IDPL project to protest from Sept. 15||Urging the Centre to halt all the works related to Irugur (Coimbatore) – Devangonthi (Karnataka) Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) project, farmers affected by the project have planned to begin indefinite protest in six districts from September 15. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited has proposed to lay 249-km pipelines through farm lands in the districts of Tiruppur, Erode, Namakkal, Salem, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri that have a capacity to carry 3.50 million ton per annum petroleum products from Irugur to Devangonthi. The project, approved in November 2012 at Rs. 678 crore, was scheduled to be completed by October 2021. But the farmers affected by the project in six districts had formed a federation with A.M. Munusamy as its coordinator who held a meeting with office-bearers through video conference recently. The farmers said the State government along with IDPL officials was involved in soil testing and surveying the lands at Dharmapuri and Tiruppur without the permission of farmers. “We were demanding laying pipelines along the road which the former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had also insisted,” they added. But the project cost was increased to Rs. 1,472 crore and the completion period was extended to November 2022. Urging the State government to clearly explain its stand, the farmers would begin protest on September 15 in the six districts, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-affected-by-idpl-project-to-protest-from-sept-15/article32533751.ece
06 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Rain damages bridge on Sathyamangalam – Bannari road||Flash floods washed away a portion of the ground-level bridge on Sathyamangalam – Bannari road disrupting movement of vehicles here on Saturday. Since a bridge is being constructed on Dindigul – Mysuru National Highway in the stretch, a temporary bridge was laid a month ago that is used by two-wheelers while four-wheelers and lorries pass through Kenjanur to reach Sathyamangalam or Bannari. Rain in Talavadi, Hasanur and Dhimbam during the intervening night of Friday and Saturday led to water entering the area and damaging the bridge. Since the bridge was washed away completely, even two-wheelers cannot use the road affecting the people in villages in the area. Also, the ground-level bridge at Ongalwadi in Hasanur was submerged in flash floods affecting the movement of vehicles on Kollegal – Sathyamangalam Road. Rainfall recorded at various places in the district were Chennimalai 84 mm, Varattupallam 37.6 mm, Ammapettai 31.6 mm, Erode 15 mm and Talavadi 10 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-damages-bridge-on-sathyamangalam-bannari-road/article32533764.ece
06 September 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||One more testing facility at Karur||One more COVID-19 testing facility will come up in Karur, according to Collector T. Anbalagan. Inspecting the facilities available at the old Government Hospital where the new laboratory is to be set in the town on Saturday, he said the hospital had all facilities to to house the testing facility. It would be set up at the emergency ward. All needed equipment and other infrastructure were being established and it would function from Monday. Mr. Anbalagan said that swab and blood samples of the patients belonging to Karur town would be collected at the old Government Hospital. It would enable the patients to get the reports of the results quickly. Facilities to collect swab samples were functioning at the Government Hospitals at Mylampatti, Velayuthampalayam, Kulithalai, Aravakurichi, Pallapatti, Manmangalam and Krishnarayapuram. In addition to them, people could approach the 37 primary health Centres to give swab and blood samples. There was an arrangement to collect samples from patients at fever camps being held in different places. They would be sent to COVID-19 testing laboratories for analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-testing-facility-at-karur/article32534042.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ticket booking for seven special trains begins on a brisk note||Advance booking for seven train services that would resume on Monday to and from various destinations in Madurai Railway Division began on a brisk note. According to railway officials, all the trains would be run as special trains. Though the footfalls at the railway passenger reservation system centres were relatively less, the passengers preferred to book tickets through online services. “The booking of tickets for Madurai-Chennai overnight superfast express train was very fast and within an hour, the confirmed berths were booked and it reach RAC (Reservation against Cancellation),” an enquiry-cum-reservation clerk at PRS Centre in Madurai Junction said. Four reservation counters were kept open at the PRS. People coming to the PRS counters were given sanitiser. Wearing facemask was made compulsory and they were asked to maintain social distancing. The train services were abruptly stopped on March 24 following the breakout of pandemic. Subsequently, the State Government requested the Centre to run only intra-State train services from June 1 without connecting Chennai that had become a COVID-19 hotspot. Two pairs of trains – Nagercoil-Tiruchi intercity express and Madurai-Villupuram intercity express that were run with social distancing had to be suspended again on June 24 as the infection spread fast in various districts in the State. Trains to begin from Monday are: Train No. 02605/02606 Chennai Egmore –Karaikkudi –Chennai Egmore Superfast Special (Daily); Train No. 02635/02636 Chennai Egmore –Madurai –Chennai Egmore Superfast Special (Daily); Train. No. 02637/02638 Chennai Egmore – Madurai Chennai Egmore Superfast Special (Daily) and Train No. 02693/02694 Chennai Egmore –Tuticorin -Chennai Egmore Superfast Special (Daily). Train No. 06181/016182 Chennai Egmore-Shengottai-Chennai Egmore Special (Tri Weekly) and Train No. 02633/02634 Chennai Egmore-Kanniyakumari- Chennai Egmore Special (Daily) and TNo.02627/02628 Tiruchi –Nagercoil –Tiruchi Superfast Daily Special.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ticket-booking-for-seven-special-trains-begins-on-a-brisk-note/article32534001.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pothole-ridden Sattankulam road comes under HC scanner||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to file a counter affidavit in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the government to re-lay a road that connects Tiruchendur with Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. The petitioner, A. Allwin Asir Jebaraj complained that the road was full of potholes, was not maintained properly and it looked like a place somewhere on the moon or on Mars. The authorities concerned had turned a blind eye to complaints, he said. According to information given under the Right to Information Act, it was said that there was a proposal to convert the road between Tiruchendur and Sattankulam into a national highway; therefore no maintenance was carried out. Taking cognisance of the report, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that a road is supposed to be laid as per the specifications of the Indian Road Congress and it should be an all weather road. Lack of sensitivity It appears that the authorities concerned exhibited lack of sensitivity to the condition of the road, the court observed and suo motu impleaded the Secretary to the Highways and Minor Ports Department as respondents to the petition. The court made it clear that till effective and proper repairing/re-laying work was carried out, if any accident takes place and causes grievous injuries or death, the State Highways Department is mulcted with liability and responsibility, including criminal prosecution. After the State submitted that a tender has been floated for re-laying the road, the court sought a counter affidavit in the case with supporting documents and photographs. The case was adjourned to September 22 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pothole-ridden-sattankulam-road-comes-under-hc-scanner/article32534012.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rainwater trickles into temple tank||The efforts of Madurai Corporation in diverting rainwater from West Veli Street to fill the Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple tank on Town Hall Road seem to have paid off. Following the recent rains, a small quantum of water is seen stagnating in the temple tank — which was earlier parched. City Engineer S. Arasu said that the civic body has completed construction of a stormwater drain to bring stagnant rainwater from West Veli Street to the tank. “Usually, the stretch between Periyar bus stand and railway station gets flooded whenever it rains. By constructing storm water drain, it was ensured that the rainwater was not stagnant on West Veli Street and water trickled into the tank,” he said. The construction of stormwater drain was undertaken as part of restoration of the tank. Recently, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department razed down encroachments along the southern side of the temple tank. It has been more than 60 years since the tank brimmed with water. Mr. Arasu said that the temple tank lost its old connection with the Vaigai and was dependent on rainwater to fill the tank. “The storage of water in the temple tank will help to increase the groundwater table in nearby areas,” he added. The civic body has been working on the restoration of various temple tanks in the city. Earlier, the civic body constructed a link channel to divert water from the Vaigai to Mariamman Teppakulam through Panaiyur channel. Similarly, the storm water drains on Gokhale Road were cleaned to divert water to Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple tank at Tallakulam. “We are also planning to revive the tank of Immailum Nanmai Tharuvar temple,” said the City Engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rainwater-trickles-into-temple-tank/article32534010.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Southern districts see a slight dip in positive cases||A total of 99 people tested positive for COVID-19, here on Saturday, taking the tally of cases to 14,674. There has been a rise of 780 cases in the last week since August 29. The State health bulletin stated that all of the cases were indigenous. A total of 42 people were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities in the district. The total number of discharged are 13,376. The death toll remained at 364 as nobody succumbed to the disease. There were 934 active cases as on date. Virudhunagar district reported 118 fresh COVID-19 positive cases that took the total number of positive cases to 13,181. With only 25 patients having got discharged on Saturday (12,525 till date), the number of active cases increased to 460. With no COVID-19 related deaths, the toll in the district remained at 196. Theni has recorded 79 new cases with which the tally moved to 13,073. There were 174 discharges from the hospitals. Dindigul saw 122 new cases and the total number of positive cases was 7,154. Hospitals discharged 72 patients. Ramanathapuram recorded 20 new cases and the total tally stood at 4,931. There were 39 discharges from the hospitals. The total number of people who have been discharged stood at 4,454 as on date. Sivaganga reported 34 new cases and the total tally moved to 4,225. There were 35 discharges on a single day from the hospitals. Southern districts While the number of fresh cases getting reported in three southern districts is showing a downward trend, Tirunelveli continues to register 100-plus cases. In Tirunelveli, 127 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Saturday that took the district’s tally to 10,194 and the number of active cases to 1,249 as 101 patients were discharged. As three patients succumbed to the viral infection, the district’s fatality stood at 185. Kanniyakumari recorded 77 cases to take its tally to 10,099 and active cases to 867 after 14 patients were discharged from the hospitals. After five more patients died of COVID-19, the district’s fatality moved up to 193, the highest among the southern districts. After adding 60 more cases on Saturday, Tenkasi’s tally went up to 5,755 and the number of active cases to 649 as 36 patients were discharged. The district’s fatality continued to be at 107. Following its battle with higher number of COVID-19 positive patients, Thoothukudi recorded 47 cases on Saturday to have a total tally of 11,680 and 709 active cases as 95 patients were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-districts-see-a-slight-dip-in-positive-cases/article32534003.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||They adapt themselves to changes||While online classes have become the new norm during the COVID-19 pandemic, it can never replace a normal classroom, say teachers from the district who have been selected by the State for this year's Dr. Radhakrishnan Award in recognition of their service. Fourteen teachers from the district have been selected for the award. They are - R.R. Aiyammal, a teacher from Government High School, Vannivelampatti; G. Chandrakumar, Headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, Melakkottai; A.J.Charles Immanuel, a teacher from Government High School, Vandiyur; M. Kopperundevi, headmistress of Sriram Nallamani Yadava Girls Higher Secondary School, Tiruppalai; Naganathan, a teacher at Nadar Higher Secondary School, South Gate; M. Rajeswari, Headmistress, Government High School, K. Meenatchipatti; Gandhibhai Swamiyadiyal, Headmistress, Nadar Vidyasalai Middle School, South Gate; C. Suganthi, Headmistress, Corporation Middle School, Pykara; K. Roja, Headmistress, Panchayat Union Primary School, Polnayakanpatti; Amali Anita Regina, Subburayalu Memorial Middle School, Alwarpuram; A. R. Valarmathi, Headmistress, PKN Primary School, Tirumangalam; Sulaika Banu, a teacher at Rajam Vidyalayam Middle School, Arasaradi; Vijaya Sundar, Principal of Mahatma Montessori Higher Secondary School, KK Nagar and M. Arunakumari, Principal of The TVS School, TVS Nagar. Mr. Chandrakumar says that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought in numerous changes in the educational system and the teachers had to constantly adapt themselves to these changes. "Initially, many teachers struggled to teach the students during online classes. But, most teachers have now learnt newer ways to engage with the students," he adds. Ms. Arunakumari says focusing on the students emotional well being during the pandemic is highly important. “I train my students to make them prepared to face any situation,” she notes. Unlike students from private schools, most students of Corporation schools do not have smartphones or computers to access these online classes, says Ms. Suganthi. ‘But, we call them up regularly to enquire if their family can withstand the financial crisis caused by the pandemic,’ she says. The current education system has created enormous pressure on students, which needs to be addressed, says Mr. Charles Immanuel. ‘Every teacher must identify the talent that each student possesses and guide them to excel in it,’ he emphasises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-adapt-themselves-to-changes/article32534007.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Increase price of sugarcane: farmers||Farmers affiliated to Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers' Association staged a demonstration outside the Collectorate here on Saturday, urging the Central and State government to increase the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) of sugarcane to Rs. 5,000 per tonne with a recovery rate of 9.5%. State president of the association N. Palanichamy and State General Secretary D. Raveendran participated in the protest. The Central government has increased the FRP for 2020-21 to Rs. 2,850 per tonne with a recovery rate of 10%. But, most of the sugarcane cultivated in Tamil Nadu has a recovery rate of around 9.5%, said Mr. Palanichamy. “Hence, farmers will be able to earn a FRP of only around Rs. 2,707.50 per tonne,” he added. But, a tonne of molasses is sold for more than Rs. 12,000 in the market. The input cost of cultivating sugarcane has drastically increased, said Mr. Palanichamy. “Due to pandemic, sugarcane farmers have suffered huge financial loss. So, the government must increase the FRP for the benefit of farmers,” he added. The protesters complained that the State government did not pay the state advised price of Rs. 500 per tonne for sugarcane to farmers. They urged the government to take steps to ensure that sugar mills pay the remaining dues to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-price-of-sugarcane-farmers/article32533995.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Earmark more funds for overseas education of SCs, says RTI activist||Over the last eight years, only three students from the scheduled caste (SC) communities in Tamil Nadu had gone abroad with the financial assistance under the ‘Overseas scholarship scheme’ from the State Adi-Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department. Sharing the information obtained from the Right To Information (RTI) Act recently, Madurai-based activist S.Karthik told The Hindu on Saturday that this was far low, when compared with New Delhi and Karnataka, where the governments had not only earmarked more funds, but also ensured that the students’ utilised the scheme in a big way. The policy note of the Adi-Dravidar Welfare Department (2019-20) stated that it had earmarked an additional Rs. 6 crore towards SC students' aspiring to go abroad and pursue higher education and research programs. However, in reality, it was different as there were very little takers, he said. The response to the activist's query through RTI from the AD department indicated that 18 students from the SC community had applied over the last eight years (2012-13) to (2019-20) and only three students among the applicants had gone to study bio-technology, drug discovery and cellular biology in three different countries. The department had given Rs. 1.66 crore out of Rs. 2.65 crore earmarked. Even here, close to Rs. 99 lakh had not been utilised, he said. Suggesting that the government can create awareness at school and college levels, Mr. Karthik said that the government should set up special cells at the district level to reach out to the SC students. By doing so, more and more students may benefit from the scholarship scheme, he added. In Karnataka, the government has a "Prabuddha" scheme for SC/ST students. Every year, the government accommodated students including women (33 %) and differently-abled students from the community also get 4% quota. The government provided financial assistance to 250 students aspiring to pursue PG programs and 150 seats for UG courses abroad. Similarly, the New Delhi government too had earmarked Rs. 20 crore for SC/ST students to pursue higher education and research abroad, which benefited the community every year, Mr. Karthik said. The activist wanted the State government to enhance the scholarship scheme to Rs. 20 crore every year. The government should probe the reasons for poor turnout in the last eight years and rope in the Higher Education department officials also accountable so that the poorest in the society benefited. When contacted, a senior official in the Ad-Dravidar Welfare Department at Chennai said that the TN government has scholarship schemes not only for students, but also for lawyers who had just completed their law degree and can avail financial assistance, wherein certain conditions apply for qualification. The government, he said, has been sensitizing the SC/ST students about the various scholarship schemes. Funds were not a constraint and cited the policy note about the enhancement of the scholarship by Rs. 6 crore last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/earmark-more-funds-for-overseas-education-of-scs-says-rti-activist/article32534005.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Madurai has seen no death due to COVID-19 in two days this week’||“It is encouraging that Madurai has not recorded any death due to COVID-19 for two days in the last week. We strived hard to get to a point where we could say for sure that there would be zero death on a particular day," said Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar. Addressing a press meet at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, he said doctors, health workers and all in the district administration will continue to work hard until there are few or no positive COVID-19 cases. “Two months ago, the stigma against Madurai city existed as the number of cases was high. Things have been different since we have tightened the reins to tackle the disease. We have a total of 60 nasal cannulas, 150 ventilator beds and several other items of technology at the GRH to treat needy patients. Now, there is enough and more supply,” he said. He added that the GRH’s oxygen facilities were now nearly four times more than what the hospital had before the spread of the virus. “We also have enough facilities to treat patients from other districts as Madurai is the centre for the south. A majority of cases at the GRH are from nearby districts,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-has-seen-no-death-due-to-covid-19-in-two-days-this-week/article32533997.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion on Race Course Road suspended||Traffic diversion on Race Course Road to facilitate construction of elevated highway near Periyar statue that began on Saturday morning, as announced on Friday, was subsequently withdrawn. The police had planned to divert all vehicles proceeding towards Mattuthavani from Gokhale Road, Alagarkoil Road and New Natham Road through Race Course Road instead of Ambedkar Road. This was made to ensure one-way traffic on Ambedkar Road between Kakkan statue and Periyar statue. With increased road traffic and heavy rains reported in the city in the last few days, the road had developed big potholes with loose soil that posed danger to motorists. On Saturday morning, traffic on Race Course Road was made two-way to ease congestion on Ambedkar Road. The police had also put up new signages on the junctions. However, within few hours, the police withdrew the new regulation. “We faced certain technical issues and besides, the National Highways Authority of India officials have promised to provide metal top road on the widened portion of Ambedkar Road to ensure smooth and safe movement of vehicles by Sunday,” a police officer said. If things do not improve on Ambedkar Road, the diversion would be effected again, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversion-on-race-course-road-suspended/article32533999.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Teacher’s Day celebrated||Institutions and colleges celebrated Teacher’s Day on Saturday by honouring and recognising the teachers for their role in shaping the talents of the younger generation. Seminars were conducted on the importance of teachers. In the event held at the Punjab National Bank Circle Office in Madurai, five teachers were honoured for their contribution. The role of teachers in society was discussed at an event held in V.V. Vanniaperumal College for Women, Virudhunagar. A webinar was conducted at the Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College (Autonomous), Sivakasi. The role of teachers in the welfare and uplift of students, importance of technology driven learning and its demands were discussed at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-day-celebrated/article32534011.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Green gram to be procured||The Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business department officials have urged the farmers to register for the procurement of green gram at two regulated markets from October 1. An official said that green gram will be procured at Usilampatti and Thirumangalam regulated markets from October 1 till December 28. A kilogram of green gram will be procured at Rs. 71.96. The amount would be sent directly to the bank accounts of the farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/green-gram-to-be-procured/article32534006.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Para-athlete honoured||The Confederation of Indian Industry -Young Indians Madurai Chapter on Saturday honoured Dhyan Chand awardee J. Ranjith Kumar, a para-athlete and coach, at an event held in the Riffle Club, here. The Young Indians team awarded the athlete a sum of Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/para-athlete-honoured/article32534008.ece
06 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Complete disciplinary proceedings, says High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to complete the disciplinary proceedings initiated against a policeman, after a trial court had acquitted him from criminal charges in a corruption case, by giving him a reasonable opportunity. It was hearing a petition filed by R. Suresh Kumar who joined service as Sub-Inspector in 1996. He was suspended after a criminal case was initiated against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act. After the trial court acquitted him in 2017, he sent a representation to the State to reinstate him. However, disciplinary proceedings were initiated and he challenged the same before the court. The State submitted that the Police Standing Order states that, ordinarily the department would not proceed against an employee acquitted by a criminal court. But it was not mandatory that in every such case an employee would be permitted to go free without being subjected to disciplinary proceedings and the charge was grave in nature, it was submitted. Taking cognisance of the submission, Justice R. Suresh Kumar directed the disciplinary proceedings be conducted by giving a reasonable opportunity to the petitioner and the same be completed within a reasonable time frame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-disciplinary-proceedings-says-high-court/article32534013.ece
06 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister and Health Minister launch door-to-door testing in Puducherry||As part of the government’s effort to scale up testing to 3,000 per day, the Health Department on Saturday launched door-to-door swab collection of people to test for COVID-19. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao launched the programme at Krishna Nagar and Kurinji Nagar in the town on Saturday. Audio message In an audio message to reporters, the Chief Minister said the government would carry out the door-to-door swab collection in the town and conduct camps in public health centres in rural areas to do testing. Testing would be intensified in the coming days, he added Government doctors have been assigned the task of inspecting all seven medical colleges on a daily basis to find the quality of treatment provided to COVID-19 patients. Daily reporting The doctors would submit a daily report to the government on the quality of treatment, food provided to patients and hygiene in the COVID-19 wards of all medical colleges, the Chief Minister said. Reiterating his demand for GST compensation and reimbursement of money for implementing seventh pay commission recommendations, the Chief Minister alleged that the Centre was neglecting the Union Territory out of political considerations. Pointing to the agitation by around 400 teachers of government aided schools demanding salary on Saturday, the Chief Minister said Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi was “deliberately delaying sanctioning of funds with the intent to tarnish the image of government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-and-health-minister-launch-door-to-door-testing-in-puducherry/article32533717.ece
06 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 toll hits 298 in U.T.||The COVID-19 death toll in the Union Territory went up to 298 with 18 patients succumbing to the virus in 24 hours. While 15 deaths were reported in Puducherry, two were in Yanam and one in Karaikal. After a gap of several days, on Saturday the number of patients discharged exceeded new admissions. While there were 408 new cases, 433 patients were discharged from hospitals. Of the total new cases, 343 are in Puducherry, 32 in Yanam, 25 in Karaikal and eight in Mahe. With the latest admission of cases, the cumulative total was 16,566 with 5,161 patients currently undergoing treatment. Of the active cases, 3,399 are under home isolation and the remaining 1,762 in various hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-toll-hits-298-in-ut/article32533718.ece
06 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram gets a new SP||E. Karthik took charge as the new Superintendent of Police, Ramanathapuram district, on Saturday. Prior to the posting, the IPS officer had served in Colachel as ASP, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Madurai City) Law and Order, DCP (Flower Bazaar), Chennai City Police. In a brief chat with media persons, Mr. Karthik said that he would focus on maintenance of law and order and among others. The district would soon witness anniversaries of Immanuel Sekaran on September 11 and Thevar Jayanthi on October 30 and these would be accorded top priority by the police, he said. Seeking the cooperation of the people, he assured that he would be in touch with the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-gets-a-new-sp/article32534016.ece
06 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Residents resort to sapling planting protest to lay road in Salem||Residents of Pillayar Nagar here staged sapling planting protest on road demanding the authorities to take necessary steps to lay proper road here on Saturday. The residents, along with members of Democratic Youth Federation of India, charged that the road has been in bad shape for over five months before the COVID-19 restrictions kicked in and despite repeated requests no action has been taken. V.Jaganathan, a DYFI functionary, said, “the road was dug by officials several months ago to lay drainage and authorities promised to repair the road at the earliest. However, no measures were taken to repair and relay the road despite repeated petitions to Salem Corporation officials. The road has turned slushy in the recent rain making it unusable. Authorities must take necessary measures at the earliest.” Salem Corporation officials later visited the spot and promised to repair the road at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-resort-to-sapling-planting-protest-to-lay-road-in-salem/article32533772.ece
06 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||22-year-old youth dies in cylinder blast||A 22-year-old youth working at a fire safety manufacturing unit died in a blast while filling nitrogen gas to one of the cylinders on Friday. According to the police, when Bhaskar was filling nitrogen into smaller extinguisher units from a big cylinder, the blast occurred and he died on the spot. The Sooramangalam police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-year-old-youth-dies-in-cylinder-blast/article32533755.ece
06 September 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur dam was reduced to 6,000 cusecs on Saturday. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 90.95 ft against a total scale of 120ft and stored capacity of water at the dam was 53,743 mcft. The inflow of water to the dam was 17,790 cusecs and outflow was reduced from 9,000 cusecs to 6,000 cusecs on Saturday. The outflow through East-West canal was maintained at 700 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article32533757.ece
06 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors allege threats||A group of street vendors, who run shops on the Anandha bridge market premises, staged a protest alleging that some vendors who could not get space in the area were threatening them. The protesters alleged that they used foul language against them and threatened them with an aim to usurp money. They urged the authorities to take action against such persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendors-allege-threats/article32533756.ece
06 September 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks units asked to follow safety measures||Following the fatal accident at a cracker unit that claimed seven lives in Cuddalore district on Friday, the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) has asked fireworks industry to scrupulously follow all safety precautions while manufacturing, handling, storage and transport of fireworks. “With manufacturing activities in full swing as Dussera and Deepavali are fast approaching, we have reminded the industry of the need for strict compliance with safety measures to avoid any accident on their premises,” the organisation’s Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives K. Sundaresan said. Till now, the manufacturers were complaining about poor take off of their finished products due to the lockdown and uncertainty over the demand for fireworks due to the pandemic. Some of them even sought the government’s assurance to ensure the usual celebration of Deepavali that would facilitate movement and sale of fireworks. “Now that the lockdown rules have been relaxed to a major extent, the manufacturers might hope for a better celebration and expect higher demand for fireworks,” Mr. Sundaresan said. In such a situation, the workers would tend to rush in making the fireworks to meet the shorter deadline, forgetting to comply with the safety measures, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-units-asked-to-follow-safety-measures/article32533725.ece
06 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ body submits memorandum||The Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam has sought disbursement of crop loss compensation through primary agriculture cooperative banks (PACBs). In a memorandum submitted to Collector M. Govinda Rao, the organisation’s Thanjavur district secretary, N.V. Kannan, pointed out that the crop insurance company had started crediting the compensation amount in bank accounts of farmers who insured their crop during 2019-20 samba and thaladi seasons. Stating that the farmers who received compensation were those who insured their crop through e-service or private internet browsing centres or through their own personal computers, Mr. Kannan claimed that they had given details of their saving bank account with nationalised or private banks at the time of electronically remitting the crop insurance premium. But a sizeable number of farmers paid the premium amount through PACBs and were yet to get the compensation amount credited in their accounts with PACBs. Directing the PACB account holders to open a new account in District Central Cooperative Bank branches to receive the crop loss compensation during the pandemic was unwarranted. Besides, the DCCB did not have branches even at all taluks, Mr. Kannan pointed out. Even if DCCB branches existed or would be set up immediately at taluks, it would be absurd to make farmers travel to nearby towns to open savings account and collect the compensation at a time when society was slowly limping back to normalcy from difficult days the people had during the last six months in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Kannan added. He urged the district administration to initiate necessary steps for disbursement of crop loss compensation amount through the PACBs as in the nearby Tiruvarur district where the compensation amount was credited in the savings account of the farmers in PACBs. Meanwhile, inquiries revealed that the Agriculture Insurance Company of India Ltd, which was implementing the crop insurance scheme in Thanjavur district, had released Rs. 67.83 crore as compensation for the crop loss suffered by the farmers in the district. The insurance company was said to have divided the district into 865 ‘crop villages’ for collection of insurance premiums and calculation of crop loss. It had declared 337 out of 865 ‘crop villages’ as ‘nil’ crop loss villages and the percentage of crop loss in the remaining crop villages ranged from 0.07 per cent at Koviladi in Budalur block to 62.52 percent at Siramelkudi in Madukkur block, according to official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-body-submits-memorandum/article32534053.ece
06 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation yet to begin desilting of storm water drains||With the northeast monsoon just a month away, Tiruchi Corporation is yet to start the annual exercise of desilting storm water drains in the city. The city is vulnerable to flooding and water inundation during monsoon season. In the absence of periodical maintenance to remove litter and accumulated waste, open drains invariably overflow in the monsoon season and many roads get inundated. The northeast monsoon, set to begin in October, brings more than 50% of the city’s annual rainfall. Ahead of the monsoon, the civic body generally carries out a special exercise of desilting of major and minor storm water drains in August and September. It is aimed at removing clogs and silt so as to prevent flooding in the city. This year, the exercise has not started yet. Several drains such as Rettai Vaical, Devadhanam Vaical and other open drains on Puthur-Woraiyur road, Thillai Nagar 80 Feet Road, Lawsons Road and other places are among those clogged with waste including plastics and accumulated silt. Several traders also dump vegetable and fruits in open drains at various spots, which affects the free flow of drains. M. Sekaran, member, District Road Safety Council, says that absence of a regular cleaning mechanism has resulted in choking of storm water drains at various places. Major drains and irrigation canals, including Thennur Rettai Vaical, have been encroached for so long, thereby severely affecting the flow. Before the onset off monsoon, the Corporation should clean all irrigation canals and open drains to prevent flooding. When contacted, a senior official of the Corporation toldThe Hinduthat the civic body was engaged in the construction of smart drains at Rs. 39.45 crore. Out of 43 smart drain works, 26 had already been started. Similarly, construction of retaining walls and development of open drains had been taken up at a cost of Rs. 23.58 crore. Out of 25 works, seven were underway. Smart storm water drains on West Boulevard Road (Theppakulam post office to R.R. Sabha), Kaliamman Temple Street, Sankaran Pillai Road, Puthur Main Road, Thillai Main Road, Annamalai Nagar Main Road and Virupachipuram Vaical were covered under the smart drain and open drain development projects. Silt would be cleared from the canals during construction. Desilting of other open drains and canals would be taken up shortly to ensure there was no major water inundation in the city during the rainy season, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-yet-to-begin-desilting-of-storm-water-drains/article32534041.ece
06 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||5 deaths, 758 new cases in central region||The central region on Saturday recorded an increase in COVID-19 cases with 758 patients testing positive for the viral infection, compared to Friday’s count of 679. Five patients succumbed to the viral infection including three in Pudukottai and one each in Thanjavur and Tiruchi. A 50-year-old man who had suffered a cerebrovascular accident and a kidney injury, a 54-year-old man with end-stage renal disease and a 75-year-old with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease succumbed to the infection in Pudukottai. A 56-year-old man with pre-existing conditions of chronic kidney disease and a 72-year-old man suffering from Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s died of COVID-19 in Thanjavur and Tiruchi, respectively. On Saturday, Nagapattinam recorded the highest number of cases with 169 patients testing positive. “The high number is due to a large number of samples processed on Saturday,” a senior health official said. Meanwhile, Pudukottai recorded 126 new cases and Thanjavur 114. Among those who tested positive in Thanjavur was a deputy tahsildar in Kumbakonam, two staff nurses at Kumbakonam Government Hospital, a village health nurse, four workers at the Deputy Inspector General’s office and two employees of a nationalised bank. In Tiruvarur, 111 patients tested positive for the viral infection. In Tiruchi, 108 new cases were reported and four new containment zones were added. “We are continuing to barricade streets to contain the transmission of the virus,” S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner said. The newly added zones were Lingam Nagar, Mariamman Kovil Street in Kottapattu, Ponneripuram and Keezhaveereswaram Street. Ariyalur recorded 66 new cases and, among them, 20 hailed from Ariyalur block, 16 from Thirumanur, one from Sendhurai, 16 from T. Palur, four from Andimadam and nine from Jayankondam block. Meanwhile, 808 new throat swabs were lifted from primary contacts, residents in containment zones and people with symptoms of COVID-19, and sent for tests. Karur recorded 44 new cases including patients from Anna Nagar, Rayanur, Velliyanai, Kamarajapuram. Meanwhile, 20 patients tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Perambalur. Eleven of them hailed from Perambalur block, three each from Veppanthattai, Alathur and Veppur blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-deaths-758-new-cases-in-central-region/article32534044.ece
06 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||MSU to hold final semester exam||The Manonmaniam Sundaranar University will conduct the final semester examinations for the undergraduate and postgraduate students from September 21 onwards. In a statement, Registrar, MSU, S. Santhosh Baboo, said the final semester to be written by the undergraduate and postgraduate regular and private candidates of MSU and the affiliated colleges in April 2020 will commence on September 21. While the UG and the PG students of science stream will write the examinations between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m., the arts and commerce students will take the exam from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. in their respective colleges. M.Phil. students will write the examination from September 23 between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. Those who cannot write the final semester examinations in the colleges where they studied due to pandemic, arrangements will be made for enabling them to take the examinations in an affiliated college situated closer to their residence. Those who are stranded in other districts, other States or in foreign countries may take online exam or take it in an examination centre approved by MSU. Candidates, who want to write the examination in a centre other than the college where they had studied or to take online examination, should contact the principal of their college immediately to register their names before September 10. Based on the information to be provided by the principals, alternative arrangements will be made for these students. Results uploaded Results of those who had paid the examination fee for the second and fourth semester examinations in April last have been uploaded in the MSU website and sent to the registered mobile phones. Results of arrear examinations (semesters 1 to 5 of undergraduate programmes and semesters 1 to 3 of postgraduate courses) to be written by the candidates in April last will be declared based on the government’s guidelines, Dr. Santhosh Baboo said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msu-final-semester-ug-pg-exams-from-september-21/article32534014.ece
06 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water from Amaravathi dam released||With increased inflow, surplus water was released from the Amaravathi dam in Tiruppur district on Friday night. An official from the Public Works Department (Water Resources Organisation) said the water level touched 88.5 feet against the full reservoir level of 90 feet at 8 p.m. on Friday. While the water released was around 4,800 cusecs on Friday night, the outflow was reduced to 675 cusecs on Saturday morning, the official said. On Saturday, the storage was 3.913 tmc against the capacity of 4.047 tmc. This is the first time in two years that the surplus water was released from the dam, apart from regular release for irrigation. Surplus water was previously released from the dam in August 2018, the official said. While the water was released for irrigation for the old and new ayacut areas in August this year, the State government is considering a proposal to release the water for irrigation again this month, the official said. Flood alert issued Sources in the Revenue Department said on Saturday that flood warning was already issued to two villages - Elayamuthur and Kallapuram - on the banks of the Amaravathi earlier in the week. Government schools in the vicinity have been arranged to be used as shelters in case of flooding, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surplus-water-from-amaravathi-dam-released/article32533754.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SETC to operate only non-AC buses from Monday||The State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) will operate only non-air conditioned (AC) buses for inter-district services from Monday, an official from Coimbatore said on Saturday. As of Saturday, about 40 ultra-deluxe non-AC buses were ready to be operated from Coimbatore. However, the number of buses that will be used for inter-district operations will be decided based on the ticket bookings by Sunday, the official said. On Saturday, the SETC buses parked at the Kavundampalayam depot were washed and disinfected as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Of the 43 seats in each of the ultra-deluxe non-AC buses, only 25 passengers will be allowed to travel in compliance with the personal distancing norms, the official said. Some of the routes under consideration are Coimbatore-Puducherry-Chennai, Kanniyakumari-Udhagamandalam and Nagercoil-Udhagamandalam, but these will be finalised by Sunday, according to the SETC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/setc-to-operate-only-non-ac-buses-from-monday/article32533740.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district records 545 new cases||Coimbatore district recorded 545 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases reported, so far, to 18,410. As many as 4,729 patients were undergoing treatment in different hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in the district on Saturday. According to officials with the Health Department, the number of positive cases per day will continue to remain high this week. As per the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, a 63-year-old man from Coimbatore who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on August 30 succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday. On Saturday, 366 persons who recovered from the disease got discharged from different hospitals and CCCs. As many as 250 positive cases were reported in Salem. Health officials said 249 were indigenous cases, including 178 in Salem Corporation limits and one patient has returned from Namakkal. Four patients affected with the disease who were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and private hospitals died. Tiruppur district reported 196 fresh cases on Saturday, its highest single-day increase, so far. The district also reported two deaths on Saturday. A 73-year-old woman and an 85-year-old man died during treatment for COVID-19 on Friday at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Saturday issued a warning to the residents that walking in public places without a mask will attract a fine of Rs. 200 and those spitting in public places will be fined Rs. 500. The police and the local bodies will levy the spot fines. Repeat offenders will be booked under the Disaster Management Act, the Collector said in a release. Among the fresh cases reported on Saturday were employees from three garment industries - two in Avinashi block and one in Gudimangalam block. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan chaired a meeting with industrialists from the district regarding precautionary measures amid the growing COVID-19 cases within industries. The district’s overall tally stood at 3,305 cases. A total of 96 patients were discharged from various hospitals upon recovery. Erode district reported 141 new cases taking the district’s tally to 3,728. A total of 60 persons were discharged on Saturday while 1,228 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died taking the death toll, so far, to 46. A total of 88 persons tested positive in Krishnagiri. This has taken the total number of cases to 2,478 and number of active cases to 506 in the district. In Namakkal, 86 cases were reported. According to officials, the affected persons include two police personnel. 17 patients have returned from other districts like Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Thiruvanamalai, Nagapattinam and Karur. Two patients have returned from other States like Odisha and Maharashtra. In Dharmapuri, 50 persons tested positive. This has taken the total number of cases to 1,421 cases and the total number of active cases to 234.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-records-545-new-cases/article32533738.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||WFH brings environmental windfall||Disruptive disasters have a way of exposing the banality of our problem-solving rituals. Unoriginal thinkers have predictably responded to the problem of growing traffic congestion by expanding road space. Frustrated by the peak hour congestion along Greenways Road, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Bridge and Santhome Road, two judges in the Madras High Court decided to take matters into their hands. In February 2020, they tasked the Greater Chennai Corporation with working out the feasibility of building an alternative route to Besant Nagar by re-fashioning the Broken Bridge across the Adyar Estuary into an elevated expressway. That road would have merely transferred pollution and congestion from Santhome and Thiru Vi Ka bridge to the Marina Loop Road and Besant Nagar beach. For this, 1,200 fishing families would have had to be evicted, and some 500 women fish vendors would lose their livelihood space. With no strategies to keep the rising number of vehicles in check, even this relief would have been short-lived. The COVID-19 lockdown has spotlighted possible cures for seemingly intractable urban challenges, including poor air quality, congested roads, angry commuters and unpopular road building projects. It is ironic, and perhaps befitting, that a virus that attacks the lungs has shown us the way to safeguard the air we breathe. Before the lockdown, Work From Home (WFH) was written off as a cute and hip gesture. In the five months of blue skies and quiet on the city’s streets, the IT industry discovered that WfH works. R. Sundar Kannan, an executive with a leading Wall Street bank employing 3,500 people in Chennai, says WFH may have permanently changed how work will be done. “Productivity has increased. Long-distance commuters are relieved, and we are just realising the many more potential benefits WFH can yield,” Mr. Kannan says. His company is looking to halve its real estate needs as the lockdown has shown the way for cost-cutting dividends. IT giants like TCS and Cognizant are expected to follow suit. IT sector’s gains The IT sector has large energy, water and space footprints. Aided by WFH, the tech sector’s new normal can have positive collaterals for Chennai’s environment. Peak hour traffic on Thiru. Vi. Ka. bridge and along the IT corridor is flowing freely despite full relaxation for the IT sector. The lockdown has demonstrated that at no investment, congestion can be relieved, air quality can improve and fuel use reduced if the IT and BPO sector are encouraged to explore WFH options. Demand for water has declined drastically. According to South Chennai Private Water Tanker Lorry Association, water supplied by its tankers has dipped from 3.2 crore litres daily to 40 lakh litres. The salubrious impact of WfH will be evident on the water tables of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chennai’s peri-urban areas. While WFH may have had a positive effect on the city’s environment, the empty IT buildings have hurt the poorest hardest. Thousands of janitorial and housekeeping jobs have evaporated and small business that depended on high-spending IT professionals have shut shop. It is up to the government to ensure that the fortuitous environmental windfall created by WFH does not become a social nightmare for working people of Semmencheri and Kannagi Nagar. The WHO has declared September 7 as the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies. In the 10 months since the first COVID-19 case was detected in China, more than 8,50,000 lives have been lost to the disease. But every year, five times that number reportedly die just due to ambient air pollution. It would be unwise for metropolises such as Chennai, Pune, Hyderabad and Bengaluru to ignore the possibilities presented by the lockdown for redefining work, workspaces and work cultures to help our cities emerge from the gridlocked cesspools that they have become.  (The author is a writer   and social activist)   The lockdown has demonstrated that at no investment, congestion can be relieved, air quality can improve and fuel use reduced if the IT and BPO sector are encouraged to explore WfH options||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wfh-brings-environmental-windfall/article32533723.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Support materials given to police force||Coimbatore City Police on Saturday distributed COVID-19 support materials, including safety gears and health supplements, to police personnel. The materials included masks, gloves, sanitisers, protective goggles, health supplements, and energy drinks that were given to 2,500 police personnel. WhatsApp groups Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said that all the police stations in the city are having WhatsApp groups wherein personnel having symptoms of COVID-19 or those feeling unwell could share information. Such personnel will be asked to remain home quarantined. “Those having symptoms for more than a day need to get tested. The number of personnel working in stations have also been reduced to avoid cluttering,” he said. So far, 115 police personnel attached to Coimbatore City Police tested positive for COVID-19. As of Saturday, 16 personnel were undergoing treatment, said Mr. Sharan. He added that all personnel who tested positive, except those were undergoing treatment, recovered from COVID-19 and none of them had required ventilator support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/support-materials-given-to-police-force/article32533750.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safety norms violators warned||With the regular businesses set to open up with few regulations on September 7 after a long hiatus induced by a pandemic, the district administration has warned of penalties on public and business establishments for violations of the guidelines put forth by the government. The lifting of the total lockdown has been conditional subject to a raft of safeguards and self-regulations to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Collector V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy has warned of penalties under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 against violators as directed by the State government. According to the administration, with all businesses set to open to full time activities starting Monday, establishments and individuals are expected to follow safeguards as directed by the government. Penalties that will slapped against violators would include a fine of Rs. 500 for those jumping quarantine, or breaking the rules of quarantine; Rs. 500 for spitting on the streets; and Rs. 200 for skipping mask in public. Business establishments including shops, gyms, beauty parlours will be slapped a fine of Rs. 5,000 for any violation. Similarly, those breaking the guidelines of a complete shutdown in containment zones will be fined Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 500 for business establishments and individuals respectively. As the district witnesses a daily spike in COVID-19 cases, the Collector has warned of action against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-norms-violators-warned/article32533735.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shops in basement flooded near Chathram Bus Stand||The poor storm water drainage system was left exposed yet again during Friday’s heavy downpour in the city. Ironically, the ongoing works on construction of drains in places such as West Boulevard Road and Chathram Bus Stand compounded the problems for motorists and shopkeepers. Shopkeepers at the basement of a commercial complex, behind Chathram Bus Stand, were the worst hit as the heavy rain left their shops flooded, causing extensive damage to goods and equipment. Although the basement would get inundated with ankle deep water during heavy spells of rain, work on construction of a drain around the complex this time resulted in the flooding, traders said. The basement had scores of small shops selling a variety of products and offering various services including mobile phone and electronic goods sales and servicing shops. “There was chest high water inside my shop. I thought the water will rise only up to ankle level as usual. Every shopkeeper will have suffered a minimum loss of Rs. 50,000,” said Ashraf, a trader at the basement. Many of the traders were trying to salvage whatever stocks and equipment they could on Saturday morning even as a Corporation suction vehicle was deployed to drain the water. Some traders made desperate efforts to recover their goods even amid the pouring rain. Senthil, a service provider, could just managed to move his photo copying machine to safety. “We could not do much as the basement was deluged within five minutes,” said Amaan, another trader. Some of the arterial roads, including West Boulevard Road, were also left inundated, though the water level did not rise high enough to enter the shops along the road. Video clips of inundated roads were widely shared on social media by city residents, exasperated over the seemingly never ending problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-basement-flooded-near-chathram-bus-stand/article32534050.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||He speaks to them from personal experience||A city policeman, who has recovered from COVID-19, is trying raise awareness among the public of the importance of wearing face masks by narrating his battle with the virus. M. Naavakarasu, a traffic inspector at Fort station, resumed work four days ago and has already taken up the task of sensitising city residents to the dangers of the viral infection. “There are many who think that they are young and will not be affected by the virus. I thought so too, but now I stand corrected,” he said. “Whenever I see people walking without masks or not maintaining personal distancing norms, I tell them my experience. I show them my mask, bottles of sanitiser and gloves. Despite wearing these, I contracted the infection. Imagine how easy it is to be affected without these layers of protection,” he said. Despite putting on a brave face, the stress caused by the infection is immense, he said. “My family had to be quarantined while I was undergoing treatment. Awareness of the infection, how it spreads and how it can be prevented must increase. We need to prevent and fight the virus, not distance ourselves from people who are suffering,” he said. The State government on Friday announced revised fines for violation of norms under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, but he will continue to counsel the public. “Even while we do our duty, we can impart some information. If even one person listens to me in a day and puts on a mask, I will be happy,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/he-speaks-to-them-from-personal-experience/article32534046.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||148 patients discharged from Siddha COVID-19 Care Centre||The Siddha-based COVID-19 Care Centre, which was opened only a month ago in the district has treated over 140 patients and has received good response from the public. The centre was set up near Uthamasholapuram. The 65-bed centre offering Siddha-based COVID-19 treatment has admitted 222 patients till Friday of which 148 have recovered from the disease and got discharged. According to officials, over 70 patients are still undergoing treatment at the centre. According to authorities, on an average, the patients at the Centre are discharged in seven days and swab tests are done at the time of discharge. “On an average, patients get discharged from the centre in seven days and discharge is done only if the results during exit test is negative”, said District Siddha Medicine officer K. Selvamoorthi. He added that both internal and external medicine approach is followed at the centre as part of COVID-19 treatment. According to officials, a seven-member team is posted on rotation basis at the centre for treatment including three Assistant Siddha Medical Officers, two nurses, one pharmacist and hospital workers. Dr. Selvamoorthi said that the team is provided with PPE kits and other safety gadgets. A photojournalist, who recently got discharged from the centre, expressed satisfaction over the treatment at the facility and said that the yoga and counselling classes at the centre boosted patients confidence and helped them get rid of fears about COVID-19 disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/148-patients-discharged-from-siddha-covid-19-care-centre/article32533745.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Banana research centre signs pact with AP govt.||The National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchi, on Friday signed a memorandum of agreement with the Andhra Pradesh government for providing innovative technologies in banana processing and value addition. The agreement envisaged development of knowledge centre at Pulivendala under AP Food Processing Society, promotion of new micro food processing centre and capacity building to entrepreneurs. The agreement was signed in the presence of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minster, Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, according to a press release from the National Research Centre for Banana. A.K. Singh, Deputy Director General (Horticulture Science), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, and S. Uma, Director, NRCB, participated in the event online. Ms. Uma requested the Andhra Pradesh to introduce supply of dehydrated ripe banana in noon meal scheme for developing immunity in school children, the press release further added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banana-research-centre-signs-pact-with-ap-govt/article32534051.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign launched||Coimbatore-based VGM Hospital and Rotary Club of Coimbatore East launched an awareness campaign against COVID-19 titled Mission Against Spread of Corona (MASC) on Saturday. According to the hospital chairman V.G. Mohan Prasad, the initiative was launched considering the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the country. As part of the campaign, an awareness poster with the concepts of MASC was released. The poster bears a QR code, scanning of which will explain how to wear a mask properly. It also highlights the need for handwashing and physical distancing in the combat against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign-launched/article32533747.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Decision soon on reopening cinema halls: Minister||However, the revenue from a theatre release still accounts for a major chunk of the total revenue of a film. In March this year, a report by FICCI-EY, entitled ‘The era of consumer A.R.T.- Acquisition Retention and Transaction’, put the total theatrical revenue of Tamil films at Rs. 1,460 crore during 2019, while the total revenue of the Indian film industry was put at Rs. 11,500 crore. Exhibitor and distributor Tiruppur Subramanian said the owners were ready to follow the Centre’s guidelines to reopen theatres. “We are hoping that the theatres will be allowed to open from October 1,” he said. Asked whether he had any demand over the occupancy level, he said, “We don’t know the government norms. Whatever they are, we will follow their instructions.” After Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami allowed film shooting to resume from September 1, the shooting of several small and medium budget films has begun. Producer Dhananjayan says around 10 films have started shooting. While marquee stars are likely to wait and watch if the shooting progresses without risks, producers say younger actors are keen to start shooting. “Around 6 films have begun shooting from today and there is a film that is being shot in Rajasthan,” said R.K. Selvamani, president, Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI). He said the FEFSI would urge the State government to increase the number of workers allowed on a film set to 100 from the current limit of 75, because several industries had been allowed to operate with full strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-soon-on-reopening-cinema-halls-minister/article32533712.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru reports ‘first’ case of COVID-19 reinfection||In what doctors claim to be a first case of COVID-19 reinfection in south India, a 27-year-old woman from Bengaluru has tested positive again nearly a month after she was treated and discharged from hospital. Doctors at Fortis Hospital’s Bannerghatta Road unit, who confirmed that the hospital had reported the first reinfection case, said the woman had no history of any comorbidities. “On July 6, the patient was symptomatic. She reported with fever, cough, and sore throat and had tested positive. She was admitted at the hospital and recovered well. A repeat test was conducted on her, which turned out to be negative, after which she was discharged on July 24,” Pratik Patil, consultant, Infectious Diseases, at the hospital, told The Hindu on Saturday. “However, in the last week of August, she developed mild symptoms again and tested positive again. Both the times she did not have severe disease. This is possibly the first reported case of COVID-19 reinfection in Bengaluru. She has recovered well this time too and is being discharged. We have not done a repeat COVID-19 test before discharge this time as per the new discharge policy,” he said.  Normally, in case of an infection, the COVID Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody is tested positive after two to three weeks of infection. “However in this patient, the antibody test has returned negative. We got it confirmed from two different labs. This means she did not develop immunity after infection. The other possibility could be that the IgG antibodies disappeared in nearly one month, leaving her susceptible for reinfection,” Dr. Patil said. “Reinfection cases mean that the antibodies may not be produced by every individual or if they do develop, they may not last long enough, and therefore, allowing the virus to enter the body and cause the disease again,” he explained.  Taking note of the case, the State Health Department now wants to get the recurrence studied in detail by doctors. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said there is no need to panic as cases of recurrence are very rare. “We have seen reinfection in one or two cases within days of discharge in the initial stages of the pandemic in Karnataka. What also needs to be studied is the life span of antibodies. As the patient was not tested for antibodies after her first recovery, we do not know if she had developed the antibodies intially and does not have them now. We will get this studied in detail,” he told The Hindu . C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said reinfection can happen if there is a very short-lived antibody response without any cellular immunity in the patient. “Such cases are rare and there is no need to panic,” he said. V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said recovered patients should not get complacent and assume they have got an immunity passport post recovery. “It is best to continue wearing masks, maintain hand hygiene, and ensure social distancing,” he said. After the first COVID-19 reinfection was reported in Hong Kong on August 24, there have been reports from Belgium, the Netherlands and the U.S. Two days ago, a doctor in Mumbai also tested positive for the second time after a gap of two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-reports-first-case-of-covid-19-reinfection/article32533666.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nearly one lakh active cases||With Karnataka reporting 9,746 new COVID-19 cases and 9,102 recoveries on Saturday, the number of active cases is nearing one lakh in the State. Of the total 3,89,232 cases, as many as 2,83,298 people have been discharged so far, leaving 99,617 active cases. Of these, 796 cases are being monitored in ICUs of various hospitals. Bengaluru Urban has the highest number of active cases at 41,479, followed by Mysuru which has 6,832 cases. The State’s COVID-19 toll touched 6,298 with 128 new deaths on Saturday. This is apart from the deathd of 19 COVID-19 patients owing to other reasons. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,093 cases and 34 deaths. With this, the total number of cases in Bengaluru Urban touched 1,44,757. The death toll in Bengaluru Urban is 2,125. The State's recovery rate now stands at 72.78%. As many as 76,761 tests, including 35,530 rapid antigen tests, have been conducted in the last 24 hours. According to the State’s COVID-19 War Room data, the number of days taken for COVID-19 cases to double in the State has improved from an average of 14 as of August 3 to 24 days on September 3. With 32 days, Kalaburagi has recorded the highest number of days taken to double the number of cases in the State. Chitradurga has recorded the least with cases doubling in 14 days there. The national average of days taken to double is 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-one-lakh-active-cases/article32533667.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Can students of transitional area be deprived of rural quota benefit? ’||Can students be deprived of the benefit of seeking admission to professional courses under the rural category reservation as a result of declaration of a rural area into “transitional area” by the government under the municipal laws? The question cropped up before the High Court of Karnataka as a student, who studied for 10 years in a school at Vittla kasaba village in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, knocked on the doors of the court after the Block Educational Officer (BEO) refused to countersign a rural study certificate. Petitioner D. Adarsha Bhat wanted the certificate to claim admission to engineering course under rural category of government quota seats through the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). The BEO refused to sign the proforma of certificate as the government notified Vittla as a “transitional area” in 2015. The petitioner had studied in the school between 2008 and 2018 but the status of Vittla was changed in 2015 from “rural area” to “transitional area”. Due to denial of certificate, the petitioner was unable to upload the relevant documents on KEA website for claiming rural quota seat in seat selection process based on ranking secured in Common Entrance Test. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Ravi V Hosmani, in its interim order directed the BEO to sign the certificate. However, the Bench made it clear that the interim order would be subject to the final result of the petition. As the law requires continuous study for 10 years in rural area to claim seat under rural category, the petitioner claimed that the he could not claim reservation due to no fault of him as Vittla was changed to “transitional area” to treat the area only as “deemed to be a municipal area” in law without there being any change in ground reality or rural nature, and in the absence of clear declaration as an urban area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/can-students-of-transitional-area-be-deprived-of-rural-quota-benefit/article32533681.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC to resume services to Goa from tomorrow||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), which had stopped inter-State bus operations owing to pandemic-induced lockdown, is all set to resume operations to Goa from Monday. Services to Goa will resume from many parts of the State, including Bengaluru and Mysuru. Commuters can book tickets atwww.ksrtc.in. The KSRTC has also written to other neighbouring States to allow operations and is awaiting their response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-to-resume-services-to-goa-from-tomorrow/article32533664.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free KSRTC bus facility for students||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to allow second PU students who are appearing for supplementary examination to travel for free on its buses. According to an official release, students can travel in city, suburban, ordinary, and express buses between their residence and the allotted examination centres on producing the admission tickets. The examination is being held between September 7 and 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-ksrtc-bus-facility-for-students/article32533680.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||75-year-old, daughter held for murdering neighbour||Less than 24 hours after an elderly woman, who lived with her differently-abled daughter, was murdered, the Banaswadi police arrested the victim’s neighbours, a 75-year-old man and his daughter for the crime. The father-daughter duo allegedly murdered Kanthamma to rob her jewellery to repay the loans they had taken for medical expenses. The police recovered four gold bangles and a pair of gold earrings that they had sold to a gold loan company. The incident took place on September 1. According to the police, the accused John Joseph, an unemployed wall painter, lived with his daughter Merlin, 48, a domestic help and single mother. “Merlin had borrowed Rs. 1.5 lakh to pay for Joseph’s medical bills as he was suffering from various ailments. Over the last six months, the money leaders had been demanding repayment of the loans,” said a senior police officer. As Merlin did not have money, the duo decided to rob their neighbour Kanthamma, 70, who lived with her mentally challenged daughter Manjula, 45. “The accused knew that Kanthamma owned four houses. She lived in one of the houses and gave the others on rent. Her other children are married and live in Bengaluru. The duo planned to kill Kanthamma to take away her gold,” said Banaswadi Inspector Jayaram H. Merlin offered to help Manjula get an Aadhaar card. On September 1, she went to their house. The two women left to get the paperwork done. A few minutes later, Joseph gained entry into the house. Kanthamma was in her bed. “He pushed her from the cot and strangled her. He took her gold jewellery and immediately sold it to a gold loan company for Rs. 1.8 lakh,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/75-year-old-daughter-held-for-murdering-neighbour/article32533656.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deadline to complete student registrations||The Department of Public Instruction has directed all schools, government, aided and private unaided, to complete registration of all students for the 2020-21 academic year by the month-end. In a circular here on Saturday, the department has the student registrations will ensure that no child is left out. The circular also said that private unaided schools may collect fees only for the first term from parents and cannot increase fees at any cost. Govt. programmes With schools still closed since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, private schools may also make use of the ‘Vidyagama’ and ‘Samvedana’ programmes launched by the State government to aid continuous learning among the students. School managements have been directed to ensure that all teachers are paid salaries on time, the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-to-complete-student-registrations/article32533677.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC to resume AC bus services||It’s not just Namma Metro services that will resume on Monday. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) plans to re-start services of 34 Vajra air-conditioned buses within the city limits. They will operate on six routes: Majestic to Kadugodi, Majestic to Hoskote, Majestic to Attibele, Hebbal to Banashankari, Hebbal to Silk Board, and Banashankari to ITPB. For the most part, BMTC’s AC buses have remained off the road, barring airport services. Presently, BMTC is running 33 AC buses to Kempegowda International Airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-to-resume-ac-bus-services/article32533652.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest||Private transporters staged a sit-in protest on Saturday demanding that the government waive road tax for six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest/article32533653.ece
06 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||LIC: 8,396 claims settled in Dharwad Dn. in 2019-20||The Dharwad division of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India settled 8,396 death claims and released Rs. 99.37 crore to beneficiaries during 2019-20. According to a press release issued by the divisional manager of LIC, Dharwad, the division sold, 1,56, 322 policies and collected Rs. 247.13 crore in the form of first premium during 2019-20. The division collected a total revenue of Rs. 2,194.67 crore and transferred the surplus amount of Rs. 484.48 crore to the central office. The Dharwad division covers Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, and Uttara Kannada districts. The division secured the second place at the national level in submitting details of accounts of financial transactions for 2019-20 to the central office, the release stated. Apart from carrying out various programmes under the Corporate Social Responsibility initiative, the division also implemented its own programmes of ‘Insurance Village’ and ‘Insurance School’ to contribute towards rural development. Considering the customers’ demand, the division set up a Direct Marketing Unit and also a Customer Zone in Hubballi, the release said. While an interest waiver and other relaxations were given considering the pandemic, the division was also focusing on selling health insurance policies, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lic-8396-claims-settled-in-dharwad-dn-in-2019-20/article32533857.ece
06 September 2020||DHARWAD/ HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Felicitations, talks mark Teachers’ Day||Simple district and taluk-level programmes, felicitation of teachers, and talks marked Teachers’ Day in the Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, and Belagavi on Saturday. The district administrations, along with the respective zilla panchayats and Department of Public Instruction, organised district-level events in which teachers chosen for State, district and taluk-level awards were honoured. Owing to the pandemic, the celebrations were held in a simple manner. Presiding over the district-level event at Dharwad, president of the Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Vijayalaxmi Patil said that the profession was a noble one and any expression of gratitude towards the teaching community, by the society and the students, would be less when compared to their selfless service. Inaugurating the function, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that teachers were the pillars in the nation-building exercise and the architects of the country. “While parents bring up the children, teachers groom them and make their future bright,” he said. On the occasion, five retired teachers, winners of State and district-level awards were felicitated. Earlier, a moment of silence was observed for the former President Pranab Mukherjee.  Inaugurating the event in Gadag, the former Minister H.K. Patil said that the life of the former President S. Radhakrishnan was a great inspiration to all. From a teacher, Dr. Radhakrishnan rose to become President, he said. Referring to the New Education Policy, Mr. Patil said that under the new policy lot of responsibility had been vested upon teachers and they would have to upgrade their skills to to help the students face new challenges of the future. Accompanied by Deputy Commissioner M. Sundareshbabu and others, Mr. Patil honoured the award-winning teachers. In Hubballi, Prasad Abbayya, MLA, gave away the taluk-level awards. He said that there was need for making students imbibe moral values along with the curriculum. Similar district-level programmes were held at Belagavi, Haveri, and Uttara Kannada districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/felicitations-talks-mark-teachers-day/article32533852.ece
06 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, wife test positive||Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, who returned to his constituency after touring various districts, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday and is under home quarantine. The Minister tweeted about the development and said that he and his wife had undergone COVID-19 test and both tested positive. “As I don’t have any symptoms, we will be getting treatment at home as per the advice of doctors. With your good wishes, I will soon recover,” he said in the tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labour-minister-shivaram-hebbar-wife-test-positive/article32533670.ece
06 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||HD-BRTS services to resume||Following relaxations given under the post lockdown regulations, the Hubballi Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS) Company is all set to resume its services of buses with limited stops (100-D) from Monday. The ‘Chigari’ buses will ply from the Central Bus Station in Hubballi to the Mitra Samaj (BRTS) Bus Station in Dharwad from 7.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m., a release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hd-brts-services-to-resume/article32533849.ece
06 September 2020||hubballi,KARNATAKA||Felicitated||Award-winning teachers Ramu Mulagi and Geeta Chulaki were felicitated by the V.B. Danganavar Foundation on Teachers’ Day on Saturday. In the programme at Moorusavir Mutt in the presence of Sri Gurusiddha Rajaygoindra Swami, former KPYCC president Sadanand Danganavar and others felicitated them. The seer said the teachers’ role in building a health society was crucial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/felicitated/article32533854.ece
06 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Ganja seized, two more held in Hubballi||The Hubballi police have arrested two more persons in connection with the sale of ganja and seized 500 grams of ganja worth Rs. 25,000. The arrested have been identified as Noor Ahmed Hydersab Mulla, 24, and Akshay Rajendra Pranekar, 27, both residents of Hubballi. The police have also seized a two-wheeler and two mobile handsets. The duo were intercepted near Tolanakere Weigh Bridge on Friday evening when they were transporting the consignment. A case has been filed in the Economic Offences and Anti-Narcotics Wing of the Police Commissionerate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganja-seized-two-more-held-in-hubballi/article32533867.ece
06 September 2020||HUBBALLI/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Re-evaluation helps students in North Karnataka||With the re-evaluation helping her score what she deserved, Rujula Ravindra Khasnis, a student of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Hubballi, is now third in the State in the SSLC examination. After the re-evaluation, the total marks by Ms. Rujula are 623 out of the total 625 [99.68%]. Barring English and Science, in which she has scored 124 and 99 respectively, Ms. Rujula has scored cent per cent in the other four subjects.  Meanwhile, a Kalaburagi student is also third in the SSLC examination after re-evaluation. Bhagesh B. Mugalgaon, student of SRN Mehta School, now has 623 marks out of 625. Earlier, he had 620. He had applied for a re-evaluation of Social Sciences paper, in which he secured 97. In the re-evaluation, he secured three more marks in the subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/re-evaluation-helps-students-in-north-karnataka/article32533853.ece
06 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Notice to pvt. hospitals for overcharging||Following complaints of overcharging of COVID-19 patients, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has served notice on two private hospitals in Kalaburagi — Vaatsalya LIFE Hospital, off Sedam Road, and Dhanvantari Hospital near Rama Mandir Circle — seeking an explanation for the alleged violation of the price caps set by the government for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Responding to queries from journalists at his office here on Saturday, Rajashekhar S. Mali, District Health and Family Welfare Officer, said that Dhanvantari Hospital had returned the excess amount collected from patients. “The government has fixed different rates for different services offered to COVID-19 patients by private healthcare providers. We had, by issuing a circular, directed private hospitals not to overcharge. Yet, there were some complaints of exorbitant bills at these two hospitals. We have issued notice to them seeking explanation, and Dhanvantari Hospital has already returned the excess amount it collected to the concerned,” he said. To queries about the availability of ventilators in the district, Mr. Mali said there has never been a dearth of ventilators in the district. “We in the public sector have 92 ventilators in the district and only 20 people were required to be put on ventilators as on Friday. We have put two ventilators in each taluk,” he said. Deworming Mr. Mali also said that his department, as part of efforts to curb different worms in the human body that affect the physical growth of children bellow 19 years, plans to conduct deworming drives between September 7 and 21. Considering the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, anganwadi workers and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) will visit each and every house in the district and distribute Albendazole tablets. “Normally, the anti-worm tablets are distributed at anganwadi centres during National Deworming Day campaign every year. This year, however, the anganwadi workers and ASHAs will distribute them at the doorsteps of the children, given the pandemic. Apart from anganwadi workers, as many as 1,845 ASHAs will also be involved. As many as 10,32,377 children and teenagers are expected to be covered under the campaign this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-pvt-hospitals-for-overcharging/article32533860.ece
06 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Garbage-free city drive organised||Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande, newly-appointed Commissioner of Kalaburagi City Corporation, conducted a major drive against the dumping of waste and garbage on the roadside in market areas and other localities in the city on Saturday. Mr. Lokhande, distributed dustbins to some shops. He advocated the use of dustbins to owners of commercial establishments and street vendors, urging them to segregate waste and keep the city clean. He said that those who could afford to buy dustbins for themselves should do so and let free dustbins be for street vendors who could not. Directions were given to environmental engineers to take action against the commercial establishments against the dumping of waste on the road. The garbage collectors would visit and collect waste from the shops, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garbage-free-city-drive-organised/article32533847.ece
06 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||24 teachers from Kalaburagi honoured||As many as 24 teachers [eight each from primary, high, and higher primary government schools] in Kalaburagi have been felicitated with the ‘Best Teacher’ award for 2020. The teachers were honoured by the Department of Public Instructions and the zilla panchayat to mark Teacher’s Day on Saturday. The primary and high school teachers selected for the award are: Paramanand Sarasambi, Shivaputrappa Ruddewadi, Girish Chandrakanth, Ashwini Hugar, Chandrakanth Mathapati, Rajeshwari, Suresh N., Renuka N., M.D. Altaf Hussain, Hussain Sab Wadageri, Kaveri V. Sampgaonkar, Shrishail Pujari, Gurupadappa Doddamani, Suvarnalatha, Dhananjay B., and Bhavani Bhatt. The teachers from higher primary schools are: Chandrakanth Biradar, Siddanna Maragol, Vijaykumar Surappanur, Mehboob Salwadgi, Dinkar Mulge, Renuka, Parveen Sultana, and Santoshkumar Vedpathak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24-teachers-from-kalaburagi-honoured/article32533844.ece
06 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||7,210 students to write PU supplementary exams in Bidar||As many as 7,210 students from Bidar district will appear for the II PUC examinations to be held between September 7 and September 18. Deputy Commissioner Rudresh Ghali has directed officials of the Pre University Education Department to ensure that all arrangements are in place and also to follow Standard Operating Procedures to stay safe amid the pandemic. The department has set up 11 examination centres in the district including four in Bidar city, two each in Bhalki, Basavakalyan, and Humnabad taluks, and one at Aurad taluk. Mr. Ghali said that each student has to undergo thermal scanning before entering the examination hall and the staff on duty and students have to wear surgical masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7210-students-to-write-pu-supplementary-exams-in-bidar/article32533845.ece
06 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Book released||Bayalembo Bayalu , a biographical novel by Gulbarga University’s Kannada Department head H.T. Pote, was released by Padma Shri Doddarange Gowda, poet and lyricist, in Bengaluru on Saturday. “The novel reflects the life of the oppressed communities of the time. The influence of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar can be seen throughout the story. Many writers tend to use another language. Mr. Pote has, however, retained his nativity in the language and expression here,” Mr. Gowda said after releasing the novel. Mallepuram G. Venkatesh, former VC, Karnataka Sanskrit University, called it the first Dalit biographical novel in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-released/article32533848.ece
06 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teachers are working towards building a better society: DC||While teaching their students at their houses as part of Vidyagama scheme, government school teachers in Dakshina Kannada district were actively involved with the district administration in tracing primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients, said Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra here on Saturday. Speaking at the district-level teachers day programme at Canara School, Urwa, Mr. Rajendra said this showed the commitment of teachers towards development of society. “They are not acting as government employees. They are working overtime to build a better tomorrow,” he said while expressing gratitude to the teachers for their involvement in various development initiatives of the government. Referring to Mathematics laboratory and other initiatives taken by Yakub Koyyur, the Government High School teacher from Nada in Beltahthangady who was presented the National Teachers Award on Saturday, Mr. Rajendra said it was because of the committed work of such teachers that the district was known as land for quality education. Apart from imparting knowledge, teachers, starting from those in Anganwadis, were imparting civic sense among students and providing them skills that help in their development. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath and Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat President Meenakshi Shantigodu also spoke on the day. As many as 22 teachers from primary and secondary school were given the Best Teacher award.  In Udupi At the district level function in Udupi, Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat expressed the need for involvement of students in the Teachers’ Day programmes held at the school, taluk and district levels. The involvement of students in such functions was necessary to make them understand the prominent role teachers play in their development. He called upon teachers in Udupi to prepare students in a better way by which the district secures top place in the SSLC examination next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-are-working-towards-building-a-better-society-dc/article32533842.ece
06 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Students get self-learning worksheets||To make Vidyagama — the State government’s neighbourhood schooling initiative — effective, government school teachers in Puttur will make use of self-learning worksheets called ‘Kalika Sangama’ that will facilitate self-learning in children. The teachers make copies of the worksheets and provide it to children at the end of learning sessions held in the neighbourhood for batches of about 10 children. They are asked to submit the worksheet when the teacher comes a couple of days later and also point out the aspects he/she failed to understand. Block Education Officer Lokesh said the worksheets were prepared to bring uniformity in teaching during neighbourhood schooling. This is done also to overcome problems in reaching out to children who do not have basic mobile phones and smart phones. As mobile phones are mostly with parents or guardians, children are facing problems accessing notes and reading material sent on them. There is also the problem of mobile network as students stay in remote and hilly areas in the taluk. “We are stressing more the offline mode of teaching and the use of online mode as an additional tool,” he said. Aroung 400 worksheets are available at present for about eight lessons in each subject for classes 4 to 8. Block resource person Yashoda sought the services of subject experts, headmasters, and other teachers for preparing them. Care has been taken to ensure that learning is fun and can involve the parents of children as well. For instance, the worksheet on a lesson of social science for class 7 asks the children to sing the old Kannada song ‘Karnatakada Itihasadali...’ and list out the names of kings in the song. This is followed by preparing a family tree and asking the children to use the textbook to list out the families that ruled the Vijayanagar empire and the prominent rulers ofthose families. The English, Hindi, and Kannada worksheets focus on reading and writing skills. The Kalika Sangama worksheets were launched by Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy on August 14. Teachers have undergone orientation in use of this material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-get-self-learning-worksheets/article32533866.ece
06 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||First train to chug in here post lockdown||Mangaluru Central, one of the major railway stations in Karnataka, received its first post-lockdown passenger train on Saturday morning. It was the first train to arrive there in about five months. Train No. 06515, one of the six intra-State services introduced by South Western Railway, arrived from Bengaluru at 5.55 a.m. The station, which used to handle over 30 trains a day, had not handled even Shramik Special trains during the lockdown. Not many passengers travelled the special train, whichleft Bengaluru on Friday night, as there was no adequate advance information about its operation. Also, only passengers with reserved accommodation were allowed on the train with all COVID-19 precautions. About 20 passengers alighted from the train at Central. Staff at the station were ecstatic on the train’s arrival. The rake which arrived as Train No. 06515 (Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central four days a week via Kunigal) left Mangaluru Central to Bengaluru as Train No. 06518 Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru (three days a week via Mysuru) at 8.50 pm. SWR is not operating the train till Kannur (as per the regular services of Train No. 16511/12) because of COVID-19 restrictions. The Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru train services will run on all days of the week, four days via Kunigal and three days via Mysuru, as special services. Karwar service SWR has also reintroduced Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur services as special trains (Train No. 06585/06586) on a daily basis to run on the regular path via Kunigal from Friday. The zone has speeded up the service of Train No. 06585 between Hassan and Bantwal with effect from September 7 to ensure that it reaches Karwar at the right time. A communiqué from SWR said the train would arrive and depart from Hassan at 9.40/9.45 p.m., instead of 9.55/10.10 p.m.; Sakleshpur at 10.35/10.55 p.m. instead of 10.55/11 p.m.; Subrahmanya Road at 1.25/1.35 a.m. instead of 2.05/2.10 a.m.; Kaniyur at 1.55/1.56 a.m. instead of 2.27/2.28 a.m.; Kabakaputtur at 2.13/1.15 a.m. instead of 2.45/2.47 a.m.; and Bantwal at 2.40/2.42 a.m. instead of 3.05/3.06 a.m. The train is running with one Second AC and Third AC coach each, seven second-class sleeper coaches, three second-class coaches, and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches with generators. All the coaches are LHB. Only those having reserved accommodation on these special trains will be allowed to board the trains. They have to follow COVID-19 guidelines, including maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-train-to-chug-in-here-post-lockdown/article32533863.ece
06 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘There is still a long way to go before fear of mathematics can be removed’||Five years after setting up a mathematics laboratory in his school and adopting other technological tools for teaching the subject, government high school teacher Yakub Koyyur says there is still a long way to go to make learning mathematics fun. “My efforts have brought about a change in about 80% [of the 150] students. There is still a long way to go before the fear of mathematics can be removed and learning can be made fun. We need to inspire students to remove their inhibition and love what they learn,” said Mr. Koyyur, who was among the 47 teachers in the country virtually receiving ‘national award’ from President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday. Mr. Koyyur works at the Government High School in Nada village, Belthangady taluk. Chemmalar Shanmugam, headmistress of Kendriya Vidyalaya No.2, AFS (East), Jalahalli, Bengaluru, and Surekah Jagannath, teacher from Government High School, Afzalpur, Kalaburagi, were the other two teachers from Karnataka to get the award. Mr. Koyyur told The Hindu the COVID-19 pandemic has posed a challenge for teacher to reach out to their students. Apart from holding online classes and sending assignments to children with basic mobile phones, he and other teachers were visiting the houses to teach. “The concern is about those students who constantly need the teachers’ attention. We are trying to involve such students in activities that will help to overcome the shortfall in their learning following a long gap in classroom teaching,” he said. The long gap in classroom teaching following the lockdown, Mr. Koyyur said, was the reason for slightly below-par performance of class 10 students from his school. While his students did well in mathematics, they could not get good marks in other subjects in the SSLC examination. Mr. Koyyur hoped classes would begin from January. “Three months are enough to prepare class 10 students this year,” he said. Mr. Koyyur has uploaded about 500 YouTube lessons, with 300 on mathematics alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-still-a-long-way-to-go-before-fear-of-mathematics-can-be-removed/article32533839.ece
06 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||7 pairs of trains to resume services from Sept. 12||With the Ministry of Railways deciding to operate 40 more pairs of special trains, the South Western Railway will operate seven of them, including Bengaluru-New Delhi-Bengaluru Karnataka Express, from its jurisdiction from September 12. The special trains were in addition to Shramik Special and other specials already in operation, said a communiqué from SWR. The composition and timing of the special trains would be the same as the existing regular services. However, the specials would be fully reserved services and stoppages would be restricted based on suggestions from respective State governments. Train No. 06539/06540 KSR Bengaluru-Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru Special Express will run except Sunday leaving KSR Bengaluru at 5.20 p.m. to reach Mysuru at 8.20 p.m. It leaves Mysuru at 6.10 a.m. to reach KSR Bengaluru at 9.15 a.m. Some of the other trains that will be operated from September 12 are Train No. 02509/02510 Bengaluru Cantonment-Guwahati-Bengaluru Cantonment Special Express (Kaziranga Express, tri-weekly); Train No. 06587/06588 Yesvantpur-Bikaner-Yesvantpur Special Express (bi-weekly); and Train No. 02975/02976 Mysuru-Jaipur-Mysuru Special Express (bi-weekly)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7-pairs-of-special-trains-to-resume-services-from-sept-12/article32533682.ece
06 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four centres for PU supplementary exams set up in Udupi district||The Department of PU Education has set up four examination centres in Udupi district to conduct the supplementary exams for second pre university course students scheduled between September 7 and September 19. DPUE Deputy Director Bhagavant Kattimani in a press release said the four centres are, Government PU College, Udupi, MGM PU College, Udupi, Bhuvanendra PU College, Karkala and Bhandarkars PU College, Kundapura. Precautions All the centres have been sanitised in view of COVID-19 while students would be allowed inside the centres after thermal scanning. Everyone has to wear face masks. Exam halls can accommodate a maximum of 24 students. In all, 1,718 students will write the exams, he said. COVID-19 positive students too would be allowed to write the exams separately at the designated Covid Care Centre located at Social Welfare Department’s Girls’ Hostel, Bannanje, Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-centres-for-pu-supplementary-exams-set-up-in-udupi-district/article32533837.ece
06 September 2020||Mangaluru/Hubballi,KARNATAKA||13 dead, 512 new COVID-19 cases in DK, and Udupi||Nine COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died while 337 new cases were detected in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. With the discharge of 311 patients, the active COVID-19 count in the district was at 2,961. Of the new patients, 216 were symptomatic, according to a bulletin from the district administration. Four patients with co-morbidities died while 175 new cases were detected in Udupi. As many as 232 patients were discharged and the active case count in district was at 1,906. Of the new patients, 134 were symptomatic. Meanwhile, Belagavi district recorded its highest single-day increase of 473 positive cases, and Davangere recorded 395 cases and seven deaths. Dharwad recorded 227 cases and eight deaths. Gadag recorded 395 cases and three deaths, Haveri 188 cases, Bagalkot 144 cases and two deaths, Uttara Kannada 207 cases, and Vijayapura 103 cases andtwo deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-dead-512-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article32533864.ece
06 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Martyr’s statue ready for unveiling in Madikeri||Exactly 55 years after he attained martyrdom in the 1965 war against Pakistan, Squadron Leader Ajjamada B. Devayya will have a statue unveiled in his memory at Madikeri on Monday. The bronze statue, sculpted by Ashok Gudigar from Bidadi, will be unveiled at an existing circle named after A.B. Devayya, close to the old private bus stand in Madikeri. Devayya, a native of Kodagu, took part in the IAF operations against Pakistan in the 1965 war and went missing on September 7, 1965, after putting up a valiant fight against enemy planes. When it transpired that Devayya did not return after his sortie, he was declared as missing in action, and that remained the status for almost 20 years. Mandetira N. Subramani, founder president of Vekare Ex-servicemen Trust, an NGO through which he takes up the cause of retired soldiers, said that sometime in 1985, a British writer was commissioned by Pakistan to write the history of the 1965war from Pakistan’s perspective. There was a narrative pertaining to an encounter with an IAF plane on September 7, 1965, based on which military analysts in India concluded that it was the same planeflown by Devayya. Mr. Subramani, who retired as a senior non-commissioned officer of the IAF, said the top brass studied the sequence of events leading to the shooting down of Devayya’s plane and surmised that Devayya had put up a heroic fight and shot down the enemy fighter plane before going down himself. “Hence, he was posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra in 1988. And 55 years after martyrdom, his statue will be unveiled in Madikeri. But credit goes to the Ajjamada family, which took up the initiative to get the statue sculpted and installed,” Mr. Subramani said. Memorial He said in Mysuru, the office of the Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement was named after Sqn. Ldr. Devayya in 2004. “But what is disconcerting is that a war memorial proposed in Mysuru to commemorate the memory of other unsung heroes and martyrs of yesteryears is yet to materialise even though it was approved in 2001,” he said. Though a site has been allotted for the proposed war memorial near the NCC group headquarters in the city and funding was approved two years ago, the project is yet to take off, Mr. Subramani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/martyrs-statue-ready-for-unveiling-in-madikeri/article32533856.ece
06 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Relevance of 2011 Census data for case analysis questioned||The continued use of 2011 Census data by the State COVID-19 War Room to analyse various aspects of the pandemic has raised questions over the relevance of the population figures gathered almost a decade ago, particularly while calculating crucial indicators such as deaths per million (DPM) and tests per million (TPM While DPM is considered a key barometer to assess the mortality in a community owing to the pandemic, TPM is regarded as an important indicator to track the spread of the virus and reduce its transmission. The population of Bengaluru was 96.2 lakh as per the 2011 Census data. However, the 2019 Revision of World Population Prospects put out by United Nations’ Department of Economic and Social Affairs estimated the population of Bengaluru Urban to be 1.23 crore. But, the State COVID-19 War Room considers the 2011 Census data for its analysis. Decade-old data Questioning the wisdom behind sticking to almost a decade-old data, Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of management consulting firm Proxima to provide analytical insights into the emerging pattern of COVID-19, stated that the outcome of the analysis would be more “realistic” when calculated with updated population estimates. While the DPM in Bengaluru, according to the war room data, was 211.7 on September 2, the DPM, if calculated as per the population data provided by the U.N., will be only 165.3. By September 2, a total of 2,307 deaths in Bengaluru Urban had been attributed to COVID-19. Similarly, the DPM provided for different districts of the State will also appear exaggerated when calculated on the basis of the 2011 Census data. Nevertheless, the number of deaths owing to COVID-19 in Karnataka went up 2.3 times during August — from 2,314 on August 1 to 5,702 on August 31. Yet, the rate of mortality in the State dipped marginally from 1.86 to 1.66 during the month.  Tests per million A similar discrepancy in figures is expected to show when the number of COVID-19 tests per million (TPM) is calculated. The total number of tests conducted in Bengaluru Urban till August 30 was 8,42,277. If the 2011 Census is considered to calculate the tests per million, TPM works out to 87,737. But, the figure drops to just 68,477 when the population data for Bengaluru Urban provided by the U.N. is considered. Out of the three million COVID-19 tests carried out in Karnataka so far, 2.3 million, accounting for 53% of the total tests, were conducted only in August, said Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha project.  During the crucial period between April and June, Karnataka could test only 21% of the total tests. “The delayed and low testing during the crucial period could have contributed towards the spread of COVID-19 across the State,” he said. Karnataka’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) stood at 11.5%, which is the second highest among the mega States in India after Maharashtra’s 19% whereas India’s TPR stood at 7.8%. “This is one of the critical factors, which contributed for a sharp increase in deaths in various districts of the State,” Mr. Sanjeev said. He said their study finds seven districts of Karnataka among the 25 in India having the highest TPR. Mysuru, with a TPR of 22%, is ranked seventh in the country. Also, in non-mega cities outside Maharashtra, Mysuru, with 444 deaths, is the second highest after Surat’s 625, the study said. “It is sad to see the condition of Mysuru, which was the first district in the State to become free of COVID-19 free having nearly 100 cases in March–April. Due to poor surveillance during the crucial period, Mysuru has today become the seventh most severely COVID-19 spread districts in India,” Mr. Sanjeev said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relevance-of-2011-census-data-for-case-analysis-questioned/article32533675.ece
06 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu floods: Crops on 41,026 ha damaged||Crops on 41,026 hectares were damaged in the recent floods in Kodagu, and a loss of Rs. 415 crore has been estimated based on the damage caused to roads, bridges, and other infrastructure. As many as 91 villages bore the brunt of floods and 28 villages suffered landslips. Out of five missing persons following a landslip near Talacauvery, the bodies of three were traced; two others remain missing. District in-charge Minister V. Somanna, in a letter on Thursday, urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to implement permanent measures in Kodagu as farmers and the public were in distress over losing their near ones, properties, and crops. Mr. Somanna also urged the Chief Minister to issue directions to officials for acting on the measures suggested by him in the letter on priority for giving succour to the people of Kodagu. In view of the devastation, the Minister sought permission for Kodagu farmers to sell sand collected on their lands without paying any royalty to the government. While urging the CM a to declare Virajpet, Madikeri and Somwarpet taluks as “flood-affected”, Mr. Somanna said the government had announced a package of Rs. 536 crore to Kodagu over last year’s devastation and sought early release of the remaining amount from the package for carrying out relief/rehabilitation works. An inter-ministerial central team will visit Kodagu on September 8 for assessing the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-floods-crops-on-41026-ha-damaged/article32533861.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Attempt to bring hoardings back’||Will commercial hoardings return to the city? Though the civic body has banned hoardings, banners and flexes, the State government appears to be keen on bringing them back. However, this contradicts the BBMP Outdoor Signage and Public Messaging Bylaw 2018 that was approved by the incumbent BBMP council. But with the term of the council coming to an end on September 10, efforts are being made to bring commercial hoardings back, alleged Saidatta, an RTI activist. He claimed that the government was trying to bypass the advertisement bylaws. “This is not the first such attempt. Earlier, the Urban Development Department (UDD) tried to bring in a new bylaw. However, the Karnataka High Court upheld the bylaws passed by the BBMP,” he said. A Public Interest Litigation on advertisement hoardings is pending in the High Court while the Lokayukta is conducting an enquiry in the case filed by Mr. Saidatta. Sources in the UDD alleged that certain influential politicians within the ruling BJP were lobbying for bringing commercial hoardings back. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that the civic body’s stand is clear. There is a complete ban on all hoardings, posters, flexes and other publicity material, as approved by the BBMP council. “The High Court has appreciated the civic body’s stand against hoardings in the interest of protecting the city’s greenery and aesthetics,” he said. Mayor M. Goutham Kumar has written to the Chief Secretary stating that, as per the 12th Schedule of the 74th Constitutional Amendment, the urban local body had the authority to take decisions that impacted aesthetics of the city. He decried attempts being made to bring hoardings back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attempt-to-bring-hoardings-back/article32533662.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Guilty must be brought to book, says Kateel||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai are closely monitoring the police investigation into the drugs case while party leaders sought to brush aside the BJP’s ties to Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi. She had campaigned for the BJP during the 2019 bypolls to the Assembly. When questioned by reporters in Mysuru on Saturday, Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar denied suggestions that her arrest has caused embarrassment to the party. “Why should the party be embarrassed? Did the party tell her to do it (alleged involvement with drugs)?” Asserting that those involved in the drug menace must be brought to book irrespective of their social and political standing, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday said the party would walk the extra mile to supplement the government’s efforts in the fight against the drug mafia. In a release, Mr. Kateel said the BJP is committed to see that Karnataka becomes drug-free. “BJP is closely watching the on-going probe into the drug mafia. The scale, the speed, the grit, the determination and the meticulousness with which the police is dealing with this dangerous racket is laudable,” he said. “This menace must be eliminated, lock, stock and barrel. Those involved in this dirty and dangerous menace must be brought to book, irrespective of their social and political standing, connections and contacts with the high and mighty,” he said. He complimented Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai for their “no-nonsense and uncompromising approach” in handling this episode. “BJP welcomes Home Minister’s statement that police has been given free hand to deal with this issue. We want this probe into the drug mafia to reach its logical end. There is no question of resting till we achieve a decisive victory in this battle against drugs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guilty-must-be-brought-to-book-says-kateel/article32533655.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seeking relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seeking-relief/article32533669.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Technical requirements for NLAT||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, has released a notification on technical requirements to write the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) exam 2020. NLSIU has decided to conduct its own entrance test, NLAT, for admissions to its BA, LLB and LLM programme for the 2020-21 academic year. Candidates attempting NLAT must ensure that there is minimum internet bandwidth speed of 1 MBPS and only desktops and laptops should be used with Windows as operating system. “Window 7 or above (Windows 10 recommended). The exam system will not run on any other operating systems,” the notification read. An integrated webcam is mandatory. The examination system should be permitted access to the camera. Details onhttps://admissions.nls.ac.in /documents/Tech Requirements.pdf||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/technical-requirements-for-nlat/article32533679.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For a safe commute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-a-safe-commute/article32533658.ece
06 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||131 new cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 131 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Of the new cases, 116 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Eleven people who came from other States, two who returned from abroad, and two health workers also tested positive. The 116 contact cases include 16 from Mannar, 10 from Alappuzha, and nine from Mulakuzha. Thirty-two persons being treated for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/131-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article32534038.ece
06 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kodanad case accused nabbed from resort||A 37-year-old Thrissur native allegedly involved in the break-in-cum murder of a security guard at former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad estate was nabbed from a resort here on Saturday. According to the Alappuzha police, Bijin, alias Kutty, of Nedumbal in Thrissur had been absconding after he got bail in 2018. Bijin was handed over to the Tamil Nadu police, said an official. After the incident at Kodanad, which happened on April 23, 2017 Bijin was arrested by the Tamil Nadu police in May 2017. He was an accused along with Kanagaraj, a former driver of Jayalalithaa who died in a road accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodanad-case-accused-nabbed-from-resort/article32533951.ece
06 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Rehabilitation of landslip survivors an uphill task||The rehabilitation of Pettimudy landslip survivors will not be an easy task for the district administration with the parent company, Kanan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP) Ltd., holding the rights over allocating accommodation for estate workers living there for generations. The chances of providing alternative accommodation are remote as it will affect the employment opportunities of those who work with the company. Since the parent company owns the land and tea estate workers are traditionally given accommodation in estate lanes, providing new accommodation to the survivors is near impossible unless the former decides so. Only a few survived the landslip that buried four estate lanes at Pettimudy on August 7. Finding the relatives of victims to provide the compensation announced by the government is also difficult as entire families have been wiped out. So far 66 bodies have been recovered in search operations that extended to nearly a month. Four are still reported missing. A 12-member team constituted by District Collector H. Dinesan to assess the damage and rehabilitate the survivors submitted its report on Friday. A few of the families living near the ill-fated estate lanes have already left for their native places in Tamil Nadu. 18 company staff A KDHP official said 18 workers of the company died in the landslip. The rest were working on daily wages with the Forest Department or as drivers of taxis though they were living at the estate lanes. A local political functionary, who participated in the search operations, said the rehabilitation of survivors would be difficult as there was no accommodation available in the tea plantations and young people preferred to work outside. “There is a proposal that if the company provides at least five cents to each survivor, the government could build houses making use of schemes such as the LIFE Mission. A meeting is scheduled for next week with the company representatives,” Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan told The Hindu on Saturday. He said a hearing would be held to identify the legal heirs of the victims. The estate lanes were constructed during the early plantation days and only annual repair works were done by the parent companies. Many of the estate lanes are in a pathetic condition, highlighting the necessity of alternative accommodation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rehabilitation-of-landslip-survivors-an-uphill-task/article32533917.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro slashes fares in run-up to resumption of services||Kochi metro fares have been reduced in order to be beneficial to Kochi-1 prepaid cardholders and other commuters as a prelude to the metro resuming service from Monday onwards, after a five-month gap. As per the latest revision, the maximum fare (for the 25-km Aluva-Pettah corridor) will be Rs. 50, instead of Rs. 60 earlier. All Kochi-1 cardholders will get an additional 10% discount. There will be only four rates in the new fare structure — Rs. 10, Rs. 20, Rs. 30 and Rs. 50. As per the newly introduced fare structure, a person can travel a distance of five stations for Rs. 20, 12 stations for Rs. 30 and beyond 12 stations for Rs. 50. There will be a reduction in the weekday and weekend pass fare also. Earlier, it was Rs. 125 for weekday pass while the new rate will be Rs. 110. For weekend pass, the earlier figure was Rs. 250 and the new rate will be Rs. 220. ‘Seamless connectivity’ “We considered the COVID situation before taking a decision to revise the fare structure. We at Kochi Metro Rail Limited always vouch for providing seamless connectivity to the people of Kochi. We have introduced slabs so that passengers get maximum benefit,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Managing Director of KMRL. “We received requests from Kochi-1 card customers with regard to the existing balance and validity period. We considered it and decided to extend the validity by issuing new cards. Those having Kochi-1 card with expired validity can get it replaced with a new card without any issuance fee and the balance amount of the expired card will be transferred to the new card,” he added. Customers having any issues with regard to the Kochi-1 card may contact Kochi metro’s helpline number 1800 425 0355. The bank concerned has also offered a waiver on Kochi-1 card issuance fee. The fee of Rs. 150 will be waived off on new Kochi-1 cards from September 7 to October 22. But, the annual fee at Rs. 75 and top up fee of Rs. 5 will be levied. The minimum top up will be Rs. 200. For non-personalised cards, issuance fee will be levied during purchase and will be reversed as cashback within 15 days. Top-up fee discount In top-up fee discount offer, the bank says Kochi-1 card can be recharged at a fee of Rs. 5 instead of Rs. 12 on every top-up. It can be recharged online, to be doubly safe in the pandemic situation. The offer period is September 7 to November 7. New and existing Kochi-1 cardholders are eligible for this. There are retail offers too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-slashes-fares-in-run-up-to-resumption-of-services/article32533927.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Experts cheer inclusion of KMTA in 100-day plan||The inclusion of Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) in the State government’s 100-day action plan has brought cheer to public transport experts and urban planners. Although the Bill to constitute the Authority became an Act about a year ago, the government has not yet finalised the rules and notified them. “The inclusion in the 100-day action plan shows that the government is serious about KMTA. The formation of the Authority is crucial to the streamlining of different modes of public transport, bringing them under one umbrella and ushering in efficiency,” said an urban transport expert associated with the framing of KMTA rules. Once the rules are notified, the jurisdiction of the body and its members will have to be finalised. Preparatory works to integrate different modes of commute were done by among others, a team within Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL). Rationalisation of bus routes, common ticketing for different commuting modes, public information systems within buses and at bus stops will follow suit. The ongoing drive to install GPS in all public transport vehicles, except autorickshaws, by the year-end will help realise this. The KMTA can also evolve a parking policy in the Greater Kochi area and issue licence to operators of parking lots. The readying of an integrated transportation management system would enable the establishment of a unified common command and control centre for the body, said official sources. The chairman of city-based think tank Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR), D. Dhanuraj, said the KMTA’s success would depend on capacity building. “An institution alone is not enough. It must be manned by experts who have sound domain knowledge and the capacity to execute legislation or decisions. For this, an effective framework is required to coordinate among different stakeholders,” he said. Delegation of powers Former senior deputy transport commissioner B.J. Antony, who was a member of KMRL’s urban transport wing that readied a draft of the KMTA legislation, claimed to be the first in India, said the delegation of powers must be done as soon as possible for different stakeholders of the body. Route rationalisation of buses would be an important challenge facing the body. It was crucial to attain optimal fleet utility for private and KSRTC buses, said B.G. Sreedevi, former director of National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-cheer-inclusion-of-kmta-in-100-day-plan/article32533929.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||186 COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam||As many as 186 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. Of them, three were identified as having arrived from other States or outside India while the rest of the cases were of local transmission, said a press release here. A total of 128 people were cured of COVID-19 on Saturday. Under observation As many as 1,140 people have been brought under observation in their homes in the district while 616 people have been removed from the list of those under observation. The total number of people under observation in the district is 18,009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/186-covid-19-cases-in-ernakulam/article32533933.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to allow gillnet, longline operations at Thoppumpady||Activities at the Thoppumpady fishing harbour, which resumed partially in the second week of August after the 52-day trawling ban, COVID-19 restrictions, and bad weather, are yet to acquire full steam, with gillnet and longline operations yet to be resumed owing to curbs on workers from other States. Around 200 longline and gillnet boats are idling at the harbour, said M. Majeed, general secretary of Cochin Fishing Harbour Coordination Committee. Tamil Nadu fishers Longline and gillnet boats are operated by fishers from Thuthoor in Tamil Nadu. According to the COVID-19 protocol, fishers from other States cannot operate out of harbours in Kerala unless they undergo a 14-day quarantine. A delegation of fishers have been in touch with the Fisheries Department, so that operations could be resumed. The department is expected to consider the issue on Monday, said Mr. Majeed. Fishers have been warned against flouting the protocol, which was adopted in view of the spread of the pandemic, a Fisheries Department official said. He also pointed out that there had been instances of the spread of COVID-19 at harbours and landing centres where the norms had been flouted. There was much uncertainty about the resumption of operations at the Thoppumpady harbour, the biggest fish landing centre in Kerala, after Division 11 of the Kochi Corporation came under lockdown. Around 5,000 people work at the harbour directly. The economy of West Kochi and surrounding areas that stretch into Aroor and Eramalloor in Alappuzha district depends to a great extent on the Thoppumpady harbour, said Mr. Majeed. Besides gillnet boats and longliners, 300 trawlers and 70 purse seine boats operate out of the harbour. The landings at Thoppumpady include catches like skipjack and bluefin tuna, which are of great value to the fish processing industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-allow-gillnet-longline-operations-at-thoppumpady/article32533937.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Screening of Kochi Corpn. workers begins||Mass screening of contingent workers of the Kochi Corporation for COVID-19 began here on Saturday. Around 200 workers from the Ernakulam central and north health circles were screened on the day. The entire workforce of the civic body would be screened in the coming days, said Corporation authorities. The free testing programme was organised with the support of HLL Life Care Limited. Mayor Soumini Jain and civic representatives Johnson Master, Prathibha Ansari and A.B. Sabu attended the programme. Meanwhile, T. J. Vinod, MLA, has tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. The legislator underwent the test after his driver tested positive. The office staff of the legislator too tested negative for the virus, said a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/screening-of-kochi-corpn-workers-begins/article32533930.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hand over property to CSML for shifting market, orders High Court||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has ordered that the disputed property near the Ernakulam market be handed over to Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) for temporarily rehabilitating stall owners until the completion of the proposed market modernisation. The Bench passed the order on a writ petition filed by Ernakulam Market Stall Owners Association, seeking the court’s approval for the temporary rehabilitation of stall owners in the disputed Wakf property. The litigation over the title of the 1.25-acre property between the State Wakf Board and a few private individuals is pending before the Bench. The court also directed the District Collector and CSML to take a call on the rent for the property and asked CSML to deposit the money in the High Court. It also told CSML to ensure that the six tenants staying in a building in the property were not evicted. When the petition came up for hearing, Jaju Babu, senior counsel for CSML, pointed out that all the parties involved in the litigation had agreed to the CSML proposal to use the property for the temporary rehabilitation of stall owners. In fact, CSML was also willing to pay the rent as agreed between the parties and deposit it in the court, so that after the resolution of the dispute over the title, the title holder, as decided by the court, could get the rent. Title dispute The court said the title dispute had to be resolved, and, in the meantime, the property need not remain idle. Even if it was a Wakf property, CSML’s promise to grant eligible rent would only enhance the corpus of the Wakf or the title holder, whoever eventually gets the benefit of the property. The CSML counsel further submitted that the existing stalls need to be shifted to the proposed site before the demolition of the market. It will take two years to complete the modernisation work. He also submitted that another dilapidated building in the property would be demolished. A modern market complex is an absolute necessity, since the existing market is in a dilapidated state, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hand-over-property-to-csml-for-shifting-market-orders-high-court/article32533925.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NIA files chargesheet||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed chargesheet against two persons, Sumit Kumar Singh of Munger, Bihar and Daya Ram of Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, in relation to the theft of computer spare parts from the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC), which is under construction at the Cochin Ship Yard Limited. The case against the accused is that they stole critical electronic components including processors, random access memory and solid state drives installed on board the vessel. The accused have been charged with criminal conspiracy, causing disappearance of evidences of offences, theft, lurking house trespass and dishonestly breaking open receptacle containing property under the Indian Penal Code and cyber terrorism under Section 66F(1)(B) of the Information Technology Act. The case was originally registered at the Ernakulam Town South Police Station on a complaint from the Deputy General Manager of the IAC project. The NIA re-registered the case on September 26, 2019 and took over the investigation. The investigation revealed that both the accused were engaged as contract employees for painting work on board the IAC. While being on work, they had observed the computer systems functioning on the warship under construction and conspired to commit theft of computer hardware components, for monetary gain. The accused later trespassed into the locations on board the IACand committed theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-files-chargesheet-in-iac-theft-case/article32533931.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam residents to meet Ministers tomorrow||A delegation of leaders of the Coastal Area Development Agency for Liberation under the Kerala Region Latin Catholic Council (KRLCC) will meet Ministers Thomas Isaac, J. Mercykutty Amma, K. Krishnankutty, and P. Thilothaman on Monday in Alappuzha and submit the ‘people’s blueprint’ on action to protect the coastal segment between Fort Kochi and Chellanam. Bishops Joseph Kariyil of Kochi and Jame Anaparamabil of Alappuzha will meet the Ministers to submit the blueprint, which was evolved after wide consultation with experts as well as local people, said Shaji George, KRLCC spokesperson. The key reason for the erosion of coastal areas under consideration is the continuing dredging operations to maintain the shipping channel serving the Kochi port. The blueprint suggests that the dredged material from the Kochi port area be deposited on the stretch along Fort Kochi and Chellanam to prevent sea erosion and to allow recreation of the coast. The blueprint also calls for the use of tripods or other man-made structures to prevent sea erosion, in place of granite boulders. Incidentally, granite boulders are no longer available, and concrete structures could be used in the future. Erection of breakwaters can also go a long way in protecting the seashore along the Chellanam coast. All efforts to protect the coast and its people should be made in collaboration with the local people, the blueprint suggests.  All efforts to protect the coast should be made in collaboration with the local people”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-residents-to-meet-ministers-tomorrow/article32533935.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Award for IIT Director||P.B. Sunilkumar, Director, IIT-Palakkad, was presented with the M.V. Pylee Award instituted by the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). The award was instituted in the name of the late management expert and former Vice Chancellor of Cusat and is given away biennially to experts in the field of education. Receiving the award, Mr. Sunilkumar said expertise in the chosen field, dedication, hard work, and a bit of luck guaranteed success. Cusat Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodhanan presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-iit-director/article32533934.ece
06 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||170 cases, 4 deaths in Kollam||The district reported 170 new cases of COVID-19, four deaths and 134 recoveries on Saturday. Among the patients are 164 contact cases, two NRIs and four others who had travelled from Bihar. Maximum number of cases were reported from Kollam Corporation where 36 persons tested positive. While Pattathanam, Chathinamkulam and Thattamala have more patients, the rest are scattered over the Corporation. The contact cases include two persons remanded in Kottarakara police station. Alappad, Sasthamcotta, Punalur, Kulakkada, Ummannur, Thevalakkara, Karavalur, Chavara, Kottarakara, Perinadu, Vettikavala and Pooyappalli are the other areas with new cases. The number of active cases is 1,599. The Health Department on Saturday confirmed that the deaths of a 26-year-old Neduvathur resident, 45-year-old Cheriyavelinallur resident, 25-year-old Anchal resident and 54-year-old Sasthamcotta resident were due to COVID-19. While the first patient died on August 31, others died on September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/170-cases-4-deaths-in-kollam/article32534033.ece
06 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Shibu is UDF candidate at Chavara||Former Minister and Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) leader Shibu Baby John will contest from Chavara as the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in the upcoming Assembly byelection. “His candidature was approved by the party central committee on Saturday and we have handed over a letter nominating him to the UDF chairman and convener,” said RSP State secretary A.A. Azeez in a statement. Though Chavara had been an RSP stronghold, the party lost the constituency in the last Assembly elections when CPI(M) leader N. Vijayan Pillai defeated Mr. John by a margin of 6,189 votes. The seat fell vacant after the death of Vijayan Pillai in March 2020. At present, the RSP has no representation in the Assembly and the election will be crucial for both fronts. While the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front is yet to declare its candidate, a couple of names, including the son of the late Vijayan Pillai, are under the consideration of the front, according to sources. The Chavara constituency, that consists of the seven divisions of Kollam Corporation and five grama panchayats, has favoured both fronts in previous elections. According to Kollam District Congress Committee president Bindu Krishna, there has been no confusion over the candidature of Mr. John and the UDF will soon make the official announcement. “We are confident since we have a strong vote bank at Chavara and Mr. John is a very popular leader there. The socio-political situation in the constituency is favourable to the UDF unlike in the previous Assembly election,” she said. The UDF is expected to start the campaign on Sunday after a district UDF committee meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shibu-is-udf-candidate-at-chavara/article32533953.ece
06 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Backwater back on tourism map||The Pazhukkanila backwaters, where the Kodoor and Meenachil rivers converge with Vembanad Lake, is all set to get a new life after decades of neglect. In a major step towards extending backwater tourism in Kottayam beyond the Vembanad banks, the State government has accorded administrative sanction for a project worth Rs. 107.88 crore for the revival of Pazhukkanila. The project, which envisages deepening of the waterbody and constructing a ring road by strengthening the outer bunds, has been announced by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. According to the Minister, Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd. (KIIDC) has been entrusted with the task of preparing a detailed project report (DPR). To be implemented using the fund of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), it will be launched as the first project under the second Kuttanad Package. 25-km ring road Officials said the silt to be dredged from the lake bed would be used for strengthening the outer bunds of F-Block, Thiruvaykkari, and H-Block paddy polders, which lie near the waterbody. The reinforced outer bund will be developed as a ring road at a length of 25 km, which is expected to trigger tourism activities in the region with greater access to locations including Malarikkal, which hosts the annual water lily festival. K. Anil Kumar, convener of the Meenchil-Meenanthara-Kodoor river relinking programme, said the project would cut the flood risk for Kottayam as the run-off water in Meenachil and Kodoor rivers will easily flow out to Vembanad. “Trash and weeds hold the sway on the lake bed at Pazhukkanila while the centuries-old waterway that runs through it remains unnavigable. The sedimentation has affected its aquatic life, besides raising the risk of flooding in areas surrounding the entire backwater network,” he said. Old lighthouse The revival of the lake will also open a water-route for the paddy farmers, ensuring a smooth transportation of the farming materials as well as the paddy stock. The river mouth at Pazhukkanila, which houses a 200-year-old lighthouse, had served as a strategic point along the water route that connected the Kottayam region with the rest of Kerala for centuries.  A ring road will give greater access to locations including Malarikkal, which hosts the annual water lily festival||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/backwater-back-on-tourism-map/article32534035.ece
06 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||119 cases in Kottayam||As many as 119 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. All but one were infected through local transmission. Erattupetta municipality led the tally with 12 cases, followed by Kottayam municipality with 11 cases and Ettumanur with nine cases. Aymanom and Changanassery had six cases each. Four private institutions in the district, QRS and Josco Jewellers in Kottayam; Paragon Polymers at Kooroppada; and Cherivupuram Rubbers at Chenappai have been declared institutional COVID-19 clusters. All units reported over 10 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/119-cases-in-kottayam/article32534036.ece
06 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Crucial KC(M) meet today||A steering committee meeting of the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani will be held in Kottayam on Sunday. The meeting assumes importance as the party leadership is expected to discuss matters pertaining to the Kuttanad byelection and the disqualification move against P.J. Joseph and Mons Joseph, MLAs, for violating the party whip in the Assembly. Even though the party, which has been allotted the party symbol, is not part of the United Democratic Front now, its stance will be crucial for the Congress-led coalition in deciding their candidate for the byelection. Though Mr. Joseph, whose nominee had contested from the constituency for the UDF last time, holds a natural claim over the seat, the veteran leader has lost all rights in the KC(M) with the latest Election Commission of India (ECI) order. The Mani camp has intensified its attack on the rival group to make up for the loss in the recent Pala byelection. According to N. Jayaraj, MLA, a close associate of Mr. Mani, the meeting will decide on submitting a petition before the Speaker against Mr. Joseph and Mr. Mons Joseph for violating the party whip in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crucial-kcm-meet-today/article32533942.ece
06 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees 244 new cases, 1 death||As many as 244 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Saturday while one more person succumbed to the infection at the Government Medical College Hospital here. A bulletin from the medical college hospital said that the deceased was an 80-year-old man from Puthiyapuram in Kozhikode district. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 218 of the new cases were through local transmission. There seems to be a rise in such cases in Kadalundi where 68 people were tested positive for the virus. Kozhikode Corporation reported 41 such cases. The source of infection of 15 people is not known. There are three health workers among the newly infected persons. As many as 193 people recovered from the infection and the number of active cases in the district is 1,783. In Malappuram Malappuram district saw 249 new COVID-19 cases and 338 recoveries on Saturday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that it was heartening to see more recoveries. He warned people to exercise constant caution. While 222 persons were infected through local contacts, the source of infection in 14 cases could not be identified. Among them were four health workers. District officials said 48,652 people were quarantined across Malappuram. The number of cases currently under treatment came down to 1,731. In Kasaragod In the biggest single-day spike, 276 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Saturday. Of these, 254 were local transmission cases. In Thrissur Thrissur district reported 169 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. There were 110 recoveries also. As many as 159 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of 53 people could not be traced. In all, 9,399 people are under observation. In Kannur As many as 222 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Kannur on Saturday. Of these, 179 were local transmission cases. The district has so far reported 4,220 COVID-19 cases. There were 121 recoveries on Saturday. In Palakkad Hundred more people tested positive for the virus in Palakkad on Saturday. However, there were 112 recoveries in the district. District Collector D. Balamurali said that 56 of the new cases were infected through local transmission. While six came from abroad, seven came from other States. The source of infection could not be traced in 31 cases. Nearly 9,800 people were quarantined across the district. In Wayanad As many as 20 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. While 14 people contracted the virus through local transmission, six arrived from other States. However, there were 29 recoveries also in the district. As many as 2,908 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-sees-244-new-cases-1-death/article32533923.ece
06 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) to bank on candidates’ track record in local body polls||Caught between the COVID-19 pandemic and the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] appears to have adopted a more pragmatic approach to facing the upcoming three-tier local body polls in the State, especially in the Malabar region. Anti-incumbency A senior party functionary said that the focus would be on selection of candidates. Area committees and local branches have already started scouting for fresh candidates, including non-political personalities, with impeccable record and grassroots-level support. Such a strategy, they hope, will help overcome any possible anti-incumbency factor. Party sources said that Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel’s remarks on distribution of Quran  to counter allegations in connection with the gold smuggling case had not gone down well with the Muslim community. Leaders like Mr. Jaleel along with P.T.A. Rahim, MLA of National Secular Conference, have helped build a bridge between the CPI(M) and the Muslim community, and that had favoured the electoral prospects of the Left Democratic Front earlier. Tough battle Now, the ruling front is so much on the defensive with multiple issues ranging from the gold smuggling scandal to allegations over the Life Mission project. What seemed like a cakewalk for Left parties in the upcoming local body polls a month ago has now become an uphill battle for the ruling front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-bank-on-candidates-track-record-in-local-body-polls/article32533924.ece
06 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand raised for new-generation courses||With not many students pursuing higher education outside the State in the present situation, universities in the State have been forced to allot more courses and seats to affiliated colleges. But most of these are traditional ones and not much thought have been put into new-generation courses that may open new horizons for students, says the Kerala Unaided College Principals’ Council. Recently, Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi, and Calicut universities permitted the colleges to start new courses considering the spurt in demand. Though 80% of the courses are being allotted to the self-financing (unaided) sector, the demand for some diverse courses has been denied, Varghese Mathew, president, said. “Most students go to other States for job-oriented new-generation courses. But, the top brass in our universities feel they have no scope for employment. People who complete these courses have good job opportunities in foreign countries,” he added. The council had suggested several new-generation courses such as Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, Internet of things, Robotics & Mechatronics, Disaster Management, Green Technology, Genetics, Speech & Learning, Nano Science, Criminology, Sports Medicine, Audiology, Population Studies, Forensic Science, Atmospheric Science, Meteorology, Energy Conservation, Environmental Studies, Behavioural Science, Space Science, Food Science, Yoga & Meditation, Media Engineering, Gender Studies, Remote Sensing, Cyber Laws, and Palliative Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-raised-for-new-generation-courses/article32533915.ece
06 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Criminals on parole keep police on their toes||Criminals who were released on parole from jails in the district six months ago due to the spread of COVID-19 have become a headache to the police now. The Kozhikode Town Police Station alone recorded five cases recently involving them. “The situation is no different in other stations,” said Station House Officer A. Umesh, citing a recent theft in a shop near the Second Railway Gate in the city. “Cigarettes and lottery tickets worth around Rs. 30,000 were stolen from the small shop, and the culprits have been identified,” Mr. Umesh said, adding that even bank robbery case involving those on parole had been reported. He said the early closure of shops and end of activities in the city by 7 p.m. had become an advantage for burglars . “Recently, a person who was released on parole while undergoing punishment in a POCSO case has gone back to jail for murder. Another habitual thief was arrested and sent back to jail for 16 robberies,” Mr. Umesh said. The Town Police have also initiated action based on the Juvenile Justice Act in some cases in which criminals on parole used children to aid them in crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/criminals-on-parole-keep-police-on-their-toes/article32533921.ece
06 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||RT-PCR lab to be opened||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will open a new RT-PCR laboratory attached to the Regional Public Health Laboratory, Kozhikode, on Sunday. According to a release, the lab will function from the premises of a training centre of the Health Department at Malaparamba in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rt-pcr-lab-to-be-opened/article32533916.ece
06 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 36 lakh seized at Calicut airport||The Air Intelligence Unit of the Calicut International Airport seized 700 gms of gold worth Rs. 36 lakh from a passenger on Saturday.The passenger identified as T. Hamza of Malappuram arrived at the airport from Jeddah in Saudi Arabia. The smuggled gold was concealed inside a pressure cooker, authorities said. AIU team led by Deputy Commissioner Raji N.S. detected the smuggled gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-36-lakh-seized-at-calicut-airport/article32533939.ece
06 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Farmer’s body buried after 40 days||Ending a 40-day protest that kept authorities on their toes, the body of 41-year-old Chittar farmer P.P. Mathai was finally laid to rest at the St. Mary’s Orthodox Church cemetery at Kudappakulam, near Ranni, on Friday evening. The body, kept in a morgue after a recent re-post-mortem, was brought to his residence at Vadasserikkara in the morning. Notwithstanding the COVID-19 regulations, people turned up in huge numbers to pay their last respects to the deceased. The body of Mathai was found in a well near his residence on July 28, hours after being taken into custody by forest officials for allegedly damaging a camera trap on the forest fringes. Following a post-mortem examination at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam, it had been kept at the morgue of a private hospital in Ranni. While a special investigation team led by Chief Forest Conservator (Southern Circle) Sanjayan Kumar concluded the death as suicide, the victim’s family believed that justice had been denied to the farmer despite a police investigation. “Let alone arresting the accused, the police did not even bother to interrogate them. Right from the beginning, they appeared to be under severe pressure to drag on the investigation,” said Jacob Varghese, a relative. Inquest Mr. Varghese exuded confidence over the reinvestigation being carried out by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “The inquest, held in the presence of relatives prior to the re-post-mortem, unearthed at least seven injuries that had not been recorded earlier,” he claimed. The body was subjected to the re-post-mortem at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on September 4. Following this, a team of officials from the CBI visited the crime scene. The case was handed over to the Central agency after the victim’s relatives approached the Kerala High Court. Though the police, which filed a primary report with the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court in Ranni, had unearthed as many as 12 lapses from the part of the forest officials, it never arraigned anyone as accused. Despite repeated requests by the Pathanamthitta district administration and the police, the victim’s family had insisted on burying the body only after arresting the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-body-buried-after-40-days/article32533941.ece
06 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||148 test positive in Pathanamthitta||In Pathanamthitta, 148 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Of these, 115 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while 12 had come from abroad. The remaining 21 cases came from other States. With 26 cases, Kadakkad cluster reported the highest number of cases. The source of infection of a handful of cases is yet to be traced. The disease have so far claimed 27 lives in the district and the District Medical Office has asked the public to observe reverse quarantine. L. Sheeja, District Medical Officer, said most of the COVID-19 victims were senior citizens. There are over two lakh people in Pathanamthitta aged above 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/148-test-positive-in-pathanamthitta/article32534037.ece
06 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Huge spike as 590 test positive in capital||Following a lull in COVID-19 cases largely attributed to a fall in testing during the Onam holidays, Thiruvananthapuram recorded its highest single-day spike with 590 people testing positive for SARS-COV-2 on Saturday. There appears to be no respite from the growing death toll in the district which grew to 106 as four more deaths – those of a 61-year old Kilimanoor native who died on August 28, 73-year old Palode native who died on August 30, 70-year old Vellayani native who died on August 31 and a 62-year old Vellarada-native woman who died on September 1 – have been attributed to COVID-19 by the National Institute of Virology (NIV). Local transmission continued unabated as it accounted for 587 of those infected, while only three among the fresh cases were imported ones. Thirteen health workers were among those diagnosed with the disease. The sources of infection were unknown in 13 cases. The recovery rate also remained at a high as 512 people tested negative for the infection. Currently, 5,044 people are being treated for the disease in the district. During his daily briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan minced no words as he emphasised on the gravity of the pandemic spread in the district. “Spreading beyond the coastal belt, COVID-19 cases have been reported from most parts of the district which also has the highest rate (in the State). While the situation called for greater restraint, the urban and rural areas of the district alike have been witnessing increasing rush,” he said. Pointing out that the pandemic could no longer be contained through imposition of lockdowns, the Chief Minister said efforts were being made to sensitise the public on the need to adopt precautionary measures. Testing will also be ramped up as part of the containment strategy, he added. Nine police officers including two grade sub-inspectors attached to the Neyyattinkara police station tested positive for the infection. The offices of the Neyyattinkara Dy.SP. and Circle Inspector were also located on the same premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/huge-spike-as-590-test-positive-in-capital/article32533983.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trends hint at caseload peaking by mid-Sept.||The latest disease transmission trends in the State have given rise to the hope that COVID-19 could peak by mid-September in the State and that the epidemic curve (which started on May 4) could peter out by November. However, new outbreaks can continue to occur from areas that remain unaffected or less affected, public health experts warn. The infection is expected to scale the peak at different points in time between September and October across the State. The epidemic curve will rise and peak, but it is likely to remain stable for a while before it descends, global experience shows. “There are also other variables related to heterogeneity of the population in various districts like age structure, geographical distribution, occupations and behavioural patterns affecting the disease dynamics. These will reflect on the effective reproductive number (R) of the different geographical zones. Real-life situation can differ vastly from our basic premises,” a senior epidemiologist says. “According to the current disease trend, we expect COVID-19 to peak in the State around mid-September, with around 4,300 new cases and around 45,000 active cases. By November, we expect the epidemic to have resulted in over 2.55 lakh confirmed cases and around 1,000 deaths. When the curve descends will depend on the extent of population immunity we would have achieved by then,” he adds. Given the change in disease trends in various districts, the disease will peak at different points in time between September second week to October second week. Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod will see the disease peak early, while Ernakulam will have a later peak. The Statewide epidemic pattern will later shift to focal outbreaks pattern, with sporadic cases and deaths. “These are projections made on the basis of the disease trends. The accuracy of these projections will depend on how reliable the State data are,” he adds. Going by the global pattern, epidemiologists believe that the current outbreak will lose its momentum when the sero prevalence rate (proportion of a population which gets infected with a pathogen and develops antibodies, as measured by survey testing blood samples) in the community reaches 10-20 %. The sero prevalence could be higher in pockets like Poonthura. Sero surveillance Many in the scientific community in the State are puzzled by the government’s resistance to initiate a Statewide sero study. A sero study would throw up better evidence on the actual proportion of the population that has already been exposed to the virus. “Sero surveillance studies will put an end to a lot of uncertainties and help the State adopt better strategies in the days ahead,” Rakhal Gaitonde, Professor, Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies, says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trends-hint-at-caseload-peaking-by-mid-sept/article32533945.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) blamed for political violence||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday attempted to portray the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] as the fountainhead of political violence in the State. The Congress leadership sought to undercut the CPI(M)’s State-wide campaign against political murders by blaming the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) workers at Venjaramoodu on August 30 on the bitter factional rivalry between DYFI State secretary A.A. Rahim and D.K. Murali, MLA, within the district CPI(M). Former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president M.M. Hassan, District Congress Committee president Neyyattinkara Sanal and K.S. Sabarinathan, MLA, alleged that two DYFI activists were also among the assailants. Other suspects in the double murder were former DYFI workers who had left the organisation out of spite. They had publicly held the victims responsible for their ouster, they said. CBI probe sought The Congress demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation and said it did not trust the local law enforcement, given the "chequered past" of the District Police Chief. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had defended the police and said the probe was on the right track. The CPI(M) had denied the allegations. It said the police had found that Youth Congress leader G. Leena had staged an attack on her own house with the help of her son to divert public attention from the double murder. The Congress was attempting to hide its embarrassment by levelling false charges against the CPI(M). BJP charge BJP State president K. Surendran said the CPI(M) seemed poised to launch a major campaign of violence in north Kerala. He told reporters that several BJP workers in Kathirur had woken up to find that anonymous persons had marked their houses at night with red fluorescent stickers. A few days after, an accidental explosion revealed the existence of a country-bomb making shed in the politically sensitive locality. Two CPI(M) activists, including a party member who was acquitted in the T. P. Chandrasekharan murder case, were injured in the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-blamed-for-political-violence/article32533982.ece
06 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Housing project to have 1,454 new beneficiaries||As many as 1,454 beneficiaries are set to ink agreements with the city Corporation for construction of houses as part of the seventh Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the Pradhan Mantri Awaz Yojana (PMAY) housing project. Excluding this number, more than 10,000 beneficiaries have already been approved by the local body as part of the project since 2015. Chosen beneficiaries can sign agreements with the Corporation from Monday. Delayed “Due to the COVID-19 situation, the work on the seventh DPR was getting delayed. Field activities also were not happening much. We cannot delay this further as there are timelines stipulated for each stage of the project. Usually, we organise beneficiary meets before signing agreement, in which they are given classes on cost-effective construction. Now, considering the current situation, they will be provided leaflets with tips when they sign the agreement,” said a PMAY official. Out of the around 10,000 beneficiaries till now, more than 3,500 completed their houses and got TC numbers. A good number of the beneficiaries are in the third stage, with houses completed and waiting for the paperwork to be finished. Around 1,500 others have their houses nearing completion. Photos checked Funds are disbursed only after checking the photographs of the progress of work, uploaded by the beneficiaries. Geo-tagging surveyors have been appointed across all wards. The funds are provided in four instalments, with disbursal of 10%, 40%, 40% and 10% for each stage of construction, over one year, during which the construction has to be completed. In each DPR, 10 people from each of the 100 wards are included. In addition, those who have bought land under the LIFE (livelihood, inclusion, financial empowerment) housing project of the State government are also included. Houses under the PMAY are for those who already own land, while the LIFE project has a separate phase for landless beneficiaries too. As part of the original PMAY project envisaged by the Union government, each beneficiary would get Rs. 1.5 lakh from the Centre, the State and the local body together would contribute Rs. 1 lakh, and the beneficiary share was Rs. 50,000. Clubbed with LIFE In Kerala, the project has now been clubbed with the LIFE project, as per which they will be given Rs. 2 lakh as the Corporation’s share and Rs. 50,000 as the State government’s share, taking the total sum provided to the beneficiary to Rs. 4 lakh. The beneficiary share was thus done away with. The Corporation had last year returned the share of 1,500 PMAY beneficiaries who had already paid it before the project was clubbed with LIFE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/housing-project-to-have-1454-new-beneficiaries/article32533984.ece
06 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New climber species found in the Western Ghats||Scientists at the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode, have identified a new and rare species of climber of the genus Pothos (family Araceae) from the Western Ghats in Idukki district. The species has been christened Pothos boyceanus after Peter C. Boyce, an expert on Araceae of southeast Asia. The discovery by G. Rajkumar, Nazarudeen Ahammed, T. Shaju, and R. Prakashkumar (Director, JNTBGRI) has been published in Taiwania , an international journal of biodiversity. “Though a climber, Pothos boyceanus belongs to the same family as Colocasia. We came across it during a floristic survey of the Western Ghats in the evergreen forests of Valara, Idukki,” Dr. Nazarudeen said. “It has potential as an indoor plant. Studies are needed to determine the other properties of this species,” he said.  Pothos boyceanus is characterised by a ligule, slightly-winged petiole, asymmetric lamina, cylindric spadix and ovoid, milky-white berries. With the identification of this climbing aroid, the number of species of the genus Pothos found in Kerala has risen to six. Pothos boyceanus belongs to the subgenus Allopothos and is closely related to Pothos crassipedunculatus reported earlier from the Agasthyamala region of the Western Ghats. Conservation steps  Pothos boyceanus is an ‘extremely rare’ species, Dr. Nazarudeen said. The JNTBGRI team has, in fact, recommended urgent conservation measures. Repeated surveys could locate fewer than 100 individuals found scattered in a 10 sq km area. This qualifies it for categorisation as Critically Endangered as per the IUCN, the JNTBGRI team noted in its paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-climber-species-found-in-the-western-ghats/article32533979.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Lockdown not a tool’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that lockdowns would no more serve as a tool to fight COVID-19 but that only increased public awareness that each and everyone was vulnerable to contracting the disease could help the State as it moved on to the next phase of the COVID pandemic. Everyone needed to be aware that it was their own right and responsibility to keep themselves safe by maintaining physical distancing, reducing social interactions, and following all safety precautions. Lockdowns cannot make COVID go away, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-not-a-tool/article32533980.ece
06 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waste management project soon: CM||The Kerala State Waste Management Project, aimed at improving solid waste collection, disposal and recycling, will be launched soon, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He said this on Saturday during his COVID-19 briefing. An all-party meeting that was convened to discuss the project lent full support to the project, he added. The project cost would be Rs. 2,100 crore, with the World Bank providing Rs. 1,470 crore and the State pitching in with the rest. It would have three main components—technical support, improvement in basic infrastructure related to waste management, and environment-friendly recycling. The Suchitwa Mission would be the nodal agency, looking mainly at the first two aspects and the local bodies would have the responsibility of waste management at the ground level. Ninety three urban local bodies and 183 gramapanchayats located in close proximity to these urban local bodies would be the beneficiaries of this project, which was spread over a period of six years. “Solid waste collection and processing are now being handled fully by the local bodies. In the past four years, 3,500 Haritha Karma Sena units, 888 material collection centres and 151 resource recovery centres have been set up. We have one of the best waste management systems in the country. However, we have a lot of room for improvement in solid waste collection. There are not enough mechanisms to treat bio-waste at homes and at source. We also need a project for treating all of the non-biodegradable waste. For this, the local bodies need support,” said the CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waste-management-project-soon-cm/article32533985.ece
06 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RGIDS study criticises State’s COVID handling||The measures implemented by the State government for tackling the COVID-19 pandemic lacked perspective and a sense of direction, according to a study by the Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Development Studies (RGIDS). The study calls for well-thought-out projects with short and long-term objectives for overcoming the crises faced by various sectors. The study report containing a set of recommendations covering multiple sectors was released here by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala by handing over a copy to KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. Mass inflow While Kerala could effectively prevent disease transmission in the first phase of the pandemic, the decision to reduce tests in the subsequent phase was flawed, especially in the light of the mass inflow of Keralites from abroad and other States. The general response of the Health Department to the pandemic was ‘immature,’ the study criticised. It urges the government to publish a White Paper on the revenue loss caused by COVID-19 and the status of post-lockdown State finances. The pandemic and the consequent lockdown triggered a significant decline in the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) between March 24 and May 17. The total GSDP loss is to the tune of Rs. 87,159 crore, according to the study. As part of the recommendations, the study urges the government to craft an action plan for reviving the State’s limping economy. Waste disposal In the health sector, the State should replace the curative healthcare model with a preventive one. Steps should be taken to address the problems plaguing waste disposal. The study also calls for urgent measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. The study, among other things, also lists recommendations for the revival of agriculture, IT, fisheries, small industries, tourism, and labour sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rgids-study-criticises-states-covid-handling/article32533987.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM backs Mani’s claim to KC(M) leadership||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday appeared to endorse Jose. K. Mani’s contentious claim to the mantle of leadership of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)]. When pressed whether his faction would find a place in the Left Democratic Front (LDF), Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Mani’s heft in the KC(M) had increased. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had upheld Mr. Mani’s right to bear the ‘two leaf’ symbol to the hustings. At a stroke, the ECI appeared to have subscribed to his claim to the leadership of the party. Mr. Vijayan’s statement at his regular COVID-19 news briefing triggered intense speculation that the LDF leadership had opened consultations with coalition partners to facilitate Mr. Mani’s entry into the ruling front. His comment assumed some significance against the backdrop of a report that the CPI had not shed its scepticism about admitting Mr. Mani into the coalition. The Nationalist Congress Party had also stated that it would not part with the Pala seat won by Mani C. Kappan in a by-election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-backs-manis-claim-to-kcm-leadership/article32533946.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One course: trial allotment published||Trial allotment for admission to the higher secondary Plus One course for this year was published here on Saturday. Allotment was done for 2,21,744 of the 2,79,966 merit seats under the single window system for admission. The first allotment will be held on September 14. Applicants can check out the trial allotment results by visiting the websitewww.hscap.kerala.gov.in, logging in through ‘Candidate Login-SWS,’ and clicking on the link ‘Trial Results.’ Those who are yet to create candidate log-in can do so through the link ‘Create Candidate Login-SWS’. For help, approach help desks in schools. The trial allotment list can be looked up till 5 p.m. on September 8. Students can rearrange the options, add or delete them through the ‘Edit Application’ link before 5 p.m. the same day. This is the last chance to make changes in the applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-course-trial-allotment-published/article32533947.ece
06 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly 1||District Collector Navjot Khosa has said the interviews that were scheduled on September 8 for appointing assistant public prosecutors on temporary basis to various magistrate courts in the district have been cancelled. The decision has been taken in view of the government’s move to fill such vacancies through the Kerala Public Service Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/briefly-1/article32533976.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Paddy harvesting at KU on Sept. 8||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar will inaugurate the harvesting of paddy cultivation at the University of Kerala as part of the ‘Harithalayam’ project at 8.30 a.m. on September 8. The project, inaugurated by the Chief Minister on World Environment Day, also includes vegetable farming, fish farming and coconut farming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-harvesting-at-ku-on-sept-8/article32533977.ece
06 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||AKGCT hails open university||The Association of Kerala Government College teachers (AKGCT) has hailed the government decision to set up an open university at Kollam in the name of Sri Narayana Guru. A press note quoting association State secretary N. Manoj and president M. Sathyan said the initiative would help to strengthen the university education sector in the State and open up new avenues in informal and distance education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/akgct-hails-open-university/article32533948.ece
06 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Minister files defamation notice against MLA||Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen has sent legal notice to Anil Akkara, MLA, alleging that the latter had defamed him in the LIFE Mission controversy. The minister sought a compensation of Rs. I crore from the MLA. Notices have also been sent to a leading newspaper and television channel. The MLA had alleged that the Minister had received kickbacks in the LIFE Mission apartment project at Wadakkanchery, which is being constructed by Red Crescent, UAE. “I have been involved in clean politics since my student days. The allegations made by the MLA were meant to tarnish my image,” the Minister said in the notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-files-defamation-notice-against-mla/article32533918.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New route||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-route/article32533990.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting a facelift||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/getting-a-facelift/article32533920.ece
06 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First-ever Kisan Rail to chug off from Anantapur to Delhi on September 9||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will flag off the first-ever Kisan Rail from Anantapur railway station at 11 a.m. virtually on September 9. Earlier, Anantapur district had the distinction of running the first-ever goods train loaded only with bananas from Tadipatri to the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, Mumbai, for export to Iran. MP’s initiative The Kisan Rail will have 37 bogies to ferry 460 tonnes of several horticulture crops. The district produces one of the finest varieties of sweet lime, banana, pomegranate, papaya, and guava. The horticulture produce will be sent to the Azad Fruit Market in Delhi. This has become possible with Anantapur MP T. Rangaiah taking special interest in getting the train sanctioned by the Railway Ministry and coordinating with the Azad Market Traders’ Association. Meanwhile, the district Collector has asked the farmers and traders to load all the bogies with the produce by September 8. The Collector has also asked the horticulture officials to document the entire experience so that the process can be fine-tuned later. Another train is expected to be operated on September 16. “A few traders and horticulture farmers will also go to New Delhi along with the load to acquaint themselves with the requirements there. This will help them understand the ground reality and work on ways to realise our dream of operating the Kisan Rail every week,” Mr. Rangaiah told The Hindu . The goods will remain fresh if the train reaches New Delhi in 36 hours, and the farmers can expect a better price. Guntakal Additional DRM Suryanarayana and other railway officials attended a meeting convened on Saturday at the Collector’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-ever-kisan-rail-to-chug-off-from-anantapur-to-delhi-on-september-9/article32533651.ece
06 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Emulate Sarvepalli’||Teachers must strive to be torch-bearers for the society and help students find the right path, Central University Vice-Chancellor S.A. Kori said at the Teachers’ Day Celebrations on the university campus on Saturday. While felicitating the professor V.V. Rajendra Prasad, Dean G. Anjaneyulu Swamy said Sarvepalli Radhakrishan’s journey from a teacher to the country’s highest position - President - is something every teacher must try to emulate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/emulate-sarvepalli/article32533605.ece
06 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Diagnostic centre sealed for ‘fleecing’ patients||Complaints of several hospitals and diagnostic centres resorting to conducting MRI and CT scans to determine the COVID status in symptomatic persons prompted officials to conduct checks and take action against one Star Diagnostic Centre on Sunday. The Star Diagnostic Centre has been accused of conducting the scans without any prescription from a registered medical practitioner for determining the status, District Medical and Health Officer Kameshwara Prasad said. “After we received complaints against the centre for fleecing patients in the name of CT and MRI scans, we verified with the records and found the allegations to be true. A seizing order has been handed over to the manager,” he said. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that two diagnostic centres would be closed down following complaints. A notice would be issued to all those centres where discrepancies were found, he added. Checks would be conducted at all the diagnostic centres in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/diagnostic-centre-sealed-for-fleecing-patients/article32533603.ece
06 September 2020||ANNAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Full-time darshan at Annavaram temple from tomorrow||Executive Officer of Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swami Vari Devasthanam at Annavaram, V. Trinadha Rao, said on Saturday that devotees would be allowed to have darshan of the deity between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. from September 7. Restrictions on darshan had to be imposed in recent months due to the spread of COVID-19. “Children below five years of age and elderly people will not be allowed on the Devasthanam premises for darshan until further guidelines. Accommodation facility will also be offered to the devotees from August 7. However, only two persons will be allowed in a single room,” Mr. Trinadha Rao said in an official release. Each room will be allocated for accommodation only once in two days, and it will be thoroughly sanitised once the devotees check out. Devotees can book rooms on the temple campus through offline mode. Meanwhile, at least 84 staff of the Devasthanam have tested positive for COVID-19 since March. “All the staff who tested positive have recovered as of Saturday,” said Devasthanam Public Relations Officer Kotagiri Kondala Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/full-time-darshan-at-annavaram-temple-from-tomorrow/article32533609.ece
06 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 killed in road mishap||Three persons of a family were killed when their motorbike was knocked down by a lorry at Gyarampalle village on the Piler-Kadapa road in K.V. Palle mandal, 100 km from here, on Saturday. According to the police, the couple identified as Shankar (35) and Reddamma (30) and their son Karthik (4) from Chinnagottigallu in Chittoor district were on their way to Sambepalle in Kadapa district where they worked at a stone quarry. The accident occurred when a speeding lorry had hit the bike in the rear, killing the three on the spot, said the police. Later, the driver fled abandoning the lorry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-killed-in-road-mishap/article32533606.ece
06 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two wild elephants create flutter on NH 4||Two wild elephants from the Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary created a flutter near the Chittoor-Bengaluru NH 4 on Saturday, causing trouble to the road users. The pachyderms had left the sanctuary belt and were moving towards the fields at Jagamarla and Gandhi Nagar villages nearby when, prevented by a stretch of solar fencing adjoining the NH, they took to wild trumpeting, and repeatedly strayed into the NH zone. A couple of hours later, one of the elephants glided over the fencing to the village side, while the other started running alongside the NH sending jitters among the motorists. Soon, forest officials from Palamaner and elephant trackers rushed to the spot and drove the stranded elephant back into the sanctuary. Forest Range Officer (Palamaner) Srinivasulu said that the two gigantic elephants, both male, had been moving in the NH zone for the last several months. “We have named them Ramudu and Bheemudu. They are used to crossing the NH and then returning to the sanctuary. The recent crops at nearby villages are a big lure to them,” he said. In recent weeks, the forest department had launched the solar fencing works to prevent pachyderms entering the villages in the north. “The fencing is partially complete. Once it is fully complete, the problems of elephants crossing the NH at this vulnerable belt near Moghili ghat and Jagamarla village would be controlled,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-wild-elephants-create-flutter-on-nh-4/article32533608.ece
06 September 2020||Choutuppal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lucky escape for Naidu||Telugu Desam Party supremo and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had a lucky escape on Saturday when a vehicle of his convoy was involved in an accident on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in Yadadri-Bhavanagiri district of Telangana. The incident occurred at around 3.30 p.m., when the convoy was crossing Dandu Malkapuram village. Mr. Naidu was en route Hyderabad from Amaravati in his fleet of SUVs. According to the Choutuppal police, the driver of the first vehicle in the convoy hit the brakes suddenly to avoid a cow that came onto the highway. As a result, the second and third vehicles collided. Mr. Naidu, who was in the fourth vehicle, escaped unhurt. “Only the vehicles were damaged. Security officials also did not suffer any injuries. Mr. Naidu shifted then to the middle row, and resumed the journey,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lucky-escape-for-naidu/article32533899.ece
06 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fuel fraud: gang inserted chips in pumps to reduce flow, says official||Police and Legal Metrology officials investigating the alleged fuel pilfering racket found that the accused had inserted electronic chips in many fuel pumps. The prime accused, Sk. Subhani Basha, of Madepalli in Eluru Rural mandal along with a few others had sold the e-chips to the owners of many fuel outlets and the latter have been deceiving the consumers for the past few years, said Controller of Legal Metrology M. Kanta Rao. “We have alerted the oil companies, instrument suppliers (pump manufacturers) and other stakeholders on the racket,” said Mr. Rao, who inspected many petrol pumps on Saturday. Subhani, a technician, had sold the chips procured from Maharashtra to some fuel outlet owners in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and other States at Rs. 90,000 each, Mr. Rao told The Hindu . “The gang mainly targeted the petrol pumps in West and East Godavari districts. We have alerted other States on the illegal operations,” he said. West Godavari district Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said the raids on petrol pumps are continuing and many owners resorting to the fraud were taken into custody. “The oil company officials should make surprise checks to verify the quality and quantity of fuel being dispensed. Civil Supplies and Revenue personnel should also conduct raids to prevent cheating in petrol pumps and the Legal Metrology is ready to extend necessary technical assistance to them,” said Legal Metrology Deputy Controller (Enforcement wing) K. Isaac.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fuel-fraud-gang-inserted-chips-in-pumps-to-reduce-flow-says-official/article32533619.ece
06 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre directs action on ‘unauthorised’ COVID centre in Eluru||The Union Home Ministry has responded to the grievance on an “unauthorised private COVID care centre” and directed the officials to act on the complaint. BJP Yuva Morcha State RTI Cell convenor Adidam Vamshi Krishna had filed a complaint with the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, alleging that a private COVID care centre in Eluru was sealed but no criminal action has been taken against the management. The complainant said the centre started operating 45 days ago in a private residential complex and was providing treatment “without obtaining any permission”. Officials raided the hospital on August 23 and seized injections, rapid test kits and other material worth lakhs of rupees, he alleged. During inquiry, it was allegedly revealed that the centre management had collected fees in lakhs of rupees from each patient. “More than 10 patients died due to the poor treatment facilities, but no action has been taken,” he alleged. The Union Home Ministry on Saturday directed the Assistant Secretary and Joint Secretary to act on the complaint, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-directs-action-on-unauthorised-covid-centre-in-eluru/article32534071.ece
06 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gym owner, friend held for stalking woman||The West Godavari district police arrested a gym owner named G. Sai Naresh and his friend, Anudeep, for allegedly taking photographs and videos of a woman and blackmailing her. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said the gym owner reportedly took the photographs of the complainant while she was exercising in the gym. He forwarded the photographs to his friends, including a woman. Following a complaint, the Eluru Two Town police registered a case under various clauses of Section 354 IPC and under Section 66 (e) of the IT Act, said Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) O. Dilip Kiran. “We served notices on two others in the case on Friday, and the seized material will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination. The investigation is under progress,” the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gym-owner-friend-held-for-stalking-woman/article32533613.ece
06 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPDCL gears up to implement free agriculture power scheme||Chairman and Managing Director of the A.P. Central Power Distribution Company Limited (APCPDCL) J. Padmanabha Reddy has said that they are readying the infrastructural and operational capacities to implement the YSR Free Agriculture Power Scheme across the State. Service meters “Under the scheme, every farmer can avail himself of uninterrupted nine-hour power supply during the agricultural season,” Mr. Reddy told reporters here on Saturday. “I would like to reiterate that not even a single free power connection has been removed so far. Moreover, it will be easy to operate and maintain power supply if we can fix service meters to all connections. We are also changing all old lines and replacing them with new power cables, and we are also establishing 33/11 KV sub-stations . We will soon establish 32 feeders and link them with 33/11 KV sub-stations,” said Mr. Reddy. He also said that the APCPDCL had introduced android-based billing with a view to making payment of bills easier. But since there were some operational issues, the billing process would continue to be manual for some time, he added. “We have also declared the year 2020 as the year of zero accident, and we are taking all measures, including spreading awareness on the YouTube,” said Mr. Reddy. J. Santhosh Rao, APCPDCL General Manager (Technical) and Superintendent Engineer M. Vijaya Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpdcl-gears-up-to-implement-free-agriculture-power-scheme/article32534064.ece
06 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan has ushered in a golden era for teachers and students’||Rich tributes were paid to former president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, whose birth anniversary is celebrated as Teachers’ Day, at a programme organised at the YSRCP central office at Tadepalli, near here, on Saturday. Addressing the gathering, Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said, “The role of the teacher in shaping the character and personality of the students is unparalleled. After the parents, it is the teacher who plays a major role in moulding the lives of the children.” English medium Stating that a golden era had begun in the lives of the teachers and students after Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy became the Chief Minister, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that more than 13,000 schools had been given a complete makeover under the Nadu-Nedu programme. The government is also going to introduce English Medium from Class 1 in all the government schools.” “The credit for redefining the role of teachers should go to Mr. Jagan. Now, a teacher’s role is all the more important as English is being made the medium of instruction in all the schools. The classrooms look classy, and well stitched uniforms, school bags, shoes and notebooks have become a part of the students,” he said. Party State general secretary Lella Appireddy said the occasion reminded him of his teachers who continued to guide him in public life. Three teachers — V. Rammohan Rao, Srimannarayana and assistant professor Naveen Kumar — who won the best teacher award were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-has-ushered-in-a-golden-era-for-teachers-and-students/article32534066.ece
06 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to bury newborn foiled||Local residents rescued a male baby by retrieving it from a pit on the outskirts of Krishnavaram village under Yetapaka police limits in East Godavari Agency on Saturday. According to police, some shepherds reportedly noticed some miscreants allegedly burying the baby in a pit in an isolated area and alerted the locals. The locals rushed to the spot and retrieved the baby from the pit. Yetapaka Circle Inspector M.G. Rama Krishna said the baby was out of danger and had been admitted to Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam. The doctors said that the baby was responding to medical treatment. The baby weighs one kg. The details of the baby’s mother are not known. Investigation is on to nab the miscreants who fled from the spot, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-bury-newborn-foiled-in-ap/article32533520.ece
06 September 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PD Act invoked against rowdy-sheeter||Collector A.Md. Imtiaz issued orders invoking PD Act against rowdy sheeter, Annem Sambasiva Rao. The Police had arrested the accused produced him in the court, said Krishna SP M. Ravindranath Babu. Sambasiva Rao, who was facing rowdy sheet in Gampalagudem police station, was allegedly involved in 20 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pd-act-invoked-against-rowdy-sheeter/article32534072.ece
06 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam logs 1,332 cases, second only to E. Godavari||Coronavirus claimed 18 more lives in south coastal Andhra Pradesh, including 13 in Nellore district in the last 24 hours while 2,378 persons tested positive in the two districts of Nellore and Prakasam. Prakasam reported a high of 1,332 cases while the toll increased to 312 with 5 new deaths, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Saturday night. The district was behind East Godavari that reported 1,399 cases on Saturday. As many as 41 patients died in the last one week in Prakasam. Nellore district registered 1,046 cases on Saturday pushing up the tally to 38,145 while the toll has risen to 338. More than 1,000 cases every day since the last week has pitchforked the district to the top three spots in the list of daily tally in the State. Health professionals in the district heaved a sigh of relief as an equal number of persons--1,248--got discharged on Saturday. Janata Curfew Rising number of cases has prompted the administration to observe Janata Curfew on Sunday. Urging the public to stick by the norms and remain indoors for 24 hours from 6 a.m., Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu noted that urban areas registered more cases than the rural ones. Accepting 122 oxygen cylinders donated by the Gemini edibles and Fats India P L, he wanted other firms to follow suit. The district administration laid emphasis on testing of more persons with symptoms to ensure timely treatment to them. In Prakasam district, 337 patients recovered from the disease during the period. Other places with high incidence of the disease in Prakasam district included Chirala(113), Kandukur(80),S.N.Padu (55), Maddipadu(54) and J.Pangalur(53). The Prakasam district administration has adopted COVID-19 Hospital Management system to ensure effective management of the disease, said Collector Pola Bhaskar after giving away a cheque for Rs. 50,000 to the wife of a journalist who died of COVID-19 recently. 74 patients critical The health authorities began distribution of medical kits comprising six types of medicines, face mask and sanitizer to over 11,750 patients undergoing treatment from home. The condition of 74 patients remained critical. Oxygen support was provided to 511 of the 1248 patients being treated in COVID-19 hospitals in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-logs-1332-cases-second-only-to-e-godavari/article32533612.ece
06 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala hundi income swells in August||The Lord Venkateswara temple here has been registering a constant increase in its hundi income as well as pilgrim crowds for the past week. There has been a significant increase in the percentage of pilgrims turning up for darshan since August 30, the day major relaxations as part of Unlock 4.0 were announced. Of the 72,000 tickets made available since then, both paid and free tokens, a record number of 69,090 devotees had the darshan of the deity. There is a considerable drop in the percentage of absentees among the paid darshan ticket holders, which hovered around 18.50% during the initial weeks of reopening of the temple to the public. In spite of demands to increase the daily quota of darshan tickets, the TTD kept it at 12,000 tickets a day in view of the seriousness of the pandemic. However, it has recently increased its online quota to 10,000 tickets per day. Meanwhile, the increase in the turnout of pilgrims has also resulted in a spike in the proceeds derived from the temple hundi that has been the main source of income for the TTD for decades. The hundi offerings stood at a record Rs. 4.73 crore in the past six days, averaging Rs. 78.75 lakh a day. The hundi recorded a constant income during August but for the first week when the proceeds stood at Rs. 2.85 crore. The hundi income was Rs. 4.55 crore in the second week and Rs. 4.59 crore and Rs. 4.22 crore during the following weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-hundi-income-swells-in-august/article32534068.ece
06 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No free darshan tokens till Sept. 30||In a sudden turn of events, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to temporarily suspend the issuance of ‘sarva darshan’ (free darshan) tokens from Sunday. The decision is believed to have been taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at Tirumala, where the annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara are scheduled to take off from September 19. No darshan tokens will be issued at the TTD counters in Tirupati till September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-free-darshan-tokens-till-sept-30/article32534067.ece
06 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite from increasing COVID cases||The State has for yet another day reported over 10,000 new COVID-19 infections. With 10,825 new cases, the second biggest single-day spike so far, the tally went up to 4,87,331 and with 71 more deaths the toll climbed to 4,347 as of Saturday morning. It was the eleventh consecutive day to see over 10,000 new infections in the State. As many as 11,941 patients have recovered in the past day and the recovery rate further increased to 78.41%. So far, 3,82,104 patients have recovered in the State. There are 1,00,880 active cases in the State. 0.91% population infected The State’s testing figure crossed the 40-lakh mark. So far, 40,35,317 samples including 69,623 in the past day were tested and 12.08% of them turned positive. With this, about 7.56% of the State's population has been tested for COVID so far and 0.91% population was infected. The tests per million ratio crossed the 75,000-mark as it reached 75,567. As per the latest data available on State's COVID dashboard, nearly half of the tests were conducted in Kurnool, East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna and Chittoor districts. East Godavari has the highest positivity rate at 16.44%, while Krishna has the least positivity rate at 5.13% despite more persons tested. In 10 districts, the positivity rate is higher than 10%, while only Krishna and Srikakulam have less than 10% positivity rate.  New cases and deaths East Godavari reported the highest single-day tally of infections and five districts reported more than a thousand new infections. Nellore reported the highest number of new deaths. The new cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (1,399 cases and 1 death), Prakasam (1,332 and 5), West Godavari (1,103 and 8), Nellore (1,046 and 13), Kadapa (1,039 and 3), Chittoor (938 and 7), Visakhapatnam (765 and 5), Vizianagaram (642 and 6), Guntur (641 and 7), Srikakulam (601 and 2), Anantapur (549 and 8), Kurnool (433 and 2), Krishna (337 and 4). Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam crossed the 40,000-mark and Kadapa crossed the 30,000-mark in the infection tally. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (65,704), Kurnool (48,006), Anantapur (44,547), West Godavari (41,802), Chittoor (41,634), Visakhapatnam (40, 214), Guntur (39,432), Nellore (35,979), Kadapa (30,577), Prakasam (28,032), Srikakulam (27,166), Vizianagaram (23,318) and Krishna (18,025).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-respite-from-increasing-covid-cases/article32534062.ece
06 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allow us to practise, foreign medicos’ body urges PM||The Indian Foreign Medical Students (IFMS) Welfare MCI Gurukul Trust has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deploy Foreign Medical Graduates (FMGs) on COVID-19 duty by providing them registration in view of the health emergency. The move can ease the shortage of medical staff, and add thousands of doctors to the Indian healthcare system with immediate effect, representatives said. IFMS MCI Gurukul Trust members Dr. G. Gurusaran and Dr. A. Shiva (Andhra Pradesh and Telangana) said that for the past three years, MCI and NBE were reducing qualifying marks of NEET-PG and NEET-MDS for filling empty seats in private medical colleges. However, the same is not being done for FMGs, which is a discrimination, they said. “It should be noted that for the past two months, the FMGs were very active against this indiscrimination, and many managed to get letters from more than 50 MPs and mailed/faxed the letters to Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan. All the letters clearly mentioned the legitimate demands of Foreign Medical Graduates and the discrimination being meted out to them,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-us-to-practise-foreign-medicos-body-urges-pm/article32533614.ece
06 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC slams reports on local body polls||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar in a statement released on Saturday said that reports circulating on social media about the schedule of local body elections purportedly released by the commission were “false, mischievous and motivated.” He said it was nothing but a part of the disinformation campaign (by some vested interests). Mr. Ramesh Kumar was pointing at comments attributed to him that the elections to both the urban local bodies and the ZPTCs and MPTCs were going to be conducted later this month and notifications would be issued in a few days. He was also attributed to have made some observations on painting of the gram panchayat buildings with colours akin to that of the ruling party flag that was challenged in the A.P. High Court. It may be noted that Mr. Ramesh Kumar had been at loggerheads with the State government ever since he was removed from the post through the controversial AP Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, in the wake of the postponement of the local body elections due to the COVID-19 scare. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said that he perceived a threat to his life and secured protection by the Central security forces, much to the chagrin of the State government. Petition in High Court The differences continue to simmer even after his reappointment, as Mr. Ramesh Kumar filed a petition in the High Court alleging police (CID) interference in the functioning of the commission, which is now pending disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-sec-slams-reports-on-local-body-polls/article32533649.ece
06 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism trade guidelines released by Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said the government had issued the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Trade (Registration and Facilitation) Guidelines-2020, thereby creating a mechanism to register the tourism trade operators, essential for maintenance of statistical information required for planning and development of tourism in the State. Addressing the media, the Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had inaugurated the Tourism Trade Registration and Facilitation portal a couple of days ago. The Minister said the idea was to provide a simple mechanism for registration of tourism trade similar to the procedures in practice in States such as Goa, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka. The guidelines would encourage improvement of service standards and offer best tourism services, promote and facilitate tourism trade through marketing channels of the Department of Tourism, and facilitate in the establishment of industry linkages with the Tourism Departments of other States, national and international renowned travel and tourism players, travel and tourism related associations and societies. He said, more importantly, it would help collect statistical information from service providers and establish a database on tourism for planning and development of tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-trade-guidelines-released-by-minister/article32534070.ece
06 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Computer courses for tribal youth||The A.P. Skill Development Corporation has come up with online courses for tribal youth to train them in basic computer operations. According to a release, the APSDC will provide training to the youth in computer fundamentals, hardware and software skills in a 40-hour course and MS Office domestic data entry operator in a 60 hour course. Also, basic multimedia will be taught in a 60-hour course. Last date Candidates aged between 18 and 45 can dial 1800 425 2422 or 8074 370 846 or 7842 2747 682 for registration and more details, according to district Skill Development Officer B. Thammaji Rao. The last date for registration is September 7. The corporation is also providing free training for engineering students and graduates in R programming. Those interested can dial the above mentioned numbers for further details regarding the online course beginning on September 7 and ending on October 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/computer-courses-for-tribal-youth/article32533602.ece
06 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PIL alleges exploitation of COVID patients||Thota Suresh Babu, a Guntur-based social worker, filed a PIL in the High Court seeking a declaration of the alleged inaction of the Central and State governments that led to rampant profiteering by corporate hospitals in the treatment of COVID patients and non-provision of cashless treatment to which they are entitled to as the buyers of insurance products, as illegal and violative of the fundamental rights. The petitioner’s counsel N. Srinivasa Rao said the Centre had laid down clear guidelines for treatment of COVID patients but there have been glaring lapses in their implementation. Insensitivity in dealing with patients is palpable, the petitioner said, seeking compensation of Rs. 7 lakh each to the bereaved families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pil-alleges-exploitation-of-covid-patients/article32534063.ece
06 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||765 new cases take tally closer to the 41,000-mark||As many as 765 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Saturday, taking the tally to 40,994. The death toll also rose to 284 with five more deaths being reported since the last 24 hours. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported since the last one week is 5,138 in the district. With the new cases, the total number of active cases as on Saturday is 6,113. Meanwhile, 845 persons have been recovered from the virus, said the officials. This takes the total number of discharges to 34,547. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, among the 717 clusters in the district, 52 are very active, 49 active and as many as 616 clusters are dormant. It may be remembered that District Collector had denotified 192 clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/765-new-cases-take-tally-closer-to-the-41000-mark/article32534080.ece
06 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU wants to host National Science Congress in 2022: V-C||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy said that the university is pitching to host National Science Congress in 2022. In this regard, the varsity will write a letter to National Science Congress president, he said, addressing a meet organised on the occasion of Teachers’ Day at the campus here on Saturday. Prof. Prasada Reddy, along with principals, deans and AU staff paid floral tributes to former President and former V-C Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan on the campus. He recalled Dr. Radhakrishnan’s services in the field of education and nation. He also recalled the late leader’s role in building Andhra University. ‘Labs will be set up’ Prof. Prasada Reddy said that AU will set up food testing, drug testing and genetic testing labs soon. These labs will work in coordination with various industries, he said.  He also said that Integrated MBA course with international standards will be started in Andhra University this academic year. Already 51 international students are ready to join the course. Since the last two months, about 450 international students have joined the varsity, he said. He also spoke about the role of teachers in education system.In-charge Registrar, Dean, PG exams,G.V. Ravindra Babu, and a few others were present. BJP members Meanwhile, members of the BJP paid floral tributes to the former President at his statue on the campus. Former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-wants-to-host-national-science-congress-in-2022-v-c/article32534075.ece
06 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam ornaments’ case: two outsourcing employees suspended||In the case where a woman from Nellore was allegedly cheated to the tune of Rs. 1.4 crore to buy gold ornaments from Simhachalam Devasthanam, officials from the Endowments Department, who initiated an inquiry, found that two outsourcing staff of the Devasthanam were allegedly involved in the offence. Following instructions from the AP Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Joint Commissioner of Endowments Department Saleem Surya Chandrasekhar Azad visited the temple on Saturday. Speaking to the media, Mr. Azad said that on September 1, Sravani, a resident of Nellore, had complained to Devasthanam that she had given about Rs. 1.4 crore to one Hymavathi from Simhachalam, as she claimed that Devasthanam is going to sell gold ornaments of the main deity. The victim claimed that while Rs. 5 to Rs. 6 lakh was sent to bank accounts, more than Rs. 1.3 crore was given in cash, he said. Mr. Azad said that role of Hymavathi’s brothers Madhu and Sekhar, working in the Devasthanam is suspected. The duo were placed under suspension. According to the endowments official, the victims claimed that they knew Hymavathi, Madhu and Sekhar for a very long time. Whenever, they came to Simhachalam, the trio used to help in ‘darshan’ of the main deity, they said. Believing them, the victims allegedly gave the money, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-ornaments-case-two-outsourcing-employees-suspended/article32533615.ece
06 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-V PG programme inaugurated||The second batch of the two-year Post Graduate Programme for Experienced Professionals (PGPEx), leading to the award of the MBA degree of the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam, was inaugurated on Saturday, by Karuna Jain, Professor of Technology & Operations Management of the School of Management, IIT Bombay. Prof Jain was earlier the first woman director of NITIE, Mumbai. Twenty-eight students enrolled in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iim-v-pg-programme-inaugurated/article32534081.ece
06 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man accused of bid to sexually assault minor girl||A 25-year-old village volunteer allegedly attempted to sexually assault a minor girl near her house at Kusarlapudi village under Rolugunta police station limits in Visakhapatnam district. Though the incident reportedly occurred on September 3, it came to light after family members of the girl lodged a police complaint on Friday night. According to the police, when the girl, a Class X student, reached home after tuition, the accused T. Nanaji reportedly barged into her house taking advantage the absence of her parents and tried to exploit her sexually. He promised the girl that he would marry her. However, the girl reportedly escaped and raised an alarm. The accused then ran away. Cases were registered under various Sections, including under POCSO Act. The police are reportedly questioning the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-accused-of-bid-to-sexually-assault-minor-girl/article32534074.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fewer passengers, more air circulation for safe metro ride||Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) is planning to ferry one-third of its carrying capacity for the three-coach trains when operations resume on Monday. It will carry about 300 persons per train as against the capacity of 900 to facilitate social distancing, with markings on the coach floor and on the seats made to indicate the ideal distance. Fresh air will be pumped to an extent of 75% as against 25-30% earlier as per the standards prescribed by operation of heating, ventilation and AC (HVAC) standards to improve air circulation and doors will be kept open at terminal stations for better circulation of air as additional precautions to prevent spread of coronavirus, said HMR managing director N.V.S. Reddy and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) managing director and CEO K.V.B. Reddy on Saturday. Red Line or Corridor One between L.B. Nagar and Miypur will become functional after a gap of more than five months with trains every five minutes from 7 a.m. to 12 noon and 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. On day two or Tuesday, the Blue Line or Corridor Three (Nagole to Raidurg) will become operational followed by Green Line or Corridor II between JBS and MGBS on Wednesday from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Expected patronage The two managing directors expect the daily patronage to start anywhere from 15,000 passengers and could double soon to 30,000 within a few days and could reach up to one lakh within a month. Before lockdown, more than four lakh passengers used to travel daily on all the three routes. Addressing a press conference at the Ameerpet metro station, they claimed necessary safety precautions have been taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus and mock drills conducted to plug any loopholes. They appealed to passengers to travel light, carry hand sanitiser and not to carry any metal objects so that the physical frisking can be minimised or totally done away with. “We are taking steps to have contactless ticketing and urge passengers to opt for smart cards or opt for QR code scanning and reduce the usage of coins and paper currency. Passengers will have to wear face masks, undergo thermal scanning and sanitise hands before they are allowed to enter the station. We have painted markings and put stickers for social distancing,” they said. All touch points at stations and in trains will be sanitised regularly. Stations and entire train sets will be sanitised after the last trip, they added. Later, the officials, including chief operating officer Anil Kumar Saini, project director M.P. Naidu, HMR’s top officials Gyaneshwar, Vishnuvardhan Reddy, Anand Mohan and others, along with mediapersons travelled up to Miyapur and returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fewer-passengers-more-air-circulation-for-safe-metro-ride/article32533886.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Body of Gulf migrant reaches Hyderabad||The family of a 55-year-old migrant worker who died of health complications on April 14 in Saudi Arabia, will finally get to see his mortal remains after many months. It was six years ago that the victim, Sunke Rajaiah, a native of Kondapur in Jagtiyal district, went to West Asian country to earn a livelihood. But, in April, he died of health complications, while undergoing treatment in a hospital. Speaking to The Hindu , Rajaiah’s son-in-law Shyam, who runs a photo studio, and who was on his way to the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport to take the mortal remains back home, said, “He used to work as a labourer in Riyadh. We are told that he had a blood pressure issue after which he collapsed. He was rushed to a hospital where he died. He was father of a son who completed Intermediate, and two daughters. My mother-in-law, his widow, is an agricultural worker. The family is poor, and went through a lot to get the body back.” Mr Shaym said the flight carrying Rajaiah’s body was scheduled to reach the city at 7.30 p.m. while his mother-in-law and his daughters were at home, waiting. Emigrants Welfare Forum president M Bheem Reddy, who has been working with the family, said that issue was brought to the attention of the Ministry of External Affairs by legislator T Jeevan Reddy. An ambulance was being provided by the Telangana government’s NRI Cell, he said. “There are dozens of migrants who die in Gulf countries for various reasons such as road accident, poor health, and accident at construction site. The family members said the funeral will be held in the village on Sunday,” Mr Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-of-gulf-migrant-reaches-hyderabad/article32533905.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ERC relief on power supply||In a major relief to Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) ahead of September 7 restart of its operations after a gap of over five-and-a-half months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has directed Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd not to resort to coercive steps in the matter of power supply to the former. The HMR has moved the regulatory body following the Southern Discom (TSSPDCL) threatening to disconnect power supply to various units established by it — passenger train services, elevated stations, shops and malls — following a dispute over availing the contract maximum demand (CMD) of energy and collection of energy charges with de-rated CMD owing to fall in demand due to lockdown. In its request to the regulatory commission seeking directions to the Southern Discom in the matter of power supply, the HMR stated that the Discom had not extended to it certain relaxations provided by TSERC to the trade and industry sectors for mitigating the impact of COVID-19 for the lockdown period. It also explained that malls were permitted to re-open from June 8 although the ban on metro rail services continued. Suo motu relaxation The HMR stated that the commission had provided suo motu relaxation in the general terms and conditions of power supply (GTCS) on April 29 following the representations made by Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry and All India Induction Furnaces Association (Southern Region). “The entire purpose of the Commission’s orders was to alleviate the hardships being faced by electricity consumers,” the HMR said in its interlocutory application. Citing the relaxation provided by TSERC, the authorities of HMR wrote to Southern Discom on May 1 and 6 to de-rate the CMD for the lockdown period from 8,900 KVA to 2,000 KVA to four malls (HT-II) at Punjagutta, Irrummanzil, Moosarambagh and Hi-Tec City and from 18,250 KVA to 3,900 KVA to its installations/receiving sub-stations (HT-V-B) at Uppal, Miyapur, MGBS and Yousufguda. However, without considering its request the Discom had issued electricity bills without de-rating the CMD. On its part, the HMR paid bills with de-rated CMD and informed the same to Discom on May 8 with one more request to revise the electricity bills with de-rated CMD. After its one more request on May 18, the Discom responded for de-rating CMD with a rider that it should be implemented within five days and would come into effect only after entering a revised agreement. Interim order In its interim order, the TSERC directed the Southern Discom on September 1 not to use coercive steps such as disconnection of supply and told the HMR to pay monthly bills in full (as per bills issued) till the de-rating of CMD was effected and adjourned the matter to September 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/erc-relief-on-power-supply/article32533879.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No let-up in COVID count||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 1,38,395 as 2,511 more swab samples tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday. A total of 62,132 samples were put to test, and the results of 3,145 are awaited. The new cases include 305 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 184 from Rangareddy, 170 from Nalgonda, 150 from Karimnagar, 142 from Khammam and 134 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. Barring Sunday, in the past week, the State has been consistently breaching the 2,000-mark. Sunday’s low figures are attributed to low testing.   On Friday, 11 more people died of the infectious disease, taking the toll to 877. The case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 0.63%. Of the total cases, 32,915 are active while 1,04,603 persons have recovered and 377 deaths. A total of 16,67,653 samples have been put to test so far. At 42 government hospitals, 3,514 oxygen beds and 526 ICU beds were vacant on September 4. ICU beds in Government General Hospital in Nalgonda and Suryapet, and District Hospital in Gadwal were full. In case of private hospitals, 2,434 oxygen beds and 1,159 ICU beds were available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-let-up-in-covid-count/article32533881.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Curious case of constants in bulletin||The number of COVID-19 cases, deaths and recoveries changes every day in the medical bulletin issued by the State Health department. Yet, there are some elements that have remained constant. The percentages of deaths due to COVID-19 is 46.13% and due to co-morbidities is 53.87%. This piece of information is included in the bulletin from July 28 (based on data from July 27), when the total deaths in the State was 480. Deaths have been recorded every single day. However, the percentage of people who died due to COVID-19 account for 46.13%, and those who died due to co-morbidities remains 53.87% each day. Even the decimal part of the data has not changed in the past month. On Friday, the Telangana High Court remarked that the data of nine or 10 deaths daily due to COVID-19 given by the State government was “unbelievable”. In the month of August, nine or 10 deaths in a day were reported for seven days each. Maximum deaths in a day reported in the State till September 4 has never crossed 14. People expressed doubts that the numbers did not vary by a great margin in the past many weeks. Healthcare professionals who attend COVID-19 patients in the State government hospitals said that fatalities are much higher than what is published in the daily media bulletins. A report along with details on 24 deaths between 10 p.m. of July 29 to 2 p.m. of July 30 was published in these columns on August 3. Senior officials have claimed on multiple occasions that there are not hiding data. The percentage of cause of deaths is not the only constant; even that of primary and secondary contacts tested daily, and share of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients in the total cases in the State has not changed in the past one week (August 29-September 4). These two elements aspects are being mentioned from August 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/curious-case-of-constants-in-bulletin/article32533883.ece
06 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR, Eatala blamed for ‘collapse’ of healthcare system in Telangana||Alleging that the public healthcare system was deliberately destroyed to benefit the private hospitals, Telangana Congress leaders have blamed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Health Minister Eatala Rajender for it. Speaking at a press conference, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy; CLP leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka; MLAs D. Sreedhar Babu, D. Seethakka, Podem Veeraiah and T. Jagga Reddy demanded that the Health Minister name the private hospitals whose 50% beds were acquired for coronavirus treatment and at what cost. “The Chief Minister and Health Minister are looting people in the name of coronavirus,” they alleged. Earlier, they inaugurated a photo exhibition highlighting the poor facilities at government hospitals noticed during Mr. Vikramarka’s 10-day tour of public hospitals. Appreciating Mr Vikramarka’s tour, the TPCC chief said it exposed the ‘pathetic’ condition in government hospitals and the silence of the CM. “The sanctioned posts of doctors, nurses and other staff were not filled and the existing staff was not provided required infrastructure and support to treat COVID-19 patients.” Mr. Reddy alleged that the government was still trying to ‘manage’ COVID-19 situation by tampering with the statistics and creating the illusion of beating the disease. The Telangana High Court has pointed out the lapses and also the suppression of real figures of COVID deaths while Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan too alerted the government on the lapses. However, the State government did not take any measures to plug the loopholes and instead the CM treated the Governor’s advice as political criticism. The first COVID-19 case was reported in March and even after six months facilities were not improved and the World Health Organisation’s norm of ‘Track, Test & Treat’ was not followed. Mr. Vikramarka lashed out at Mr. Rajender saying he could not provide facilities in the hospital in his own constituency. A DTP operator Praveen Yadav was forced to fudge hospital’s statistics to show Caeserean deliveries as natural births and when he refused, he was sacked. Mr. Yadav was also implicated in a false case and tortured by the police, he claimed. Later, Mr Yadav was found dead, he said and demanded the DGP probe Mr. Rajender’s role in it. The CLP leader said the tour showcased how the healthcare system has totally collapsed in Telangana. He said that the Congress leaders would meet the Governor and Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy to brief them about the pathetic conditions prevailing in public hospitals. He said if the State government fails to react, the party would move the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-eatala-blamed-for-collapse-of-healthcare-system-in-telangana/article32533888.ece
06 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KTR review meetings aimed at polls’||The series of review meetings by Municipal Administration Minister, K.T. Rama Rao on city infrastructure are aimed at fooling people yet again with an eye on the municipal elections in Hyderabad, Warangal and Khammam, said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president A. Revanth Reddy. With just 128 double bedroom houses given to beneficiaries in the last six years and roads developed only to benefit real estate ventures of people close to the government, he had no right to seek votes, Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged at a press conference. TPCC working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and Kusum Kumar were present. In the last elections, TRS had won 99 divisions, promising one lakh 2BHK houses and developing Hyderabad on a par with Istanbul, he said, adding with failure to give 2BHK houses, a burden of Rs. 1,200 crore in the form of rents was put on poor people. Mr. Kusum Kumar wondered why the government had woken up suddenly to the absence of basti dawakhanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-review-meetings-aimed-at-polls/article32533898.ece
06 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man ‘kills’ son for not buying him liquor||An alcoholic man allegedly killed his 32-year-old son by hitting on his head with a sharp weapon after the latter refused to give him money to buy liquor. The offence took place at Gondiguda village in Jannaram mandal of Mancherial district on Friday evening. According to Jannaram sub-inspector Madhusudhan Rao, the murder took place between 5.30 p.m. and 8 p.m. when the victim, Parasa Gangadhar was alone in their house. His mother went to his sister's place, a few metres away. The accused, Parasa Kari (59), entered the house and asked his son to give him Rs. 30 to buy liquor. "He was already drunk. When Gangadhar refused, the father picked up an argument with his son and attacked him," the sub-inspector said on Saturday, adding that the victim bled to death. "Kari waited till his wife returned and explained everything to her. Then, he fled the spot," Mr. Rao said. A case was booked against Kari. History-sheeter killed A history-sheeter was stabbed to death by four persons, including a minor, at Ansari Road in Falaknuma on Friday night. The victim, Mohammed Javed (29), alias Jodi Javed, a resident of Achi Reddy Nagar, was a property offender and a history-sheeter with the Falaknuma police. Inspector R Devender said that around 3 p.m. on Friday afternoon, Javed snatched a ganja sachet from the 17-year-old person when he was going to a function. “The minor bore a grudge against Javed and, while returning with his friends, he noticed Javed and the group attacked the latter with weapons,” the inspector said. Javed died at OGH. The four accused persons were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-son-for-not-buying-him-liquor/article32533901.ece
06 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fuel-pilfering gang busted, 13 arrested||Thirteen persons, including eight petrol pump owners, who were involved in tampering with fuel-dispensing machines at various petrol stations in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, were arrested by the Cyberabad police on Saturday. They were found to be using electronic chips to manipulate the discharge of fuel in a manner that less fuel was dispensed than what was shown on the display and receipt. Seven more people involved in the racket are absconding. In a joint operation, the police of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, along with Controller of Legal Metrology of both States, raided several fuel outlets and seized 11 fuel stations in Telangana and 22 in Andhra Pradesh. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said that with the inputs shared by the Telangana police, their counterparts in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh arrested 19 fuel station owners. They were causing loss running to crores of rupees to consumers by delivering less fuel. Mr. Sajjanar said that for every 1,000 ml of fuel, the customers would actually get 20-30 ml of fuel less. Thus, fuel station owners earned huge profits in fraudulent manner. The Special Operations Team of Cyberabad and Nandigama police of Andhra Pradesh nabbed nter-State accused Shaik Subhani Basha and seized 14 chips, eight displays, three GBR cables, a motherboard and a car. “These ICs were found installed in the fuel-dispensing machines at the seized outlets,” he said. Mr. Sajjanar said Subhani Basha (32) from Eluru and his associates Shaik Baji Baba, Madasuguri Shankar and Ippili Malleshwar Rao, all from Eluru, had procured and installed the chips at outlets. The gang would charge between Rs. 80,000 and Rs. 1.20 lakh for installing each programmed chip. After purchasing manipulated chips and software, Subhani Basha had started programming and installation in AP and Telangana through mediators in connivance with fuel station owners, he said. “The fraudsters used to install the chips only in one fuel pump out of two. For filling fuel in vehicles, directly manipulated pumps were used, while regular pumps were used to fill in plastic bottles and cans so that the customers cannot notice the fraud,” the Commissioner said. In 2018, new software was installed in all fuel stations across the country. The gang began its operations last year. To prevent such large-scale cheating and irregularities, fuel corporations were alerted. “This cheating cannot be detected by every consumer. The vigilance teams which visit these fuel stations regularly must check for such chips. They have been advised to measure the fuel manually during surprise visits,” Mr. Sajjanar said. He said the busting was done under the guidance of Shamshabad DCP N.Prakash Reddy and SOT Additional DCP G. Sundeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fuel-pilfering-gang-busted-13-arrested/article32533903.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre to procure cotton from ryots’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said on Saturday that the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) would open three centres in Adilabad, Mahabubnagar and Warangal, for procuring cotton from farmers in association with the Telangana marketing department. Addressing a press conference, he said that about 4.5 lakh bales of cotton had been lying in godowns due to COVID-19 lockdown, and the Centre would take steps to ensure every bag of cotton was procured. The only request he made to farmers was to make sure cotton was dried properly before bringing them to the procurement centres as that would prevent them from the hassle of getting less price due to moisture content. The Minister reminded that the CCI had procured cotton worth Rs. 16,656 crore last year and the Central government had ensured that MSP has been upped from Rs. 3,800 crore to Rs. 5,828 crore per quintal. The Centre proposes to open 325 procurement centres, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-to-procure-cotton-from-ryots/article32533893.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 25L ex-gratia to doctor’s bereaved kin||The government has announced ex-gratia of Rs. 25 lakh to the family members of Dr G Naresh Kumar, a medical officer who died of COVID-19 on August 7. This is the first time that the government is paying ex-gratia to a healthcare professional who died of COVID. Dr Kumar, who served in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, headed the Manuguru based quarantine centre. He succumbed to the infectious disease after battling it for over a week at hospitals in Hyderabad. His colleagues, government doctors and others across the State had demanded ex-gratia to him and other healthcare professionals who died of COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-25l-ex-gratia-to-doctors-bereaved-kin/article32533884.ece
06 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Crop booking exercise unique’||The extensive field-wise crop booking exercise taken up by the Agriculture department this vanakalam (kharif) in Telangana is most unique and innovative, compared to recording of cultivation extent in other states, Agriculture Production Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy said. “The system introduced in the State this season is the most extensive and is an elaborate exercise to record the exact extent of cultivation with multi-level cross-checking and verification of the information recorded by Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs) by visiting every agricultural field in his/her given cluster of 5,000 acres each,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crop-booking-exercise-unique/article32533892.ece
06 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Missing Krishna woman found dead in Nalgonda||A social media message along with a photograph put out by Narketpally police, combined with the crucial clues collected by Andhra Pradesh police, helped close the case of a vegetable vendor who went missing from Machilipatnam, in less than a week. P. Padmaja who left home for usual business on the early morning of August 31, was found dead about 250 kms away here in the bushes on the roadside of the highway, the next evening. Narketpally police said she could not be identified, with about 25% burns, and the only clues they had were the visible nose stud and the tattoo on her left hand that read ‘bujji’. According to Inaguduru police of Krishna district, the same day a missing person’s complaint was filed about Padmaja by her husband, and a search was taken up. Inaguduru Inspector G. Srinivasu said, they were able to collect “technical evidence”, including relevant sections filed in police stations, which helped them to look at Narketpally. Inaguduru police officials were in Nalgonda on Friday to identify and claim the body. Later, the mortal remains were taken back to Machilipatnam and handed over to the family. The case is under investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/missing-krishna-woman-found-dead-in-nalgonda/article32533900.ece
06 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Patancheru police arrested two persons on Saturday for allegedly breaking in ATMs. According to SHO P. Ramu Naidu, Mohd Abdul Khaleed and Yerukala Mahesh, confessed that they had tried to break open ATMs of Andhra Bank, Kotak Mahindra, PNB, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank. They learned to break open ATMs from YouTube videos, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32533897.ece
06 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao expressed serious displeasure over the delay in construction of Rythu Vedikas and directed officials to speed up the process. He visited Narayanakhed and Kalher mandals on Saturday and examined the ongoing works. Stating that there would not be any compromise in quality, he directed the contractor and officials to complete the work on a war footing.    Demanding that they must be taken back to service, Vidya Volunteers held a dharna at the district headquarters on Saturday. Vidya Volunteers’ mandal president Jetti Krishna said that about 12,600 volunteers lost their jobs due to coronavirus and it was not right on the part of the government to not take them back, adding that they were working on a par with regular teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32533896.ece
06 September 2020||Aurangabad,||People living along rivers on alert as water released from Jayakwadi dam||As the discharge of water from Jayakwadi dam in Maharashtra’s Marathwada region has begun, the district administrations of Aurangabad and Nanded have asked the people living along the banks of Godavari and Purna rivers to remain alert, an official said on Saturday. The water storage capacity of Jayakwadi dam at Paithan in Aurangabad district has now reached 97.25%, he said. “The district administrations of Aurangabad and Nanded have issued an alert to the people living along the Godavari and Purna rivers after water discharge from Jayakwadi dam began,” the official said. The villagers have been advised not to enter the rivers, an official of Nanded district administration said in a statement issued on Friday night. The inflow of water into Jayakwadi dam has reached 4,306 cusecs. The discharge of water from the dam’s right canal is 500 cusecs, while that from the left one is 100 cusecs. According to another official, 1,589 cusecs of water was discharged into the Godavari river through the hydro-electricity project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/people-living-along-rivers-on-alert-as-water-released-from-jayakwadi-dam/article32533973.ece
06 September 2020||Aurangabad,||‘Neighbour Katta’ enables kids in hamlet to study amid lockdown||Amid the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, teachers at a hamlet in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district have devised a method of distance learning to make the local schoolchildren study the syllabus and do their homework by following physical distancing. Teachers of a Zilla Parishad-run primary school in Dattawadi, a settlement of 165 people located near the world- famous Ajanta caves, have named this initiative ‘Neighbour Katta’. Kattain Marathi means a place where people meet and talk informally. Under the initiative, the teachers send the list of curricular exercises on the mobile phones of the students’ parents. And the children have to complete the given tasks daily during the specified school hours by coming together in small groups by maintaining social distancing. Each group comprises children of different classes living in the vicinity, so that seniors can guide the juniors. The photos of the completed homework are then sent in a WhatsApp group to the teachers, who accordingly ask the students to carry out corrections. School headmaster Bapu Bawiskar said, “There are only 19 students in our primary school. After the school was shut due to the lockdown, we decided to form ‘Neighbour Katta’. Its implementation started on April 9. We formed groups of around three children of different classes. We send a list of homework through SMS on the phones of their parents as most of them do not have smartphones,” he said. Mr. Bawiskar said they have also formed a WhatsApp group consisting of some parents. “We get the photos of the homework done by students in that group. As a teacher, I check their work. Out of the four hours of school held daily this way, two-and-half hours are dedicated to studying lessons,” he said. The rest of the school time is reserved for activities like jumping, running, learning or making different sounds to make their study exciting, Mr. Bawiskar said. “There is 100% attendance,” he said, adding that the students have completed around 75% of the syllabus of the first semester. Vijay Dutonde, block education officer of Aurangabad Zilla Parishad, said, “This concept of online education has helped children in continuing their education by maintaining physical distancing.” Mr. Bawiskar said that the ‘Neighbor Katta’ initiative has found a place in the ‘30 most inspiring ideas of change 2020’ organised by Design for Change and the United Nations Children’s Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/neighbour-katta-enables-kids-in-hamlet-to-study-amid-lockdown/article32533832.ece
06 September 2020||Bhopal,||Akhilesh Gundecha steps down from Dhrupad Sansthan||The Dhrupad Sansthan here has said it has launched an inquiry into allegations of sexual misconduct against Akhilesh Gundecha, a pakhawaj player and a music teacher, who had voluntarily recused himself from all activities of the organisation which promotes the ancient style of Hindustani classical music. In a statement issued on September 3, the organisation’s chairman Umakant Gundecha, brother of Mr. Akhilesh, said, “We have instituted an internal committee for prevention and redressal of all issues.” The committee will look into complaints brought to its notice and “strive to deliver justice without prejudice”. Former students have also levelled similar charges, on Facebook, against late Ramakant Gundecha, part of the Gundecha Brothers duo with Mr. Umakant. He died last year.  ‘Prisoners of silence’ The organisation houses a hostel which invites students from across the world. Mr. Umakant did not take calls despite repeated attempts while Mr. Akhilesh’s phone was switched off. A Facebook post four days ago accused the two brothers of different forms of abuses for years. “We, men and women; from all over the world: India, Europe, Asia and America; adults but minor(s) too; witnesses and victims, are coming together to testify about psychological, physical and sexual abuses by Akhilesh and Ramakant Gundecha,” the post said. Stating that they had been “prisoners of this silence” for fear of reprisals, the post claimed the brothers weren’t afraid to sexually harass them during one-on-one classes and told many students to oblige them if they wanted a career in music. It claimed the organisation was tainted by the “psychological, physical and sexual assault; by the abuses of power of Ramakant and Akhilesh Gundecha”, and “today they found the strength to break the silence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/akhilesh-gundecha-steps-down-from-dhrupad-sansthan/article32533836.ece
06 September 2020||Lucknow,||Man dies after being assaulted by mob over theft allegations||A 32-year-old man accused of stealing iron plates from a government office died in Bareilly district after he was tied to a tree and thrashed by a mob, the police said on Saturday. A case of murder was registered against seven named accused while two were arrested, said the police. A footage of Basid Ali, tied to the tree and surrounded by a mob of youths who allegedly thrashed him, was also shared widely on social media. The police said Basid was an alcoholic and even into drugs. SP Rural Bareilly Sansar Singh said Basid was a drug abuser and in a state of intoxication had gone to the government tubewell section of the Irrigation Department where he stole an iron fan and a plate. As he left the colony, some locals raised an alarm following which two guards from the Department caught him, said the police.  ‘Spotted by guards’ Prabhakar, assistant engineer at the tubewell department, said he had received information that a rag-picker was taking away pump set from the compound and was spotted by the guards. Someone in the crowd called the police emergency services vehicle which took an injured Basid to the police station. Visuals showed Basid, his neck in an awkward , seated on a bench in the police station after being assaulted. The tubewell department officials did not want to take further action against him saying they had recovered their items and that he lived in their neighbourhood, said Mr. Singh. Basid’s side also said they didn’t want to pursue the matter and left, said the officer. “They took him home at around 2 p.m. At around, 3-3.30 p.m., it is said he died,” said Mr. Singh. Several social-media users asked why Basid was not taken to a hospital by the police. “When he was brought here, he didn’t have any serious or visible injuries,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-dies-after-being-assaulted-by-mob-over-theft-allegations/article32533835.ece
06 September 2020||Mumbai,||Next 3 months challenging: CM||The spike in COVID-19 cases in Mumbai over the past two days shows the State administration will have to face the challenge of containing the outbreak more vigorously in the next two to three months, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. “When the number of daily cases was between 1,000 and 1,100, we felt we were at the peak of the novel coronavirus spread. But in the last two days, the daily spike is between 1,700 and 1,900. Hence, the next three months are challenging and we have to tackle it effectively,” Mr. Thackeray said at a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in the State. Mr. Thackeray said 5,000 to 6,000 more beds can be arranged in Mumbai and the administration has to make arrangements for oxygenated and intensive care unit beds. He said the government will issue directives for more oxygen production in the State for medical use in view of the pandemic. “Tracking, tracing and testing of 30 contacts of COVID-19 patients in a 48-hour period is extremely necessary. Some side-effects have been seen in people who have recovered. We need to check if the side-effects are due to aggressive medication or COVID-19,” Mr. Thackeray said. More personnel succumb Over 165 police personnel in Maharashtra have died of COVID-19 so far, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Saturday. The Minister also praised the Maharashtra Police for their exemplary job during the pandemic. He said, “The reputation of the Maharashtra Police reached its all-time high during the pandemic.” The Minister said Nagpur will soon get horse-mounted police units on the lines of the Mumbai Police. “The city police will also be equipped with segway electric scooters and drones for effective policing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/next-3-months-challenging-cm/article32533975.ece
06 September 2020||Mumbai,||Make Sharad Pawar chief after merging NCP with Cong.: Athawale||Observing that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are not keen on donning the mantle of Congress president, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Saturday suggested the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) be merged with the grand old party and Sharad Pawar be made the new chief of the merged entity. The Republican Party of India (A) president also said that such a decision should be taken jointly by the Congress and Mr. Pawar. “Currently, Rahul and Sonia Gandhi are not keen on becoming the Congress president. It is my instruction to the Congress of getting merged with the NCP and making Sharad Pawar the party president. The decision should be jointly taken by Mr. Pawar and the Congress,” Mr. Athawale said. The suggestion comes against the backdrop of a leadership churn in the Congress, with a group of leaders demanding “full-time and active leadership”. In a Congress Working Committee meeting last month, party leaders urged Ms. Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an All India Congress Committee session can be convened. They authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/make-sharad-pawar-chief-after-merging-ncp-with-cong-athawale/article32533830.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A portrait of the actor as a young man||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-portrait-of-the-actor-as-a-young-man/article32533834.ece
06 September 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump slammed over ‘quotes’ on soldiers||President Donald Trump confronted a political crisis on Friday that could undercut badly needed support in the military community for his re-election campaign as he sought to dispute a report that he privately referred to American soldiers killed in combat as “losers” and “suckers”. Mr. Trump, who has long portrayed himself as a champion of the armed forces and has boasted of rebuilding a military depleted after years of overseas wars, came under intense fire from Democrats and other opponents who said a report in The Atlantic demonstrated his actual contempt for those who serve their country in uniform. The President’s foes organised conference calls, blasted out statements, flocked to television studios and quickly posted advertising online calling attention to the reported comments. At a news conference, former Vice-President Joe Biden, the Democratic presidential nominee, grew emotional as he said that his son Beau Biden, who died of brain cancer in 2015, “wasn’t a sucker” for serving in the Army in Iraq. “How would you feel if you had a kid in Afghanistan right now?” Mr. Biden said. “How would you feel if you lost a son, daughter, husband, wife? How would you feel, for real?” Mr. Biden called the reported comments “disgusting”, “sick”, “deplorable”, “un-American” and “absolutely damnable”, adding that he was closer to losing his temper than at any point during the campaign. “I’ve just never been as disappointed in my whole career with a leader that I’ve worked with, President or otherwise.” Mr. Trump denied that he made the remarks repeatedly over the course of the day and rallied current and former aides who backed him up on the record. “It’s a fake story and it’s a disgrace that they’re allowed to do it,” he told reporters in the Oval Office, insisting that he respected the troops. “To me, they’re heroes,” he said. “It’s even hard to believe how they could do it. And I say that, the level of bravery, and to me, they’re absolute heroes.” But he railed against one former military officer, John Kelly, a retired four-star Marine general who served as his White House chief of staff at the time of the reported episode and who he seemed to blame for the article. “Didn’t do a good job, had no temperament and ultimately he was petered out,” Mr. Trump said when asked about Mr. Kelly on Friday evening. “He was exhausted. This man was totally exhausted. He wasn’t even able to function in the last number of months.” Rising tensions The furore came at a time of rising tension between the commander in chief and the military leadership over his use of troops against protesters on American streets, his refusal to rename bases named for Confederate generals and his clemency for accused and convicted war criminals. A new poll by The Military Times showed Mr. Biden leading Mr. Trump with 41% to 37% among active-duty troops Recognising that, the President sought to smooth over friction with some in the military by abruptly reversing course on Friday afternoon and announcing that his administration would not be closing Stars and Stripes , the venerable military newspaper, by the end of the month after all. “It will continue to be a wonderful source of information to our Great Military!” he wrote on Twitter. While current and former officials contacted on Friday could not confirm some of the specifics in The Atlantic ’s account, they did verify that Mr. Trump resisted supporting an official funeral and lowering flags after the death of Sen. John McCain of Arizona, a Vietnam war hero whose military service he had disparaged. And Mr. Trump’s assertion on Friday that “I never called John a loser” was belied by video and Twitter recording him doing just that in 2015. Moreover, people familiar with Mr. Trump’s conversations say he has long scorned those who served in Vietnam as being too dumb to have gotten out of it, as he did through a medical diagnosis of bone spurs in his heels. At other times, according to those familiar with the remarks, Mr. Trump has expressed bewilderment that people choose military service over making money. John Bolton, the President’s former National Security Adviser, who has broken with him and called him unfit for office, said he was on the trip in question and never heard Mr. Trump make those remarks. “I didn’t hear that,” Mr. Bolton said in an interview. “I’m not saying he didn’t say them later in the day or another time, but I was there for that discussion.”NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-slammed-over-quotes-on-soldiers/article32533509.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The man who stood up to Putin||The sordid episode of poisoning Alexei Navalny on August 20 in Siberia, which left him comatose in a Berlin hospital, is not the first time Russia’s most prominent opposition politician has come under a chemical attack. The German government has said toxicology tests showed Mr. Navalny was poisoned with a nerve agent from the Novichok family, which was used in a 2018 attack in Britain on an ex-Soviet spy. The Kremlin has denied any involvement. The charismatic and combative Mr. Navalny, a lawyer by training, had once professed extreme nationalist views and hostility towards immigrants, leading to his expulsion from the liberal Yabloko party. The persona of the anti-corruption crusader that many Russians will more readily recall is that of a firebrand blogger-turned-politician, who has unrelentingly exposed corporate fraud in Russia’s state-owned energy companies and taken on the Kremlin establishment. Born on June 4, 1976 in Butyn in Moscow Oblast, Navalny grew up in Obninsk, some 100 km south-west of Moscow. He rose to prominence when he led large-scale protests against Mr. Putin’s return to the presidency in 2012, after serving as Prime minister in the foregoing four years and as President in the preceding eight years. Amid high drama before the snap 2013 Moscow mayoral elections, he was released within hours of the pronouncement of a five-year conviction for embezzlement; the abrupt U-turn was ascribed to the Kremlin’s intervention. From February 2014, Mr. Navalny was placed under house arrest for several months and denied Internet access during investigations into another case of fraud that ended in a suspended conviction. His announcement to challenge Mr. Putin for the presidential poll was marked by a 2017 social media expose against then Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s amassing of lucrative assets. The revelations channelled popular anger in a country reeling under rapidly declining living standards following a slump in oil prices and pension reforms. In mass demonstrations in some 100 cities, thousands demanded President Putin’s resignation. A chemical attack near the offices of his Anti-Corruption Fund (FBK) in April 2017, attributed to Kremlin loyalists, damaged Mr. Navalny’s vision in one eye. By the year end, the two previous convictions were invoked to bar Mr. Navalny from running against Mr. Putin in the February 2018 race. Soon thereafter, Fifth Season of the Year, the forum Mr. Navalny had used to campaign for a boycott of the polls, was ordered by a court to close. Violation of rights The European Court of Human Rights ruled in November 2018 that repeated detentions of Mr. Navalny violated his right to liberty, fair trial and freedom of assembly and imposed $72,000 in damages. Seven months later, the Strasbourg Court held that the 2014 house was disproportionate to the criminal charges he faced, after its initial verdict that his conviction fell outside the definition of fraud. Mr. Navalny’s latest campaign strategy was on display during the polls in September 2019 to various local councils, when candidates from his Russia of the Future party were barred from contesting. The smart vote system he devised, the electronic platform to enable tactical voting, encouraged citizens to reject Mr. Putin’s United Russia party candidates, even if that meant backing other pro-Kremlin parties or the communists. To devastating effect, United Russia lost nearly half its seats in Moscow and other cities. Mr. Navalny’s recent travels in Siberia, amid pervasive official surveillance, was to replicate this approach in regional polls this September, and very likely to extend to the 2021 parliamentary elections. The silencing of Mr. Navalny has heightened speculation about Moscow hardening its stance towards the opposition, especially in the backdrop of the unrest in the province of Khabarovsk Krai for greater autonomy. Moreover, President Putin’s recent statement on deployment of the security services should the situation warrant in the ongoing uprising in neighbouring Belarus is a clear sign that the Kremlin cannot allow any unrest in its backyard to deteriorate into instability. When he is back in action, Mr. Navalny may encounter a far more hostile environment than in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-man-who-stood-up-to-putin/article32533490.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The transnational arm of law||Rarely does a court dispensing justice find itself at the receiving end of punishments. Yet, in a statement this week, the U.S. did in fact announce sanctions, including asset freezes and visa bans against two officials of the International Criminal Court (ICC) at the Hague. The officials were ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda, and the ICC’s head of Jurisdiction, Complementary, and Cooperation Division, Phakiso Mochochok (who was sanctioned for having materially assisted Prosecutor Bensouda), for an investigation into alleged war crimes by U.S. forces and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in Afghanistan since 2003. Announcing the decision, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called the ICC a “thoroughly broken and corrupted institution”, threatening that the U.S. will not “tolerate [the ICC’s] illegitimate attempts to subject Americans to its jurisdiction”. In particular, Mr. Pompeo pointed out that the U.S. had never ratified the “Rome Statute”, which created the ICC in 1998, and thus was not subject to its rulings. The investigation that Ms. Bensouda began in 2017 asked for permission to investigate war crimes, extra-judicial killings, torture and targeting of civilian populations by the Taliban, Afghan forces, U.S. forces and other international militaries posted in Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban. In her pre-trial submissions, Ms. Bensouda said there was “reasonable basis to believe that, since May 2003, members of the U.S. armed forces and the CIA have committed the war crimes of torture and cruel treatment, outrages upon personal dignity, and rape and other forms of sexual violence pursuant to a policy approved by the U.S. authorities,” adding that the findings were based on the U.S. Department of Defense and Senate Intelligence committees’ own findings over the years. Blow to global order The U.S. decision has been criticised by the UN, the EU, 10 members of the UN Security Council, including the U.K. and France, as well as several international human rights agencies, all of which have called for the sanctions to be reversed. According to them, the U.S.’s action was a setback to the international rules-based multilateral order, and the decision to sanction anybody assisting the ICC will deter victims of violence in Afghanistan from speaking out. Some pointed out that the U.S.’s unilateral sanctions would encourage other regimes accused of war crimes to flout the ICC’s rulings. The Rome Statute has been signed by 139 countries, and 123 have ratified it through their Parliaments and internal process. Although the U.S. was part of the founding movement to build the ICC to try cases of genocide and war crime, especially after the courts in Rwanda failed, it decided not to ratify the Statute in 2002. Countries like Russia, China and India, however, were never in favour of the Rome Statute or the ICC, and never signed on. For India, the decision was based on a number of principles. To start with, the ICC is a criminal court, unlike the International Court of Justice (which adjudicates on civil matters), and arrogates to itself the right to prosecute matters against countries that aren’t even signatories. “India said that the Statute gave to the UN Security Council a role in terms that violates international law by giving the power to refer cases to the ICC, the power to block such references and the power to bind non-State parties to such decisions,” former Indian envoy to the UN Asoke Mukerji told The Hindu , explaining that India based its objections on the basis of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. India also objected to the omission of cross-border terror, use of nuclear arms and weapons of mass destruction from the areas the ICC would institute its investigations. While the U.S.’s concerns about the ICC are shared by India and other countries that weren’t signatories, the U.S. action is seen as another blow to multilateralism. In the last few years, the Trump administration has walked out of several UN agencies and international agreements, including Human Rights Council, UNESCO, the Paris climate change agreement and the Iran nuclear accord. Particularly at a time the U.S. accuses China of disregarding international norms in the South China Sea and other areas, and of human rights violations in Xinjiang and Tibet, the U.S.’s pushback over the ICC’s case in Afghanistan seems counterproductive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-transnational-arm-of-law/article32533492.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||N. Korean officials in the dock over typhoon||North Korea has pledged severe punishment for local officials it says failed to protect residents from a typhoon which caused a “serious incident” with dozens of casualties, the ruling party’s newspaper reported. Typhoon Maysak brought heavy downpours across the country earlier this week, with footage showing a street inundated with water in the eastern port town of Wonsan, Kangwon province. Saturday’s Rodong Sinmun , an official newspaper, reported that leaders had decided to punish “irresponsible” city and provincial officials for causing “a serious incident involving dozens of casualties”. The report did not say how many were injured, missing or dead. The officials failed to “immediately organise a project to thoroughly identify properties at risk and evacuate all residents” despite being ordered by the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea headed by leader Kim Jong-un, it added. “A decision was made to impose severe party, administrative, and legal punishment to those responsible for the casualties.” Maysak also hit the South, killing at least two people. More than 2,200 people were evacuated to temporary shelters in the southern city of Busan. ‘Shifting blame’ Natural disasters tend to have a greater impact in the North due to its creaking infrastructure. The country is vulnerable to flooding. Punishing the local officials is a “way for the North Korean leadership to avoid blame” for the casualties, Ahn Chan-il, a defector turned researcher based in Seoul, told AFP. “They are sending out a message that Kim Jong-un never does anything wrong.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korean-officials-in-the-dock-over-typhoon/article32533500.ece
06 September 2020||Dijon,||Facebook blocks Frenchman from streaming his death||Facebook said on Saturday it would block the livestream of a Frenchman suffering from an incurable condition who wanted to broadcast his death on the social media platform. Earlier, Alain Cocq announced that he was now refusing all food, drink and medicine after President Emmanuel Macron turned down his request for euthanasia. Mr. Cocq, 57, who suffers from a rare condition which causes the walls of his arteries to stick together, said he believed he had less than a week to live and would broadcast his death from Saturday morning. “The road to deliverance begins and believe me, I am happy,” he wrote on Facebook shortly after midnight in a post announcing he had “finished his last meal”. “I know the days ahead are going to be difficult but I have made my decision and I am calm,” he added. Facebook has been increasingly criticised over the way it polices the content it carries and said on Saturday its rules did not allow it to portray suicide. “Although we respect (Cocq’s) decision to want to draw attention to this complex question, following expert advice we have taken measures to prevent the live broadcast on Alain's account,” a Facebook spokesman told AFP. “Our rules do not allow us to show suicide attempts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-blocks-frenchman-from-streaming-his-death/article32533505.ece
06 September 2020||Dhaka,||Explosion in Bangladesh mosque kills 17||A suspected gas pipeline explosion at a mosque in Bangladesh killed 17 people and injured dozens as worshippers were about to end their prayers, officials said on Saturday. The blast, which fire service officials suspect was caused by a leak from a gas pipeline, occurred on Friday night at a mosque in Narayanganj district, just outside the capital Dhaka. At least 37 people were rushed to Dhaka’s specialist burn and plastic-surgery hospital, most of them with severe burns, doctors said. Seventeen people, including a child, died after they sustained burn injuries, said Samanta Lal Sen, coordinator of the burn unit. The death toll could rise further as many of them were in critical condition, he said. “I saw smoke was belching out of the mosque after the sudden explosion with a big bang and people were screaming. Some were rolling on the street as they tried to put out the flames on their bodies,” said local resident Mohammad Ratan. Fire officials said gas that accumulated from a leak in a pipeline running underneath the mosque likely triggered the explosion. “We primarily suspect that gas leaked from the pipeline and accumulated inside since the windows were closed. The explosion was probably triggered due to sparks when the air conditioners were turned on,” said Abdullah Al Arefin, a senior fire service official. Authorities have launched an investigation into the incident. Lax regulations and poor enforcement are often blamed for domestic and industrial fires in Bangladesh. In February last year, an inferno in a centuries-old neighbourhood of Dhaka killed 71 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/explosion-in-bangladesh-mosque-kills-17/article32533507.ece
06 September 2020||Washington,||U.S. President cracks down on anti-racism training sessions||U.S. President Donald Trump has ordered government agencies to end anti-racism training sessions for federal employees on the grounds they amount to “divisive, un-American propaganda”. The order comes as Mr. Trump works to appeal to his white, blue-collar base while fighting an uphill battle for re-election amid a fraught national reckoning over racial injustice in policing and other walks of life. In a memorandum, the White House Office of Management and Budget cited unspecified reports that “employees across the Executive Branch have been required to attend trainings where they are told that 'virtually all White people contribute to racism' or where they are required to say that they 'benefit from racism.'” It added: “According to press reports, in some cases these trainings have further claimed that there is racism embedded in the belief that America is the land of opportunity or the belief that the most qualified person should receive a job.” “The President has directed me to ensure that Federal agencies cease and desist from using taxpayer dollars to fund these divisive, un-American propaganda training sessions,” wrote the office's director, Russell Vought. He directed agencies to “identify all contracts or other agency spending related to any training on 'critical race theory,' 'white privilege,' or any other training or propaganda effort that teaches or suggests either (1) that the United States is an inherently racist or evil country or (2) that any race or ethnicity is inherently racist or evil.” “The divisive, false, and demeaning propaganda of the critical race theory movement is contrary to all we stand for as Americans and should have no place in the Federal government,” the memo added. Mr. Trump doubled down on Saturday morning, firing off more than 20 tweets and retweets on the subject -- including one calling critical race theory the “greatest threat to western civilization.” “Not any more!” Mr. Trump wrote. Protests in major U.S. cities erupted after the death of African American George Floyd in May at the hands of a white police officer in Minneapolis, and flared up again last month after another black man, Jacob Blake, was shot in the back by a white policeman in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Mr. Trump — who is pressing a tough law and order line in the run-up to November's elections — has blasted such demonstrators as violent anarchists. This week, the U.S. President visited Kenosha, but did not meet with the family of Mr. Blake, who has been left paralysed , instead meeting with law enforcement officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-president-cracks-down-on-anti-racism-training-sessions/article32533511.ece
06 September 2020||Washington,||White U.S. professor admits she posed as black woman||A U.S. university has launched an investigation after a professor admitted she had lied for years about being black and is in fact white — a stunning admission amid a tense national reckoning on race issues, including cultural appropriation. In a post on the platform Medium, Jessica Krug — a history professor at George Washington University in the U.S. capital focusing on Africa — said she had been pretending “for the better part” of her adult life. ‘Assumed identities’ “I have eschewed my lived experience as a white Jewish child in suburban Kansas City under various assumed identities within a Blackness that I had no right to claim,” she wrote. Ms. Krug, who is light-skinned, said she first claimed “North African Blackness, then U.S. rooted Blackness, then Caribbean rooted Bronx Blackness.” One of her former students told CNN that Ms. Krug voiced pride in her Bronx roots, but told another student she was from Puerto Rico. Ms. Krug said on Medium that her actions were the “very epitome of violence, of thievery and appropriation, of the myriad ways in which non-Black people continue to use and abuse Black identities and cultures.” The professor called herself a cultural “leech.” In a statement on Friday evening the university said: “While the university reviews this situation, Dr. Krug will not be teaching her classes this semester.” It did not say what will happen now with her. “We want to acknowledge the pain this situation has caused for many in our community,” it added. Ms. Krug's situation brought to mind the case of controversial U.S. activist Rachel Dolezal, who made headlines in 2015 after saying she identified as black, even though both of her parents are white. “I'm more black than I am white,” Ms. Dolezal said at the time. Cultural appropriation has become more and more taboo in the U.S., notably in progressive and university communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/white-us-professor-admits-she-posed-as-black-woman/article32533513.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Taliban returns to Doha for peace talks||A Taliban delegation returned early on Saturday to Qatar, paving the way for the start of peace talks with the Afghan government that are expected to take place in the tiny Gulf state. The negotiations are the second, critical part to a peace deal the U.S. signed with the Taliban in February in Doha. The Taliban delegation’s arrival in Qatar came as a top Afghan government body blamed the militants for delays in starting talks. Until its February deal with the U.S., the Taliban refused to directly negotiate with the Afghan government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-returns-to-doha-for-peace-talks/article32533508.ece
06 September 2020||La Paz,||La Paz, Sept 5, 2020 (AFP) -||Bolivia’s government said on Friday it has contacted the International Criminal Court to denounce ex-President Evo Morales for “crimes against humanity” over last month’s roadblock movement.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/la-paz-sept-5-2020-afp/article32533501.ece
06 September 2020||New York,||Convicted Mexican druglord 'El Chapo' Guzman appeals life sentence||Convicted Mexican drug lord Joaquin “Chapo” Guzman has appealed against his life sentence handed down a year ago by a U.S. court for trafficking hundreds of tons of narcotics into the country. He is currently kept in isolation in Colorado.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/convicted-mexican-druglord-el-chapo-guzman-appeals-life-sentence/article32533503.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Auto parts makers urged to cut imports||Stating that India’s auto sector had the potential to be the top global manufacturing hub, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday asked domestic automobile component makers to develop products locally and reduce dependence on imports. “I request you, don’t encourage imports. Try to take the initiative to find out the alternative, or how can we make import substitutes in India,” Mr. Gadkari said, addressing the annual session of the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA). “We can make the Indian automobile industry, within five years, a number one automobile manufacturing hub in the world,” he added. Addressing a separate session, Kenichi Ayukawa, MD and CEO of Maruti Suzuki and the new SIAM president, asked component makers to try and increase production while taking all safety precautions and ensure that there was no compromise on quality and safety. Mr. Ayukawa added that many companies in China were either relocating or adding plants in other countries to cover geopolitical risks. “We should bring those investments to India or tie-up with them to produce in India,” Mr. Ayukawa said, adding that he would make efforts to organise business exploration meetings with Japanese manufacturers to boost ‘Make in India’. “Similarly, we could do with other countries like Europe or Korea or U.S.A.,” he said. The SIAM sourcing group had identified four categories of components where imports should be converted to local — electronics, some grades of steel, tooling and EV components. Hero MotoCorp CEO Pawan Munjal said the pandemic presented an opportunity for the Indian automobile and components sector to become a global hub. Suzuki Motor Corp. Chairman Osamu Suzuki, said the group’s companies in India — Maruti Suzuki, Suzuki Motor Gujarat and Suzuki Motorcycle India — would make their best efforts to restore production and sales to pre-COVID-19 levels. Noting that the auto industry appeared to be reviving faster than expected, likely due to pent-up demand and people now preferring personal mobility over public transportation, Suzuki Motor CEO Toshihiro Suzuki said the size of India’s passenger vehicle market was unlikely to grow to 10 million units per annum by 2030 as estimated earlier. The target, while achievable, may now need a few more years, he added. Incentive scheme Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said a lot of groundwork had been done on a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for auto and component makers, and the scrappage policy was also at a “very advanced stage” of inter-ministerial discussions. “We at Niti Aayog have done a lot of spadework (on the PLI scheme). The department of heavy industries has actually interacted with the automobile and auto component manufacturers. We would push this (scheme) in a very big way,” he said. Pointing out that India relied on imports for low-tech components like gear boxes, tubes and steering wheels, Mr. Kant said, “I do not see any technological impediment for localisation of these components. There is no rationale for importing these components.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-parts-makers-urged-to-cut-imports/article32533480.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Government needs to encourage spending’||The nationwide lockdown in view of the COVID-19 pandemic coincided with the amalgamation of Indian Bank with Allahabad Bank. Indian Bank Executive Director M.K. Bhattacharya details how the lender managed to serve customers despite the challenges. Edited excerpts:  How did Indian Bank manage to service customers during the lockdown period? As the COVID-19 pandemic panned out, our bank took all safeguards. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Work from Home (WFH) were ensured by Indian Bank during this pandemic situation, enabling smooth functioning of branches and ATMs. A COVID-19 task force committee was formed to oversee the functioning of branches, business correspondents, offsite ATMs and Bunch Note Acceptors. Besides these, Indian Bank took various technology-driven initiatives and ensured that 90% of branches and 92% of ATMs remained functioning through the period. About 30% employees worked from home and 45% from various branches and offices, while the rest were quarantined. Indian Bank was the first to launch COVID emergency loans for corporates, MSMEs, agriculturists, self help groups and pensioners among others. The services of Business Correspondents were also utilised and as a special case, they have been taken care of through special allowance, insurance and provision of PPEs. Do you think that the worst is over? With India unlocking, the worst seems to be easing out as high-frequency indicators recovered in June 2020 from the unprecedented troughs in April 2020 (Monthly Economic Report – July’20). However, the increase in COVID-19 cases and subsequent intermittent lockdowns make the recovery prospects fragile and call for constant and dynamic monitoring. The country’s economic recovery is crucially linked to how the infection curve evolves across the States. Job losses and salary cuts, along with rising prices of essentials took a toll on the purchasing power of Indian households. Reduced requirement for goods and services during the lockdown, along with weakening of consumer sentiments due to uncertainty and financial risk arising out of the pandemic made households go slow on discretionary consumption. Due to low demand, corporates also showed subdued interest to invest. However, in the second quarter of FY21 green shoots are visible and I personally feel that fourth quarter will see the normalcy. What has been the credit offtake with regard to MSMEs and retail? MSMEs is one of the worst-affected sectors due to the impact of COVID-19. To address the issues, the Centre has taken many focussed steps, driving the financial sector to provide the required liquidity support and relief such as emergency credit line, sub ordinate debt scheme for stressed sector and PM SVANidhi scheme for street vendors. RBI has also come out with relief measures. As per Finance Ministry reports, banks have sanctioned loans of about Rs. 1.23 lakh core under the Rs. 3 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for the MSME sector. Indian Bank sanctioned Rs. 4,281crore under this scheme as on June 2020. With these efforts and government thrust on ‘Atmanirbhar’ and ‘Make in India’, and further supported by digital initiatives, the credit scenario is expected to improve once busy season starts. Retail sector is also affected badly due to the pandemic. While the whole world is facing challenges to shift their operations online, retail is one of the sectors which is finding it difficult to completely make the shift. Shutting down of malls and shops has also severely hurt business for all retailers as the discretionary spending by individuals is at a low key. In view of phase wise unlocking, retail demand is slowly picking up as more and more business starts functioning. Partial revival is felt in the vehicle loan category as social distancing becomes the new normal and customers may prefer purchase of own vehicles over public transport. MSMEs have been complaining that they did not get funds on time. Your views? Indian Bank identified eligible MSME borrowers from its database and they were approached by the bank officials to avail the facilities. The approach has changed from the customer approaching the bank to the bank [now] reaching out to the customer. Unless the customer opts out or does not fit into the scheme, there are few chances that they will be denied the benefits. Further, the bank also engaged Banking Correspondents to pick-up applications and engage them with the clients for other facilities. What percentage of MSME and retail customers availed moratorium? For Indian Bank, about 4% of MSME borrowers and 8% of retail borrowers availed the moratorium as on June 2020. Moratorium has ended. Will it have an impact on your balance sheet? Along with the moratorium, if the lockdown due to COVID-19 is lifted, the initiatives and measures taken by the Centre and RBI will trigger an upward movement as far as demand is concerned. Positive impact on the balance sheet will result only if there is a demand pick up as there is no supply side constraint. For this, apart from lifting the lockdown, government should encourage spending. Although the higher growth in the agriculture sector in the first quarter of FY21 and consequent rural demand may support the domestic economy, it may not be sufficient to compensate the decline in urban demand and growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/government-needs-to-encourage-spending/article32533478.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Auto dealers eye festival demand with caution||Notwithstanding the fact that retail automobile sales do not yet reflect the buoyancy seen in wholesales, automobile dealers are building up inventory in anticipation of some demand recovery in the festive period amid an uncertain supply chain, said Vinkesh Gulati, President, Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA). “Dealers are building inventory for the festive season... this is a normal process every year,” Mr. Gulati said on Saturday. “Although we are seeing positive figures for wholesale sales... it is not that good a picture on the registration or the retail customer side,” he added. Noting that the industry had seen a really bad period in April and May, followed by some pent-up demand in June and July, he said there was now an expectation of some “postponed demand” emerging in September, October and November. Observing that inventory at this point was not an issue, he said dealers were also still wary of supply chain uncertainties and hence stocking up. “We have been in tough times since October-November 2018. We were expecting that after that one-and-a-half years of de-growth, this festive season would be a time when we will start seeing the uptake or the growth in the market,” Mr. Gulati said. “But now with COVID-19, I don’t feel that sort of growth will happen, and may be extended by six months or a year depending on how things go further,” he added. For dealers, viability was currently the biggest concern. “We are not talking of profitability; if it comes at least you are earning something... as an association, we are working on 2-3 parameters including talking to manufacturers to increase the margins,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-dealers-eye-festival-demand-with-caution/article32533482.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Foreign investors take our reform stand seriously: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said India’s commitment to reform was being taken seriously by foreign investors, which was evident from the good inflow of FDI even during the time of COVID-19. Between April-July, the Foreign Direct investment (FDI) into India stood at $20 billion. “India’s commitment to reform is taken seriously by investors abroad and they take India to be a very desirable destination, otherwise we wouldn’t be seeing good amount of FDI coming even during the pandemic time when India, as many of our critics would say, had the strictest lockdown,” Ms. Sitharaman said. Releasing the State rankings based on the implementation of State Business Reform Action Plan 2019, Ms. Sitharaman said Aatmanirbhar Bharat would help India build on its strengths and become self-reliant. Export competitiveness Aatmanirbhar Bharat would lead to greater export competitiveness, better pricing and quality of exports, which show the Indian skill of making things to perfection, she said. Ms. Sitharaman said Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not for making India inward-looking, but to build on its strengths, one of the ways in which the country can become more competitive. In the States’ ease of doing business rankings released on Saturday, Andhra Pradesh retained the top position followed by U.P. and Telangana at the second and third spots, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/foreign-investors-take-our-reform-stand-seriously-fm/article32533487.ece
06 September 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala CM stresses on govt. role in big projects||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that big projects like the building and running of airports can effectively be carried out under the aegis of the government as underlined by the success of the Cochin International Airport. The CIAL model emphasised the relevance of public-private participation in infrastructure development, he added. Stating that it was a misapprehension that complex projects like the development of airport infrastructure have to be fully entrusted with the private sector, Mr. Vijayan told shareholders at a virtual annual general meeting of CIAL, that this PPP venture demonstrated that the participation of the government in such projects could be effective in delivering professionalism.  Noting that infrastructure projects are implemented by acquiring the land and mindshare of common people, he said they ought not to be privatised. The CIAL model was inclusive and addressed people’s issues too. Observing that there were 7,000 people working at the airport when the current board took charge in 2016, Mr. Vijayan said that number had grown to 12,000 in March and was still growing. CIAL had invested about Rs. 2,000 crore in the capacity-enhancement projects of the airport and was not collecting user development fee from the passengers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kerala-cm-stresses-on-govt-role-in-big-projects/article32533485.ece
06 September 2020||Mumbai,||Reserve Bank revises audit norms for banks||The RBI on Saturday came up with revised long format audit report (LFAR) norms with a view to improving the efficacy of internal audit and risk management systems. The LFAR, which applies to statutory central auditors (SCA) and branch auditors of banks, has been updated keeping in view the large scale changes in the size, complexities, business model and risks in banking operations, the RBI said. The revised LFAR format will be put into operation for the period covering 2020-21 and onwards, the central bank said. “The overall objective of the LFAR should be to identify and assess the gaps and vulnerable areas in the business operations, risk management, compliance and the efficacy of internal audit and provide an independent opinion on the same to the Board of the bank and provide their observations,” the RBI said. While issuing the revised norms, the RBI asked the banks to ensure timely receipt of the LFAR from auditors. The RBI further said that the LFAR should be placed before the Audit Committee of Board and Local Advisory Board of the bank indicating the action taken or proposed to be taken for rectification of the irregularities. Under the new norms, the banks would be required to send a copy the LFAR and the relative agenda note, together with the Board’s views or directions, to the Reserve Bank within 60 days of submission of the LFAR by the statutory auditors. The RBI said the coverage in the LFAR should be ‘credit risk areas’, ‘market risk areas’, assurance functions and operational risk areas’, ‘capital adequacy’ and ‘going concern and liquidity risk assessment’, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reserve-bank-revises-audit-norms-for-banks/article32533488.ece
06 September 2020||Coimbatore,||UPASI seeks steps to revive coffee sector||The United Planters’ Association of Southern India (UPASI) has urged the Centre to take measures to revive the coffee sector. Observing that the government had resumed export benefits under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) from September 1, UPASI president AL. RM. Nagappan said the scheme, however, came with certain caps that would have serious implications for plantation commodities. While MEIS was cut early this year to 3%, from 5%, for plantation commodity exports, for instant coffee it was pared from 7% to 5%, he pointed out. Further, Rule 7 B(1) of the Income Tax Rules should be repealed as it dissuades coffee growers from getting into value addition as any grower who processes his coffee is subject to tax to the extent of 25% of such income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/upasi-seeks-steps-to-revive-coffee-sector/article32533483.ece
06 September 2020||New York,||Tenacious Coric pulls a fast one on Tsitsipas||Novak Djokovic sailed into the last 16 of the US Open on Friday as off-court intrigue forced the delay of a men's singles match over issues linked to coronavirus. Djokovic outclassed Germany's Jan-Lennard Struff 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 in a routine victory for the World No. 1, who is chasing an 18th Grand Slam singles title. Off-court drama Far from routine was a last-minute attempt by New York health officials to prevent France's Adrian Mannarino from playing his last-32 encounter against German fifth seed Alexander Zverev. The intervention led to a back and forth between tournament organisers and the State government and resulted in the match, which Zverev won 6-7(4), 6-4, 6-2, starting over three hours late. Earlier, Japan's Naomi Osaka battled into the last 16 of the women's draw. The two-time Grand Slam winner required three sets and two hours and 33 minutes to dislodge 18-year-old Ukrainian Marta Kostyuk in an early game at Arthur Ashe Stadium. The Japanese fourth seed, who threw her racquet in frustration after losing the second set tie-break, prevailed 6-3, 6-7(4), 6-2 against the World No. 137. Germany's 17th seed Angelique Kerber also progressed to the fourth round, making light work of American Ann Li 6-3, 6-4. Kerber, the 2016 US Open champion, will go up against Jennifer Brady for a quarterfinal spot after the American 28th seed knocked out France's Caroline Garcia 6-3, 6-3. Garcia had provided the biggest upset of the tournament on Wednesday when she eliminated top seed Karolina Pliskova. Houdini act In the men's draw, Croatia's 27th seed Borna Coric staged a remarkable Houdini act to stun fourth seed Stefanos Tsitsipas in a four-hour 36-minute late-night thriller. Coric appeared to be heading for certain defeat after Tsitsipas, leading by two sets to one, opened up a 5-1 lead in the fourth. But Coric rallied superbly, saving six match-points and fighting back to take the set 7-5 to force a decider. Clinching the tie-break Tsitsipas went a break up once more in the fifth but couldn't press home the advantage as Coric forced a tie-break before clinching a 6-7(2), 6-4, 4-6, 7-5, 7-6(4) win. Lone Indian left Rohan Bopanna and his Canadian partner Denis Shapovalov, meanwhile, advanced to the second round defeating American rivals Ernesto Escobedo and Noah Rubin 6-2 6-4. They will next play sixth seeds Kevin Krawietz and Andreas Mies. Bopanna is the lone surviving Indian player in the tournament after the exits of Sumit Nagal and Divij Sharan.  Coric saves six match-points in the fourth set before going on to win the four-hour 36-minute thriller||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tenacious-coric-pulls-a-fast-one-on-tsitsipas/article32533640.ece
06 September 2020||KOLKATA,||AIFF, ISL clubs sharpen grassroots focus||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) and some top Indian Super League (ISL) clubs are on the same page on grassroots development. Representatives of Bengaluru FC (BFC), Jamshedpur FC (JFC) and Odisha FC (OFC) stressed the importance of developing young footballers during an online interaction on Saturday. JFC CEO Mukul Choudhari said his club had been promoting local talent. “The Tata Football Academy (TFA) now hosts baby leagues every weekend and we have had fantastic experiences,” he said. “We have to focus on the grassroots. In 10 years we can see a difference in Indian football.” BFC CEO Mandar Tamhane said his club had been working with young kids in areas where other ISL and I-league clubs were not present. “We have to find ways to increase the number of matches because without competition, growth is not possible. Also, we must compensate the coaches well so that they focus on players’ development,” he said. OFC owner Rohan Sharma said his outfit wanted to “keep developing” young footballers. “We have signed some younger boys. Now we have to develop them and make them play in the first team. That will be the real success story,” he said. OFC also intends to have a team in the Indian Women’s League (IWL). Pathway created Sunando Dhar, CEO of Leagues, AIFF, said the Golden Baby Leagues programme has made a huge impact in quick time. “The pathway is created. We need to create the platform and give the boys and girls a chance to play,” he said. Dhar said the AIFF recognised the need to promote women’s football. “Under-17 Women’s World Cup next year will put women’s football in the spotlight. We can do much more,” he said. Legacy programme R. Vineel Krishna, director, Sports, Odisha government, said the State was focusing on a legacy programme for the U-17 Women’s World Cup and was also “considering roping in the AIFF as technical partner to run football sports hostels”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-isl-clubs-sharpen-grassroots-focus/article32533954.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Golf all set to tee off again||Finally, there is good news for golfers in Chennai. The TNGF-Cosmo course (Nandanam) will reopen on Sept. 7 while the Madras Gymkhana Club link course (Guindy) is looking at the middle of September reopening. Both the clubs are keen that members follow the COVID-19 guidelines set by both Central and State governments. Sandeep Syal, a golf coach, said that it’s been a tough five months for coaches and players and hoped that there would be a good response from players. “I think 80% of the people are eager to play, given the fact that social distancing is easier to follow in golf. Delhi and Bengaluru have opened their courses a month and a half back But it’s better late than never,” said Sandeep who now coaches at TNGF-Cosmo course, on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/golf-all-set-to-tee-off-again/article32533683.ece
06 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Karanjit extends Chennaiyin stay by another season||Chennaiyin FC on Saturday announced that goalkeeper Karanjit Singh has extended his stay at the club till the end of the 2020-21 season. The 34-year-old is set for a sixth consecutive campaign having won the Indian Super League twice with the club in 2015 and 2017-18, starring especially in the second triumph. Having donned the dual role of goalkeeper-cum-goalkeeping coach last season, the experienced Karanjit will continue in a playing capacity as new head coach, Csaba Laszlo, is expected to bring in a goalkeeping coach as part of his backroom staff. “Chennaiyin FC is my home. I didn’t have to think twice before making the decision to continue with my adopted family and represent our loving fans and the city of Chennai for one more season,” said Karanjit, who is CFC’s sixth-highest appearance-maker with 62 caps in all competitions so far. “Karanjit is a pivotal member of our goalkeepers’ union. “Karanjit’s valuable input in training sessions and match situations will be of immense importance, especially for our younger goalkeeping talents,” said Laszlo on the former India international’s contract extension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karanjit-extends-chennaiyin-stay-by-another-season/article32533684.ece
06 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Younger players may benefit from empty stadiums: Katich||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) head coach Simon Katich believes that playing in empty stadiums during the IPL will take some pressure off younger players. It is the experienced stars who will feel the difference, Katich stated. “Some of the younger players will enjoy the fact that there is less pressure, with less people at the ground creating all that noise and distraction. Used to the buzz “It will be more of a challenge for some of the older guys, who are used to the buzz of the crowd to get the adrenaline going. There’s nothing better than having the crowd behind you when you get going, especially while batting,” Katich said, in a video interview posted on RCB’s Twitter handle.  The absence of spectators will not, however, take away the motivation to perform, Katich said. Lot at stake “Players will be motivated. There’s a lot at stake here. The IPL is a big tournament, and players want to make the most of it. There have been plenty of players who have made names for themselves in the IPL,” the Australian said. Katich acknowledged the uncertainty surrounding the availability of players from England and Australia, who are engaged in a limited-overs series until September 16. The IPL commences on September 19, but the match schedule has not been announced yet. “We don’t have the IPL schedule yet, so it is hard to know if they will miss any games. We’ve been looking at our plans once we realised that there might be a clash, particularly if they have to quarantine once they get here… You can’t get worked up about things that change in the last minute,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/younger-players-may-benefit-from-empty-stadiums-katich/article32533636.ece
06 September 2020||Loudenvielle (FRANCE),||Peters wins stage 8, Yates ahead||Nans Peters scored a first home stage win on the Tour de France on Saturday with Britain’s Adam Yates clinging on to the overall lead on a tough Pyrenean stage that caused an unexpected shake-up on stage 8 of 21. Pinot drops out Chief amongst the day's victims was fancied French climber Thibaut Pinot, who dropped out of the race for the overall standings entirely on the penultimate climb. Peters achieved his win over three major mountains in the presence of French PM Jean Castex, producing a brilliant long-range solo breakaway. “I told myself, believe, believe believe,” said the AG2R rider who finished the 141km run from Cazeres-sur-Garonne to Loudenvielle in just over four hours. Yates leads Roglic by three seconds, Frenchman Guillaume Martin by nine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/peters-wins-stage-8-yates-ahead/article32533638.ece
06 September 2020||Monza,||Hamilton zooms to pole again||Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton set a track record at the Italian Grand Prix as he clinched a record-extending 94th pole position, nudging Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas into second place by just 0.069 seconds on Saturday. But Ferrari’s troubles went from bad to worse as both cars failed to qualify inside the top-10 at the team’s home circuit for the first time since 1984, with Sebastian Vettel not even making it out of Q1.   The starting grid:   Row 1: Hamilton (Mercedes); Bottas (Mercedes).   2: Sainz (McLaren); Perez (Racing Point).   3: Verstappen (Red Bull); Norris (McLaren).   4: Ricciardo (Renault); Stroll (Racing Point).   5: Albon (Red Bull); Gasly (Alpha Tauri).   6: Kvyat (Alpha Tauri); Ocon (Renault).   7: Leclerc (Ferrari); Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); 8: Magnussen (Haas); Grosjean (Haas).   9: Vettel (Ferrari); Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo); 10: Russell (Williams); Latifi (Williams) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-zooms-to-pole-again/article32533625.ece
06 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Footballer Veeru passes away||V. Veeru Babu, one of the finest footballers ever from Visakhapatnam, passed away on Saturday morning at a private hospital. He was 63 and survived by wife and three sons. Veeru, known as ‘Little goal-getter’ in the football fraternity, had been suffering from kidney ailment for some time. A student of CBM High School, he took to the sport in 1970 and later joined Attili Suribabu Memorial FC in 1974 and helped the team win many trophies. Veeru once scored 18 goals in a match which till date remains the best performance in the then popular DFA League championship. He represented Andhra in the Senior nationals as striker before joining Bengal Nagpur Railways Club in 1976 and played regularly in the IFA Shield. Veeru represented Indian Railways for many years in Durand Cup, Rovers Cup and Steel Cup, besides the Santosh Trophy in four editions. He was also the vice-captain of the Indian Railways team which took part in the 1981 World Railways championship in Nigeria and was given an incentive of $200 for his impressive show in the event. He represented India in international tournaments in Kathmandu. Andhra Football Association K. Gopal Krishna expressed condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/footballer-veeru-passes-away/article32533874.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Key for Nagal to improve his serve’||Rohan Bopanna is a big boy with a big game in the big league. He was a top-quality singles player before he started focusing on doubles as a better economic option. More than worrying about his game and progress, the 40-year-old Bopanna keeps an eye on the future. It was no wonder that he made it a point to watch Sumit Nagal’s two matches court-side at the US Open. “The biggest key will be for Sumit to really work on his serve. It will be a huge factor if he can improve on it. Instead of trying to catch up in every set, I would have loved to see him stay level, and then possibly use his forehand to dictate the points,” observed Bopanna, about Nagal’s match against three-time Grand Slam finalist Dominic Thiem. It was indeed a remarkable turnaround for Sumit to play so well against second seed Thiem in the second round of the US Open, after having lost in the first qualifying round of the Australian Open and then winning a solitary game against Marin Cilic in the Davis Cup earlier this year. “I think, playing at this level a few more times, playing big matches like these and practising with these guys, Sumit will start understanding ... how to sustain a good level of game for three to four hours,” said Bopanna. Impressed The 2017 French Open mixed doubles champion was impressed with the quality of tennis Nagal played. “In the fifth game of the first set, when Thiem was serving, Sumit kept trying to push Dominic to hit harder and harder. Thiem started missing a few balls. The key The key is to constantly hit the ball deep. Anytime you give these top guys a short ball, they are so good at attacking it and controlling the point,” said Bopanna. With Nagal poised to jump into the top-100, Bopanna is confident the young man has better days ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/key-for-nagal-to-improve-his-serve/article32533774.ece
06 September 2020||Southampton,||England pulls off an incredible win||Tom Curran held his nerve as England beat Australia by two runs in a final-ball thriller to win the first T20I here on Friday and go 1-0 up in a three-match series. Australia, in its first competitive match in nearly six months, was making light work of a target of 163 while captain Aaron Finch (46) and David Warner (58) were putting on 98 for the first wicket. After Finch was dismissed by Jofra Archer, Steve Smith made a quick 18 before falling to Adil Rashid. That sparked a collapse as the visitors lost four wickets for nine runs. A target of 15 off six balls became five off one. But Marcus Stoinis, having hit a six off Curran earlier in the over, couldn't hit another.  The scores: England 162/7 in 20 overs (Malan 66, Buttler 44, Agar 2/32, Richardson 2/13, Maxwell 2/14) bt Australia 160/6 in 20 overs (Finch 46, Warner 58, Archer 2/33, Rashid 2/29).   Second T20I: Sept. 6 (Sunday), 6.45 p.m. (IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-pulls-off-an-incredible-win/article32533624.ece
06 September 2020||Coimbatore,||Upgraded KMS ready for bigger stage||The Kari Motor Speedway (KMS) in Chettipalayam is Formula 3 compliant after a major redesign work was completed recently. “More people would like to see international drivers racing on it, which is also my wish,” said B. Vijayakumar on the reason behind the facelift. “The world is changing and the track is still okay for the Formula LGBs and the old Indian Touring Cars (ITC). The track was designed for 175kmph but the ITCs are doing 180-190 now and I felt it’s time for a change, while keeping the safety of riders and drivers in mind." Elaborating further, he pointed out that the track earlier would slow down the car to 90kmph while entering a corner but now it can sustain up to 130. “We have made the track very technical. The new changes may take a longer time for them [drivers] to learn.” Brake lightly The current changes are expected to allow drivers to brake only lightly most of the time. The speed will be much higher and the whole track will have good flow, but at the same time, retain its challenge. The circuit has been resurfaced as well and Vijayakumar is eager to conduct a race next month. “It will be for the ITC, FLGB, Super Stock cars and the motorcycles. This will be an all-Coimbatore affair but it all depends on the Government guidelines,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/upgraded-kms-ready-for-bigger-stage/article32533730.ece
06 September 2020||London,||Ian Bell calls it quits||Stylish England batsman Ian Bell on Saturday announced he will retire from all forms of cricket at the end of the 2020 domestic season. The five-time Ashes winner has spent his entire career with Warwickshire. Bell has scored 7727 runs, including 22 hundreds, at an average of 42.69 in 118 Test matches while in the ODIs, he has 5,416 runs in 161 matches. “It’s with enormous sadness, but with equal pride, that I am announcing my retirement from professional cricket,” Bell said in a statement. “While my hunger and enthusiasm for the sport that I love remain as strong as ever, my body simply can’t keep up with the demands of the game,” Bell added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ian-bell-calls-it-quits/article32533622.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Relegation, promotion from 2024-25 in ISL: Das||Relegation and promotion will be an intrinsic part of Indian Super League from 2024-25 season as this has been “agreed upon by all stakeholders”, All India Football Federation general secretary Kushal Das said on Saturday. Before that, he said the I-League winner will get “direct slots” in the top-tier ISL in 2022 and 2023. Das also said the AIFF was delighted at East Bengal finally getting an investor, clearing the decks for the century-old club to enter ISL from this season itself. He said the inclusion of the two iconic clubs — Mohun Bagan and East Bengal — in the ISL formed the basis of Indian football’s road map. “Going forward, in the next two-three years Indian football will have a structured road map in terms and relegation and promotion,” Das said. “The road map is for the next two years... The winner of I-League will get a direct slot in ISL purely on sporting merit from 2022. “Then, from 2024-25 there will be promotion, relegation where the bottom-placed team will be relegated to the second tier and the I-League winner will be promoted to ISL. This is the road map agreed by all stakeholders,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/relegation-promotion-from-2024-25-in-isl-das/article32533626.ece
06 September 2020||London,||Bergwijn leads Netherlands past Poland||Steven Bergwijn ensured the Netherlands did not feel the absence of recently departed coach Ronald Koeman to beat Poland 1-0 in the Nations League, while Italy’s record winning run came to an end in a 1-1 draw with Bosnia and Herzegovina on Friday. The Tottenham winger netted his first international goal by tapping home from close range on the hour mark to give caretaker boss Dwight Lodeweges the perfect start. Also in League A Group 1, Italy extended its two-year unbeaten run but a run of 11 straight wins came to an end in Florence. Edin Dzeko put the visitors in front before Stefano Sensi levelled 10 minutes later.  The results:   League A: Group 1: Italy 1 (Sensi 67) drew with Bosnia & Herzegovina 1 (Dzeko 57); the Netherlands 1 (Bergwijn 62) bt Poland 0.   League B: Group 1: Romania 1 (Puscas 25) drew with Northern Ireland 1 (Whyte 86); Norway 1 (Haaland 67) lost to Austria 2 (Gregoritsch 35, Sabitzer 55).   Group 2: Scotland 1 (Christie 45+1-pen) drew with Israel 1 (Zahavi 74); Slovakia 1 (Schranz 89) lost to Czech Republic 3 (Coufal 49, Dockal 54-pen, Krmencik 87).   League C: Group 4: Lithuania 0 lost to Kazakhstan 2 (Zainutdinov 4, Kuat 87); Belarus 0 lost to Albania 2 (Cikalleshi 23, Bare 79).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bergwijn-leads-netherlands-past-poland/article32533627.ece
06 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Sana for HFC||Hyderabad FC signed up 23-year-old Konsham Chinglensana Singh for the forthcoming Indian Super League. The Manipuri defender, known as ‘Sana’, joins till the end of 2021-22 season after three years with FC Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sana-for-hfc/article32533871.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||IPL schedule to be out today: Patel||The much-awaited Indian Premier League (IPL) schedule will be released on Sunday, chairman Brijesh Patel said on Saturday. All eight teams are currently awaiting the release of fixtures but due to different quarantine rules in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, IPL’s operations team took time to finalise the schedule. “The IPL schedule will be released on Sunday,” Patel said. It is expected that defending champion Mumbai Indians and runner-up Chennai Super Kings will be pitted against each other in the first game of the 13th edition of the tournament on September 19. The upcoming 53-day edition is by far the longest in the history of the league and the number of double-headers is expected to be reduced this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-schedule-to-be-out-today-patel/article32533634.ece
06 September 2020||Hyderabad,||HRC gets Govt. nod for online transactions||The Telangana State government has accorded ‘in principle’ approval to the Hyderabad Race Club for accepting online transactions on betting of horses, according to a communication from the government to the chairman of Hyderabad Race Club. The HRC has also advised to follow all necessary precautions relating to COVID-19 including that there shall be one server only and should be located within the premises of the HRC for acceptance of online wagering and shall function as a link to the existing totalizator. A three-member committee comprising the Principal Secretary to State government (ITE & C Department), Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Telangana) and a representative of the Director General of Police (Telangana) will monitor and supervise the activity on weekly basis till the system is stabilised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hrc-gets-govt-nod-for-online-transactions/article32533872.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Prepping in style||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prepping-in-style/article32533643.ece
06 September 2020||BENGALURU,||PPBA to extend coaching for select ISP shuttlers||Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy (PPBA) will extend its facilities and coaching services for select sub-junior and junior badminton players groomed by I-SPORTS (ISP). The selected ISP players will work out alongside the PPBA trainees, and will be jointly assessed by coaches of both academies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ppba-to-extend-coaching-for-select-isp-shuttlers/article32533620.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 07:29 IST,||Sudoku - September 6, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-6-2020/article32534171.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘My art is a form of self-expression’||Whilst the pandemic brought the world to a halt, Ananya Birla has continued creating music; she found being able to work without the pressure of a deadline relaxing, had more time to connect with loved ones and release a single, ‘Let There Be Love’, which has over a million views on YouTube. However, she is not oblivious to the suffering around her. “It was heartbreaking to watch what was going on in India and all around the world during the last few months. So many have had their lives turned upside down by the pandemic, and many are totally isolated,” says Ananya, from Los Angeles, where she has been stuck these past few months. Excerpts from an interview: What is ‘Let There Be Love’ about? I was inspired by everything that is going on right now to write ‘Let There Be Love’. I think we have all been forced to reconsider the things that really matter in life, and have realised that more than anything, love, people and connection are the most important things. The song is all about the beautiful things that can blossom out of dark times, and that at the end of the day, love is really all there is. I was missing family back home and that is where some of the lyrics came about such as ‘Be strong for your father, cry for your mother… Pray for your brother, feel for your sister’. Does Los Angeles helps you refine your musical talent?  I find inspiration from my experiences and that of those around me — whether I am in Rishikesh or Los Angeles. Over the years, Los Angeles has become a hub where music creators such as producers, songwriters, and label executives have begun to reside. Being in Los Angeles, I can access that pool of talent and opportunity, just the way anyone wanting to make it in Bollywood would have to visit Mumbai. Do you think the audience for non-film music is significantly growing in India?  It’s definitely changing. This is a super exciting time in the Indian music scene. It has never been so diverse; we have amazing rap, electro and folk scenes as well as a load of international artistes coming over to perform. I think streaming platforms such as Spotify and social networking sites have allowed audiences to find music that they never would have come across otherwise, which is great. Do you plan to work in films anytime?  For me, my art is a form of self-expression, which I can do through music. Acting is not something I am passionate about at the moment, but I could always create a song for a film. A lot of artistes seem to be collaborating more than usual during the last four months. Are you looking to do collaborative projects as well?  I love working with other artistes, especially when their sound is different to mine. Last year, I teamed up with Sean Kingston, who was amazing, and also Vector and WurlD, who are hip-hop artists from Nigeria. Collaborating really encourages you to up your game because you are making music that sometimes needs to hit two different audiences. I recently teamed up with Maverick Management over here, and with them we have some really exciting projects lined up. I don’t want to give too much away just yet. But I hope everyone will enjoy what we have coming up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-art-is-a-form-of-self-expression/article32533957.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajinikanth in a ‘soot’||“I am a big fan of him [Amitabh Bachchan],” says artist Suresh P.K. as he wraps up the 25x15 feet portrait of the veteran actor using cloth masks. He is inside an auditorium in Thrissur. Once done, Suresh inspects his work, clicks a photograph, collects the masks and puts it into a bag. “I have to clear this floor in the next hour. I hope the photo finds its way to Amitabh Bachchan through social media,” he says. The artist — known as ‘Da Vinci’ Suresh — is popular for his unorthodox approach to art and choices of media. “I keep looking out for things to experiment with. I love movies and that shows in my works. Most of my portraits are of movie stars.” Suresh started his career by painting hoardings and billboards in Thrissur with his brothers. “As they made way to digitally printed ones, I lost my job. Then I started to make moving sculptures for carnivals and festivals. I have crafted huge elephants that can sway their heads, and gorillas that can move their hands using fibre and motors,” Suresh says. However, given the current situation, sales have decreased. “There are no gatherings and many artists like me have lost our livelihood. Earlier, I created art during my spare time. Now, I use my time to experiment,” he says. One of his first works was of actor Mohanlal’s portrait, made three years ago, using vessels from his kitchen. “It was the character Aadu Thoma  from the movie, Spadikam . It was quite challenging as it wasn’t a very flexible medium. I used old blackened pots to create his hair and moustache,” he says. Medium matters In the past six months, actors Rajinikanth, Prithviraj Sukumaran, Fahadh Faasil, Tovino Thomas, and freedom fighter Muhammed Abdu Rahiman Sahib have been made into portraits. While Rajinikanth was created on the ceiling of his bedroom, using soot from burning candles, the portrait of Sukumaran was created using firewood. “Fahadh’s portrait made of nails, it looks like dot painting from a distance. I plan to gift it to him. The work of Muhammed Abdu Rahiman Sahib using books, was more like a sculpture and was done in a public library for Independence Day. I used 2,000 books for that work,” Suresh says. For Tovino’s portrait with paddy, Suresh divided the field into cells and planted paddy into designated areas on the ground. “It was 35x20 feet in area and was designed for an aerial view. It took me almost four hours to complete. Tovino shared the photo on his social media pages and I was thrilled,” he adds. Recently, Suresh completed a project done by Kerala Cartoon Mission, in association with Kerala Social Security Mission, to draw cartoons on public walls to spread awareness of the pandemic. “I was one of the 30 artists chosen for the project. We covered all the 14 districts in 14 days.” He is now attempting to try out over 100 media for his art. “I have completed 62 so far. I hope my works will be an inspiration for others to travel on an untravelled route. I have planned my next work, but I would like it to be a surprise!” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rajinikanth-in-a-soot/article32533966.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Missing colours in the rainbow||September 6 marks two years of the decriminalisation of consensual same-sex relations in India. If you ask equal and indigenous rights activist Gopi Shankar how far it has helped members of the LGBTQIA+ community to lead a life of dignity, he rues that the movement has been hijacked by an elite class that finds its voice only in the urban belt and fails to engage with crucial human rights issues for queer liberation at the grassroots. “The battle against Section 377 was important, but the human rights violation of the diverse SOGIESC (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity & Expressions and Sex Characteristics) identities is still a challenge and needs a wider, more inclusive movement for queer rights,” he says. How can you expect those living with no awareness or opportunity to be sensitive to queer consciousness, he asks, “especially children, who never receive proper sex education and become more confused about their gender preferences”. During the past decade, Gopi has driven himself to work in rural pockets in and around Madurai, Kanyakumari, Sivakasi and Viruddhunagar in Tamil Nadu; Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh); and Mangaluru (Karnataka) to educate, motivate and help those struggling with their own gender orientation. So far, he has reached out to over one million individuals. He says intersex people in our country have remained an invisible segment in legal and policy discourses, as a result facing obstacles in access to health, education, public services and employment. It is unfair to give disproportionate attention to the diverse queer identities, he says. “The fight is constantly against the system that does not allow our children to be raised in the expandable list of identities,” says Gopi, who was recently appointed to the National Council for Transgender Persons. The announcement of the first-ever statutory body — with a mandate to advise the Central government in designing laws, welfare schemes, policies and grievance redressal mechanisms for transgenders and intersex people in India — was made on August 21. Gopi (29) is the youngest member in the committee representing south India. “I hope to develop a comprehensive protection regime for the community during the three-year tenure,” he says Yet he feels a sense of incompleteness, because places of faith and education keep shunning diverse people away. “It needs to be addressed because education and engagement alone lead to societal progress,” says Gopi, speaking from his childhood sufferings and travels over the years. The young founder of Madurai-headquartered Srishti, the largest volunteer-led movement for the LGBTQIA+ cause, had also launched the country’s first 24x7 helpline number eight years ago to interact with those with diverse SOGIESC identities in nine languages. Srishti inspired the landmark judgment from the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) to ban sex-selective surgeries on intersex infants and children in Tamil Nadu, making it the first Indian State to do so. Known for his campaign for Asian Games athlete Santhi Soundararajan who was stripped of her medal after a gender test, Gopi says those four years of advocacy led to her honourable return as a coach in the Tamil Nadu Sports Development Authority. A hands-on activist, Gopi contested the 2016 Tamil Nadu Assembly election as the first openly intersex and genderqueer candidate. “But it is my writing that helps me to unwind best,” he says.  Gopi Shankar’s writings on queer liberation have appeared in magazines, the Srishti blog, and his Facebook page.   Get it right  Being intersexis about anatomy and sex characteristics. Individuals born with any of the diverse sex variations — sex hormones, chromosomes, and genitalia that do not fit in stereotypical binary definition of male or female bodies.  Being transgenderrelates to gender identity. A child at birth has biological female or male sex organs but during later years may desire to live as the opposite sex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/missing-colours-in-the-rainbow/article32533960.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Made in heaven and on earth||At first, New York-based Angelica Razack wouldn’t allow herself to fall in love with the handsome law student she had just met. John Francis was black and she did not want to ‘disrespect’ her parents. Angelica is a second-generation South Asian American law student with roots in Guyana. Leah Cliatt, a Gujarati who lives in Philadelphia, kept Kendall Cliatt, her African-American boyfriend, a secret from her parents for as long as possible. That South Asian parents are deeply involved in the love lives of their adult children is a bankable cultural trait of great interest to the world. It’s the reason why global audiences have binge-watched Netflix reality show Indian Matchmaking , unleashing a meme fest in its wake. Hidden inside the storyline of matchmaker Sima Taparia’s diaspora clients — desi parents looking for desi partners for their children — is another untold story. While the show suggests that second- and third-generation Indian-American children have imbibed their parents’ point of view totally, knocking it back like a round of shots at a bachelor party, what happens if you’re not that desi American? When you have not swallowed whole and entire your parents’ training to fall in love only with a culturally appropriate person? And what if the person of your choice is black? Vicious backlash The joy with which Indians back home recently appropriated U.S. Democratic VP nominee Kamala Harris as their ‘own’ ebbed when they learnt of her Jamaican-American father. And not so long ago, a famous Carnatic singer was trolled viciously on social media because her daughter had married an African-American. So what does Black Lives Matter have to do with the Indian matchmaking industry? A lot. Leah and Angelica tell me their story of being part of a black-Indian or ‘Blindian’ couple in the U.S. at a time when white Americans are struggling to come to terms with the structured racism prevalent in their country to this day. And when many Indian Americans are finally looking their parents in the eye and asking them to rethink their stereotypes. Gen Y of Indians, long known as the model minority, is finally done being ‘model’. Speaking out for the rights of black Americans, they are challenging the tired living-room rhetoric of ‘We are also a minority but we worked hard, Barack Obama became President, how can you say there is discrimination?’ While in some families, dinner table confrontations can get heated, in others it goes beyond that. It is about love, their future, and sometimes a tough choice between their partner and their family. For Leah, a Gujarati-Christian American, and Angelica, an Indo-Caribbean American, it has meant that things might never be the same again between them and their families. But it’s a chance they were willing to take. Angelica blushes on our Zoom call and laughs as John Francis, her lawyer fiancé, describes how they first met. “She is one of those nerds that sits in the front of the class and I am one of the cool people that sits at the back of the class. She was very smart, very intelligent, had a lot of smart intelligent answers so I was like, you know, I need to get to know that girl…” “Looking back, I came to the uncomfortable realisation that my dating preferences were anti-black,” says Angelica. “And while anti-blackness is something that is learned, I can still either perpetuate this sentiment, or challenge and unlearn it. There was a period of my life when I chose to perpetuate it. I actively sought out Indo-Caribbean or South Asian men through my 20s because I wanted to please my parents. I never thought about challenging their anti-blackness.” Filmy love Leah and Kendall are now newlyweds — he, a doctor, and she, a medical student. Their love story has a filmy twist. He saved her from an arranged marriage. “She wasn’t supposed to be with me, she was supposed to be with a neurologist in Michigan,” says Kendall. “I kind of swooped in and ruined that.” Says Leah, “My mother always talked about her grandparents, her parents and what was expected and how notions of family honour and respectability are very hard to break out of. I didn’t tell them for about a year. I knew how (my mom) felt about American culture and Americans, particularly black people, so I didn’t want to tell her about it until we knew we were getting married… until we were financially stable.” Then, this year, the U.S. was torn by the Black Lives Matter protests, in which Americans, with several South Asians among them, took to the streets or to social media demanding justice for black Americans, protesting police brutality, exposing power structures and biases. How did this impact their family conversations? “I was hoping that when I married Kendall, they would see the other side because racism is really ingrained in Indian culture,” says Leah. “I was hoping they would get rid of the stereotypes in their thinking.” And what about Kendall? His answer was moving. Raised from boyhood to be the bigger person, his future mother-in-law’s reaction represented a childhood ‘lesson’ he had learnt early on from his own mom — that things aren’t going to fair. “I remember when I was eight, being told how to act, how to be less threatening, how to be less scary, what to do when stopped by cops. I remember it started very early and made the world scary. At first you don’t want to believe that the world is like that. As you get older, the talk changes. Don’t get in trouble. When you go into a store, don’t put your hands in your pockets. They may think you’re stealing,” says Kendall. Escaping the box Kendall is a doctor, the only reason Leah’s father, also a doctor, accepted him more readily. “We want our children to grow up in a world where you don’t have to worry about the colour of your skin and where you don’t have to play by a different set of rules,” says Leah. “We have to be there for each other,” says Kendall. “That is the only way we will be free. Otherwise if you get into this model minority thing, then you get propped up but not for the right reasons…” John agrees. “Letting them put you in a box like ‘model minority’ places you in a trap because it makes you feel you have to do everything right and not end up like ‘those black people over there’. There needs to be some commonality.” ‘Blindian Project’ is an Instagram group that celebrates this commonality. It features new black-South Asian couples every day, who share their story of finding love in modern America. The Netflix series might make you think that young Indians in America seem to be only on the lookout for desis like them, but while it’s good for South Asians to get more visibility and ‘own’ their culture, I like that Sima Aunty suggests that desi kids think a little out of the box even while within the box. While we wait for Season 2, one can only hope that Sima Aunty’s own desi-meet-desi rolodex will also change a little. And that she will include a more diverse set of prospective partners for her desis looking for love. After all, most of them didn’t find it in Season 1. The writer is a lifestyle TV host and video content creator.  ‘Blindian Project’ is an Instagram group that celebrates this commonality. It features new black-South Asian couples every day, who share their story of finding love in modern America||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/made-in-heaven-and-on-earth/article32533395.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The other jewels in Agra’s crown||The first time I saw India’s most famous monument, it was nearly 15 years ago on a school trip. When, early this year, I saw it the second time, even if only from a distance, I didn’t know the world would soon go into lockdown. Taj Mahal remains closed. But as Agra’s doors slowly reopen to travellers, the city beckons you with all its understated glory, offering historical gems beyond the great monument to love. My last visit was well-timed with a most newsworthy state visit, that by the U.S. President Donald Trump. Several lanes and sites stayed off limits. The city was being hurriedly spruced up like a bride before a shotgun wedding: walls were quickly white-washed, cheery planters placed along road dividers, shiny new bins appeared everywhere and footpaths were scrubbed spotless. But why would anyone complain? The city of love was finally getting some of the attention that the Taj had always monopolised. And in solidarity, I decided to set aside the Taj and explore everything else that Agra had to offer beyond its show-stopper. I signed up for a colonial tour led by the very scholarly Mr. Sharma. Our first major stop was a 400-year-old Roman Catholic cemetery, the only one that was used for catholic burials for all of North India at one time. The Agra of today — a mix of ancient Mughal and contemporary U.P. culture — still safeguards this cemetery. And there it stood, this architectural treasure, preserving stories of people long gone: English soldiers, Italian jewellers, Armenian merchants (Mughal harems had Armenian women too), a cultural amalgam often resulting in marriage, reflected also in the union of colonial construction and Persian motifs. The Red Taj The cynosure of the cemetery is the Red Taj, the tomb of Dutch traveller John Hessing, who joined the Maratha army. Colonel Hessing died a loyal soldier of the Mughal empire, defending the Agra Fort during an 1803 British attack. The outer mausoleum contains a crypt that holds the grave, kept under lock and key by a vigilant guard who unlocks it for visitors. In a radical reversal of roles, this replica of the Taj was built by Hessing’s grieving widow Anne, to express her love for him. The minarets couldn’t be replicated for the lack of funds, but the red sandstone structure is a close copy of its grand cousin. The grounds around this main structure are peppered with graves modest and ornate with domes and lattices indicative of the affluence of the families of the deceased. Many of these belong to Armenians who came to India in the 1500s. Among the tombs of Europeans are the graves of Geronimo Veroneo, the Italian jeweller who cut and polished jewels for the Mughals and is rumoured to have designed the Taj, and of adventurer John Mildenhall, one of the first British men to travel to India. Mildenhall’s is the first recorded burial of an Englishman in India. He travelled to India via Persia, and holds the distinction of being the first Englishman to have visited the courts of both Jahangir and Akbar. But it is the Samru love story that stands out for me. Begum Samru, the charismatic dancer-turned-ruler, built an octagonal tomb in memory of her beloved ‘Samru Saab’. The fiery lady who enjoyed her hookah, went down in history as the only Catholic ruler to have governed a domain in India. She was married to Walter Reinhardt, a dusky European mercenary who fell in love with her when she was a 14-year-old named Farzana. Nicknamed Le Sombre, or the dark one, Reinhardt eventually came to be called Samru in India. In the 18th century, the duo arranged for guerilla soldiers on hire for war, and Samru was granted the fiefdom of Sardhana near Meerut in appreciation of his services to the Mughals when their kingdom was under siege. The story would have ended when Reinhardt died, except that Farzana was no ordinary woman; she inherited her husband’s territory, which she ruled for five decades as ‘Begum Samru’. Agra, it turned out, had many more women’s voices in its history than I had expected, reflected in another grave I saw at a nondescript graveyard. Five feet under, in a somewhat neglected Panchkuian Muslim burial ground in central Agra, a rubble-lined walk away from the main road, lies Abdul Karim. A ‘munshi’ or clerk who spent years serving Queen Victoria in England by a twist of fate, he remained loyal to her both as a doting attendant and a rare friend. Their unique friendship was the subject of the 2017 Stephen Frears film Victoria & Abdul , the reason why his very ordinary grave sparks interest. He built statues in her honour that were placed all over town but were moved after Independence to St. John’s library, where they still lie, unattended. Another physical testimony of the Mughal-colonial connection is the rarely visited Akbar’s Church, built under the emperor’s directions in 1598, demolished in 1635 by Shah Jahan and rebuilt by him again a year later. The Gothic St. George’s cathedral is worth a stop for colonial history fans, as is the St John’s College, a photogenic building that looks more like a grand monument than an educational institute. Sea of spangle Barely 3 km away is the iconic Agra Fort and bang opposite its north face is a railway stop by the same name, to which few have ventured without the purpose of boarding a train. The Agra Fort station happens to house the oldest post office of Agra, which packs thousands of letters everyday into neat little bags and dispatches them religiously. Climb atop the overhead bridge for an aerial view of the post office platform, and the Agra Fort crown looms over the wall on the other side. Come evening, and the muezzin calls the faithful to prayer; this is the Jama Masjid built for Jahanara, Shah Jahan’s daughter. Skirting it is the entry into another world — old Agra that is known for its eateries, shops, wholesale spice markets, the famous shoemaker stores, and petha giants. The wedding market is a sea of spangle. I was taken back to the Bollywood-esque re-enactment of the Taj love story that cultural museum Kalakriti hosts every night near the Taj, except during the hottest off-season summer months. All that shimmer must have gone into the stage production of the grand show where I couldn’t help but notice the largely foreign audience’s incredulous expressions — was Mumtaz really going to bed in that heavily sequinned dress? We will never know. Out of the wedding market maze and past the frenzy of suitcase sales, I stop beneath a balcony. Carved into its iron railing are the twin, sombre faces of King George, like a ghost at the balcony, peering down upon a world he doesn’t belong to. In a quest to dig deeper into this seemingly commonplace destination, I decided to explore Agra on a bicycle. The early morning wake-up call for the ride was self-inflicted, but I did not regret it as I pedalled down the near-empty lanes of Agra. Close to the Taj Mahal I was told that we cannot go further as the cycling route around the monument was closed due to the impending state visit. I end up going down another route, away from the city where parking lots and buildings dissolve into lush corn fields, where women milk cows as smoke rises from their huts, and barefoot children beam at you. A kingfisher is perched by a pond, and drongos are lined up neatly on electricity lines in a refreshingly quiet Agra. In the distance, a white marble monument gleams under the rising sun. It’s a totally unexpected glimpse of the Taj, but not as unexpected as all my discoveries of the city that lay beyond it. Born and brought up in the Himalayas, the writer is an adventurer who derives great joy from napping under the mountain sun.  The Agra Fort station happens to house the oldest post office of Agra, which packs thousands of letters everyday into neat little bags and dispatches them religiously. Climb atop the overhead bridge for an aerial view of the post office platform||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-other-jewels-in-agras-crown/article32533424.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A million Shaheen Baghs||When the women of Shaheen Bagh, some of whom were in their eighties, pitched their tents on the evening of December 15, 2019, on Street Number 13 A, to protest against the brutal police handling of children studying at Jamia Millia University, they set off a chain of events. The students had been voicing their anxiety against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 that introduced religion as a factor in granting Indian citizenship. The women’s action caught the attention of the world and succeeded in converting most of the people to their side. The women, many of whom had never stepped out of their homes before, found their voice, while raising theirs in the most civilised way known to mankind. Two books chronicle this protest — and a movement — and argue that it is integral to the idea of India enshrined in the Constitution. Education as safety net In Shaheen Bagh: From Protest to a Movement , Zia Us Salam and Uzma Ausaf write that most of the women hailed from families that had either not allowed these women to study when they were young or could not afford to provide them education. “Now, in the autumn of their life, these women saw education as an opportunity for upward mobility in life. For years, they had emphasised good education for their children. When their children or grandchildren went to study in Jamia, they took pride in it. Also, there was unexpressed safety; they knew the youngsters had gone virtually next door to study as the university was less than two kilometres away from their homes. Jamia offered them hope for a better future, and the reality of a secure and stable today. They could reasonably expect them to reach home safely after their classes.” What forced the women to come out on the streets to seek justice was the attack on their children by a police force meant to protect them. But slowly the protest became an assertion of their own rights as women whose first act of defiance was in claiming a corner of a street as their own. It was their private space on a public street, out of bounds for men who were content in letting the women take the lead. Now they were invoking the Gandhian spirit of Satyagraha and protesting under the shadow of the man who had given the Constitution to the people of India. It was the people, the women, who had felt threatened by the recently introduced Citizenship (Amendment) Act of the Narendra Modi-led BJP Government and a possible National Register of Citizens that threatened to disenfranchise them by turning them into strangers in their own land. With songs and poems on their lips and a copy of the Constitution clutched in their hands, the women of Shaheen Bagh managed in their quiet way to unsettle powerful men. But the backlash was swift. A powerful minister in the government exhorted people to eliminate the women. And then Delhi was engulfed in riots. The authors have succeeded in chronicling every single day of the protest, which sparked off similar protests by women in different parts of the country. ‘A gift of togetherness’ In Shaheen Bagh and the Idea of India , edited by Seema Mustafa, we have a collection of articles/reports/opinions by people who were both moved by the women of Shaheen Bagh as also by those who had lent their voice to the protest. So, what have the women given us? As Mustafa writes, “For those hundred days before the carnage, the women of Shaheen Bagh gave Delhi a living heart, a gift of togetherness, hope and self-confidence. It should continue to inspire and enlighten the nation long after March 24, 2020, when a global pandemic achieved what hate speeches and gun-wielding goons could not, and forced the women back into their homes.” With Bloomsbury withdrawing its book on the February Delhi riots , following criticism for inviting people under cloud for hate speech on the occasion of the book launch, a charge that the publishing house has since denied, the authors of the Shaheen Bagh books too have come under fire on social media. The Twitter brigade drew a parallel between the books by questioning the raison d’être in withdrawing one and allowing the others to remain on the stands. For the record, Shaheen Bagh is about the struggle for identity and equality by women who eschewed violence. It is a testimony to the faith women of Shaheen Bagh have placed in the Constitution and a reminder to those who love their country to do the same.  Shaheen Bagh: From Protest to a Movement  Ziya Us Salam, Uzma Ausaf  Bloomsbury  Rs. 599    Shaheen Bagh and the Idea of India: Writings on a Movement for Justice, Liberty and Equality  Edited by Seema Mustafa  Speaking Tiger  Rs. 450     With songs and poems on their lips and a copy of the Constitution clutched in their hands, the women of Shaheen Bagh managed in their quiet way to unsettle powerful men||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-million-shaheen-baghs/article32533446.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-enter stage left||A barber, a confectioner, several children from the slums, and an MBA student walked onto a stage. It was an unlikely group perhaps, but that evening, at a literary event in Agra, all were players in the folk theatre known as Bhagat. They were assembled in the centre of the stage, while accompanying musicians sat at the sides, regaling the audience with songs and dialogues delivered in a high-octane yet musical tone.  Bhagat began life by poking the bear. Right from the time it was first ‘played’ ( khela jaane laga ) in the 17th century, its satirical comedies lampooning feudal landlords were a hit with the common people. The ruling classes, naturally, had a different perspective, and soon contrived to have Bhagat banned. Interest in the theatre form revived in the 19th century, as poets put together shows that introduced a mixed ‘Khari Boli’ dialect of Hindi to appeal to urban audiences — earlier performances had been in Braj Bhasha — as well as folk tunes from the surrounding Braj region. And it wasn’t long before different akharas or ‘schools’ of Bhagat emerged, each with a khalifa or head who would train artists in their own style.  Lured away But even as Bhagat began to flourish once more, it was hit with a body blow. As the 20th century progressed, its audiences were increasingly lured away by the novelty of moving pictures. And as its appeal weakened, the folk theatre was driven to extinction. In fact, it’s believed that no Bhagat play was staged for more than four decades.  Memories, however, lived on. In the 1970s, Anil Shukla, a former journalist based in Agra who had faint memories of power-packed musicals featuring “men in flashy costumes enacting female roles with an enthusiastic audience showering wads of notes on them,” started wondering, ‘Whatever happened to Bhagat?’ He still remembers some shows that had been very popular, with titles like Sheela ka Vivaah and Haqeerat Rai urf Shahjehan ka Insaaf . “It was unfortunate that while efforts were being made to keep theatre forms like Nautanki and Khayalgoi alive, nobody was thinking of Bhagat, which was once such an intrinsic part of Agra’s culture,” says the 62-year-old.  Old-world style Deeply interested in theatre — he’d taken part in a workshop with Bansi Kaul, who went on to found Rang Vidushak, in the early 1970s — the ‘cultural activist’ (“that is what I prefer being called,” he says) became more and more determined to tell the world that “there’s more to Agra than just the Taj Mahal.” He made a start by combing the older parts of the city for surviving Bhagat artists, and was fortunate enough to come across Phool Singh Yadav, perhaps one of the last living performers.  Shukla recalls waiting outside the elderly artist’s home, when he saw a frail old man, “being mercilessly teased by the mohalla kids”, slowly walk towards him. With no source of income, Yadav “was living in abject poverty”. Needless to say, when Shukla spoke to him about the need to revive Bhagat, “his face lit up”. But he had a question: “Will people watch it now?” The veteran artist had seen his beloved theatre form fall prey to the more modern forms of entertainment, “so his scepticism was justified,” says Shukla. But once convinced of the need to resurrect Bhagat, Yadav grew excited enough to share not just the various nuances of the form but also his memories of performances he’d seen and been part of in the 1930s. He also started helping Shukla create new scripts for Bhagats “that were completely in sync with its original, old-world style”. And what’s more, he went on stage as a performer himself. “It was heartwarming to see the crowd’s response to Bhagat — their sense of pride in something they felt was part of their city’s heritage was palpable,” says a smiling Shukla. “And the unanimous feeling was that Bhagat must now not be allowed to die.” Yadav is now no more — he passed away in 2015, “a happy man, content that the art-form that was part of him from the time he was barely eight had received another lease of life,” recalls Shukla. Alive again Meanwhile, with his help, Shukla had put together a group of artists to be trained in the basics of Bhagat. “Although its essential form of raag - raginis and swang metre remains undisturbed, we introduced some changes in Naye Daur ki Nayi Bhagat (‘the new Bhagat for the new age’), bringing in social issues like women’s empowerment, the importance of education, religious harmony etc.” he says. This new-age Bhagat is seeing women on stage too. Here Shukla mentions one of his group’s star performers, Komal Gupta, who, after watching a show, was fascinated enough to become part of it. “Its style of thet gayaki (the traditional style of singing in the regional idiom) is what attracted me to Bhagat,” says the 16-year-old student who, despite having no formal training in music, leaves audiences spellbound with her full-throated renditions. With a “minimum of resources” at their disposal, Shukla and his team work hard to keep the folk theatre going. More than 100 slum children have joined his newly formed group, Basti Ka Rangmanch, including school dropouts and addicts. “And because these kids have joined of their own volition, without any parental pressure, their sense of dedication to our cause is amazing.” But the lack of funds is concerning. “I wish we could start a repertory so that we’re at least able to pay some amount to our artists. Nobody can continue to work endlessly for free,” says Shukla. Maybe that too will come to pass in the city of the Taj. The independent journalist enjoys writing about people, places, art and culture.  More than 100 slum children have joined Anil Shukla’s newly formed Bhagat group, Basti Ka Rangmanch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/re-enter-stage-left/article32533464.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Life hacks for young India||Studying and skilling for the job market is no longer enough to secure your child’s future. In addition to academic excellence, kids also need essential life skills. I know this because Kattabomman’s school organised a workshop for parents on life skills coaching. They invited two agencies, Agency X and Agency Y (names changed to deny them free publicity), to give online presentations. Parents, after listening to them, had to pick one of them. Whichever agency got more votes would get the contract to conduct life skills classes for students of the school, from Nursery to Class XII. Fundamentally flawed So I sat down to listen to both. Agency X had a solid but rather traditional approach to life skills. They wanted to focus on things like empathy, kindness, gender equity, and so on. Their whole value system struck me as fundamentally flawed. In fact, their very first module was on equality and how all human beings are equal before the law. Seriously? I had half a mind to fine them Rs. 1 for contempt of reality. Some of their ‘learning outcomes’ were outright dangerous. For instance, they wanted to instil a ‘questioning habit’. In other words, rather than teach your child to swallow government propaganda and forward fake news on WhatsApp, they’ll train them not to accept anything at face value. Can you beat that? Even the dumbest Indian parent knows how risky it is to have a questioning habit: not only will it get you fired from your job, in today’s day and age it could land you in jail. Thankfully, I wasn’t the only parent who found the presentation off-putting. A few others shouted down the two executives who were going on and on about useless things like compassion and fairness and asked them to peddle their “anti-national life skills” elsewhere. Then it was the turn of Agency Y to make their presentation, and I could immediately tell they were on the right track. Outdated moral biases Agency Y began by listing out five life skills that they believed were essential for every Indian child to survive and flourish in the India of the future. The first and most important skill, said the smartly dressed young executive taking us through the PPT, is the capacity to hate. “The days of empathy and harmony are gone,” he said. “Today, the best opportunities demand the ability to mobilise one’s hidden reserves of hatred. In a polarised nation, if you want your child to rise to the top, you must teach her to hate, or at least be comfortable operating in an ecosystem of hate. If you can’t do that, your child will languish,” he said. Second, every child must learn to lie. “Six out of every five sentences you will read today is a lie,” he said. “The global market for falsehood has been growing at a rate of 28% per annum. In India, it’s been growing at a rate of 56% — the fastest in the world. At the same time, the market for truth has disappeared. So think about it. Which is the more important life skill: respecting the truth or mastering the art of lying?” All the parents yelled in unison, “Lying, lying, lying!” Third, every child must learn to cheat. “Fraud, especially financial and educational fraud, is a recession-proof industry in India,” the executive said. “But due to outdated moral biases, cheating is still not taught in the Indian classroom. Surprisingly, it is not acknowledged as a core life skill even by the current regime in its latest National Education Policy. But we will plug this gap by training your child to become a world class cheat.” All of us parents cheered when we heard that. “The fourth life skill is a bit controversial, since kids tend to learn this on their own, especially on the playground. Yes, I’m referring to bullying,” he said. “By the time your kids grow up, the bullying of the weak and the marginalised will be India’s top recreation activity. You don’t want your kid to miss out on that. Our research-based curriculum on the best bullying practices will ensure that your child grows up into a big bully, be it at the workplace or on the road or in the media.” The fifth and last life skill, “without which the other four won’t take you far, is the art of sucking up to power,” he said. “No matter how great a bully your child is, there will always be a bigger bully. So he must have the skill to deal with the bigger bully — and this is where the art of sycophancy comes in.” Agency Y concluded by saying that for a reasonable fee, payable annually, they will groom every child into an ideal citizen of New India who will make a positive contribution to society through his/ her ability to hate, lie, cheat, bully the weak, and toady up to the powerful. You can imagine my relief when Agency Y won the contract.  Even the dumbest Indian parent knows how risky it is to have a questioning habit: not only will it get you fired from your job, in today’s day and age, it could land you in jail||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/life-hacks-for-young-india/article32533460.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘For a Buddhist, curiosity and inquiry are essential to practice’||Tenzin Priyadarshi ran away from boarding school in Asansol, West Bengal, at the age of 10 to find the place that kept appearing in his dreams — a mountain peak with men in sunset-coloured robes. When he found the place of his dreams at last, it turned out to be a Buddhist monastery in Rajgir, Bihar. Now a Tibetan Buddhist monk, the Venerable Tenzin Priyadarshi heads the Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the U.S. His recently released memoir, Running Toward Mystery , is an account of his ongoing journey as a seeker. Sometimes anecdotal, sometimes reflective, it is also a meditation on the mystery and purpose of life. In this email interview, Tenzin Priyadarshi provides insights into faith, religion and Buddhism: Today, when religion gets frequently debased into blind belief, do you think Buddhism, with its spirit of inquiry, offers a way of reconciling faith with rationality? Faith can be of several types. Most often we think of it in terms of blind faith. However, Buddha encouraged students not to take his teachings at face value or believe in them simply out of reverence. He suggested that we critically analyse the teachings as a goldsmith analyses the purity of gold. I believe this was the spirit with which Buddhism was studied and practised in our ancient institutions such as Nalanda, Vikramshila, and others. A sense of trust that is rooted in reason is often beneficial but we should also ensure that our ability to reason is not dogmatic in its attitude. For a Buddhist, curiosity and inquiry are essential to practice. Why do you think Buddhism never became a mainstream religion in the modern world? Is it because it seeks to question rather than to answer? Mainstream at times is overrated. During his own lifetime Buddha challenged the mainstream and its assertions on caste divisions, wealth disparity and violence. Human nature is a difficult pattern to work with and so are the institutions it creates. Buddhism emphasises a journey of inquiry, reflection and transformation for each individual. It is not one size fits all. I would rather opt for a world where care, kindness and compassion, rather than a particular religious institution, is mainstream. It is, however, encouraging to see the growing interest everywhere in mindfulness, wellness and compassion-based learning programmes without religious overtones. Why are there so few female teachers? I believe there are very few good spiritual teachers in general — male or female. One should approach the spiritual path with the desire to be a seeker, not a teacher. Motivation is a singularly important cultivation on the path and one should tread it carefully and with humility. We should also be careful about the institutionalisation of traditions — is it driven by patriarchy? Is it fundamentally biased towards a sub-group of people? Is its sole investment in society to maintain the status quo by controlling power and narrative? These are the sicknesses which we must heal and emerge from. Can there be ‘ethical’ violence? Humans have often tried to rationalise the notion of a just war, when violence is deemed necessary. We must be extremely careful with this approach as it is often dictated by narratives, at times ill-informed. We should also be cautious in labelling acts of violence over resources and economic disparity as religious violence as it often deters us from truly understanding the root cause of violence, thereby perpetuating it. In a complex world such as ours, violence needs to be the last resort, when we have exhausted all means of dialogue and negotiations. Can you tell us a bit about the Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values at MIT? We live in an increasingly polarised and conflicted world. We are pre-occupied with self-righteousness and issuing moral dictum. In such times of volatility and uncertainty, the work of the Dalai Lama Center at MIT is to encourage ethical imagination — what is the world that we truly wish to see and create? It is both an individual and a collective process of envisioning a positive transformation where ethics and values are critical framing tools for the present and the future. How do we relate to each other beyond tribalism? How do we develop a healthy relationship with the environment rather than just being consumers of it? How do we create systems of economies and governance that are not propelled by exploitation? The Center provides a critical learning platform for such timely and relevant conversations.  I would rather opt for a world where care, kindness and compassion, rather than a particular religious institution, is mainstream||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/for-a-buddhist-curiosity-and-inquiry-are-essential-to-practice/article32533432.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Cuts like a knife||There’s something about a person wielding a sharp knife. I am, of course, referring merely to the rhythm of a kitchen knife. I sit mesmerised when a chef on a television show chops onions or tomatoes. One of my favourite pastimes is watching an online rural cookery show where women from Kerala cook all kinds of simple regional dishes. When an elderly villager peels and slices a potato with a sharp knife, it feels like magic. I am not the only one charmed by knives. “There is a peculiar joy in holding a knife that feels just right for your hand and marvelling as it dices an onion, almost without effort on your part,” author-scholar Bee Wilson writes in Consider the Fork: A History of How We Cook and Eat . The 2012 book was recommended to me by my food history-loving physicist friend. It looks at the technology of food, delving deep into issues such as fire, forks, ice, and pots and pans. And there is, of course, an illuminating chapter on knives. “The knife is the oldest tool in the cook’s armory, older than the management of fire by somewhere between 1 million and 2 million years, depending on which anthropologist you believe,” she writes. Every meal’s foundation The earliest stone-cutting tools date back 2.6 million years to Ethiopia, she points out. Excavations have unearthed sharp-ended rocks and bones with cut-marks on them. “Cutting with some implement or the other is the most basic way of processing food. Knives do some of the work that feeble human teeth cannot.” So it’s no surprise that the tool occupies the high table in the kitchen. “In my experience, when you ask chefs what their favourite kitchen gadget is, nine times out of ten they will say a knife. They say it slightly impatiently, because it is just so obvious: the foundation of every great meal is accurate cutting.” There was a time when knives (in many parts of the world) were sharp on both sides of the blade. This changed when, sometime in 1637, Cardinal Richelieu, chief advisor to King Louis XIII of France, saw a dinner guest using the sharp tip of a double-edged knife to pick his teeth. “This act so appalled the cardinal — whether because of the danger or the vulgarity is not entirely clear — that he ordered all his own knives to be made blunt, starting a new fashion.” Fine art Different kinds of knives play different roles in the food we eat. The French chef Auguste Escoffier (1846–1935), who is said to have laid the foundation of modern French restaurant cooking, had separate sections in the kitchen for sauces, meats and pastries. “Each of these units had its own persnickety knives,” Wilson writes. French food, indeed, has “meticulous knife work” behind it. If you like raw oysters, you will know that someone has “skilfully opened each mollusk with an oyster shucker, sliding the knife upward to cut the adductor muscle that holds the shell closed.” Likewise, a savoury French steak has been suitably moulded by a knife. And then there are vegetables. “A garnish of turned vegetables — so pretty, so whimsical, so unmistakably French — is the direct result of a certain knife, wielded in a certain way, guided by a certain philosophy about what food should be.” She turns the lens on the different kinds of knives used in different parts of the world. “Perhaps no knife is quite as multifunctional, nor quite as essential to a food culture, as the Chinese tou ,” she writes, referring to the cleaver-like tool used to chop ingredients into small pieces. The Japanese santoku is “one of the most desirable, all-purpose knives for the home kitchen.” The word means ‘three uses’ — for it is equally good at cutting meat, chopping vegetables and slicing fish. “Become the boss of a sharp knife, and you are the boss of the whole kitchen,” Wilson proclaims. Did someone say a knife is a knife is a knife? Chop that thought.  The knife is the oldest tool in the cook’s armory, older than the management of fire by somewhere between 1 million and 2 million years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cuts-like-a-knife/article32533434.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Thereby hangs a tale||The human race is battling a global public health crisis of an unimaginable scale. While the ongoing public discourse is about solutions to overcome this crisis, the historical evolution of the term ‘epidemic’ tells us something about how we have fought it down the ages. A pandemic is an epidemic that acquires greater coverage and range, across populations and geographic boundaries. The term ‘epidemic’ has its etymological origin in the Greek preposition epi , meaning ‘on’, combined with the Greek noun demos , meaning ‘people’. The context around the meaning of this term and its usage has undergone various stages of evolution in the past two and a half millennia. The most popular record of the first ancient usage of the term is by the Greek scholar, Hippocrates, in his clinical treatise titled Of the Epidemics, written around 400 BC. But the term was already in use by that time. Homer uses epidemios in Odyssey , composed probably two centuries before Hippocrates. There this term refers to those travellers ‘who come back home or to their native country’ — specifically Odysseus and his mariners who journey back home to Ithaca after the fall of Troy. The word demos originally meant the country in ancient Greek before it morphed into the people . So, ‘epidemic’ in its original sense was nowhere related to medical science. Coming back This particular meaning of the term is further confirmed by its repeated use in the works of Plato: for instance, in The Apology, epidemios refers to coming back to town or returning from a voyage. It was Hippocrates who gave the term a public health connotation for the first time. In Of the Epidemics, which still serves as a foundational text for modern-day medicine, he used the adjective epidemios to mean ‘something that circulates or propagates in a country’. This adjective gave rise to the Greek noun, epidemia . Why did Hippocrates use epidemios in this sense when the common terms used to denote disease back then were nosos and loimos ? Linguistic evidence tells us that epidemios had acquired a dynamic contextual meaning over the decades, becoming the term to denote the propagation of physical symptoms in a given human population, whereas nosos could only describe diseases at the level of a single person. Hippocrates used epidemios in its expanded sense. Confusing use However, the way Hippocrates used it is different from what we understand by epidemic now. For Hippocrates, epidemic refers not to a single, identified disease but to a plethora of diseases affecting a given country because of some specific environmental factors. The modern understanding of the term — epidemic as a specific illness, caused by one specific pathogen — took birth only in the 19th century. It would be interesting here to analyse the evolution of a related term, ‘plague’. Around the time Hippocrates was working on his treatise, another Greek scholar, Thucydides, used ‘plague’ to refer to the mass deaths that had taken place in Athens. In Thucydides’ work, the term denotes a scourge rather than a specific disease as we understand it. The mass deaths in Athens had happened on account of various diseases like small pox, typhus and measles, but in a short span of time, around the same place. Linguists and philologists say that the terms epidemic and plague were being used in tandem in those years, creating confusion. This continued till the 14th century. It was only later that we identified the scientific reason behind plague with precision and certainty. Eventually, epidemic became a reference to the outbreak of a well-recognised disease while plague was used for a specific disease. With the contributions of Louis Pasteur and Robert Koch, medical science began to call the outbreak of a disease caused by the same microbe, of a given genus and species, an epidemic. The semantic evolution of the Greek noun epidemia is representative of the strides made by humanity in its understanding of diseases and their cures. While this gives us hope and belief in our capacities, it also leaves us wondering if future generations will add new contexts to the term. If only we knew right now what they could be. The writer is an Assistant Professor of Law at Jindal Global Law School.  The modern understanding of the term — epidemic as a specific illness, caused by one specific pathogen — took birth only in the 19th century||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/thereby-hangs-a-tale/article32533436.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The quiet economist who shattered the glass ceiling||A life-affirming memoir, Breaking Through is simultaneously a brief record of the economic policy debates through the post-Nehruvian decades and the reasons for India’s slow growth, including during the last leg of the second UPA government. The author, Isher Judge Ahluwalia, an outsider — she calls herself a ‘Hindi-medium person’ at heart — arrived in the capital in 1965 from Calcutta to study at the Delhi School of Economics. A brilliant student, she went on a scholarship for further studies to MIT, where her professors were would-be Nobel laureates. Books and values Told linearly, the account is not simply a chronology of the author’s life events. At every turn, she talks about her value system, guiding ideas, faith in the Gurbani , ambition and relationships in her adult life, with well-known economists mostly, and even sentiments for odd possessions, a particular teapot for instance, and their collection of books, which belong to her and husband Montek Singh Ahluwalia. It’s a remarkable life that shows what difference scholarships, merit-based systems and soft education loan schemes can make to students from financially stressed families. We get to know Isher, the economist who shattered many glass-ceilings; the wife, the mother, the institution-builder, the Lutyens’ Delhi resident — all in equal parts. No part is under or over-emphasised. For grandchildren The memoir seems deceptively written for her grandchildren, to know her when they grow up. But it is more. She is a determined, successful woman in a man’s world, on her own terms; not the stereotypical rebel, though. At MIT, she makes a case in her term paper against foreign direct investment and her professor’s known positions on it. He remains unconvinced, but is sufficiently impressed to give her a good grade nonetheless. On another occasion, she presents a class paper discussing how developing countries’ problems could not be fully explained within the Keynesian paradigm, receiving a barrage of questions and an ‘A’ grade from Paul Samuelson. On returning to India, though, she ran into difficulties economists committed to markets were known to face in publishing even empirically-backed studies that challenged the ideological dominance of the Left. But she was quickly able to overcome those and get her seminal book, Industrial Growth in India: Stagnation since the Mid-Sixties , outlining how much of the fault for slow growth in India lay with excessive controls, published. On Manmohan The author’s regard for former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, a key figure in her and her husband Montek Singh Ahluwalia’s personal and professional lives, is unmistakable. She calls herself a cheerleader, as she details the significance of the role he has played in changing India’s economic prospects, has paid fulsome tributes to his reforms and shared anecdotes affording glimpses into his personality and intellect, in more than one place. But she does not shy away from reporting the sense of puzzlement and frustration that she feels at his government’s underperformance: “I wondered why the PM didn’t just resign”. There is something very moving about the memoir, its account of simple joys, ambition and determination, interest in the best for India and the importance it gives to family bonds. It brims with the celebration of the gift of life and the human qualities of quiet dignity and inner strength, and acceptance and gratitude.  The reviewer is the author ofThe Lost Decade.  Breaking Through: A Memoir Isher Judge Ahluwalia Rupa  Rs. 395||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-quiet-economist-who-shattered-the-glass-ceiling/article32533448.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on September 6, 1941, Roger Waters (founding member Pink Floyd) is still touring and rocking around the world. At the age of 15, he was the chairman of the Cambridge Youth Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. His greatest work was a 1979 rock opera that explores abandonment and isolation. What is the name of this iconic album that became even more pertinent because of something Trump plans to do on the southern border of the U.S.? 2When this band was recording this song, it was titled ‘Honey Pie’. The song is about a woman who ‘surrenders’ to a man and promises to love him. They specifically wrote it for the 1974 Eurovision competition, which they went on to win. Which band was this and what was this song whose title refers to the place where Napoleon finally surrendered in 1815? 3Bill Danoff and his wife Taffy Nivert were driving to Maryland from Washington, D.C., and were enjoying the long winding roads and the beautiful countryside. They were inspired and wrote a song, which they thenplayed to their friend Henry John Deutschendorf, Jr. He loved it, changed the lyrics a bit and made it a country music masterpiece. How better do we know Deutschendorf Jr and what song is this, which is a state anthem of West Virginia? 4When these three brothers were asked to write a song for a 1977 movie about Discomania, they had just landed in Paris. They started scribbling words on the Concorde ticket, and two words from the ticket itself became the title of this hit song. The song, which is about survival on the streets of New York, took on more responsibility when the American Heart Association announced that its tempo was the perfect speed when performing the CPR emergency procedure. Who were the brothers and what song is this? 5This song was written by a British band called Wham!. It transformed the singer from a boy band member to a pop icon in 1980. The song is based on his real-life experience of dating two girls at the same time. Who was the singer and what song was this that has one of the most iconic saxophone pieces of all time? 6This is one of the most misinterpreted songs ever. Although it sounds like a love song, it is actually about an obsessive stalker. As the songwriter said, “It’s about jealousy and surveillance and ownership.” This British band supposedly got their name because the drummer’s father worked for the CIA. What is the name of the band, which makes the refrain from the song ‘Every breath you take, every move you make, I'll be watching you’ even more sinister and pertinent to these times? 7This song, when it came out in 1977, became a global hit very quickly, thanks to its interesting story and long dual guitar solo. There have been various interpretations of its lyrics, some even implying witchcraft, but the songwriter says it’s merely him recording ‘a journey from innocence to experience’. The song is a staple in karaoke. Which band and what song is this? 8This song was released in 1985 by a singer who was born in 1959. He sings about a wonderful time he had during a particular season, though it doesn’t fit as he was only 10 years old then and probably couldn’t have done all the things he says he did. Who was this singer and what song is this that’s a staple at reunions? 9This super-hit song from 1978 transcended time and distance. I’ve heard a Bollywood song and a Tamil gospel song in the same tune. It is truly a multi-cultural song as it’s a German band made up of Caribbean members singing about an adulterous Russian monk. Which band was this and who was this infamous monk whose name meant ‘loose living’? 10After a certain band finished a concert in Birmingham, the crowd kept clapping and chanting. Based on this emotional experience, the band wrote a song and released it in 1977. A delay was used to produce the effect of many people taking part. The credits simply say ‘vocals, electric guitar, handclaps, footstomps’. This is the story behind which famous song (that anyone should be able to sing the chorus of) by which band that’s considered rock royalty? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article32533465.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Team alpha Himalayan langurs||‘Leave no one behind’ may be the motto of male Himalayan langurs. A dog attacked a group of these primates as they walked through a field of finger millet one evening in Mandal Valley in Garhwal Himalaya, Uttarakhand. In the melee, most of the langurs raced ahead to the safety of trees while a few returned to the forest they had just left. Three adult males also made it across the field. That night was a rare occasion when the group slept in two different trees a kilometre apart, says Himani Nautiyal, who spent five years studying the species. The three males rose well before dawn the next morning and set out to fetch the stranded members. While one waited at the edge of the forest, another stopped in the middle of the field, while the third made his way towards the isolated group. The panic-stricken langurs that had probably spent a sleepless night leaped down and followed him. The other males stood alert, keeping an eye out for danger until every member made it safely across the cropland. Staying together Incidents like these answered a question that had perplexed Nautiyal about the composition of Himalayan langur groups in Uttarakhand. In other species of langurs living on the plains, a single adult male typically lords over many females and young. Why would the langurs of the mountains behave so differently from their lowland cousins, allowing many males in their groups? The terrain of Garhwal is a mosaic of forest patches and short-statured crops further bisected by fast-flowing streams. Breaks in the canopy force the tree-dwelling primates to descend to the ground, says Nautiyal, to ford streams and walk on all fours from one stretch of forest to another across farmlands. They are vulnerable to dogs, vigilant farmers protecting their farms, and other predators. A single male langur cannot safeguard his group. While entertaining rival males may not be to the alpha male’s advantage, they protect the other members of the group in times of need. However, the young living with many adult males would ordinarily be in trouble since infanticide is common among langurs. When the alpha male deposes his rival in a typical lowland group, his first act is to kill the offspring of his erstwhile rival. If the males of these mountain primates dispatched each other’s young, no infant would be expected to survive. How does the species deal with the problem? Plenty of food Unlike the humid tropical forests, temperate zones have pronounced seasons, dry cold winters and wet moderate summers. Similarly, the langurs of the mountains have a defined breeding period that coincides with the time of plentiful fruits and leaves. If their young were killed, they’d be forced to give birth during inclement weather when food is scarce, which does no good for the newborn, the mother, or the group as a whole. Nautiyal says the other males prevent a new chief from going after the babies should he become aggressive. That’s perhaps the reason Himalayan langurs don’t practice gory infanticide. Instead, the males of this species go above and beyond what other langur males do. Females focus on their newborns and cannot carry their one-year-olds as well. These youngsters scurry to keep up with the rest of the troop but often need help. Nautiyal observed a group cross a swift stream, bounding from rock to rock. While all the adults reached the other bank, the stranded juveniles began bawling. The adult males returned and found a more accessible route for the juveniles. “They seemed to say, ‘jump here, jump there’,” she says. Although langurs are at a disadvantage on the ground and in the open, they will not hesitate to take on dogs in the forest. When two canines caught a young langur, an adult male fought with the predators, while other males escorted the unharmed youngster to safety. A single male can’t do this, says the researcher. Instead of bickering with each other to gain a monopoly over females, these males opt for teamwork to survive in the mountains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/team-alpha-himalayan-langurs/article32533474.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A cup of joe, a lot of joy||I have measured out my life with coffee spoons;   I know the voices dying with a dying fall   Beneath the music from a farther room.   So how should I presume?  — T.S Eliot   I remember vividly to this day, a chilly, freezing morning when we walked to the ice-skating rink below the Ridge in Shimla almost half a century ago. In those days, we children were not allowed to drink tea, and coffee was absolutely outlawed. My first ever cup of coffee at the rink cost a quarter of a rupee and made me a fervent aficionado of a soul-satisfying beverage. My liaison with the dark brew is rich in sustenance in a world riddled with uncompromising anxious moments. As the saying goes, a bad day with coffee is better than a good day without. It so happened that early on in life, instead of asking my mother to get me a pair of branded jeans from England, I made an unusual request for a drip filter coffee maker. Eventually, kind friends began to send me the yearly stock of Arabica beans from Nicaragua, Guatemala or Ethiopia. Slow brewing Life’s tranquil and quiet moments are often experienced over the slow process of brewing a strong, smooth and rich cup of coffee, a ritual often full of nostalgia for the days gone by. Indeed, I fully endorse Charles Talleyrand’s proclamation that coffee to him is “Black as the devil, hot as hell, pure as any angel, sweet as love”. Making black coffee is like a form of prayer with all its allure and romance enthralling me inescapably. Done right, a freshly brewed joe is as subtle as a peaty single malt, or the medium-bodied Petite Sirah white wine with the nuance of the freshly turned soil. Over the years, my irresistible devotion inspired me to search for the untold story of the origins of the world of coffee. I learnt that consumers of coffee woke up to the bliss of Arabica rather late in the 20th century. Among the wild groves of the Kafa Region between the Great Rift Valley and the Nile in southwestern Ethiopia, coffee has never been simply a material product; in every household, the brewing process is more of a ceremonial act. Kafa, interestingly, is the root word of coffee. It was the colonial scramble for Africa and the Americas that sparked the cultivation and the craze from Latin America to South India in the 1900s. I have no interest in the various pedestrian concoctions of Latte, Frappe or iced Mochas served at swanky cafes that have slowly submerged the traditional India Coffee House. Similarly, I believe instant coffee lacks the richness and taste of the real brew. A creation for the military forces, instant coffee is a kind of a handy ready-mix with boiling water to keep you warm in the freezing temperatures. The shivering soldiers would agree with Napoleon: “I would rather suffer with coffee than be senseless.” shelleywalia@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-cup-of-joe-a-lot-of-joy/article32533411.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Tales of freedom||It is a slim book, barely 150 pages, yet, When Two Streams Met is an important account of the freedom struggle, profiling freedom fighters who have slipped out of history textbooks. Jatindra Nath Das was arrested by the British government for political activities, and began a fast in Lahore jail seeking better conditions for political prisoners. After a 63-day fast, he died on September 13, 1929. Bharat Dogra, one of the four authors, suggests we should observe September 13 each year as ‘Justice for Political Prisoners’ day. Given the number of political prisoners in Indian jails nearly 90 years later, this is a suggestion worth taking up. Jatin Das’s body was taken by train from Lahore to Calcutta. Large numbers of people gathered along the route to pay their respects. Subhas Chandra Bose received the coffin in Calcutta, where about seven lakh people gathered for the funeral procession. One could not see the end of this large mass of people weaving through city streets. Revolutionary struggles “If Gandhiji had used the time of the martyrdom of Jatindra Das to launch a nationwide movement for protecting the rights of political prisoners and at the very least wresting an assurance from colonial rulers that there would be no capital punishment for political prisoners, then at this juncture he would have got the maximum response,” writes Bharat Dogra, examining the 1920s with the wisdom of a one living a 100 years later. The book describes how revolutionaries fed into that other stream of the freedom struggle represented by Gandhi and the Congress. Could action by Gandhi have prevented the death of Sri Dev Suman, who passed away after fasting for 84 days in Tehri Jail, aged only 29 on July 25, 1944? Who can tell? The description of the shooting at Qissa Khwani Bazaar in Peshawar on April 23, 1930, when non-violent protesters came forward in waves, taking bullets in the chest, falling dead, making way for more protesters to face bullets, is breath-taking. This happened in modern-day Pakistan, so Indian schoolchildren are not taught it. Many of the freedom fighters lived short lives. Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev Thapar and Shivaram Rajguru were only 23 when they were hanged on March 23, 1931. The book describes Bhagat Singh’s vast scholarship and deep compassion, and takes the reader back a few generations, to Bhagat Singh’s grandfather’s grandfather, Fateh Singh, whose role in the 1857 struggle is mentioned. The story of Durga Bhabi Among those profiled is Durgawati Devi or Durga Bhabi, wife of Bhagwati Charan Vohra. When Bhagat Singh needed to escape without being noticed, Durga Bhabi and her son Sachindra, then a young boy of about three, travelled with him from Lahore to Calcutta, pretending to be his family. Non-violence was the route even revolutionary leaders of the freedom struggle swore by: “Non-violence is a policy indispensable for mass struggles,” Bhagat Singh wrote, explaining that force could only be justified “when resorted to as a matter of terrible necessity.” Bharat Dogra is an activist-journalist; his co-authors Reshmi Bharti and Jagmohan Singh are teachers; the fourth co-author, Madhu Dogra, is a publisher. This is a book parents must get for teenaged children, to help them sail through ill-advised education policies unharmed. The reviewer is a freelance journalist.  When Two Streams Met: Lessons from India’s Freedom Struggle  Bharat Dogra, Reshma Bharti, Jagmohan Singh, Madhu Dogra  Vats/Vitasta  Rs. 299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tales-of-freedom/article32533450.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||After all, what are doctors for!||In 1954, my career as a medical doctor started with postings in rural Rajasthan. After an enriching stint of living and working in remote villages, I moved to Mumbai in 1960. As one of the doctors at the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, I was responsible for managing a peripheral dispensary catering to scientists and their family members. During this time, I had the privilege of interacting with persons from different walks of life. One of the scientists came with his mother from a village in Tamil Nadu for her cataract surgery. Since I could converse freely in Tamil, I spoke to her in her mother tongue to break the ice. This connect helped her have faith in me and my treatment. After her examination, I found that she had severe anaemia. Treatment course Before referring her to the ophthalmologist for the surgery, I decided to get that treated. Since the reports revealed severe anaemia along with a hookworm infection, she was treated for both conditions. Soon, she got operated comfortably and was given spectacles to wear for reading. After two months, before returning to her village, she came back to the dispensary to thank me. I told her that since she got the hookworm infection by walking barefoot in the village, she should wear footwear. She immediately said it was not possible. Puzzled, I asked her what was so difficult about wearing footwear and walking. “What will my peers say? That I have gone to Bombay and become so fashionable, wearing glasses and footwear! No, I can’t wear footwear,” she was adamant. On reminding her how this could again lead to the infection, she gave me a broad smile and exclaimed, “In that case, I will come back to you again for treatment!” nugulvady@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/after-all-what-are-doctors-for/article32533413.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Using what you know||Most players would open the West hand one diamond. Some players, however, like to have a four-card suit when they open one diamond, and they will open one club instead when they have this precise distribution. ACBL laws required, until recently, that such players announce that their opening “may be short.” They might have any number of clubs, but they must announce this possibility. A bid of one no trump in the pass-out seat shows 11-14 points and was the correct action by South. The opening lead made it look like West had, indeed, opened on a twocard suit. That meant that his original distribution was 4-4-3-2. How could declarer take advantage of that knowledge? He won the opening club lead with his jack and led a spade to dummy’s king. West was sure to have the ace from the auction. He continued with another spade. West won with his jack and cashed two more spades before exiting with his last club. South won with his ace and led a club to dummy’s king. West, as expected, showed out and discarded a heart. South now cashed the ace and king of diamonds. He led a third round of diamonds, which West was sure to win. The diamonds were known to be splitting 3-2 with West having three. West was forced to lead a heart away from his king. South let it run to his queen and claimed his contract. Very well played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/using-what-you-know/article32533468.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Will he, will she?||Respected Madam/ Sir,  Friday night only this story started. Maybe time is 10 o’clock. Mrs. Mathrubootham is reading some novel and I am watching DVD of mega-blockbuster film Raise the Titanic. Have you seen? Amazing film. But I think in all of Madras only Mr. J. Mathrubootham has seen Raise the Titanic.  Suddenly Mrs. Mathrubootham came and said, old man, one bad news is there. I said, oh no what happened? She said, do you remember my one distant relative is there in Quilon? I said, yes Kamalam some vague memories are coming. He is retired employee of Indian Telephone Industries no? She said, correct. That fellow has passed away this morning. I said, oh my god what a tragedy. Madam/ Sir, this Quilon fellow is distant relative cousin of cousin type. Means if he is dying we are very sad, but whether we will spend money and all and go for funeral? No chance. I said, shall we put one phone call or telegram or something? She said, don't worry, already I have spoken to family on phone. But that is not the main story. I said, then tell me main story Kamalam, they have just discovered the Titanic and mega thrilling moments are about to come. She calmly walked to DVD player and ejected DVD. All mega thrilling moments are finished. She sat on sofa and said, you know Quilon is having two sons no? I said, Kamalam, I am not even remembering the man's name? How I will know how many sons and how many bedrooms he has and Aadhar number and cholesterol reading and all? Just tell the story immediately. Then Mrs. Mathrubootham said, ok he is having two sons. Elder fellow in U.S. Younger fellow in Ranchi or Nagpur or something. He is having house and property and two-three small other properties near Quilon. I said, Kamalam, if you are going to give lecture about how whole life I am working in public sector bank but no properties then please stop immediately. She said, just shut up and listen for two minutes no? See, old man did not put will it seems. And body is not yet cold, but brothers are already fighting for property. Elder fellow is saying give me all properties. Younger fellow is saying you left family and went to U.S., property is mine. Gallatta in Quilon. I said, ok Kamalam, nice story. What I can do? Should I intervene? Other people’s family matter and all no? She said, stupid man, immediately I want you to write will for yourself. If tomorrow something happens to you means like heart attack, car accident, falling from balcony, electrocution in the bathtub, fan falling on head, food poisoning, gas leak, or something, then you want me to see children fighting for our property? I said, Kamalam, two questions. First one: How many years you have been planning my death Kamalam? Within two seconds you are telling 55 methods? Second question: Kamalam Kamalam Kamalam, what property is there to put in the will and all? This flat is there. Some FD is there and then some items in almirah. What else is there? She said, then you make off one will in 10 minutes and give no? I said, fine. Ten minutes later I put paper in front of Mrs. Mathrubootham and said, ok look all details are there. If anything happens to me all items are belonging to you. Now you make one will and then problem finished. She said, ok. Then I said, Kamalam only one problem. What if you are going before I am going? Madam/ Sir, she looked into my eyes and said, old man that will never happen. You will definitely go before me. The blood in my veins has turned to ice, Madam/ Sir. Yours in fearfulness, Mr. J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/will-he-will-she/article32533476.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The Plague Upon Us||Shabir Ahmad Mir  Hachette India Rs. 550 Kashmir, 1990s. Oubaid watches a plague of blindness spreading through Kashmir. He seems to know who brought the plague, but cannot face it. Four people from the Valley who were once childhood friends tunnel into the past, unravelling the tragedy of a people looking for a place to call home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-plague-upon-us/article32533426.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The Mother of all Parties||Padmini Sankar  Black Ink Rs. 299 For her 20th anniversary, Pam wants to throw the most glamorous party Dubai has ever seen, one that will outdo her frenemy Honey’s. But trouble crops up in the shape of an ex-flame who returns; a patronising husband; an absconding worker whom she shelters. Will Pam be able to throw the party?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-mother-of-all-parties/article32533438.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The Liar’s Dictionary||Eley Williams  William Heinemann Rs. 1,500 In the 19th century, working on Swansby’s New Encyclopaedic Dictionary, Peter Winceworth inserts fictitious entries to assert his artistic freedom. In the present day, young intern Mallory gets access to Winceworth’s mind as she goes through his entries. A novel celebrating the fragility and absurdity of language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-liars-dictionary/article32533440.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Sisters||Daisy Johnson  Riverhead Books $26 Born 10 months apart, the two sisters July and September are very close, never needing anyone but each other. But after they move into a long-abandoned family home, the bond starts fraying, with each discovering some hidden aspects of the other. Wild fury and heartbreak follow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sisters/article32533442.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Turmeric Nation: A Passage Through India’s Tastes||Shylashri Shankar  Speaking Tiger Books  Rs. 499 Can Indian food be classified by region, or religion, or ritual? Do Indians have a sense of collective self when it comes to cuisine? Through a series of essays, Shankar traces the patterns that have formed Indian food culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/turmeric-nation-a-passage-through-indias-tastes/article32533452.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Elephants: Birth, Death and Family in the Lives of the Giants||Hannah Mumby  HarperCollins  Rs. 559 (Kindle price) Elephants are as unique as people. After years spent studying elephant behaviour in the wild, Mumby finds out how they communicate with one another, travel, raise children, lead their lives and how much do they really remember.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/elephants-birth-death-and-family-in-the-lives-of-the-giants/article32533454.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Superpower Showdown||Bob Davis, Lingling Wei  HarperCollins  Rs. 599 Two journalists tell the inside story of the U.S.–China trade war and how relations between the superpowers unravelled, darkening prospects for global peace and prosperity. The trade battle between China and the U.S. didn’t start with Donald Trump and won’t end with him, they argue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/superpower-showdown/article32533456.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Caste: The Lies That Divide Us||Isabel Wilkerson  Penguin Random House  Rs. 999 The hierarchy of caste is not about feelings or morality. It is about power — which groups have it and which do not. Wilkerson studies the hidden phenomenon of divisions, linking America, India and Nazi Germany, and reveals how the world has been shaped by caste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/caste-the-lies-that-divide-us/article32533458.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3115||Across  1 Catching cold, remedy immediately (2,4) 4 Delivery with keeper initially missing, run yielded, cricket’s shameful, concerning (1-7) 9 To the point that peacekeepers fired back (5) 10 Whupping good, replacing starter, moving fast (9) 11 German philosopher, no-good rotter (4) 12 Hint describing piece of language? (4) 13 Break in Adriatic city (5) 14 Primarily, big Englishopuswherein Unferð loses face? (7) 16 Clothing essential at golf course (4) 17 Maid of honour eating words at wedding (1,2) 20 Painful condition overwhelming one bird (4) 21 Some frown at a shampoo being depicted inWar and Peace(7) 24 Window concealed bysignori elusively (5) 25 Being overheard, piped down (4) 26 German philosopher’s hypocrisy called out (4) 28 Denied visa, we’d do in resort (9) 29 Dice with 1, 8, 27, 64, 125, 216 (5) 30 Servant comes before some French king, wanting support (4,4) 31 Type of tennis shot: very weak-spirited, coming up short (6)  Down  1 Going round Dubai? Bah! It’s along the coast (3,5) 2 May, perhaps: leader deposed by party taken in by exotic creature? Exactly (2,3,3) 3 Left, in bed, a little horse (4) 5 Devil turns ego fluently – being this? (6-7) 6 Gloats over achievement loudly, part of old Boat Race (5,4) 7 Twice I see in France the frosty figure (6) 8 Deny most of teenage mucking about (6) 10 Good angle, taking in ancient game where all can see (8,5) 15 Not popular with crackers, Devon Blue (9) 18 I almost tolerate most of nonsense somewhere in Turkey (8) 19 Alas, today’s as dismal (3,2,3) 22 Fuss when two of hearts switched for diamonds with gizmo (6) 23 Rudolf, the German behind something energising locomotives to begin with? (6) 27 Copy of doohickey regularly backfiring (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3115/article32533471.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Pranab no more||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who slipped into a coma last month and was on ventilator support, passed away after developing a lung infection. He was 84. Mukherjee had been admitted to hospital for a brain surgery and had also tested positive for COVID-19. Often described as the finest PM the country never had, he held several vital portfolios from the Indira era to the Manmohan one and was famed for his crisis management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pranab-no-more/article32533397.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Economic shock||India’s economy shrank by 23.9% in the April-June quarter, according to data released by the National Statistical Office — the sharpest contraction since quarterly figures started being published in 1996, and far worse than most analysts had expected. The previous quarter had seen 3.1% growth. Economists expect annual GDP also to contract overall this year, for the first time since 1979-80, reflecting the severe impact of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/economic-shock/article32533399.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Target practice||The Allahabad High Court ordered the release of Dr. Kafeel Khan, detained under the National Security Act since February on charges of having made an inflammatory speech. The court said the speech had at no point promoted violence and the Aligarh district magistrate had read it selectively to justify the order. The HC also asked why the order was invoked only on the day Khan’s bail came through for his previous incarceration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/target-practice/article32533401.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Fined Rs. 1||Prominent lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan was ordered to pay a symbolic fine of Rs. 1 by the Supreme Court after he was found guilty of contempt for posting two tweets criticising the judiciary. The case sparked a raging debate on the freedom of expression. Bhushan said that he would “respectfully pay the fine,” but “reserve the right to seek review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy.”   After Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced his impending resignation on health grounds, the Liberal Democratic Party said it would elect a new leader on September 14. Tributes poured in for Abe, who leaves office as the longest-serving prime minister in Japan’s history. Known for his ‘Abenomics’ policies, he is also regarded as a right-wing nationalist who spent years trying to revise the post-war constitution’s pacifistic Article 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fined-rs-1/article32533404.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||So what’s news||Facebook proclaimed that it would block users in Australia from sharing news if a draft media code that would force digital platforms to pay for news content became law. The code is supported by all the major news organisations in the country as a way to compensate for advertising revenue lost to Facebook and Google. Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said the government would press on with the legislation, and dismissed “heavy-handed threats”.   As 14 suspects went on trial for the 2015 attacks on French satirical magazineCharlie Hebdoand the Hyper Cacher kosher supermarket in Paris that left 17 people dead, the magazine republished, in a gesture of defiance, the same caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed that had provoked the attack. The gunmen were killed in the ensuing police shootout, and the 14 on trial are suspected accomplices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/so-whats-news/article32533407.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||No correlation between Ct values and COVID-19 severity||Currently in India, RT-PCR tests can tell if a person is infected with novel coronavirus or not. It does not reveal the amount of virus (viral load in scientific parlance) present in the person. But there is an indirect way of knowing this. The PCR test amplifies the genetic material from coronavirus through multiple cycles. Since coronavirus has RNA, it is first converted into DNA, and each cycle of amplification doubles the amount of DNA. If there is just one DNA molecule to start with, the amount of DNA after 30 cycles of amplification will be 230 (2 raised to 30) times, or one billion molecules. If there is more genetic material to begin with, then fewer cycles of amplification would be sufficient to detect the DNA. Writing in her blog, Dr. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw of Biocon says that when she got her sample tested for coronavirus infection with RT-PCR, she asked for the cycle threshold (Ct) value to assess her viral load. She decided to home quarantine under tele-supervision as the Ct value was 23 (meaning only 23 cycles of amplification were needed for DNA detection). She then says: “My RT-PCR test on day 10 was still positive but with a Ct value of 33, suggesting a very low and non-infectious viral load generally attributed to dead virus shedding.” While the cycle threshold value can be suggestive of the amount of virus in an infected person, there is no reliable way of correlating the Ct value with COVID-19 disease severity or infectiousness. Lack of studies “There are no studies to show correlation of disease severity and Ct value. A low Ct value indicates higher viral load, and this may be correlated to a person being more able to transmit the virus (infectious). I must caution that transmission depends on many other factors, so there is no direct correlation,” virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel, CEO of DBT-Wellcome Trust India Alliance says in email to The Hindu.  “In my view, there is a relationship between cycle threshold value and the probability of shedding infectious virus, the lower the number the higher the likelihood. But there is no real evidence-based established number where you can say, above 30 [Ct value], you will definitely not be infectious. That said, by [Ct value] 35 you will be unlikely to be infectious,” Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore says in an email to The Hindu.  A paper published in the European Journal of Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Diseases says: “Patients with Ct above 33-34 are not contagious and thus can be discharged from hospital care or strict confinement for non-hospitalised patients.” In a July 27 letter to the Chief Secretary of Karnataka, Dr. Balram Bhargava, Director-General of ICMR, says that there are “no reliable studies to definitively prove a direct correlation between disease severity/infectiousness and Ct values.” Relative measure Unlike measurements made using a blood sample, real-time RT-PCR is not an absolute but only a relative measure of viral load. “RT-PCR test presently being conducted is qualitative in nature. Ct values may give only a rough estimate of viral load,” Dr Bhargava says. The Ct values can vary depending on how the sample has been collected. Often, a poorly collected nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swab can have very high Ct values, thus leading to incorrect conclusions about infectiousness or disease severity. “Ct values are also determined by technical competence of the person performing the test, calibration of equipment and analytical skills of the interpreters,” Dr. Bhargava notes. There have been umpteen instances when people have tested positive one day and negative the next day and again tested positive another day. The Ct values can also vary depending on the kind of specimens collected from the same person. For instance, nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal samples collected from the same person can have different viral loads, making Ct value a less reliable measure to assess a person’s infectiousness or disease severity. Also, the amount of virus present in nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal samples can vary when collected at different times even on a single day. False security Patients in early symptomatic phase may have relatively less viral load and hence have high Ct value, which may subsequently change. “In such cases, high Ct values will give a false sense of security,” Dr. Bhargava says. “Viral loads will increase with time and then go down. It would be a sort of bell-shaped curve,” elaborates Dr. Jameel. Besides the amount of virus present in a person, disease severity depends on host factors. “Some patients with low viral load may suffer from very severe disease due to triggering of the immunological responses. Hence high Ct values [reflecting low viral load] may give a false sense of security,” the Dr. Bhargava adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/no-correlation-between-ct-values-and-covid-19-severity/article32533585.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A single person spreads coronavirus to 23 others in a bus ride||With the Central government issuing the Unlock 4 guidelines that will allow many activities that attract large crowds to gather outside the containment zones, including the operation of metro rail services from September 7, there is heightened risk of a surge in coronavirus cases. Metro rail coaches with sealed windows, closed doors and air-conditioning seem particularly prone to spreading the virus. Air-conditioned bus In the third week of January, a single person travelling in an air-conditioned bus along with 67 others in Zhejiang province in eastern China on a 100-minute round trip spread the virus to 23 people. At the same time, 60 passengers travelling in another bus to the same venue and where no one was infected did not report any cases. In both buses, air conditioners were in recirculation mode. In addition to 128 bus passengers, another set of 44 people attended a worship event. Besides the 23 passengers of the bus, seven who attended the worship event and were in close contact with the index patient during the event also got infected. That just seven people who did not travel by the same bus got infected could be because the worship was an outdoor event. According to a paper published in JAMA Internal Medicine, the travel duration to and from the temple was 50 minutes each way. All the passengers, including the index patient, were seated in their own seats both during the onward and return journey. None of the event participants wore masks during the rides and when worshipping. Two days before travelling in the bus, the index patient, aged over 60 years, had come in close contact with 10 individuals, four of whom had travel histories to Hubei province. The index patient was asymptomatic during the bus trip but developed symptoms the same day after returning from the temple. The index patient also infected the spouse and child. Aerosol transmission “Through detailed epidemiologic analysis, airborne transmission within a bus with recycled air seems likely to have contributed to a COVID-19 outbreak,” the authors who are physicians with the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention write. That passengers seated close to the index patient, including the one seated next to him did not have statistically higher risk compared with those sitting further away including in the very last row, seven rows behind the index patient, suggests that more than close contact or respiratory droplets, airborne transmission through aerosols would have caused the virus spread. The study adds to the existing body of evidence that suggests a possible spread by tiny particles airborne for a longer time and not just through large respiratory droplets. “Our finding of potential airborne transmission has important public health significance... future efforts at prevention and control should consider the potential for airborne spread of COVID-19,” the authors write. Also, the fact that the index patient was asymptomatic during the bus journey suggests “individuals with infection may be able to shed virus by breathing”, as reported by few other studies. The World Health Organization on July 9 acknowledged that novel coronavirus can be airborne in closed settings and spread from one person to another. It also acknowledged that people without symptoms can spread the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-single-person-spreads-coronavirus-to-23-others-in-a-bus-ride/article32533574.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Inhaling polluted air can lead to brain damage||New research on mice shows that continually inhaling dirty air could be bad not just for the lungs but could also damage the brain tissue. In the study, led by Richard N. Zare of Stanford University, eight male mice were exposed to polluted air, and eight controls were exposed to filtered air. Afterwards, on examining the brain tissues of the 16 mice, the researchers found that the mice that inhaled dirty air had developed amyloid deposits, neurofibrillary tangles and plaques, while those that had inhaled filtered air showed no such developments. The study was conducted at the chemistry department of Fudan University of Shanghai, China, and the results are presented in a paper that has been accepted for publication in the journal Talanta Open.  Damaged brains While the whole experiment lasted two years, the mice were exposed to dirty air six days a week, eight hours a day, for 24 weeks (six months). The researchers used a number of different analytical techniques to examine different tissues. “Of course, the lungs… were quite different – but I had not expected to find what my postdoc, Dr. Saira Hameed, observed, namely damage to the brains of all the mice exposed to dirty air but essentially no damage in the brains of mice exposed to clean air,” says Prof. Zare, who is with the Department of Chemistry of Stanford University, California, in an email to The Hindu.  As for the concentration of PM2.5 that made up the dirty air for the experiment, Jinzhuo Zhao, from Department of Environmental Health, School of Public Health, Fudan University, says, “We used 70 microgram per cubic metre to perform the study.” This is about twice the average value of PM2.5 seen in Shanghai. Dirty air and clean air “The exposure system we used in this study could filter the ambient PM2.5 [which was then given to the controls]. The composition of filtered air is similar with the outdoor air from which PM2.5 has been filtered,” says Dr Zhao, who is an author of the study, in an email to The Hindu. “However, the system cannot completely filter the PM2.5, so a little PM2.5 still exists in the filtered air.” The brains of mice exposed to dirty air showed tangles and plaques as well as neurofibrillary inflammations. “In addition, we made a chemical analysis, and we found upregulation (concentration increase) in ceramide and sulfatides,” Prof. Zare explained. Alzheimer’s disease Earlier studies have shown that ceramide is directly involved in the aggregation of amyloid beta and the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. Sulphated galactosyl ceramide, also known as sulphatides (ST), are found in abundance at the myelin sheath of brain cells. “We found upregulation of sulphatide in the brain tissues from dirty air compared to the filtered air, suggesting damages in the myelin sheath and blood-brain function dysfunction as a result of particulate matter exposure,” says Prof. Zare. “This hypothesis is supported by previous reports that have shown that the expression levels of sulphatides are associated with the physiological activity of the blood-brain barrier, and increased concentration of sulphatide has impact on myelin sheath at early stages of HIV-1 infection.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/inhaling-polluted-air-can-lead-to-brain-damage/article32533578.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||How African Sahara amplified a drought in Asia||About 4,000 to 5,000 years ago, a severe drought crippled countries of Southeast Asia forcing a shift in human settlement patterns of the area. Researchers have now told the story behind this mega-drought. By studying the mineral deposits of caves in Vietnam they point to a connection between the end of the Green Sahara and this mega-drought. Rock samples The team collected stalagmite samples from the caves in Laos and examined the oxygen, carbon isotopes and trace metals. They also conducted different modelling and paleoclimate experiments. The data suggested that during this period the Sahara started losing its vegetation. The reduced plant growth led to increased airborne dust which cooled the Indian Ocean, shifted the atmospheric circulation patterns and caused a condition similar to today’s El Niño events. This ultimately led to a large reduction in monsoon moisture across Southeast Asia that lasted more than 1,000 years, says Kathleen Johnson in a release. She is an associate professor of Earth system science at the University of California and one of the corresponding authors of the paper published in Nature Communications.  Previous studies have shown that this demise of the Green Sahara also caused the collapse of the Akkadian Empire of Mesopotamia and the de-urbanisation of the Indus Valley Civilization. This mega-drought period also brought about many lifestyle changes in the mainland Southeast Asian countries of Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. The first appearance of cultivated cereals - millet in central Thailand and rice in northeast Thailand were during this period. It also introduced the nucleated village agrarian lifeway. Studies of ancient DNA sequencing of human genomes have also pointed to population changes in mainland Southeast Asia about 4,000 years ago leading to some emigration in the region. Decades long puzzle “Archaeologists and anthropologists have been studying this event for decades now, in terms of societal adaptations and upheavals, but its exact cause has eluded the scientific community,” said lead author Michael Griffiths in a release. “Results from this work could help us better understand, to varying degrees, the observed societal shifts across many parts of the tropics and extratropics.” He is a professor of environmental science at William Paterson University, New Jersey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-african-sahara-amplified-a-drought-in-asia/article32533572.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Bird brains - not quite small||Do many small birds have big brains? Many small birds have larger relative brain sizes. This help them survive harsh seasonal changes and unpredictable habitats. Using a global sample of 2,062 species, two researchers from Germany and the U.S. showed that some birds cope with extreme winter conditions by investing in large brains. This helped them in better planning and developing new, innovative survival strategies. Others with smaller brains invested in traits like large body sizes and high reproductive output. The resident birds in the higher latitudes of Earth exhibited these two alternative strategies for coping with environmental fluctuations. The study ( Nature Communications, August 2019) was able to highlight how climate plays an important role in shaping the global distribution of brain size in birds. They also found that large-brained species typically required long, costly periods of parental care, limiting ability to raise a large number of young. Small-brained species are able to produce large number of offspring either frequently or slowly. Small brain, slow reproductive output strategy was common in stable tropical regions but was not in high-latitudes. It was earlier shown that large-brained birds subsequently colonised variable environments. Thus, corvids, owls and woodpeckers could colonise highly variable environments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/bird-brains-not-quite-small/article32533576.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Bird paradise amid urban jungle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bird-paradise-amid-urban-jungle/article32533811.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal attributes rise in cases to increased COVID-19 testing||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that the COVID-19 situation in Delhi is “under control” and attributed the rise in the number of cases in the Capital to an increase in the number of tests. “A week back we were conducting 18,000-20,000 tests per day, and we have suddenly doubled the tests to around 40,000 per day. You can consider this our biggest counter-attack against Corona. We have tried to explain things to all those who were opposing the double testing in Delhi, and all of them have joined hands with us,” he added. ‘Follow guidelines’ “I have been witnessing since the last few days that some people in Delhi are being complacent. They do not wear masks when going out or follow social distancing in public places. This is not right. We have to go to work, earn a living, run the economy, and look after our family, but we should not be careless,” he said. “Yesterday [Friday], Delhi witnessed 2,914 COVID-19 cases. I have spoken to many experts in the last few days, some say it is a second wave but others disagree. But if we keep all these technical things aside, I have inspected the situation, the preparations, and all the data related to the virus in the last few days. When the situation worsened in June, we made you aware that cases might be on a rise till July 31 and we were prepared to tackle the situation. All I want to say is that there is no need to worry. The situation is under control,” he said at a digital briefing. He added that the daily death rate in the city was not only the lowest in the country but also across the world. Thirteen deaths were reported on Friday — a fatality rate of 0.4%. Mr. Kejriwal said there were days in June when the daily number of deaths was more than 100 but now these range between 10-20 despite the same number of positive cases. On June 27, there were 2,900 new cases and 66 deaths — a fatality rate of 2.2%. Data recorded between August 15 and Friday showed that the fatality rate of Delhi was 1.4% compared to 1.7% in the country. “We formed teams of doctors and inspected every hospital here to find out the reasons behind the rising number of deaths in a particular hospital. The doctors have done a commendable job. People are getting infected but they are also recovering swiftly. Around 87% of the people have recovered in Delhi, the national recovery rate is 77%,” he said. Assuring citizens that there was no dearth of beds in city hospitals, Mr. Kejriwal said: “There are 14,000 beds available out of which 5,000 are occupied. Around 1,600-1,700 beds are occupied by residents of States other than Delhi, which means that only 3,000-3,300 patients belong to Delhi.” Citizens from across India come here for treatment, which is “a matter of pride”, added Mr. Kejriwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-attributes-rise-in-cases-to-increased-covid-19-testing/article32533823.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||10 sectors qualify for development under DDA policy||Over 18 months after a web portal for the land pooling policy was launched, 10 sectors in three zones under the Land Pooling Policy (LPP) have accumulated the requisite amount of land required to qualify for development purposes. The land pooling policy, received the Centre’s nod in October 2018 and the online portal for expression of willingness regarding participation in the policy was launched in February last year. Comprising 95 villages, there are a total of 109 sectors, across five sectors under the policy. Under the policy, a minimum of 70% contiguous land in a particular sector is required to be pooled before it can qualify for development purposes. According to the latest data provided by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the urban body has accumulated around 6,575 hectares of land. Currently, a few sectors in three zones — N, P-II and L are likely to be qualified for development under the policy. The corresponding areas are around Najafgarh, Alipur and the Bawana Industrial Area, officials said. The Delhi government, meanwhile, has verified around 1,371 applications according to the DDA. “Based on the in-house exercise of mapping of pooled land on the GIS platform, the applications registered on the DDA portal are being scrutinised by the DDA. The ownership of the land details submitted by the applicants under the portal is to be verified by the Delhi government revenue department,” a senior DDA official said. Formation of consortium A draft document over formation of consortium has also been prepared by the land-owning agency in a bid to guide stakeholders for the next step. “Once the consortium is formed, they have to upload an implementation plan, upload the contract agreement and pay the processing fees. The draft guidelines have been issued so that landowners can complete the background work by the time the government completes the verification process,” an official said. While 6,481 hectares got pooled by February 15 this year, the period between March 11 and April 24 saw around 94 hectares getting accumulated. Senior DDA officials attributed the slump in registrations to the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. “Even though the process is completely online, not everyone participating in the policy are technology savy. Sometimes, villagers require help to register their land or complete the formalities. Due to the lockdown, this was not possible and hence, there was a slow period. But the DDA is planning to launch the next window by this month and expecting a better response,” a senior official said. Once the next window is opened, the urban body is expecting another 10 sectors to qualify for the policy, taking the total to 20 sectors. Homebuyers complain Even as the urban body maintained that the process is progressing, homebuyers, who have been paying for the last several years in the hope of owning an address in Delhi, complained of the policy being “slowly implemented”. “There has been no work whatsoever on the ground. It is only paperwork and files which has been continuing since the policy got approved. There is a massive delay in execution of the policy. Even the land verification process is slow and when we raise this point we are told that government officials are busy with COVID-19 duty,” said Satish Kumar Aggarwal, secretary, Federation of Housing Societies and Developers in Delhi. Mr. Aggarwal said, “The draft guidelines for formation of consortium is a lengthy one and it is not possible for each person participating in the policy to comprehend it properly. Why can’t the DDA assist us in this so that the entire process gets fast-tracked and some work on the ground can begin?” The urban body has also cautioned interested stakeholders against “fraudulent practices by some developers or societies to lure into buying houses under the false pretext of land pooling policy”. “Before investing, they should check whether the final development licence has been issued by the DDA and whether the RERA registration is available,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/10-sectors-qualify-for-development-under-dda-policy/article32533792.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Is COVID-19 setting off a bradykinin storm in the body?||The story so far: Scientists are still trying to understand the causes for the rapid deterioration in some patients with COVID-19. While the cytokine storm is able to explain certain aspects of what goes wrong, doctors treating patients are often foxed by the severity with which the SARS-CoV-2 virus seems to affect some people. A supercomputer’s recent analysis of data on the contents collected earlier from the lungs of patients with the COVID-19 infection has showed that a phenomenon called a ‘bradykinin storm’ might explain how the virus works in the body, including some of the more puzzling extreme events. How has this explanation emerged? This plausible explanation has emerged from the data analytics work that a team of scientists led by Dan Jacobson at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORLN) in the U.S. have been doing employing the super computer Summit. In a paper published in July in eLife , a peer reviewed journal, Michael R. Garvin et al advance the bradykinin hypothesis as a means of explaining some of the more deadly effects the virus has on the human body.  What is the bradykinin hypothesis?  Bradykinin is a compound that is related to pain sensation and lowering blood pressure in the human body. According to the researchers, “SARS-CoV-2 uses a human enzyme called ACE2 like a ‘Trojan Horse’ to sneak into the cells of its host. ACE2 lowers blood pressure in the human body and works against another enzyme known as ACE (which has the opposite effect).” The analyses further found that the virus caused the levels of ACE to fall in the lungs, and consequently pushed up the levels of ACE2. As a chain reaction, this increases the levels of the molecule bradykinin in the cells, causing a bradykinin storm. Bradykinin causes the blood vessels to expand and become leaky, leading to swelling of the surrounding tissue. In addition, the levels of a substance called hyaluronic acid, which can absorb more than 1,000 times its own weight in water to form a hydrogel, increased. “In effect, the bradykinin storm-induced leakage of fluid into the lungs combined with the excess hyaluronic acid would likely result in a Jello-like substance that is preventing oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide in the lungs of severely affected COVID-19 patients,” the researchers explain. This rapid accumulation of fluid in the lungs of patients sometimes makes even the most sophisticated intensive care, including ventilators, futile. Meanwhile, The Scientist reported that Frank van de Veerdonk, an infectious disease specialist at the Radboud University Medical Centre in the Netherlands, and his group independently came up with a hypothesis that a dysregulated bradykinin system was leading to leaky blood vessels in the lungs and perhaps causing excess fluid to build up.  Is more confirmation needed?   The Scientist brought in Josef Penninger, director of the Life Sciences Institute at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, to weigh in on this question. “It does make a lot of sense,” he told the magazine. He went on to add that further confirmation was needed, in terms of actually measuring the proteins. The magazine also reported the efforts of van de Veerdonk to set up mass spectrometry to measure kinins in the plasma. What follows confirmation of this hypothesis? Jacobson and other scientists have advocated targeting the bradykinin pathway to evolve more therapeutic interventions to offset the severe effects of COVID-19. Repurposing of available drugs, subject to the outcome of clinical trials, has also been suggested.  Scientists have advocated targeting the bradykinin pathway to evolve more therapeutic interventions to offset severe effects of COVID-19. They also suggest repurposing of available drugs, subject to the outcome of clinical trials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/is-covid-19-setting-off-a-bradykinin-storm-in-the-body/article32533498.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||City records 70-day high in new cases||On the day when Delhi conducted a record number of COVID-19 tests, the city witnessed the highest number of new cases in over 70 days. On Saturday, the city reported 2,973 cases in the past 24 hours, according to a Delhi government health bulletin. The tally now stands at 1,88,193. On June 26, the city had reported 3,460 new cases. Record testing A total of 38,895 COVID-19 tests were also done in the city in the past 24 hours, which is the highest number of tests conducted in a day since the outbreak began. Also, 25 more deaths have been reported, taking the death toll to 4,538. Of the total cases, 1,63,785 people have recovered and there are 19,870 active cases. Saturday also witnessed an increase in other parameters: number of active cases, positive people under home isolation, and people admitted at hospitals. The number of new cases is still less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 – highest so far, and since then it had been dropping. The number of active cases in the city on Saturday was the highest in about two months. On July 1, there were 27,007 active cases, which fell to 9,897 on August 4. But since then the number of active cases has been above the 10,000 mark. The number of positive people under home isolation was 10,514 on Saturday and is the highest in over 50 days. The number of people in hospitals — 4,934 — is also the highest in 60 days. The number of containment zones in the city has reached 976.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-records-70-day-high-in-new-cases/article32533814.ece
06 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan initiates austerity measures||The Congress government in Rajasthan has started taking austerity measures in view of a massive decline in revenue collections amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The cost cutting will apply on all government departments and institutions and involve restrictions on new purchases, travel, official banquets and opening of new offices. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his Cabinet colleagues will forego one week’s salary every month. Senior government officers will go without salary for two days and other employees for one day each month. Mr. Gehlot has ordered a 30% reduction in the expenditure on government offices, travel, computer, stationery, etc. The government has also suspended leave encashment and restricted the spending on petrol and diesel. No new offices will be established. The official meetings will be held through videoconferencing as far as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-initiates-austerity-measures/article32533789.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lawyer held for manhandling police officers||An advocate allegedly manhandled two police officers in a drunken state in Saket Court premises on Friday night for allegedly checking men before they entered the court. The police said that the accused has been arrested. A senior police officer said that a PCR call was received regarding a quarrel at Gate No. 2 of Saket Court around 9.30 p.m. When the police reached the spot, they were informed that two officers have been roughed up by a drunk man who was later identified as Chinmaya Sejwal (27), a lawyer. Argument with guards The police said that a car with three occupants tried to enter the court complex around 8.30 p.m. and were stopped by the guards for checking. When the driver of the vehicle started arguing with the guards, they called Constable Hitesh who was on duty. “The occupants of the car said that they had to meet an advocate in the lawyer’s chambers. The car was then allowed to proceed after verification and the guard was told to record the details,” the officer said. Later, the car returned in which all accused, identified as Chinmaya, Anuj, Vinay and Honey, the police said. The three men pointed towards Constable Hitesh and told Mr. Sejwal that he had stopped them. Mr. Sejwal came out and hit the officer who tried to pacify him. When the accused didn’t stop, the Constable called Assistant Sub-Inspector Kailash who also tried to pacify Mr. Sejwal but he pushed the officer. “The ASI’s spectacles were broken and his mobile phone also fell which was then picked up by the accused who fled the spot along with his associates” the officer said. The police officers were medically examined and CCTV footage was retrieved. Based on Mr. Hitesh’s statement, a case under relevant sections was registered. Anuj and Honey were arrested, the police said, adding that Mr. Sejwal and his accomplice Honey have been arrested earlier this year as well for allegedly beating two persons in Lado Sarai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lawyer-held-for-manhandling-police-officers/article32533794.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Iconic eatery battles massive slump in business, unable to pay salaries for months||Wearing a white turban and uniform, 48-year-old Ranveer Singh holds a round steel tray full of Indian Coffee House signature crockery. It is 2 p.m. in Connaught Place. A major part of the famous restaurant remains locked and only four tables have customers. “Business is badly hit because of which we have not received salaries since March. I have not been able to pay rent for the last three months and have taken out Rs. 50,000 in loan since the lockdown. I will have to take more this month,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . Due to COVID-19 and staggered lifting of curbs, business at the iconic Indian Coffee House  in different cities have been hit badly and salaries of employees of at least eight branches in five cities of north India under The Indian Coffee House Workers’ Co-operative Society Ltd., Delhi, (Delhi Society) have not been paid for the past five months. Like Mr. Singh, many workers said they have borrowed or taken money from their provident fund to meet their expenses. The deputy general manager (DGM) of Delhi Society said sales of all their eight branches were down by about 60% and Delhi by 70%. Across the country “The situation is same in other States as well. We have kept the salary of five months pending and whenever funds are available, we will pay the employees. I talk to Indian Coffee House societies in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh and they are also going through a tough time. The government should help us,” said DGM Devender Negi. The Delhi Society, founded on October 27, 1957, has written to the New Delhi Municipal Council to waive the rent of Rs. 1.19 lakh per month for the lockdown period of their Connaught Place branch. However, the NDMC has not agreed to this, said the Society. Mr. Singh, who has been working at the ICH for the past 22 years, said this is the first time that they were not getting salaries. “I have two children — one in Class 10 and another in Class 6 — and I am not even in a position to pay their school fees, which will be around Rs. 10,000 for three months. Almost everyone else is in a similar position,” he said. Bharat Joshi, 34, who has been working at the ICH for the 14 years, said he has exhausted his savings. “I get ration from the government, but there are other expenses also. How will we meet them?” he asked. President of the Delhi Society, Dinesh Singh Gusain, said: “I have taken Rs. 50,000 from my PF fund as I was not getting my salary. Now, I will have to take money again from my PF.” Flipping through the pages of the account’s book of the ICH in Connaught Place, the branch manager, Bhuvanesh Kumar, said: “Today, till 2 p.m., we have only had a business of around Rs. 1,000. Before the pandemic, we used to have a sale of around Rs. 25,000-Rs. 30,000/day. We are giving advance salary to many workers. But the business is too low even for it.” After reopening on June 8, there was a revenue of Rs. 33,836 in June, Rs. 53,956 in July and about Rs. 80,000 in August, the records showed. “Earlier, we used to have a business of around Rs. 9 lakh-12 lakh a month. The government should help us. The business is less than even the rent,” he added. A letter written to the NDMC by the Society on August 9 read, “During the lockdown period due to COVID-19, the Indian Coffee House was totally closed from 22/03/2020 to 08/06/2020 and during this period the NDMC has not given any permission to enter the premises of the building. The Society shall be highly thankful to you, if on humanitarian grounds you will not demand the licence fee for the period.” An NDMC official said that they do not have any provision to waive rent. ‘Will meet CM’ “We are planning to meet Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and request him to help,” Mr. Kumar said. Almost all employees, including the manager and the DGM said that the government should help, as ICH is no ordinary restaurant chain. “Many political leaders used to come to ICH. In the 80s, when I was a waiter, I had served [L.K.] Advani ji when he visited here,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iconic-eatery-battles-massive-slump-in-business-unable-to-pay-salaries-for-months/article32533825.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: court raps officer in constable murder case||A court here on Saturday pulled up a Delhi Police investigating officer for failing to file replies to bail applications in a case related to the alleged murder of a head constable during the February riots, saying he was dealing with an important matter in a “very callous” way. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Ratan Lal killing The court was hearing separate bail applications of Sahil, Adil, Mohd Furqan and Imran Ansari, who are accused in the case related to the alleged murder of Head Constable Ratan Lal during the violence in Dayalpur area. Adil had filed his bail application on July 3, Sahil and Furqan on July 23 and Ansari on August 27. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said the replies to the bail pleas have not been filed by the investigating officer (IO), despite an undertaking from him on the last date of hearing. “The reply in the matter has not been filed by the IO despite the undertaking on the last date of hearing. This is a gross negligence on part of the IO. This is such an important matter for the Crime Branch and the same is being dealt with by the IO in a very callous and indolent manner. Today, seven matters were kept for two entire sessions,” the court said. “The IO should have been watchful that already enough time has elapsed in the matter. The bail application has been pending for a fairly long time,” it said. The court has put up the matter for September 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-court-raps-officer-in-constable-murder-case/article32533816.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The 13th Amendment||The story so far: After the  Rajapaksas’ win in the November 2019 presidential polls and the August 2020 general election, the spotlight has fallen on two key legislations in Sri Lanka’s Constitution. One, the 19th Amendment, that was passed in 2015 to curb powers of the Executive President, while strengthening Parliament and independent commissions. The Rajapaksa government has already drafted and gazetted the 20th Amendment. The other legislation under sharp focus is the 13th Amendment passed in 1987, which mandates a measure of power devolution to the provincial councils established to govern the island’s nine provinces. What is the legislation? It is an outcome of the Indo-Lanka Accord of July 1987, signed by the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and President J.R. Jayawardene, in an attempt to resolve Sri Lanka’s ethnic conflict that had aggravated into a full-fledged civil war, between the armed forces and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, which led the struggle for Tamils’ self-determination and sought a separate state. The 13th Amendment, which led to the creation of Provincial Councils, assured a power sharing arrangement to enable all nine provinces in the country, including Sinhala majority areas, to self-govern. Subjects such as education, health, agriculture, housing, land and police are devolved to the provincial administrations, but because of restrictions on financial powers and overriding powers given to the President, the provincial administrations have not made much headway. In particular, the provisions relating to police and land have never been implemented. Initially, the north and eastern provinces were merged and had a North-Eastern Provincial Council, but the two were de-merged in 2007 following a Supreme Court verdict. Why is it contentious? The 13th Amendment carries considerable baggage from the country’s civil war years. It was opposed vociferously by both Sinhala nationalist parties and the LTTE. The former thought it was too much power to share, while the Tigers deemed it too little. A large section of the Sinhala polity, including the leftist-nationalist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) which led an armed insurrection opposing it, saw the Accord and the consequent legislation as an imprint of Indian intervention. Though signed by the powerful President Jayawardene, it was widely perceived as an imposition by a neighbour wielding hegemonic influence. The Tamil polity, especially its dominant nationalist strain, does not find the 13th Amendment sufficient in its ambit or substance. However, some including the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) — which chiefly represented the Tamils of the north and east in Parliament in the post-war era until its setback in the recent polls — see it as an important starting point, something to build upon. Why is the 13th Amendment significant? Till date, the 13th Amendment represents the only constitutional provision on the settlement of the long-pending Tamil question. In addition to assuring a measure of devolution, it is considered part of the few significant gains since the 1980s, in the face of growing Sinhala-Buddhist majoritarianism from the time Sri Lanka became independent in 1948. Who wants it abolished and why? From influential Cabinet ministers in the current government to state ministers, including a former naval officer who has been assigned the Provincial Councils & Local Government portfolio, many have openly called for the abolition of provincial councils after the new government took charge. They deem the councils “white elephants”, and argue that in a small country the provinces could be effectively controlled by the Centre. The opposition camp also includes those fundamentally opposed to sharing any political power with the Tamil minority. All the same, all political camps that vehemently oppose the system have themselves contested in provincial council elections. The councils have over time also helped national parties strengthen their grassroots presence and organisational structures.   What is the stand of the Rajapaksas? Neither President Gotabaya Rajapaksa nor Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa has commented on the Amendment so far. During Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa’s two terms as President, for a decade from 2005, he gave several assurances to implement the 13th Amendment and go even beyond its provisions, popularly referred to as his promise of “13 plus”. The conduct of the historic Northern Provincial Election in 2013 was a welcome step, but his government was reluctant to part with land and police powers. New Delhi’s scepticism about past assurances is also no secret — the U.S. Embassy cables accessed by The Hindu through WikiLeaks in 2011 affirmed this. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has referenced the Amendment more than once, especially during high-level bilateral visits, but observers in Sri Lanka wonder how far India can go on the Tamil question, amid growing geopolitical insecurities.  Most of the Tamil polity does not find the 13th Amendment sufficient in its ambit or substance. But some see it as an important starting point, something to build upon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-13th-amendment/article32533496.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police manhandled me and my friend for no reason, alleges 18-year-old girl||An 18-year-old girl, in a video, alleged that she and her friend were allegedly manhandled by policemen in a park in Shahdara’s Krishna Nagar on Thursday night. The video was widely shared on social media. The police, however, have denied the allegations. DCP (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said the allegations are false. The officer said Constable Sanjay was on patrolling duty when a 37-year-old man, Nitin Jain, approached him, saying he had been assaulted by a couple. The constable rushed to the park and spotted the couple. “They started arguing with the constable and abused and pushed him after which he called Head Constable Narendra,” Mr. Sharma said. “The lady also threatened to lodge a false complaint against the staff”. On Saturday, Mr. Nitin has submitted his complaint in the matter, the police added. On the other hand, the girl said she and her male friend were walking in the park when a man in civil dress approached them. The policeman then started asking questions about their presence in the park after which he started shouting at them. He then called another policeman after which a few of them came and started harassing the girl and her friend. The girl said when they asked their crime, the men in uniform started beating the boy with a stick. Eventually, they called the boy’s parents, who blamed the girl for roaming outside at night. “Derogatory words were used against me and I still don’t know what is my mistake. I was just asked what I was doing outside late in the night,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-manhandled-me-and-my-friend-for-no-reason-alleges-18-year-old-girl/article32533826.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP to protest against non-payment of salaries||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said they will take out a rally from Raj Ghat to Civic Centre as a protest against alleged non-payment of salaries to workers by the BJP-ruled municipal corporations. The party also attacked BJP for allegedly not working for the corporations for the past 14 years and offered to train BJP leaders on how to run the municipal corporations. “For the last several months, the employees of the municipal corporation have not received their salary, because of which they are sitting on a dharna outside the Civic Center. The AAP is standing with the employees of the corporation...,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak at a press conference. He said when the Kejriwal government was formed in 2015, the budget of the government was Rs. 28,000 crore but it has now doubled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-to-protest-against-non-payment-of-salaries/article32533828.ece
06 September 2020||Bhopal,||Kamal Nath demands CBI probe into rice ‘scam’||Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath on Saturday demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the supply of substandard rice to fair price shops reportedly State-wide. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Nath said, “The rice scam is not just limited to Balaghat and Mandla districts. This stretches to several districts and is connected to the higher-ups.” He asked the government to expand the scope of the inquiry beyond the two districts, despite the State government claiming it was already inspecting stocks and had even withheld rice pending inquiry. “By restricting the inquiry to the two districts, there is an attempt to suppress the scam,” alleged Mr. Nath. Mr. Nath’s statement comes two days after Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who directed the Economic Offences Wing to investigate the matter in the two districts, had said the previous Congress government took no action while substandard rice was reportedly procured from millers in Balaghat district in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kamal-nath-demands-cbi-probe-into-rice-scam/article32533788.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||Anti-dengue campaign starts today||The Delhi government will relaunch the “10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute” anti-dengue campaign from Sunday. The 10-week mass awareness campaign is aimed at reducing the cases of dengue and chikungunya here. The campaign will continue every Sunday and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will kickstart it at 10 a.m. by inspecting his own residence for stagnant clean water, which can lead to the breeding of mosquitoes. Last year, the government had said that the campaign had garnered the support of many celebrities as well as officials of the government and other autonomous bodies. Under the initiative, the citizens must inspect their homes for any possible sources of stagnant clean water. Mr. Kejriwal had appealed to the Ministers, MLAs, and the citizens to begin the mega-campaign from their own homes and spend 10 minutes every Sunday to make sure there is no stagnant water in their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/anti-dengue-campaign-starts-today/article32533821.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘British’ man arrested for duping women||A 38-year-old man was arrested for allegedly duping several women by posing as a British citizen, on the pretext of marriage, the police said on Saturday. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused has been identified as Vishal alias Mohit Tokas, a resident of Munirka. The police said that a woman lodged a complaint and stated that she was checking a suitable match on a divorce matrimonial website. A person, claiming to be a British citizen, contacted her and subsequently promised to marry her. He convinced the victim that he needed money and after getting the amount, he would marry her. He contacted her over WhatsApp only, the police said. After the woman transferred over Rs. 1 lakh to him, the accused stopped taking her calls. The accused allegedly told the police that he used to lure divorced women for marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/british-man-arrested-for-duping-women/article32533790.ece
06 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man who beat up, robbed pilot booked under MCOCA||A 22-year-old youth, arrested for assaulting and robbing a pilot of a private airlines at gunpoint near the IIT flyover, has been booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), the police said on Saturday. The police said that P. Silva, a history-sheeter and resident of Madangir, was found involved in over 12 cases of theft, robbery, snatching and Arms Act. “Even from inside the jail, he was allegedly controlling his ‘Thak Thak’ gang to carry out criminal activities in Delhi,” DCP (South) Atul Thakur said, adding that it has also come to notice that Silva used the money from criminal activities to acquire benami properties. On June 2, Silva he and his accomplices robbed and assaulted the pilot when he was on his way to the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-who-beat-up-robbed-pilot-booked-under-mcoca/article32533793.ece
06 September 2020||new delhi,||Disclosure for public good, Priya Ramani tells court||Journalist Priya Ramani told a Delhi court on Saturday that her remarks alleging sexual harassment by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar were her truth, which she disclosed in “good faith” for the “public good” and, therefore, do not amount to defamation. Ms. Ramani submitted this before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja through her lawyer during the final hearing of a criminal defamation complaint filed by Mr. Akbar against her. During the #MeToo movement, Ms. Ramani in 2018 accused Mr. Akbar of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Mr. Akbar resigned as Union Minister on October 17, 2018. Senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Ms. Ramani, told the court on Saturday that as per law it is not defamation to make an imputation on the character of another when it is made in good faith for the protection of his/her or other’s interest. She added that Ms. Ramani’s alleged defamatory tweets were “her truth”. The next hearing is on September 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/disclosure-for-public-good-priya-ramani-tells-court/article32533815.ece
06 September 2020||September 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Paying tributes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/paying-tributes/article32533818.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Traders suffered due to arbitrary power bills’||The Opposition BJP on Sunday accused the Delhi government of plunging traders and citizens into suffering due to arbitrary electricity bills and other taxes during the lockdown. The AAP will see “huge consequences” due to this in the 2022 Municipal Corporation polls, said Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta. On the other hand, he said, despite the economic crunch, the civic bodies had given relief to traders by giving one-year exemption for trade licences, paying property tax, warehouse license and conversion charges till March 2021. which were due in April 2020. “With this social decision, the civic bodies have provided relief to the traders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/traders-suffered-due-to-arbitrary-power-bills/article32533820.ece
06 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Former Assam CM Mahanta hospitalised||Former Assam CM Prafulla Kumar Mahanta was admitted to a private hospital in Guwahati on Friday evening after complaining of “very high pressure”. “He had a few meetings amid tremendous heat and was very exhausted after returning on Friday. He felt uneasy after what the doctors said was a bout of very high pressure,” said an aide Dhruba Sarma. Doctors at the hospital said Mr. Mahanta has been put in ICU because of a mild neurological problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-assam-cm-mahanta-hospitalised/article32533787.ece
06 September 2020||Noida,||Noida: 213 new COVID-19 cases, biggest single-day spike||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike of 213 fresh COVID-19 cases, pushing the tally to 8,686, official data showed. The number of active cases reached 1,299, up from 1,188 on Friday, 1,163 on Thursday, 1,114 on Wednesday, 1,067 on Tuesday, 1,055 on Monday and 1,009 on Sunday, according to data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/noida-213-new-covid-19-cases-biggest-single-day-spike/article32533819.ece
06 September 2020||New Delhi,||NGT pulls up U.P. for failing to curb industrial activities in residential areas||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for failing to curb industrial activities in residential areas while observing that the rule of law had to be followed by authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-pulls-up-up-for-failing-to-curb-industrial-activities-in-residential-areas/article32533827.ece
