12 September 2020||New Delhi,||India, China agree on 5-point action plan||After a two-and-a-half-hour meeting that went into the night in Moscow, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi said they agreed on a five-point course of action to disengage and reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a four-and-a-half-month-long stand-off. “The two Foreign Ministers agreed that the current situation in the border areas is not in the interests of either side. They agreed, therefore, that the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions,” said a joint press statement issued after the first face-to-face meeting between the two Ministers since the stand-off began. The five-point plan is: following the consensus between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping to “not allow differences to become disputes”, disengaging quickly to ease tensions, abiding by the existing India-China border protocols and avoiding escalatory action, continuing the dialogue between the Special Representatives, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Mr. Wang, as well as the other mechanisms and working towards new confidence-building measures (CBMs). Both sides also issued separate notes detailing their positions, indicating that several differences still remain in their agreement of the situation at the LAC, which has seen violent clashes, deaths of soldiers and gunfire exchanges for the first time in 45 years. “The immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the friction areas. That is necessary to prevent any untoward incident in the future. The final disposition of the troop deployment to their permanent posts and the phasing of the process is to be worked out by the military commanders,” government sources said. However, neither the joint statement, nor the respective notes issued specifically spoke of a return to the “status quo ante” or positions prior to the stand-off in April. Nor do they specifically call on China to retreat from positions it has aggressed on at Pangong Tso, Depsang and other parts of the LAC. ‘Purpose achieved’ A senior official told The Hindu that the purpose of the Foreign Ministers’ meeting was to agree on the “objectives and principles of disengagement” and that had been achieved. However, much would depend on the militaries following through on the ground, and completing the process “quickly”, returning from the near eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at the LAC, to their normal posts, which are 25-30 km apart at many places. The statement issued by China’s Foreign Ministry on Friday quoted Mr. Wang as saying the relationship was “at the crossroads”. “But as long as the two sides keep moving the relationship in the right direction, there will be no difficulty or challenge that can’t be overcome,” he noted. His quoted remarks were in contrast to recent statements from China, including the one following the September 4 meeting between the Defence Ministers in Moscow. He did not blame India for the recent crisis, which has been a point of emphasis in several Chinese statements from the Foreign Ministry and the PLA in recent weeks. Mr. Wang reportedly maintained “China’s stern position” on the situation in the border areas, “emphasising that the imperative is to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides”, the Chinese note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-agree-on-5-point-action-plan/article32585705.ece
12 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Twin districts battered by heavy rain that leaves several houses inundated||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, starting from Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada to Kaup in Udupi, bore the brunt of heavy rain and consequent floods since Thursday morning. Floodwaters entered houses in low-lying areas in Mangaluru as well as surrounding areas with the Netravathi, the Phalguni, the Nandini and the Shambhavi overflowing due to heavy rain. Though the average rainfall during the 24 hours from 8.30 a.m. on Thursday to 8.30 a.m. on Friday was 78.7 mm in Dakshina Kannada, much of the rainfall occurred in the Mangaluru and Mulki region with an average of over 200 mm. Similarly, Kaup taluk in Udupi district received the highest amount of rainfall — 193 mm — despite that district’s average rainfall of 93 mm. Innanje and Badanidiyur in Udupi district and Kermal in Mangaluru taluk received 281 mm, 276 mm and 269.55 mm rain, respectively, to top the list in the State. Houses flooded The Netravathi and the Phalguni (Gurupura), two major rivers of the district that surround Mangaluru, were seen overflowing since Thursday night with floodwaters getting into many houses along their banks in Mangaluru. Floodwaters entered several houses at Jeppinamogaru, a suburb of Mangaluru on the banks of the Netravathi, early on Friday morning. Personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services, along with those from the Revenue department and Mangaluru City Corporation, swung into rescue operations. Many elderly persons as well as children were shifted to safety by the Fire and Emergency Services. Several storm-water drains in the locality were overflowing after breaching their bunds at several places. Roads too were inundated with knee-deep waters. Meanwhile, floodwaters entered nearly 30 houses in neighbouring Ullal town. On the other hand, many houses on the banks of the Phalguni in the northern parts of Mangaluru too were flooded. With storm-water drains overflowing, many low-lying areas in Central and North Mangaluru remained in knee-deep waters. The retaining wall of an apartment complex in Derebail-Konchady was damaged following landslips triggered by heavy rain. The complex had been built after cutting a hillock and building a concrete retaining wall. While residents were shifted out of the complex, about four cars were said to have come under debris. Floodwaters also entered the Bappanadu Durgaparameshwari Temple in neighbouring Mulki even as several houses on the banks of the Nandini and the Shambhavi rivers surrounding the town were flooded. The authorities shifted the residents of the affected houses to safety. With rain abating by evening, the floodwaters too gradually receded. Weathermen, however, have predicted very heavy to extremely heavy rain in the next 24 hours across the coastal region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twin-districts-battered-by-heavy-rain-that-leaves-several-houses-inundated/article32585730.ece
12 September 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal records 3,157 cases, 57 deaths||West Bengal on Friday recorded 3,157 COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,96,332. The State recorded 57 deaths due to the contagious viral infection in the past 24 hours taking the number of deaths to 3,828. The recovery rate in the State improved to 86.10% Of the 57 deaths recorded in the State, 16 persons died in Kolkata taking fatalities in the city to 1,449. North 24 Parganas district recorded eight deaths taking the total deaths in the district to 860. Meanwhile, the State observed a complete lockdown on Friday, the second this month. The lockdown on September 12, Saturday announced earlier has been lifted. During the day there was a near total lockdown in different parts of the State and people remained indoors. Till 6 p.m. the Kolkata Police prosecuted 594 persons for violating lockdown guidelines and another 342 for not wearing masks. Nursing home fined A private nursing home in Kolkata was fined Rs. 5 lakh by West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC). The Midland Nursing Home in Belghoria has been asked to deposit Rs. 5 lakh till the commission disposes of a case of medical negligence. The WBCERC is investigating a complaint filed by the family of Subhrajit Chatterjee (18) who died in July due to severe respiratory distress after being refused treatment. According to Chatterjee’s parents, he was left unattended after a handwritten note was given to them saying he was COVID-19 positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-records-3157-cases-57-deaths/article32586317.ece
12 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Narrow escape for five of family as gas cylinder explodes in Kalaburagi||Five members of a family were injured when a cooking gas cylinder exploded in their residence at Manikeshwari Nagar in Kalaburagi on Friday morning. Of the injured family members, Suresh suffered fracture in his leg. The others, Bharat, Ramesh, Ambika and Shashikala, suffered minor burns. Though the family members had a narrow escape but their belongings were gutted. The main door of the house was damaged due to the impact of the explosion. The interior of the house, including the kitchen, was charred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/narrow-escape-for-five-of-family-as-gas-cylinder-explodes-in-kalaburagi/article32585726.ece
12 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra hits new peak: 24,886 cases||Maharashtra recorded 24,886 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, its highest single-day spike yet, taking its total tally to 10,15,681. With 442 more deaths, of which 393 were reported on Friday and 49 from an earlier period, the State’s death toll has risen to 28,724. The number of active cases has now risen to 2,71,566. With 14,308 patients being discharged, the total recoveries has surged to 7,15,023. “The State’s recovery rate stands at 70.4%, while its case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 2.83%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 5,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,23,710. With 59 more deaths, the district’s toll has risen to 4,693. As per the Pune district administration, there are 40,181 active cases. 2,191 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported a surge of 2,191 cases to take its tally to 1,65,306, of which 27,642 are active. With 44 deaths, the toll has risen to 8,067. Nagpur district reported its highest single-day spike of more than 2,200 cases, taking the case load to 47,004, of which 20,917 are active. Fifty more deaths pushed the toll to 1,243. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported a massive spike of 842 cases as its total case tally crossed the 53,000 mark, while 11 new deaths saw its toll rise to 1,601. Raigad reported nine deaths and 733 cases to take its total death toll to 568 and total case tally to 23,453. In western Maharashtra, Sangli reported a surge of 944 cases, taking the district’s tally to 22,899, of which 9,098 are active. Thirty new deaths took the district’s death toll to 684. Satara district reported 898 new cases as its total case tally reached 22,572, of which 8,073 are active, while 29 new deaths took its cumulative toll to 559. Kolhapur reported 790 new cases, taking its total tally to 31,399, of which 9,431 are active. Fifteen more deaths saw the district’s toll rise to 891. Spike in Nashik, Jalgaon Nashik district reported more than 1,700 fresh cases as its case load reached 52,049, of which 11,043 are active. With seven deaths, the district’s total toll has climbed to 1,033. Jalgaon reported a record-high spike of more than 1,200 cases and seven new deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 35,511, of which 9,078 are active ones, while the death toll has now climbed to 1,003. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported more than 650 new cases as its total case tally rose to 28,328, of which 6,524 are active. With 10 deaths, the death toll has climbed to 741.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-hits-new-peak-24886-cases/article32586370.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activist-scholar Swami Agnivesh passes away||Social activist, scholar, politician and Arya Samaj leader Swami Agnivesh passed away at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) here on Friday. He was hospitalised for treatment of liver cirrhosis earlier this week. His condition became critical after he suffered multi-organ failure during the treatment, hospital authorities said. Agnivesh was on ventilator and being monitored by a multi-disciplinary team. The 80-year-old leader went into cardiac arrest at 6 p.m. Resuscitation was attempted, but he passed away at 6.30 p.m., the hospital authorities said in a statement on Friday evening. The former MLA from Haryana is known for his work against bonded labour through the Bonded Labour Liberation Front, which he founded in 1981. Agnivesh became president (2004–2014) of the World Council of Arya Samaj, the highest international body of the Arya Samaj. He was an advocate for dialogue between religions and remained involved in various areas of social activism, including campaigns against female foeticide and for the emancipation of women. He served as the chairperson of the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund on Contemporary Forms of Slavery from 1994 to 2004. He was a prominent associate of Anna Hazare during the India Against Corruption campaign in 2011 to implement the Jan Lokpal Bill. Born in Andhra Pradesh, Agnivesh founded Arya Sabha, a political party based on Arya Samaj principles, in 1970. He was elected to the Haryana Assembly in 1977 and made Education Minister after two years. He, however, resigned in protest against the Haryana government’s inaction against policemen who opened fire at workers protesting against bonded labour. In July 2018, Agnivesh was assaulted, allegedly by BJP Yuva Morcha workers, in Jharkhand’s Pakur, where he was supporting tribal communities’ protest against land acquisition by the State. ‘An irreparable loss’ Condolence messages poured in for the departed leader. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Swami Agnivesh ji, the founder of Bandhu Mukti Morcha and revolutionary leader of Arya Samaj, passed away today. Swami ji's death is an irreparable loss to the entire country including Arya Samaj. My humble tribute.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/activist-scholar-swami-agnivesh-passes-away/article32586157.ece
12 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID-19 cases delay Puri temple opening||COVID-19 infection among the priests is delaying the reopening of Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri. As many as 167sevayats(priests) have contracted the virus thus far. Seventy of them, who are yet to recover, are either in home isolation or in COVID care centres. Foursevayatshave lost their lives. The number of infectedsevayatsis likely to be much more as many have taken tests without informing Shree Jagannath Temple Administration and some are admitted in private hospitals in Puri and Bhubaneswar. The SJTA had booked a hotel and a homestay in Puri exclusively for infectedsevayats. While the hotel is full, the homestay is witnessing a steady inflow of patients. “We are aware of the situation. A decision on reopening Shree Jagannath Temple will be taken at the next managing committee meeting,” said Krishan Kumar, SJTA chief executive and senior IAS officer. It is expected to take place in the next two weeks. A few selectedsevayatshave been carrying out the daily rituals since March. Janardan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, head of Chhatisa Nijog, asevayatbody, said manysevayatswere now in home isolation. “While elderly priests have been advised not to come to the temple, many youngersevayatstoo suffer from comorbidities. Under these circumstances, there is a threat to the lives of both thesevayatsand the devotees.” Lately, Puri has recorded sudden spurt in cases. As many as 279 cases were reported in the city on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-delay-puri-temple-opening/article32586153.ece
12 September 2020||Srinagar,||New grievance redress system unveiled in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Friday launched the Jammu and Kashmir Integrated Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (JK-IGRAMS), in a bid to create an interface with the public and focus on governance issues in the Union Territory. “It’s a step towards gaining peoples’ trust. JK-IGRAMS will be an effective grievance redressal mechanism, which is the life and blood of any good governance system. A common citizen wants a sympathetic, courteous, responsive, and helpful administrative set-up,” Mr. Sinha said. Mr. Sinha, who took over as the Lieutenant-Governor on August 7, said his government is “committed to undertake all radical reforms to put in place people-centric good governance structure”. First in three districts The system is being launched on a pilot basis in three districts — Jammu, Srinagar, and Reasi — and will gradually be rolled out in the remaining districts by October 2. It will replace the current portal that was launched in 2018. Mr. Sinha said JK-IGRAMS will make the existing mechanism more robust and efficient. “There will be a minute by minute status update of the grievances on the portal. If any laxity is found, we can talk to the concerned elders of the district and the concerned officers. Action will follow if any delay or callousness is found while addressing people’s grievances.” District Collectors and Deputy Commissioners will be the primary nodes for receiving, disposing and monitoring grievances. “It will be available round the clock with applicant OTP authentication, acknowledgement to applicant at each stage, feedback by complainant, and grievance submission through call centre by making a phone call between 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on all days except Sunday,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-grievance-redress-system-unveiled-in-jk/article32585709.ece
12 September 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata Police’s first female officer-in-charge dies in car accident||Debashree Chatterjee, the first lady officer of Kolkata Police to serve as officer-in-charge of a police station died in a car accident on Friday morning in West Bengal’s Hooghly district. A Deputy Commissioner of Kolkata Police, Chatterjee ( 45) was working on deputation with the West Bengal Police as Commanding Officer (CO) of the 12th Battalion. The driver of the vehicle Manoj Kumar Saha, and security officer Tapas Barman, also of the 12th Battalion, too died in the accident. Chatterjee joined Kolkata Police as sub-inspector in 1988, and rose to the rank of Deputy Commissioner. Chatterjee became the first ever lady officer to be posted as officer-in-charge of a police station. During her tenure as Inspector, she served as additional officer-in charge, Hare Street police station and officer-in-charge of North Port and Taratala police stations. “We deeply mourn the untimely demise of Smt Debashree Chatterjee, DC of KP, working on deputation in WBP as CO, 12th Bn, her driver and security guard in a tragic car accident in Hooghly this morning. Deepest condolences to the bereaved families #RIP,” the Kolkata Police tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-polices-first-female-officer-in-charge-dies-in-car-accident/article32586313.ece
12 September 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||Two held for smuggling narcotics to Hong Kong||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday said that it has arrested two people who were trying to smuggle drugs to Hong Kong concealed inside a consignment which was being sent through a courier service at Kolkata. About 11.8 kg of charas was seized from the parcel earlier this week. Based on the investigation into this seizure two people were arrested from the northern fringes of the city. “NCB Kolkata apprehended two main suppliers of the seized drug from Dumdum and Durga Nagar area of Kolkata. The accused have been identified as Ashim Ray and Ranjan Mishra,” the NCB said in a statement. Officials said that investigation has revealed that the accused used to send such parcels with drugs frequently to Hong Kong. In another case, the NCB apprehended Biswanath Das, a chemist for illegally stocking up and selling codeine-based cough syrups. Kolkata is the transit point of smuggling from and to neighbouring countries. Over the past few years there has also been a spike in seizure of Yaba tablets which is a mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine sold as cheap red or pink pills, sourced from Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-held-for-smuggling-narcotics-to-hong-kong/article32586316.ece
12 September 2020||Belagavi,||Accused arrested after soldier posts video complaining assault on his family||The police responded swiftly to a soldier’s plea to save his family from his relatives who attacked his family members in a village in Belagavi on Friday. The accused, who are related to the soldier, were arrested within hours of his video message being shared on social media handles. Soldier Bharatesh Chougale, who is posted in Assam, released a video on Friday complaining that Mahesh Durke and two of his associates had trespassed into his house in Kinaye village and assaulted his family. They damaged his brother’s motorbike and tried to set fire to the house, he said. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan rushed his staff to the village who found out that the accused were related to the soldier and that they had a long standing dispute over property. The Chougales had left the village and shifted to the house of their relatives in a nearby village. The police arrested the accused and produced them before court. Dr. Thiyagarajan released a video message saying that all possible assistance would be given to the soldier’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/accused-arrested-after-soldier-posts-video-complaining-assault-on-his-family/article32585725.ece
12 September 2020||mumbai,||State releases SOP for hotels to operate at 100%||The Maharashtra government on Friday released a standard operating procedure and guidelines for hotels, lodges and resorts, which have been permitted to resume operations at 100% capacity. Barring establishments in containment zones, hotels, resorts, home stays, and farm stays in the rest of the State will be allowed to operate. As per the guidelines circulated to all stakeholders by principal secretary, tourism, Valsa Nair Singh, all travellers will be screened at entry point using thermal guns to record their body temperature and check for symptoms of cough and cold. Only asymptomatic tourists will be allowed to stay, it stated. People who don’t have prior bookings or reservation and have flu-like symptoms will not be permitted, the rules stated. Service providers have been asked to record the contact details of such people and advise them to return. According to the guidelines, a form should be shared with guests prior to check-in, preferably via email or WhatsApp, to get information about their travel, health history and current status. The government has also directed establishments to prepare a list of dos and don’ts for guests and initiate the process of self check-in through a QR code or verify documents online.  ‘Take consent of guests’ Apart from this, the guidelines specify that consent should be taken from the guests for sharing their details with local administration and health authorities, for contact tracing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-releases-sop-for-hotels-to-operate-at-100/article32586371.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Future in the balance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/future-in-the-balance/article32586155.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown look||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-look/article32586319.ece
12 September 2020||Special Correspondent kolkata,||Kangana fan held for threat to Sena MP||A team of Anti Terrorism Squad of Mumbai Police arrested one person in Kolkata for allegedly threatening Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut over telephone. Palash Ghosh, a resident of Tollygunge in south Kolkata, was produced before a court, which granted him transit remand. Mr. Ghosh, who claims to be a fan of actor Kangana Ranaut, allegedly made two calls using Voice over Internet protocol to Mumbai. In one such call, he allegedly threatened Mr. Raut with dire consequences asking him not to speak about the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. He also claimed to have links with Dawood Ibrahim. “He was arrested on Thursday following an FIR lodged by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut. We told the court he has no connection with Bollywood or underworld and is just a gym instructor,” said Anirban Guha Thakurta, his lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kangana-fan-held-for-threat-to-sena-mp/article32586315.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Caught in rain and traffic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caught-in-rain-and-traffic/article32586373.ece
12 September 2020||Kochi,||Metro to raise peak-hour frequency||The frequency of Kochi metro trains during peak hours has been increased from a train every 10 minutes to one every seven minutes, from Monday. Trains will thus operate every seven minutes from 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Trains will operate every 10 minutes from 7 a.m. to 8.30 a.m., from 11.30 a.m. to 12 noon and from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. They will operate every 20 minutes from 12 noon to 2 p.m. “The decision is to help mainly office-goers. We will run more trains, if needed, to avoid congestion,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, MD, Kochi Metro Rail Limited. The metro will maintain a frequency of 10 minutes throughout the day on Sunday (September 13) from 8 a.m., for NEET aspirants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-to-raise-peak-hour-frequency/article32586248.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Brigadier-level talks held again||India and China held another round of Brigadier-level talks at Chushul on Friday as Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to discuss the situation along the LAC. “Today’s interaction [at LAC] is a continuation of a series of interactions at the lower level to keep the channels of communication open as also to keep the tensions under control,” a defence source said.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/brigadier-level-talks-held-again/article32585703.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIP shrinks 10.4% as recovery slows||Factory output contracted 10.4% in July 2020, in a year-on-year comparison of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), released by the Centre on Friday. Mining and manufacturing shrunk 13% and 11%, respectively, although electricity generation has recovered to a contraction of 2.5%. Economists feel the recovery is slowing, noting that although the IIP’s July contraction is significantly better than the 57% plunge seen in April, it is only a mild improvement from the 15.7% y-o-y contraction seen in June. It shows that “the sharp recovery witnessed in May and June is now becoming somewhat flattish,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha of India Ratings, a unit of the Fitch group. “Part of the reason is local/partial/ weekend lockdown imposed in many parts of the country, often without much advance intimation. This is not allowing orderly recovery of economic activities,” Mr. Sinha said. He noted that the IIP growth trend mirrors the GSDP weighted workplace mobility trend, which also flattenedout in July and August after a sharp recovery in May and June, adding that “industrial recovery will take a while and require sustained policy support.” In its official statement releasing IIP data, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation repeatedly stated that, “It may not be appropriate to compare the IIP in the post pandemic months with the IIP for months preceding the COVID-19 pandemic.”  The manufacture of pharmaceuticals, which saw 22% growth, and tobacco products (6.1% growth) were the only two sectors in positive territory in July. The auto sectorand paper and beverages manufacturing continued to see contractions over 30%. The declining trend in textile (-14.8%) and garment manufacturing (-28.7%) could be important from an employment perspective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iip-shrinks-104-as-recovery-slows/article32585710.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,||CCB gets custody of accused for 3 more days||The CCB on Friday obtained the custody of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani and four others for three more days. The accused were produced before the First Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ccb-gets-custody-of-accused-for-3-more-days/article32585992.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli riots: Two cases to go to NIA||The Union government has decided to transfer the investigation in two criminal cases, registered in relation to August 11 incidents of violences in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli localities of the city, to the NIA, the Karnataka High Court was informed on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dj-halli-riots-two-cases-to-go-to-nia/article32585991.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Parents asked to be invigilators for tests||With no clarity on when normal academic activities will resume, private school managements have begun conducting online tests. They have asked parents to don the role of invigilators and ensure that their children do not cheat in the tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parents-asked-to-be-invigilators-for-tests/article32585990.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Resident held for criticising Corporation||The Singanallur police in Coimbatore arrested a resident of Hope College Junction on Thursday night for having displayed a banner outside his quarantined house, taunting the Coimbatore Corporation by claiming he was quarantined despite testing negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/resident-held-for-criticising-corporation/article32586075.ece
12 September 2020||New delhi,||For third consecutive day, over 4,000 cases in Delhi||Delhi recorded 4,266 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, as the city’s tally mounted to over 2.09 lakh, with the authorities conducting a record 60,580 tests. The city had reported 4,308 new cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike to date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-third-consecutive-day-over-4000-cases-in-delhi/article32586159.ece
12 September 2020||Bhopal,||Cong. names candidates for reserved seats in M.P.||The Congress on Friday announced its candidates for the by-elections to 15 Assembly seats, including all reserved constituencies, in Madhya Pradesh. Two of them were earlier in the BJP. The by-elections to 27 seats are due along with the by-elections nationwide and the Bihar Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-names-candidates-for-reserved-seats-in-mp/article32586161.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Agusta case: CBI seeks nod to prosecute ex-CAG||The CBI has sought sanction from the Defence Ministry to prosecute former Comptroller and Auditor General Shashi Kant Sharma, the then Joint Secretary (Air), former Air Vice Marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar, and three others in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/agusta-case-cbi-seeks-nod-to-prosecute-ex-cag/article32586160.ece
12 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||608 patients discharged in Belagavi district||A total of 608 COVID-19 patients were discharged from Belagavi hospitals, while the new cases stood at 244. Chitradurga reported 643 discharged patients against 247 new cases and two deaths. While 530 patients were discharged from hospitals in Gadag district against 195 new cases and two deaths, 266 persons were discharged from hospitals against 203 new cases in Dharwad district. Belagavi and Dharwad reported nine deaths each. Meanwhile, Davangere district recorded 297 new cases, one death and 274 discharged patients, Haveri 240 new cases, two deaths and 86 discharged patients, Bagalkot 188 new cases, one death and 129 discharged patients, Uttara Kannada 114 new cases, four deaths and 182 discharged patients and Vijayapura reported 92 fresh cases, two deaths and 96 discharged patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/608-patients-discharged-in-belagavi-district/article32585727.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai Corporation to intensify virus vigil||The Greater Chennai Corporation will intensify active surveillance of at least 15,000 streets that have not reported any COVID-19 case so far. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that over 60% of the 39,000-odd streets in the city had registered cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-corporation-to-intensify-virus-vigil/article32586027.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,||State records 5,519 new cases, 77 fatalities||Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 4,91,571, with 5,519 more persons testing positive on Friday. Chennai accounted for 987 new cases. The toll has gone up to 8,231 as another 77 persons died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-5519-new-cases-77-fatalities/article32586026.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Madras HC worried over exploitation of migrants||The Madras High Court has decided to pass orders requiring employers and contractors to get registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act of 1979. The court was concerned that employers were exploiting migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/madras-hc-worried-over-exploitation-of-migrants/article32586028.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Active cases in Karnataka close to a lakh||With 130 deaths in 24 hours, Karnataka’s COVID-19 toll breached the 7,000 mark and touched 7,067 on Friday. The State added 1,013 deaths to its toll in the last one week. Recording the discharge of 12,545 people, the State said its active cases reduced from 1,01,537 to 98,326. On Friday, 9,464 new cases were reported. In all, 770 patients were being monitored in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,426 cases taking its total to 1,63,631. With 30 new deaths, the city’s toll touched 2,370. A total of 64,666 tests were conducted including 28,350 rapid antigen tests. Telangana on Thursday reported 2,426 cases. With another 13 deaths reported the same day, fatalities rose to 940. The Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare said 2,324 persons recovered on Thursday and active cases stood at 32,195. This included 25,240 who were in home and institutional isolation. Cases in Greater Hyderabad stood at 338, marginally higher than Wednesday’s 327 cases. Five other districts reported over 100 cases: Nalgonda (164), Rangareddy (216), Medchal Malkajgiri (172), Karimnagar (129) and Warangal Urban (108). Official data said 62,890 samples were tested on Thursday. Kerala’s cases crossed the one lakh mark on Friday to touch 1,02,254, with the reporting of 2,988 new cases. Testing was done for 35,056 samples. Active cases stood at 27,877. State Health department data said 282 patients were in ICUs, 66 of them on ventilator support. The government added 14 more deaths to its provisional COVID-19 death list. Three deaths each were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad and Thrissur, two from Alappuzha, and one each from Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur. Of the 2,988 new cases reported, 2,809 were locally acquired infections. In 265 cases, no epidemiological link could be established. Thiruvananthapuram reported 494 cases, of which all except two were a result of local transmission. Malappuram had 390 cases, Kollam 303, Ernakulam 295, Kozhikode 261, Kannur 256, Kottayam 221, Alapuzha 200, Thrissur 184, Palakkad 109, Kasaragod 102, Pathanamthitta 93, Wayanad 52 and Idukki 28 cases. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 4,91,571 with 5,519 more persons testing positive for the infection on Friday. Of the new cases, Chennai reported 987 cases, while Coimbatore and Tiruvallur had 300-plus cases. Till date, 4,35,422 persons were discharged in the State, while the toll climbed to 8,231 as another 77 persons succumbed to the infection. This included 21 deaths in Chennai and eight in Tiruvallur.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/active-cases-in-karnataka-ap-close-to-a-lakh-each/article32585660.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Divergences remain despite 5-point plan||The five points agreed by India and China to reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) are a template of the “principles of disengagement”, according to a senior official privy to the meeting between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. However, deep divergences still remain in the positions taken by both sides after the meeting, as is clear from the subsequent notes released by the Chinese side, and subsequently the Indian side, detailing their positions. According to the official, the Chinese side walked into the Moscow meeting, initially seeking to deny any “sense of crisis”, holding “it is normal” for two neighbouring major countries to have differences, and the two sides should “move on” from the current stand-off “peacefully”. But this was countered immediately by the Indian delegation. India maintained that the large mobilisation of troops by the PLA had led to a very serious and dangerous situation on the LAC, where any small incident or clash could lead to a larger conflagration. The official also questioned China’s characterisation of India’s positions in at least three places in a document released by the Chinese Foreign Ministry. The document claimed that the “Indian side does not consider the relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question”. This is in sharp contrast to what Mr. Jaishankar said at the meeting and has repeated publicly, asserting that the status of bilateral ties cannot be delinked from the situation at the LAC. Neither did Mr. Jaishankar say, as the Chinese note claims, that “the Indian side believes that China’s policy towards India has not changed.” In fact, the sources said, India felt China’s changed behaviour at the LAC was responsible for the current crisis and it had yet to “provide a credible explanation for this deployment” and for its “provocative behaviour”. The statement by the Chinese side said “what China and India need right now is cooperation, not confrontation; and mutual trust, not suspicion.” However, the Indian side maintained that there cannot be “business as usual” unless the trust between the two countries is rebuilt and the “peace and tranquillity” at the border is fully restored. Officials present at the meeting said the scene now “shifts” to the ground commanders, and the Foreign Ministers would then review the progress at the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/divergences-remain-despite-5-point-plan/article32585675.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘6.4 million were likely infected in May’||In May, India potentially had 6.4 million COVID-19 infections and for every confirmed case, 82 to 130 infections went undetected, according to the results of the first sero survey conducted by over 50 scientists of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other institutions. These findings, which now formally appear as a peer-reviewed paper, describe a nearly month-long investigation to check the spread of infection when India was in the middle of a lockdown and were known to the government at least by early June. However, details — such as the probable all-India infections — have only now been made public after the paper was published on Thursday in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, the council’s in-house medical journal.  At a press conference on June 12, ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said, “0.73% of the population surveyed in 83 districts was likely infected by the virus”, but he didn’t specify what the all-India prevalence was. The survey had identified 83 districts but eventually sampled participants in only 70. Manoj Murhekar, Director of the National Institute of Epidemiology, the lead author of the study, told The Hindu that the proportion today of those confirmed and those who had probably been exposed to the infection would be still be high but significantly reduced from May. “The sero survey conducted recently in Chennai shows that there were about 25 infections for every RT-PCR confirmed case (or 1:25) and this is a city with a high degree of testing. Testing was much lower in May. I’d say the ratio now would certainly be below 1:80.” The ICMR is in the midst of another serology survey in the same villages and cities, the results of which are likely by the end of the month. “The prevalence of the infection will naturally be much wider,” said Dr. Murhekar. For the survey from May 11-June 4, a total of 28,000 adults from 21 States across 70 districts were tested. for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. “The findings of our survey indicated that the overall seroprevalence in India was low, with less than 1% cent of the adult population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 by mid May 2020. The low prevalence observed in most districts indicates that India is in early phase of the epidemic and the majority of the Indian population is still susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection,” the paper said. The survey also showed that the infections, between May and June, had already spread to rural India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/64-million-were-likely-infected-in-may/article32585688.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Congress goes in for overhaul||The Congress late on Friday evening brought about large-scale changes to its organisation structure, reconstituting the Congress Working Committee (CWC), appointing a six-member committee to assist Congress president Sonia Gandhi, and reworking the general secretaries in charge of various States. Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was one of the 23 signatories tof the recent letter demanding an overhaul and reform within the party, has been dropped as general secretary in charge of Haryana, though his position in the CWC remains intact. There has been no significant change in the position of the other signatories — Anand Sharma, Jitin Prasada and Mukul Wasnik have been retained in the CWC. In fact, Mr. Wasnik, is also a part of the six-member committee formed to assist Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Mr. Prasada, in significant increase in responsibilities, has been appointed as in charge of West Bengal, which goes for polls in April 2021. In other major changes in the CWC, Tariq Anwar, who in 1999 walked out along with Sharad Pawar and P.A. Sangma, has found his way back. Mr. Anwar, who was in the Nationalist Congress Party, rejoined the Congress more than a year ago. The other new entrant is Jairam Ramesh, who for the first time is finding his place as a permanent invitee to the CWC. Salman Khurshid, who has repeatedly spoken in favour of the Gandhi family, has won a berth in the CWC. Another old-timer Pawan Kumar Bansal, too, has found a place. Motilal Vora, 91, who has long served as party treasurer and was administration in-charge of the party, has been divested of all his responsibilities, including those pertaining to the CWC, owing to his age. Randeep Singh Surjewala, who is the current communications in charge for the party, has been appointed as general secretary in charge of Karnataka. Mr. Surjewala has been the communications in-charge for nearly six years now. Sources indicated this could mean that the party will soon have a new communications in-charge in his place. A total of nine general secretaries or in-charges of various States and departments have been removed. This list includes Mr. Azad, Mr. Vora, Ambika Soni, Mallikarjun Kharge, Luizino Falerio, Gaurav Gogoi, Asha Kumari, R.C. Khutia and Anugrah N. Singh. Mr. Gogoi, who was appointed as deputy leader of the party in the Lok Sabha, too, has been divested of all charges. The six-member committee that will assist Ms. Gandhi comprises A. K. Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, K.C. Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-goes-in-for-overhaul/article32585702.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||24 candidates score a perfect 100 in JEE Mains||In a year when the COVID-19 pandemic delayed the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) by five months, 24 students scored a 100 percentile score, topping the engineering entrance examination. There were eight students from Telangana and five from Delhi who achieved the perfect score, the highest among the States. Only one girl student, Chukka Tanuja from Telangana, was among the toppers. At the time of going to print, the National Testing Agency, which conducts the examination, had not yet released the full all-India rank list or the cut-off score for eligibility to attempt the JEE Advanced to be held on September 27. Students can check their scores and the final answer keys at jeemain.nta.nic.in. The JEE Main is used as an entrance examination for admission to the undergraduate engineering courses at the National Institutes of Technology, Indian Institutes for Information Technology and institutions run by some State governments. The top 2.5 lakh students will be eligible to appear for the JEE Advanced, which is the admission test for the elite Indian Institutes of Technology. The examination is held twice a year, and students are allowed to attempt the examination both times and then select their best score. More than 11 lakh students wrote the examination in January, and 8.58 lakh registered to write it in April. Due to the pandemic, the second examination was postponed till September 1-6. It is not yet known how many students attempted the examination both times. The examination has been marred by multiple postponements due to the COVID-19 pandemic this year, with a section of students and parents demanding further postponement due to fear of infection and difficulties in transportation caused by local lockdowns. Despite widespread social media protests, letters from several State governments and multiple court cases to postpone the examinations, the second session of JEE Main was held last week. Over a quarter of registered students failed to appear. Out of the total 8.58 lakh registered candidates, only 74% or 6.35 lakh students actually wrote their exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/24-candidates-score-a-perfect-100-in-jee-mains/article32586030.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Custody of actors Ragini, Sanjjanaa extended||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Friday obtained custody of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani along with four others for three more days. Theaccused were produced before the First Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate through video- conferencing to seek five more days of police custody. The CCB said the accused had not cooperated with the investigation, and as they had crucial information about the drug racket, more time was needed to question them. The defence argued that the CCB did not have any evidence, material or otherwise, and that it had arrested Ragini and Sanjjanaa merely based on the statement of the accused arrested earlier. The defence, hence, argued that their custody should not be extended. However, the court gave the CCB custody of all six accused for three more days. The police said they had not been able to elicit much information from their questioning of the two actors so far. CCB officials claimed that though they had incriminating evidence against the duo, they had failed to get a statement from the actors to corroborate the evidence. They alleged that the investigating officers were having a a tough time as Ragini and Sanjjanaa had created a ruckus while undergoing a medical test at K.C. General Hospital on Thursday. This led the police to seek custody of the accused to question them further, sources said. More arrests   Meanwhile, the CCB has arrested Prateek Shetty, an alleged drug peddler who hadearlier been arrested by the Banaswadi police in 2018. Shetty allegedly had contact with those arrested by the CCB and supplied drugs to them for their high-end parties. The CCB also arrested Aditya Agarwal, another alleged peddler and a close associate of party planner Viren Khanna. According to the police, Adtiya used to help Khanna organise parties and also procure drugs for him.  The CCB officials also summoned film producer Prashanth Sambargi to appear before them for questioning. Sambargi had earlier accused Sanjjanaa of having links with the drug racket before the CCB arrested her. Sambargi had also accused MLA for Chamarajpet B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan of having links with drug peddler Sheikh Faazil,who is on the run. Meanwhile, the Upparpet police registered an FIR against Sambargi after the MLA approached the court with a private complaint. Admitting the plea, the court directed the police to register an FIR against Sambargi and investigate to ascertain the reason behind the allegations he has made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/custody-of-actors-ragini-sanjjanaa-extended/article32585638.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Rawat briefs Parliamentary panel||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence that the Indian armed forces had taken adequate measures to thwart any effort by the Chinese Army to alter the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The meeting was attended for the first time, after the committee was constituted last year, by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. The Standing Committee, headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jual Oram, was meeting to deliberate on “provision and monitoring of quality of ration and livery items to the defence forces, especially in border areas.” According to sources, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, who has held the defence portfolio in the past, asked the government to make a formal presentation on the status at the LAC. The Army officers did not give any immediate reply, but have said a written reply will be submitted later. It is not clear whether Mr. Gandhi too asked questions on the LAC, though he has been relentlessly questioning the government on the subject through tweets and video messages.  Informed sources, however, confirmed that he expressed concern over the quality of food being served to jawans, especially for those posted in border areas. He specifically asked why there was a difference between the quality of food served to jawans and officers. In reply, the Army said there was no qualitative and quantitative difference. Mr. Gandhi, in a tweet hours before the committee meeting, had said, “The Chinese have taken our land. When exactly is GOI planning to get it back? Or is that also going to be left to an ‘Act of God’?” ‘Restoringstatus quo’ And after the meeting, he tweeted, “The only ‘talk’ to have with China is about restoration of ‘Status Quo Ante’ as of March 2020. PM & GOI refuse to take responsibility for pushing China out of our land. All other ‘talk’ is worthless.” The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense stand-off in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years, with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air. At an earlier meeting of the Standing Committee on External Affairs, questions by the opposition members about the LAC were shot down by committee chairperson P.P. Chaudhary citing national security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rawat-briefs-parliamentary-panel/article32585671.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Election is for differing versions of democracy’||Opposition candidate for Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha and RJD MP Manoj K. Jha in a letter to all non-BJP lawmakers of the Upper House, while appealing for their support, said the contest is not about numbers but about two different versions of parliamentary democracy. Mr. Jha filed his nomination on Friday. He noted in his letter that it is the collective will of the Opposition that this election should not be seen as a contest for power to legislate at the level of the Union government, nor should it be seen as a contest between two individuals. “In view of the great parliamentary tradition, this election is about two different versions of our parliamentary democracy — one which sees it as a number game and the other which places importance on critique, discussion and consensus building in the interest of our country and its people,” Mr. Jha wrote. Numbers favour BJP The election is heavily tilted in favour of the ruling coalition, led by the BJP, who have again fielded JD(U) MP and former Deputy Chairman Harivansh. Mr. Harivansh was RS Deputy Chairman till his previous term ended in April. He has since been re-elected to the Upper House. Mr. Harivansh defeated Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad and won by 125 votes to 105 votes in elections held in August 2018. This time around, the ruling coalition is in a better position, with BJP leaders claiming the support of 140 members. There are also differences within the Opposition, with the DMK withdrawing its candidate at the last minute. Mr. Jha also sought to make this a battle for rights of States. “I am requesting your support not simply to win an election but to make a strong statement in favour of an accountable system of governance. A system in which regional parties that have formed State governments do not have to depend on quid pro quo with the party in power at the Centre just to maintain a non-adversarial, federal State-Union relationship.”  I am requesting your support to make a statement in favour of an accountable system of governance Manoj K. Jha RJD leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/election-is-for-differing-versions-of-democracy/article32585673.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fees must for forest use, Mines Ministry told||The Ministry of Mines has requested an expert advisory committee of the Environment Ministry to exempt it from the Supreme Court-mandated fees that prospectors pay when they dig exploratory boreholes in forests, records of a meeting show. The Net Present Value (NPV), as it is called, is a monetary approximation of the value that is lost when a piece of forest land has been razed. This is on the basis of the services and ecological value and there are prescribed formulae for calculating this amount which depends on the location and nature of the forest and the type of industrial enterprise that will replace a particular parcel of forest. The SC mandates this must be paid by those who use forest land for non-forestry purposes. On August 18, officials from the Ministry of Mines requested that ‘prospecting and exploring’ in forests be exempted from ‘the purview of the Forest Conservation Act.’ They argued that “... all areas of exploration are not converted into mining. Only about 1% cases are converted to mining. Considering these, payment of NPV is regarded as an avoidable expenditure. Even payment of NPV at a rate of 2% or 5% is one of the major challenges which leads to delay in the exploration activities.” The Secretary of the Environment Ministry refused saying it would be ‘inappropriate’ for his Ministry to grant such an exemption as this was mandated by the Supreme Court. The Forest Advisory Committee, the Environment Ministry constituted panel, however recommended that the Ministry “may consider charging NPV on borehole basis instead of the present practice of charging 2 or 5% NPV of the total forest area in the lease area.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fees-must-for-forest-use-mines-ministry-told/article32585689.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Let virtual courts stay: law panel||Parliamentary Panel on Law and Justice headed by BJP MP Bhupender Yadav has recommended continuation of virtual courts even in a post-COVID scenario but also sounded a word of caution that infrastructure needs to be upgraded especially in district courts to implement this. This is the first report to be presented by any parliamentary panel on the impact of the pandemic. In its report “Functioning of the Virtual Courts/ Courts Proceedings through Video-Conferencing”, the panel has argued that transfer of certain categories of cases, like cases pertaining to traffic challans or other petty offences, from regular court establishments to virtual courts will reduce the pendency of cases. It has suggested that a full fledged virtual court should be piloted in the first instance. Currently there are 30 million pending cases. The committee further stressed that, “It is time, the courtroom which is often regarded as the last bastion of antiquated working practices opens its doors to latest technology.” During the pre-COVID period, the video-conference (VC) set up was primarily used for conducting remand matters to prevent movement of prisoners between courts and jails. Such VC facilities have been operationalised between 3,240 court complexes and corresponding 1,272 prisons. Note of caution Stakeholders including Bar Association members and others who met the committee have noted that the present infrastructure does not support virtual court proceedings. The committee was informed that 3,477 court rooms are supported with facilities for virtual proceedings while 14,443 are still to be provided with them. A representative of the Bar deposing before the panel said, “As far as e-Courts and Virtual Courts are concerned, I can say with certainty and with an element of responsibility that in India, almost 50% lawyers, particularly in district courts, do not have any laptop or computer facility. How can we assume and presume that they would participate in these Virtual Courts and e-Courts?” The Calcutta Bar Association cited another instance before the committee. “There are 38 judges in the Calcutta High Court but there is not sufficient infrastructure to enable all Hon’ble Judges to undertake virtual hearings. For example, on 03.08.2020 only 8 Hon’ble Judges were able to take up matters virtually both in Division Bench as well as singly,” Association representatives said. Many witnesses said the virtual court hearings, especially during peak hours when many people log into the video-conferencing system, was subject to frequent crashes of the system and said entire proceedings can be vitiated by one glitch. Privacy concerns There were also concerns that virtual courts will compromise privacy of data as well as confidentiality of discussions and court proceedings. For instance, courts in the United States had to deal with Zoom bombing — an unwanted intrusion by hackers and internet trolls into a video conference call — while conducting court proceedings through Zoom, which is a third party software application. Currently, third-party software applications such as Vidyo, Cisco and Jitsi are being used in India for conducting hearings through video-conferencing. “Third-party software is not only an unviable option but also poses a major security risk as such software programs and applications are prone to hacking and manipulation. The Committee recommends the Ministry of Law and Justice and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to address data privacy and data security concerns while developing a new platform for India’s judicial system,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-virtual-courts-stay-law-panel/article32585694.ece
12 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Flight with Kangana lands TV crew in soup||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday flagged violations of flight safety norms and COVID-19 protocol by television news crews on board an Chandigarh-Mumbai IndiGo flight carrying Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut earlier this week. The DGCA also asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” against the violators, senior officials said. The regulator’s actions came after a video went viral on social media showing unruly behaviour of television crew during the flight. The video shows the media persons crowding the aircraft’s aisle and pushing one another to gain access to the actor, who was seated in one of the front rows. “There are multiple issues. The prominent ones include photography on board in violation of Aircraft Rules 13, violation of COVID-19 protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behaviour on board. We have asked the airline to take appropriate action against those responsible,” said a senior DGCA official. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can put an “unruly passenger” on its “no-fly list” for a certain period of time after an internal inquiry. The incident occurred on September 9, 2020 on-board flight 6E-264. The more than dozen television crew members who were with the actor from Chandigarh to cover her return to Mumbai amid the controversy, have been accused of violation of flight safety and COVID-19 related physical distancing norms. The media frenzy inconvenienced other passengers, some of whom took to Twitter to protest, posting videos of the incident. Some also highlighted the apparently lenient attitude of the airline towards the media crew even as it had punished stand-up comic Kunal Kamra with a six-month flying ban for allegedly heckling a TV anchor on board an IndiGo flight. No action was taken against the television crew, who continued broadcasting the actor’s arrival in Mumbai surrounded by CISF commandos. The Union government has provided Ms. Ranout Y+ category security as she had raised concerns over a possible attack in Mumbai. According to officials Ms. Ranaut had not lodged any compliant with the airline or any other authority over the actions of the media personnel. Ms. Ranaut who is on a verbal spat with the Maharashtra government, more specifically with the ruling Shiv Sena on some of her controversial, questionable remarks on Mumbai and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was returning to challenge and protest the “motivated & illegal’ demolition of her office in Mumbai by the local civic body. In a statement IndiGo said, “We have given our statement to DGCA regarding the matter. We would like to reiterate that our cabin crew, as well as the captain followed all the requisite protocols, including announcements to restrict photography, follow social distancing and maintain overall safety. IndiGo also followed the requisite protocol of documenting this matter in its post-flight report.” “We are in receipt of certain directions from DGCA. We will follow the prescribed guidelines,” the statement added. However, flight safety experts said the airline should have handed over the errant passengers to law enforcement agencies immediately. “Yes, what the TV crew did is a violation. Such action disrupted normal and safe operations of the flight. If any one is creating a nuisance to all passengers and ignoring the instructions and warning of the crew, this is a clear cut violation & disruption of safety,” said flight safety expert Mark Martin, CEO, Martin Consulting. Commenting on this incident journalist turned Mumbai Congress spokesperson Ramkishor Trivedi said, “Since fellow passengers suffered due to Kangana's presence, she should be banned from flying.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flight-with-kangana-lands-tv-crew-in-soup/article32585733.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China hold another round of Brigadier-level talks||India and China held another round of Brigadier-level talks at Chushul on Friday as Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to discuss the situation along the disputed boundary in Ladakh. “The talks began at 10 a.m. and went on till 3 p.m. The interaction is a continuation of a series of interactions at the lower level to keep the channels of communication open as also to keep the tensions under control,” a defence source said. At the meeting chaired by Mr. Singh, the five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi was also discussed. The two sides have already agreed to hold another round of Corps Commander-level talks, but the dates are yet to be finalised, the source said. Five rounds of Corps Commander-level talks have so far been held. The situation along the north and south banks of Pangong Tso remains tense after the recent build-up of troops by both sides. As for the situation on the north bank of Pangong Tso, the source said there was no change, and Chinese troops continued to sit on the ridge-lines of Finger 4. Recently, the Indian Army had gone and occupied some heights in the north and west of Finger 4 a few hundred metres away, the source said, adding, “The Chinese are on 3-4 heights there, and we have occupied the same number or more, which are at the same height, and some more dominant to the north and west of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-hold-another-round-of-brigadier-level-talks/article32585662.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Paswan says his son can decide on LJP’s move||As the Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP) grapples with the question of continuing in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ahead of the Bihar Assembly poll, its top leader and Union Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday said he had been hospitalised and that he stood by any decision taken by his son Chirag Paswan, who heads the party. In an earlier tweet, Mr. Paswan denied reports about his illness, claiming that he had been admitted to hospital for a routine check-up. He did not reveal the nature of his illness. He suffers from a pre-existing heart condition for which he had undergone surgery a few years ago. In a series of tweets, he said his health started deteriorating some time ago during the COVID-19 pandemic but he did not go to a hospital because he, as food minister, had to fulfil his responsibilities. “There was no laxity in the work. I continuously served the country as food minister and made every effort to ensure food reaches on time everywhere,” he wrote. Mr. Ram Vilas Paswan said, “I stand firmly with every decision of his. I am confident that with his youthful thinking, Chirag will take the party and Bihar to new heights”. Signal to some The tweets are being seen as a signal to a section in the party which is questioning Mr. Chirag Paswan’s decision to scale up the confrontation with JD(U) leader and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Party insiders also claim that this is Mr. Ram Vilas Paswan’s way of indicating to the BJP that his son alone should be their port of call. The State Parliamentary Board of the LJP recently authorised Mr. Chirag Paswan to take a call on whether it should remain in the NDA or contest alone. Mr. Paswan’s tweets were followed by a host of comments by many party leaders, including the party State president and Mr. Chirag Paswan’s cousin, Prince Raj, in his support. However, old-timers were conspicuous by their silence. Mr. Ram Vilas Paswan’s brother Pashupati Nath Paras or party MP Mehboob Ali Kaiser may not be convinced by Mr. Chirag Paswan’s belligerent strategy. Many feel that the party will gain nothing if it goes it alone in the Bihar poll.  Since his son took over as party president, Mr. Ram Vilas Paswan has refrained from speaking on party matters. The only political comment that he made in the last few months has been to express his commitment towards Prime Minister Narenda Modi. The LJP, on the same lines, has been saying that it has no problem with the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paswan-says-his-son-can-decide-on-ljps-move/article32585677.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Report flags increase in crimes against Dalits||Crimes against Dalits increased by 6% from 2009 to 2018 with over 3.91 lakh atrocities being reported, and at the same time gaps in implementation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and the 1995 rules framed under it remained, according to a report released on Friday. The report, titled “Quest for Justice”, by the National Dalit Movement for Justice (NDMJ) National Campaign for Dalit Human Rights, assessed the implementation of the Act as well as the data of crimes against Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe people as recorded by the National Crime Records Bureau from 2009 till 2018. Women victims The report said the crime rate against those belonging to the Scheduled Tribes recorded a decrease of around 1.6%, with a total of 72,367 crimes being recorded beween 2009 and 2018. The report also flagged the rise in violence against Dalit and Adivasi women. “Dalit women often bear the brunt of violence in the hand of dominant caste; violence as grave as physical violence, sexual violence and witch branding. In the COVID 19 pandemic also Dalit women witnessed various forms of atrocities….In the last five years, out of a total 2,05,146 registered crimes against Scheduled Castes under the PoA (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, a total of 41,867 cases (20.40%) were related to violence against Scheduled Caste women,” the report said. Numerous hurdles The report also highlighted the challenges faced by victims when it came to getting a First Information Report filed, followed by a large number of pending cases over the years. “On average 88.5% of cases under PoA Act remain pending trial during 2009 to 2018,” it said. Case pendency Releasing the report, former Chief Justice of India K. G. Balakrishnan said there were a large number of cases pending in every court and with the criminal justice system as it is today, “it is difficult to have a very bright picture of the implementation”. He said the Act had a “social mission” and that education would be key to changing social conditions. V.A. Ramesh Nathan, general secretary of the NDMJ, said the report was an answer to those people who had been calling for repealing the Act, alleging misuse of its provisions. Speaking to The Hindu after the virtual launch, he said the State had failed to protect the Dalit and Adivasi communities, despite the legal mechanism being in place. “It looks like the State lacks political will and is taking the side of the perpetrators,” Mr. Ramesh Nathan added.  Dalit women often bear the brunt of violence in the hand of dominant caste; violence as grave as physical violence, sexual violence and witch branding NDMJ campaign report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/report-flags-increase-in-crimes-against-dalits/article32585697.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,||BJP supporters detained during Chalo Assembly||Several Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in the State were placed under house arrest and hundreds of supporters were taken into custody on Friday when they tried to lay a siege to the Telangana Legislative Assembly, demanding that the State government declare September 17 a ‘Liberation Day’. As part of their demand, BJP State president and Karimnagar Member of Parliament Bandi Sanjay gave a call for 'Chalo Assembly'. Mr. Sanjay and Member of Legislative Council C N. Ramchander Rao were among others who were placed under house arrest. Later, Mr Sanjay was taken to the Banjara Hills police station. According to Saifabad ACP C Venu Gopal Reddy, more than 900 supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party, who tried to protest near the Assembly, were taken into custody and shifted to Goshamahal Stadium and different police stations across the city. "They adopted different tactics to reach the Assembly, but their attempts were foiled. Many were coming on foot, while a few came in the cars, and transport vehicles," he said. Most of them were from Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Adilabad, Siddipet, Mancherial and Jagtial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-supporters-detained-during-chalo-assembly/article32585736.ece
12 September 2020||MYSURU,||3 priests murdered in Mandya temple||Three priests were found brutally murdered and the hundi boxes ransacked on Sri Arakeshwara Swamy Temple premises in Mandya early on Friday. Police said the bodies of Ganesh, 55, Prakash, 58, and Anand, 40, were lying in a pool of blood at the temple situated in Guttalu on the outskirts of Mandya town. The deceased were not only priests, but also worked as guardians and slept on the temple premises. According to police, the heads of the deceased were crushed allegedly with boulders while the hundi boxes had been taken out of the temple and emptied. Currency notes in the hundi boxes were missing and the coins had been left behind. The miscreants had also ransacked the sanctum sanctorum of the temple in search of valuables. The incident, which has sent shock waves among the people in Mandya, came to light when the locals went inside the temple on Friday morning after finding the main door ajar. Senior police officials, including Superintendent of Mandya district police, K. Parashuram, visited the spot. Mandya Lok Sabha member Sumalatha too visited the temple.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased priests and assured that action would be taken against the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-priests-murdered-in-mandya-temple/article32585642.ece
12 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala Higher Education Minister appears before ED||Violent clashes erupted in the city late Friday over the ‘questioning’ of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with its wide-ranging probe into the various aspects of the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. At least 10 activists of the Youth Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were injured after the police resorted to lathicharge the protesters who attempted to topple the barricades set up outside the Secretariat. The agitators braved the heavy downpour as they took out separate marches to the Secretariat by around 8.30 p.m. and burnt the Minister in effigies. Following several rounds of water cannon use and firing of tear-gas shells, the police lathicharged the agitators. Tension continued late into the night as protesters laid siege to the road in front of the Secretariat. BJP State president K. Surendran, who led the party’s demonstration, said the agitation would continue until Dr. Jaleel stepped down. The party would observe ‘black day’ on Saturday in protest against the police excesses. A top official with the Enforcement Directorate in New Delhi told The Hindu that Dr. Jaleel had appeared before the agency’s team in Kerala. The official declined to give further details. Channel ‘disclosure’ However, the ‘disclosure’ by television channels that Dr. Jaleel had arrived at the ED office in a private car triggered a clamour for his resignation. Mr. Chennithala said Dr. Jaleel's ‘wrongdoings’ had brought the Central law enforcement to the doorstep of the government. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran said it was the first time that a Cabinet Minister had found himself on the wrong side of Central agencies. The Minister was not immediately available for comments. However, in an interview with The Hindu on August 13, Dr. Jaleel had elaborated in detail on the issue. He had received 32 packets containing copies of the holy Koran from the consulate. He was willing to return the books if any agency pointed out violation of protocol or other international covenants. He said the packets remained unopened and were at the disposal of any investigating agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-higher-education-minister-appears-before-ed/article32585647.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM to unveil a slew of projects in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be launching a blitzkrieg of projects in the next 10 days amounting to Rs. 16,000 crore in poll-going Bihar. Government sources said the projects were aimed at “improving infrastructure and ease of living for the people of Bihar”. On September 13, Mr. Modi will launch the Durgapur-Banka section of the PHDPL project, a liquid petroleum gas (LPG) bottling plant at Banka, and a new LPG plant at Sugauli. On the anvil A sewage treatment plant under the Namami Gangey project, water supply schemes, river front development projects, railway bridge electrification project, new railway lines and bridges and construction of highways and bridges are also slated to be inaugurated in the State. Video links with local people will also established during the inaugurations to interact with them. The Election Commission (EC) had clarified a few days ago that Bihar polls and bypolls to various Assembly and one Lok Sabha seats will be conducted by November end, the statutory period within which a new Assembly has to take charge in the State. BJP president J.P. Nadda and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has been roped in to handle the polls in Bihar, are already visiting the State. During the previous Assembly election campaign in the State in 2015, too, Prime Minister Modi had announced a Rs. 1,25,000 crore package. This time the investment is more modest but specifically tied to projects that are run by the Central government. The BJP is hoping these projects will reinforce the main campaign message of the party of the investments made in the State by the Union government headed by Mr. Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-unveil-a-slew-of-projects-in-bihar/article32585664.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Swami Agnivesh passes away||Social activist, scholar, politician and Arya Samaj leader Swami Agnivesh passed away at the Institute of Liver and Billary Sciences (ILBS) here, on Friday. He was hospitalised for treatment of liver cirrhosis earlier this week. His condition became critical after he suffered multi-organ failure during the treatment, hospital authorities said. He was on ventilator and was being monitored by a multi-disciplinary team. The 80-year-old leader went into cardiac arrest at 6 p.m. Resuscitation was attempted, but he passed away at 6:30 p.m., the hospital authorities said in a statement on Friday evening. The former MLA from Haryana is known for his work against bonded labour through the Bonded Labour Liberation Front, which he founded in 1981. Agnivesh became president (2004–2014) of the World Council of Arya Samaj, the highest international body of the Arya Samaj. He was an advocate for dialogue between religions and remained involved in various areas of social activism, including campaigns against female foeticide and for the emancipation of women. He served as the chairperson of the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund on Contemporary Forms of Slavery from 1994 to 2004. He was a prominent associate of Anna Hazare during the India Against Corruption campaign in 2011 to implement the Jan Lokpal Bill. Born in Andhra Pradesh, Agnivesh founded Arya Sabha, a political party based on Arya Samaj principles, in 1970. He was elected to the Haryana Assembly in 1977 and was made Education Minister after two years. He, however, resigned in protest against the Haryana government’s inaction against policemen who opened fire at workers protesting bonded labour. Tributes pour in Meanwhile, condolence messages poured in for the departed leader. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Swami Agnivesh ji, the founder of Bandhu Mukti Morcha and revolutionary leader of Arya Samaj, passed away today. Swami ji's death is an irreparable loss to the entire country including Arya Samaj. My humble tribute.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said he was shocked and saddened by his passing. “A man of vigour and conviction, he never looked, sounded or behaved his age! The country is diminished by his passing & I mourn with the millions whose rights he fought to uphold. Om Shanti,” tweeted Mr. Tharoor. ‘Warrior for humanity’ “The demise of Swami Agnivesh is a huge tragedy,” tweeted senior lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan. “A true warrior for humanity & tolerance. Among the bravest that I knew... willing to take huge risks for public good. Was brutalised in Jharkhand by a BJP/RSS lynch mob 2 years ago,” Mr. Bhushan said. Actor Shabana Azmi, in a tweet, said Swami Agnivesh. “worked to rescue and rehabilitate bonded labourers and was a force to reckon with in the eighties. RIP” In July 2018, Agnivesh was assaulted, allegedly by BJP Yuva Morcha workers in Jharkhand’s Pakur, where he was supporting tribal communities’ protest against land acquisition by the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swami-agnivesh-passes-away/article32585681.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 1.84 cr. in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 1.84 crore in connection with a gold smuggling case in Kerala. The properties include a residential house, an apartment and a land parcel in Kozhikode held in the name of P.C. Sabana (wife of Faiz T.K.), Subair Y.M. and Abdul Rahim, besides over Rs. 85.15 lakh in a fixed deposit in the name of Ashraf Kallunkal with the Federal Bank Limited’s Kozhikode branch. The ED probe is based on an FIR and the chargesheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation against former Deputy Commissioner Customs C. Madhavan, P.P. Sunil Kumar, Faiz, Ashraf, Subair, Abdul Rahim and others. The Customs authorities had on March 19, 2013, arrested two women carriers named Arifa Haris and Asifa Veera and seized 20 kg of gold from them. They had illegally transported 56 kg of gold from Dubai to Kochi during August-September, 2013, as alleged. The gold consignments were sent allegedly by Faiz T.K. using his contacts with the Customs officers, for Ashraf Kallunkal, a prominent businessman of Kerala. According to the CBI chargesheet, by smuggling gold worth Rs. 17.86 crore, the syndicate caused a loss of Rs. 1.83 crore in the form of Customs duty. The ED probe revealed that Faiz and Ashraf were the alleged masterminds behind the gold smuggling. “Faiz picked the women carriers staying in Dubai with their family, who were in need of money, and executed the smuggling. Accused Ashraf was the main investor in the gold purchase and smuggled the same to India with the help of Faiz, who had good relationship with many prominent persons in Kerala,” said the agency. Ashraf and Faiz allegedly accumulated the profit in Dubai and later transferred the funds to their accounts in India. The proceeds were invested in immovable and movable properties. The money trail also revealed the role of Abdul Rahim and Ashraf’s brother Subair, who received the gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-184-cr-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/article32585636.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC allows NLSIU to conduct admission test||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, to conduct its National Law Admission Test (NLAT) 2020 scheduled for September 12. However, a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan ordered the premier law institute to neither declare the results nor proceed further with the admission process till the court took a final decision on the validity of the NLAT. The court said it was allowing the NLSIU to conduct the exam because it did not want to add to the stress of students by any change in schedule at this last minute. “Since students are ready, exams can be held tomorrow [September 12]. We will not stay their holding. But you will not declare the results or hold admissions until we decide,” Justice Bhushan said. Issuing notice to the NLSIU, the court said this was a “very serious matter and requires detailed examination”. It has scheduled the next hearing for September 16. Senior advocate Nidhesh Gupta and advocate Vipin Nair, for petitioners Rakesh Kumar Agarwalla and former NLSIU Vice-Chancellor Venkata Rau, said the NLAT was a “hogwash”. Mr. Rau said the sudden notification by the NLSIU about a separate admission test had left thousands of aspirants in a state of fear and confusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-nlsiu-to-conduct-admission-test/article32585651.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Questions over FCRA nod for PM CARES||The PM CARES Fund has received exemption from all provisions of the law meant to regulate foreign donations, although it does not seem to meet the precondition of being a body established and owned by the government whose accounts are audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG). Responding to a recent query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act asking for details and documents on the exemption, the Home Ministry said it had to “seek the consent” of PM CARES before giving out the information, as it would be considered a “third party” under the RTI Act. It also invoked the clause that allows information to be denied if it is held as part of a fiduciary relationship. According to the frequently asked questions (FAQ) section on the PM CARES website, the fund “has received exemption from operation of all provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010” or FCRA.  On January 30, 2020, the Home Ministry issued a fresh order “to exempt organisations (not being a political party), constituted or established by or under a Central Act or a State Act or by any administrative or executive order of the Central Government or any State Government and wholly owned by the respective Government and required to have their accounts compulsorily audited by the CAG or any of the agencies of the CAG”. The PM CARES Fund is a public charitable trust registered under the Registration Act, 1908. It was not set up through a Central or State Act. It has argued that it is not a public authority under RTI; all bodies established by the government are public authorities under that Act. The Fund is audited by an independent auditor, not by the CAG. Although it does not seem to fulfil the conditions in the January order, PM CARES has been granted exemption from FCRA. “Yes, PM CARES can be given exemption under FCRA,” a senior Central government official told The Hindu . “The exemption is typically given to Central universities,” added the official. Such universities are usually set up by a Central Act, and are subject to CAG audit. In June, RTI activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (Retd.) filed a request with the Home Ministry asking for the dates when the PM CARES Fund had applied for and been granted FCRA exemption. After an appeal on August 14, the MHA responded on August 19, saying that the information sought “pertains to a third party”, and “cannot be acceded to...without seeking [its] consent”. The MHA also referenced Section 8(1)(e), which allows denial of information “available to a person in his fiduciary relationship, unless the competent authority is satisfied that the larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such information”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/questions-over-fcra-nod-for-pm-cares/article32585686.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Streets for People’ challenge launched||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) Ministry on Friday launched an initiative for making cities more pedestrian-friendly, which HUA Minister Hardeep Puri said was a response to the need for walkable urban spaces during the COVID-19 pandemic. Along with the recent initiative promoting cycling in cities, the ‘Streets for People Challenge’ would help cities provide safer means of transport with social distancing. The challenge, organised by the Smart Cities Mission of the Ministry, is not be limited to the 100 Smart Cities as all cities with a population of over 5 lakh, and capital cities, can apply. Mr. Puri said that in the post-COVID-19 world, cities needed to be built in a way to deal with any future pandemics. The Ministry said the challenge included creation of pedestrian-friendly streets in areas with high footfall, re-imagining the spaces under flyovers, re-vitalising dead spaces in neighbourhoods, and creating walking links through parks and institutional areas. Cities have to submit their proposals by February 11, 2021 and implement their interventions by May 31, 2021. Mr. Puri also launched the Climate Smart Cities Assessment Framework 2.0, which gives cities a roadmap for tackling climate change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/streets-for-people-challenge-launched/article32585699.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ajay Maken moves SC against order on slums||Congress leader Ajay Maken approached the Supreme Court on Friday against “blanket directions” issued by the court on August 31 to remove 48,000 slum clusters located in safety zones along railway tracks in Delhi within three months. The apex court order, passed by a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, who retired on September 2, had specifically barred any kind of “interference, political or otherwise” against their removal. It had said that any order of interim stay passed by any court against the removal of these encroachments should be deemed ineffective. Calling it a “devastating order”, the former Union Cabinet Minister questioned the validity of passing an order without first hearing the affected people or their representatives. “This letter of urgency is being filed because the Respondents (Ministry of Railways, Delhi government, etc.) have already initiated the process of identification and removal of jhuggies and have issued demolition notices in various slums in Delhi. They have circumvented the established procedure by law with respect to rehabilitation prior to demolition as under the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy of 2015,” Mr. Maken submitted in court through his lawyer, advocate Nitin Saluja. The Congress leader referred to a decision of the Delhi High Court passed in 2019. He said the court, acting on a petition filed by him, had laid down the protocol for removal of slums. He said a slum cannot be demolished and its people cannot be evicted without first making provision for their rehabilitation. “Slum dwellers have a fundamental right to the city. They are an integral part of the social and economic fabric of the town,” he said. “If the demolition of slums is carried out, more than 2,50,000 people will be forced to move around the city in search of shelter and livelihood.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajay-maken-moves-sc-against-order-on-slums/article32586165.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala, T.N. to cooperate more on water sharing||Kerala and Tamil Nadu have agreed to interact more frequently and facilitate smooth exchange of information in matters pertaining to river water sharing, including the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP). A meeting of the Secretary-level committee on interstate water issues formed by the two States after the Chief Minister-level talks in September last year was held here on Friday. The meeting sought to establish a cordial atmosphere wherein talks on the complex water-sharing issues can be taken forward.  It has been generally agreed to interact more frequently on matters under the committee’s mandate and to enable smooth exchange of information, T.K. Jose, Additional Chief Secretary (Water Resources), who led the Kerala side, said. Public Works Secretary K. Manivasan led the Tamil Nadu delegation.   Meeting between CMs Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his Tamil Nadu counterpart Edappadi K. Palaniswami had met in Thiruvananthapuram on September 25, 2019, when it was agreed in principle to review the PAP agreement. Tamil Nadu and Kerala also formed a Secretary-level committee with five members each from the two States. The first meeting was held in December, 2019 in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-tn-to-cooperate-more-on-water-sharing/article32586256.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Flight with Kangana lands TV crew in soup||No action was taken against the television crew, who continued broadcasting the actor’s arrival in Mumbai surrounded by CISF commandos. According to officials, Ms. Ranaut had not lodged any complaint with the airline or any other authority over the actions of the media personnel. In a statement, IndiGo said, “We have given our statement to DGCA regarding the matter. We would like to reiterate that our cabin crew, as well as the captain followed all the requisite protocols, including announcements to restrict photography, follow social distancing and maintain overall safety. IndiGo also followed the requisite protocol of documenting this matter in its post-flight report.” “We are in receipt of certain directions from DGCA. We will follow the prescribed guidelines,” it added. Flight safety experts said the airline should have handed over the errant passengers to law enforcement agencies immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flight-with-kangana-lands-tv-crew-in-soup/article32585652.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||ISI radicalised West Bengal student, says NIA||“Tania Parvin gradually became part of about 70 jihadi groups on social media, which propagated terrorist ideology advocating skewed version of Islamic Jihad with an aim to further radicalise and recruit impressionable Muslim youth. “The accused was also active in various Palestinian and Syrian Jihadi social media groups,” the agency said in a statement. According to the agency, LeT cadres based in Lahore, Pakistan had introduced the accused to officials of Pakistani ISI, who tasked her to open fake Facebook profile and befriend armed force members in India to obtain sensitive strategic information, NIA added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isi-radicalised-west-bengal-student-says-nia/article32585654.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China agree on 5-point action plan||Mr. Wang reportedly maintained “China’s stern position” on the situation in the border areas, “emphasising that the imperative is to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides”, the Chinese note added. Countering the Chinese claims, government sources here said the events of the past few months have “inevitably impacted the bilateral relationship”. In particular, India had made the point that the mobilisation of a large number of PLA troops was responsible for the “flashpoints along the LAC”. “The Chinese side has not provided a credible explanation for this deployment,” the sources said, blaming the “provocative behaviour of Chinese front-line troops at numerous incidents” for the violence, while Indian troops had “scrupulously” adhered to protocols. Military commanders’ meetings in the next few days will chalk out the steps for disengagement more clearly, which the Foreign Ministers will review before deciding on the course ahead. While border commanders agreed to disengagement procedures in June as well (which made little headway), the government feels that they now have concrete proposals and commitments from Mr. Wang, who is also the State Councillor, thus indicating a “policy decision” by Beijing to disengage. The meeting between the Foreign Ministers was facilitated by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Later, a Russia-India-China lunch set the stage for the bilateral talks on Thursday. It is expected to be followed by Special Representatives’ talks and another meeting of the Working Mechanism on Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-agree-on-5-point-action-plan/article32585656.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||New grievance redress system unveiled in J&K||The existing portal has now been integrated downwards to the district level by mapping nearly 1,500 public offices in 20 districts of the Union Territory. The move comes at a time when a sense of disconnection and alienation has been growing among the people, especially in the Kashmir Valley, which has remained on edge ever since J&K’s special status was revoked last year. Mr. Sinha has also directed district Superintendents of Police and Deputy Commissioners to be present for people in their offices from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. five days a week from Monday. “Similar directions are announced for the Divisional Commissioners and IGP’s of Jammu and Kashmir regions,” he added. Earlier, Mr. Sinha had also announced the ‘Back to Village’ campaign, wherein officers will visit villages and address public grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-grievance-redress-system-unveiled-in-jk/article32585655.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||ISI radicalised West Bengal student: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against a college student from West Bengal, who was allegedly radicalised online by the Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The NIA said the accused, Tania Parvin, a resident of North 24 Parganas, was tasked by officials of Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) to “open fake Facebook profile and befriend armed force members in India to obtain sensitive strategic information”. Parvin was first arrested by the West Bengal police on March 18. Later, the case was transferred to the NIA. “Investigation revealed that accused got radicalised in cyberspace by Pakistan-based cadres of LeT,” the NIA said.  Social media groups “Tania Parvin gradually became part of about 70 jihadi groups on social media, which propagated terrorist ideology advocating skewed version of Islamic Jihad with an aim to further radicalise and recruit impressionable Muslim youth. The accused was also active in various Palestinian and Syrian Jihadi social media groups,” the agency said in a statement. According to the agency, LeT cadres based in Lahore, Pakistan had introduced the accused to officials of Pakistani ISI, who tasked her to open a fake Facebook profile and befriend armed force members in India to obtain sensitive and strategic information, the NIA added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isi-radicalised-west-bengal-student-nia/article32585734.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||IIP shrinks 10.4% in July as recovery slows||“Part of the reason is local/partial/ weekend lockdown imposed in many parts of the country, often without much advance intimation. This is not allowing orderly recovery of economic activities,” Mr. Sinha said. He noted that the IIP growth trend mirrors the GSDP weighted workplace mobility trend, which also flattened out in July and August after a sharp recovery in May and June, adding that “the process of industrial recovery will take a while and require sustained policy support.” In its official statement releasing IIP data, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation repeatedly stated that, “It may not be appropriate to compare the IIP in the post pandemic months with the IIP for months preceding the COVID-19 pandemic.” The Ministry pointed out that a large number of industrial establishments were not operating from the end of March due to the lockdown, adding that industrial activity is now resuming with the lifting of restrictions. The manufacture of pharmaceuticals, which saw 22% growth, and tobacco products which posted 6.1% growth, were the only two sectors in positive territory in July. The auto sector and paper and beverages manufacturing continued to see contractions over 30%. The declining trend in textile (-14.8%) and garment manufacturing (-28.7%) could be important from an employment perspective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iip-shrinks-104-in-july-as-recovery-slows/article32585653.ece
12 September 2020||Moscow,||Russia hails decision||Russia on Friday welcomed India and China’s decision to de-escalate tensions in eastern Ladakh, with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov saying he was “very happy” that he could provide his Indian and Chinese counterparts a platform for a “very well-timed” meeting. Addressing a joint press conference with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, Mr. Lavrov said the Foreign Ministers had a ‘productive’ meeting. “We are very happy that Moscow has presented a platform to Russia, China and India to have this very productive, fruitful meeting whose goal is to stabilise the situation on the border between India and China,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/russia-hails-decision/article32585665.ece
12 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘PLA to hand over 5 youth’||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is expected to hand over the five youth from Arunachal Pradesh who strayed across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) separating India and China, Union Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju said on Friday. “The Chinese PLA has confirmed to Indian Army to hand over the youths from Arunachal Pradesh to our side. The handing over is likely to take place any time tomorrow i.e. 12th September 2020 at a designated location,” he tweeted. The five teenagers were from the Nacho area of Upper Subansiri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pla-to-hand-over-5-youth/article32585668.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Peace agreement almost ready, say Naga groups||The two Naga groups — NNPG and NSCN-IM — released statements on Friday indicating that the Naga peace deal could be finalised soon. The National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) has said that a separate constitution being negotiated with the Centre will be properly drafted by experts, intellectuals and professionals “on the basis of the final political agreement made between India and the Nagas.” The final peace talks had hit a rough weather in August after the NSCN-IM refused to hold further negotiations with Naga interlocutor and Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi. In 2017, Mr. Ravi included more Naga groups in the dialogue process and signed a preamble with the seven Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs). The NNPG said on Friday that its representatives met Mr. Ravi at a police camp in Dimapur on Thursday and were assured that the Centre was “determined to fulfil the political aspiration of the Naga people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/peace-agreement-almost-ready-say-naga-groups/article32585678.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Agusta case: CBI seeks nod to prosecute ex-CAG||The Central Bureau of Investigation has sought sanction from the Defence Ministry to prosecute former Comptroller and Auditor General Shashi Kant Sharma, the then Joint Secretary (Air); former Air Vice Marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar; and three others in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case. The permission has also been sought for the prosecution of Deputy Chief Testing Pilot S.A. Kunte, Wing Commander Thomas Mathew and the then Group Captain N. Santosh. The CBI had registered the case in March 2013 alleging payment of kickbacks in the deal for supply of 12 VVIP helicopters by AgustaWestland. Deal approval It is alleged that Mr. Sharma, a 1976 batch Indian Administrative Service officer, had a role in initiating the process for procurement of the helicopters when he was Joint Secretary (Air) in the Defence Ministry from 2003 to 2007. The deal was approved when he was the Director General (Acquisition) in 2010. The agency had filed the first charge sheet in the case in September 2017, in which former Air Chief Marshal S.P. Tyagi was arraigned along with 10 others. It initially alleged that €62 million of the bribe money was routed via a web of companies located in India and overseas. The agency tracked the money trail to the British Virgin Islands, the United Kingdom, Mauritius, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates and Tunisia. Among those arraigned were AgustaWestland, its parent Italian company Finmeccanica, IDS Tunisia, Mr. Tyagi’s brother Sanjeev Tyagi, Delhi-based lawyer Gautam Khaitan, alleged middlemen Christian Michel, Carlo Gerosa and Guido Haschke, former AgustaWestland CEO Bruno Spagnolini and former Finmeccanica Chairman Giuseppe Orsi. The chargesheet alleged a loss of €398.21 million to the exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/agusta-case-cbi-seeks-nod-to-prosecute-ex-cag/article32585692.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Last chance for the poor to regularise houses’||The State government has decided to extend one last opportunity for the poor to regularise their houses constructed on government lands. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced in the Legislative Assembly that the government would announce a specific time frame enabling house owners to regularise their houses in line with GOs 58 and 59 one more time. GO 58 pertains to regularisation of land free of cost for the poor up to 125 sq.yds while GO 59 is meant for regularisation by collecting market price in instalments. Responding to requests by members during the debate on the revenue Bills, the Chief Minister said the government had decided to allow the regularisation in the interests of the poor. The government had so far received 11.19 lakh applications for regularisation, of which, 6.18 lakh had been regularised without collecting any fee from the applicants. “We will give 15 days for regularisation and the dates will be decided after studying the coronavirus situation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/last-chance-for-the-poor-to-regularise-houses/article32585737.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sex workers’ body moves SC for support||Durbar Mahila Samanway Committee, the country’s oldest collective of sex workers, has approached the Supreme Court for support amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The collective said sex workers were entitled to live with dignity with access to food, shelter and social protection. The pandemic had ravaged their lives and livelihoods and left the community impoverished. The collective is a party to proceedings in which a panel was set up to improve the living conditions of the community. One of the recommendations, which won the court’s approval was to provide them with ration cards, voter ID and bank accounts. “In Kolkata, more than 50% of the sex workers do not have a ration card. As a result, most have been left out of the public distribution system, ” Bharti Dey, mentor of the Committee, said in a statement. However, the statement said these documents have not been issued to them in compliance with the 2011 recommendation. With no government ID documents and no earnings, the lockdown had been especially tough on the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sex-workers-body-moves-sc-for-support/article32586162.ece
12 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Rs. 300-crore package for Odisha farmers||Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a special package of Rs. 300 crore as livelihood support to farmers affected by the recent floods. Agriculture input subsidy will be provided to small and marginal farmers who have sustained a crop loss of 33%. Farmers will get subsidy at Rs. 6,800 per hectare in non-irrigated areas, Rs. 13,500 per hectare in areas under assured irrigation and Rs. 18,000 per hectare for all types of perennial crops. Perennial crops will include mango, cashew, coconut, kewra and betel vine. Assistance will be provided to actual cultivators. Agricultural input subsidy to any affected farmer will not be less than Rs. 2,000 for perennial crops and Rs. 1000 for other crops. Twenty of the 30 districts of Odisha were affected by incessant rain and the consequent floods during the last week of August. About 20,000 pulse-seed kits will be provided to flood-affected farmers during the rabi season. One lakh farmers will be trained on seed treatment programme with free supply of chemicals and bio-pesticides to cover one lakh acres for increasing production of rabi crops. As part of the immediate steps for arranging and distributing quality certified seeds in sufficient quantity, special assistance will be provided to farmers with higher subsidy of around 75% on certified quality seeds. According to the government, expeditious steps will be taken for crop loss assessment and steps will also be taken for invoking mid-season adversity under the crop insurance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-300-crore-package-for-odisha-farmers/article32586163.ece
12 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||SCTIMST makes device to beat DVT||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) here has developed a pneumatic compression device for the prevention of Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT). The device works by compressing the veins in the legs in sequence to facilitate the flow of blood. The compression pressure is set in such a way that the veins are compressed but not the arteries. An engineering team comprising Jithin Krishnan, Biju Benjamin and Koruthu P. Varughese has also come up with a closed loop system for monitoring of compression pressure and electronic controls. A dedicated software is also provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sctimst-makes-device-to-beat-dvt/article32586257.ece
12 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||All-party meet wants bypolls cancelled||An all-party meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Friday decided to request the Election Commission of India (ECI) to call off the Assembly bypolls in the Chavara and Kuttanad constituencies in November. The Left Democratic Front and United Democratic Front agreed to petition the State Election Commission (SEC) to make “minimal’ changes to the local body poll timetable, given the COVID-19 situation. However, the BJP did not agree to the proposal to advance the local body polls. BJP State president K. Surendran said the LDF and the UDF were scared to face the electorate. Scandals had hit the ruling front and the UDF was in disarray due to infighting, he said. Mr. Vijayan said the model code of conduct for the Assembly elections would come into force on March 10, 2021. The newly elected MLAs would not be able to do justice to their offices in their three-month tenure. Fight against pandemic The entire government machinery was committed to fighting the pandemic. The parties felt that it would not be optimal now to repurpose the administration in two districts for the conduct of the bypolls. Mr. Vijayan said the SEC was constitutionally bound to conduct the local body polls and install new local self-government institutions (LSGIs) by November 12. Hence, the local body elections were unavoidable. The government could not postpone them inordinately. In contrast, the Assembly bypolls were inessential, given the impending State elections in mid-2021. The pandemic situation in the State was grim. The threat of the contagion was the sole factor deterring the conduct of local body polls as per the timetable. The State has to ensure that senior citizens, people in containment zones or quarantine and COVID-19 patients get the right to exercise their franchise safely and securely. An official said various political parties had earlier weighed the proposal to make the postal ballot and proxy voting provision widely accessible to the electorate in the wake of reports that the pandemic could depress voter turnout. The government might call another all-party meeting to debate the proposal, he said.  The State cannot postpone local body polls inordinately. But the Assembly bypoll is inessential, given the impending State elections in mid-2021. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-party-meet-wants-bypolls-cancelled/article32585644.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC revises timeline for candidates||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday decided to revise the timeline for political parties and candidates to publish details of the criminal antecedents of the nominees, starting from within four days of the last date for withdrawal of nominations till two days before polling. In a meeting, the EC decided to streamline its previous instructions regarding publicity of the criminal cases against candidates, an EC statement said. “The Commission has always emphasised on this moral yardstick for overall betterment of electoral democracy,” it said. According to the new timeline, which goes into effect immediately, political parties who nominate a candidate with any cases against them and the candidates themselves will have to first publish the details within four days of the last date of withdrawal, then within five to eight days of the last date of withdrawal, and then between nine days from the last date of withdrawal till the last day of campaign, which is 48 hours before polling. “This timeline will help the voters in exercising their choices in more informed manner,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-revises-timeline-for-candidates/article32585669.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||Court denies bail to Rhea and others||The Sessions Court here on Friday rejected the bail applications filed by Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, who are alleged to have administered drugs to the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The court also rejected bail pleas by the actor’s house manager Samuel Miranda, his house help Dipesh Sawant and alleged drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Basit Parihar. Ms. Chakraborty is currently in Byculla jail after being arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on September 8. Her bail plea says, “There is nothing on record to suggest that she is in any way involved with the financing of illicit traffic and or harbouring of offenders in relation to any narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances ... The case against her is that she would co-ordinate the delivery of drugs for her boyfriend and occasionally pay for them herself. These allegations make for an offence which is bailable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-denies-bail-to-rhea-and-others/article32585679.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ensure free movement of oxygen: govt.||The Union Health Ministry on Friday asked the States/Union Territories to ensure that no restriction is imposed on the movement of medical oxygen and noted that they were responsible to ensure that every hospitalised COVID-19 patient receives oxygen. “It has come to the knowledge of the Union Health Ministry that a few States are trying to curb the free inter-State movement of oxygen supplies by exercising provisions under various Acts and also mandating the manufacturers/suppliers located in the State to restrict their oxygen supplies to only the hospitals of the State,’’ noted the Ministry in a communication.   India currently has less than 3.7% of active patients on oxygen support, as per Health Ministry data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-free-movement-of-oxygen-govt/article32585684.ece
12 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||70 priests of Puri temple infected||COVID-19 infection among the priests is delaying the reopening of the world famous Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri. As many as 167 sevayat s (priests) have contracted the virus thus far. Seventy of them, who are yet to recover, are either in home isolation or in COVID care centres. Four sevayat s have lost their lives. The number of infected sevayats is likely to be much more as many have taken tests without informing the SJTA and some are admitted in private hospitals in Puri and Bhubaneswar. The SJTA had booked a hotel and a home stay accommodation at Puri exclusively for infectedsevayats. While the hotel is full, the homestay is witnessing a steady inflow of patients. Committee to meet “We are aware of the situation. A decision on reopening Shree Jagannath Temple will be taken at the next managing committee meeting,” said Krishan Kumar, SJTA chief executive and senior IAS officer. It is expected to take place in the next two weeks. A few selected sevayat s have been carrying out the daily rituals since March. Janardan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, head of Chhatisa Nijog, asevayats’ body, said many sevayat s were now in home isolation. “While elderly priests have been advised not to come to the temple, many youngersevayats too suffer from comorbidities. Under these circumstances, there is a threat to the lives of both the sevayats and the devotees.” Lately, Puri has recorded sudden spurt in cases. As many as 279 cases were reported in Puri on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/70-priests-of-puri-temple-infected/article32585683.ece
12 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram polls led to case spike: Cong.||The Congress has blamed the sudden spike in COVID-19 positive cases in Mizoram on the elections to the village and local urban councils in August. Mizoram, the only northeastern State not to have had any COVID-19 fatality, recorded 141 cases – the highest single-day spike – on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-polls-led-to-case-spike-cong/article32585682.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,||NIA to examine top foreign service official||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is planning to examine a high-ranking foreign service official to prove its case that Subhani Haja, a former Islamic State (IS) recruit from Kerala, had fought against the Iraqi government after joining the banned organisation. The agency, which had sought time to reopen the evidence in the case, submitted before the special judge on Friday that it was planning to bring in more evidence to prove that Haja had waged war against Iraq. The agency planned to examine an official of the Indian Embassy who had worked in Iraq during the time in which Haja had allegedly waged war against that country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-to-examine-top-foreign-service-official/article32586254.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel to oversee OFB corporatisation||The government has constituted an Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) under the Chairmanship of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to oversee the corporatisation of Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the Ministry of Defence said on Friday. This follows the decision of the government to convert the OFB into one or more than one 100% government-owned corporate entities, the Ministry said in a statement. Other Ministers in the EGoM are Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister for Law and Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of State for Labour and Employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar and Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievance and Pension Jitendra Singh. The terms of Rererence of the EGoM include matters related to various categories of employees including protection of their salary and pension of existing employees and extension of financial support to the entity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-oversee-ofb-corporatisation/article32585700.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,||KCR condoles Swamy Agnivesh’s death||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed his condolences over the death of social activist Swami Agnivesh. Mr. Rao recalled that the Swami had extended support to Telangana statehood movement from the very beginning, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-condoles-swamy-agniveshs-death/article32586221.ece
12 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Now, Beary gets an independent script, numerals||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy has introduced an independent script and numerals in Beary which is said to be spoken by about 20 lakh people all over the world. All these days Beary was dependent on the Kannada script and numerals. Beary is an ethnic Muslim society, concentrated largely in coastal Karnataka, with its own distinct traditions and language. Academy chairman Rahim Uchil released the script and numerals here on Friday in the presence of members of an expert committee that had prepared them. With this, the language has 13 vowels, 33 consonants and nine numerals. Addressing presspersons on the occasion, Mr. Uchil said that the committee had worked for six months on this. Claiming that Beary is about 1,000 years old, he said that the academy would use social media to create awareness on the newly-introduced script and numerals. The academy will also launch an app through which the script and numerals can be keyed in. He said the academy will publish the 2021 Beary calendar using Beary script and numerals. The calendar will also have the Kannada script and Arabic numerals. Mr. Uchil said the academy had taken up a proposal of introducing Beary as the third optional language in schools from Class VI. It is hopeful that the government might allow introducing the same from the 2021-22 academic year. Presently, it has been planned to use Kannada script and Arabic numerals in the proposed textbooks. But the academy will also introduce Beary script and numerals to students then. As per a preliminary survey, 3,750 students in Dakshina Kannada have evinced to opt for Beary as the third optional language. In addition to introducing Beary script and numerals, the academy has also named 12 months in Beary, for example Surumada (January), Cheremada (February), Malemada (Julyand ), and Kademada (December). Months have been named mostly based on climatic conditions and normal activities on at the time. For example, as May will be very hot, it has been named ‘Chudumada’ and April has been named ‘Nalmada’ as this particular month will have many activities, Mr. Uchil said. Beary words for days like ‘Nyarase’ (Sunday), ‘Tingalase’ (Monday), etc., are already in use, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/beary-gets-an-independent-script-numerals/article32586213.ece
12 September 2020||Kochi,||HC stays KC(M) symbol allotment||The Election Commission of India's (ECI) decision allotting the election symbol “two leaves” to the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani was stayed by the Kerala High Court on Friday for one month. Single judge P.V. Asha passed the order on a petition filed by P.J. Joseph, who heads the rival faction in the party. The court, which passed the order through videoconferencing, posted the case for detailed arguments on October 1. In his petition, Mr. Joseph had challenged the ECI order declaring the faction led by Mr. Mani as the official KC(M) and granting the election symbol to it. Contending that the ECI's decision was illegal, Mr. Joseph claimed that he was the working chairman of the party. He submitted that he had been discharging the duties and functions as chairman of the party (since the demise of chairman K.M. Mani) as envisaged in the party constitution. Mr. Joseph submitted that the ECI failed to consider available facts and circumstances in the case and overstepped its jurisdiction by declaring that the group led by Mr. Mani was entitled to use the name and symbol under the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968. Passing the order, the judge directed the ECI and the parties to the litigation to file affidavits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-stays-kcm-symbol-allotment/article32585639.ece
12 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Maoist ‘courier’ held||An alleged courier of a senior Maoist leader was arrested and explosive materials were seized from him in Bhadrachalam town on Thursday evening, Assistant Superintendent of Police Rajesh Chandra said. The arrested person was identified as Paddam Kallu, 23, a native Peddagelur village of Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh. Kallu had been a courier to special zonal committee member Papa Rao, police said. He was nabbed by a patrol team while moving suspiciously with a bag at 5 pm. Around 150 detonators and two boosters, each weighing about 2.78 kg, were recovered from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maoist-courier-held/article32585648.ece
12 September 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two held on graft charge||Sankaran, 35, Sub-Inspector of Survey, and Suryanarayanan, 59, Field Assistant, of Survey Department in Aruppukottai Municipal Office, were arrested on charge of demanding and accepting bribe from A. Chinnamuthu here on Friday. A team of sleuths from Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Department, led by Virudhunagar Deputy Superintendent of Police, P. Karuppiah, laid a trap and arrested the duo. Chinnamuthu applied for name transfer of patta for a few residential plots had bought and made an online application on August 28. The application should be first cleared by officials of the Survey Department as the land was located in municipal limits Though the Tahsildar would issue the patta. When Chinnamuthu approached Sankaran as the application was pending with him, he demanded Rs. 3000 each for nine plots as bribe to clear his application. Chinnamuthu refused. Later, Sankaran and Suryanarayanan, agreed to clear five plots but were firm with their demand for Rs. 3,000 for each plot. On receipt of a complaint, DVAC unit registered a case and laid a trap for the duo at the municipal office on Friday. Both of them were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-on-graft-charge/article32586339.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,519 cases, while 77 deaths take toll to 8,231||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 4,91,571, with 5,519 more persons testing positive on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 987, while Coimbatore and Tiruvallur had more than 300 cases. A total of 6,006 persons, including 932 in Chennai and 692 in Chengalpattu, were discharged. So far, 4,35,422 persons have been discharged in the State. The toll has gone up to 8,231 as another 77 persons (41 at government hospitals and 26 at private hospitals) succumbed to the infection. Chennai accounted for 21 deaths and Tiruvallur eight. Among the deceased was a 25-year-old man. A resident of Kancheepuram, he had hypothyroidism and seizure disorder and was admitted to a private medical college hospital on September 8 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. He tested positive for COVID-19 on September 9 and died on September 11 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. Two 42-year-old men with no co-morbidities succumbed to the infection in Coimbatore and Chennai. One of them died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital owing to bilateral bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure, while the other died at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute kidney injury. At present, 47,918 persons were under treatment, with Chennai accounting for 10,879 persons. Coimbatore and Cuddalore had 3,631 and 3,491 patients respectively. Of the fresh infections, Coimbatore reported 394 cases and Tiruvallur 312 cases. Salem recorded 298 cases and Chengalpattu 297. The cases stayed high in Tiruvannamalai as 296 persons tested positive, while 289 persons tested positive in Cuddalore. Among other districts, Vellore recorded 182 cases (including two imported cases), Villupuram 161 and Tiruvarur 159. With 84,893 samples tested in the last 24 hours, the total number of samples tested so far has gone up to 57,15,216. One more government laboratory — ESIC Medical College and PGIMSR, K.K. Nagar — and a private laboratory — Krishna MRI and CT, Vellore — were approved for COVID-19 testing. With these, there are 165 testing facilities in the State: 100 in the private sector and 65 in the government sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-5519-cases-while-77-deaths-take-toll-to-8231/article32586051.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Around 1,17,502 to sit for NEET across 14 centres in the State||Around 1,17,502 aspirants who have registered for the National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test (NEET), to be held on Sunday, will take the test across 14 centres in the State. They are vying for around 7,000 seats, including 3,250 seats in the 26 government medical colleges. The Directorate of Medical Education is expecting to add 50 more seats to the Kanyakumari Medical College. If it materialises, the State will have 3,300 seats under the government quota. From this year, 7.5% of the seats will be reserved for students who have studied from Class 6 to 12 in government schools. There was much expectation that the State would have 1,650 additional seats this year as it was planning to add 11 new colleges. But the COVID-19 pandemic has put paid to these plans. Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu said the construction of college buildings was in full swing, and in some cases, the buildings would be ready within three months. “November 15 is the last date for the Medical Council of India to receive applications. Once we apply for inspection, we can expect permission to run the colleges only in January 2021. The seats will be available for the next academic year,” he said.  The difficulty in accessing information is a cause for concern among parents and students. Unlike the Central Board of Secondary Education, the National Testing Agency that has taken over the task of conducting entrance examinations for higher educational institutions does not provide details of the exam centres on its website. Only when candidates download their hall tickets do they get to know their centres. Candidates have, in the past, found it tough to find their centres. A candidate at Avadi had to search for three hours to find the school where he would take the exam. Another candidate, a resident of Tiruporur, who has been assigned a centre at Thousand Lights, said she did not know where her centre was. “I will have to find out only on the day of the exam,” she said. She is, however, equipped for the test. “I have a small bottle of sanitiser, a mask and gloves,” she said.  From this year, 7.5% of the seats will be reserved for students who have studied from Class 6 to 12 in government schools||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/117502-aspirants-to-sit-for-neet-across-14-centres/article32586066.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1 crore used MTC buses since September 1||With suburban train services suspended after the lockdown, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (Chennai) Ltd. (MTC) has become the prime mover of people in the city. Additional buses are being operated to suburban areas and indusrial hubs such as Chengalpattu, Guduvanchery, Singaperumal Koil, Tambaram, Chromepet, Avadi, Pattaravakkam, Thiruninravur, Maduravoyal, Ambattur, and Minjur to make up for the absence of suburban trains. A senior official of MTC said their focus was on suburban train routes such as Tambaram to Chengalpattu (Route No. 500), Guduvanchery to Avadi (206), Tambaram to Avadi (202), Poonamallee to Tambaram (66), Avadi to Sriperumbudur (565) and Thiruninravur to Broadway (71V). The number of buses in some pockets was increased following complaints by traffic inspectors and bus conductors that passengers were disregarding physical distancing norms. The MTC official said although conductors had been advised to accommodate only 24 persons (50% of the seating capacity) and disallow travel by standing, the commuters had not been cooperating with the crew. In some cases, passengers picked fights with the conductors. Checking squads Traffic supervisors and ticket checking inspectors had been drafted to several important places such as Tambaram, Guduvanchery, Chromepet, Avadi, Poonamallee, Madhavaram and Ambattur, to avoid crowding at the bus stops and regulate passengers while boarding the buses. However residents in western areas complained about the limited number of bus services to Tiruvallur.  The number of buses in some pockets was increased after complaints from traffic inspectors and conductors that passengers were disregarding physical distancing norms||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-focuses-on-long-distance-routes-to-make-up-for-absence-of-local-trains/article32586032.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T dept. moves HC over clean chit to Rahman||The Income Tax Department has moved the Madras High Court against a clean chit given to musician A.R. Rahman by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) with respect to assessment of his declared income of Rs. 15.98 crore in assessment year 2011-12. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and V. Bhavani Subbaroyan on Friday ordered notice to the music composer on the appeal preferred by the Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) against ITAT’s September 18, 2019, order in favour of Mr. Rahman. Mr. Rahman’s assessment for the said year was reopened under Section 148 of the Income Tax Act of 1961 on the ground that Rs. 3,47,77,200 received by him from U.K.-based Lebara Mobile and Rs. 54 lakh from Photon Kathas Production Pvt. Ltd. had escaped assessment. The assessee stated that Lebara Mobile had paid not to him but to the A.R. Rahman Foundation (ARRF). He said ARRF was assessed for tax separately as an independent entity. As quid pro quo, Mr. Rahman agreed to compose ringtones for the telecom company without charging any money for a period of three years. The Assessment Officer accepted the explanation and closed the re-assessment proceedings on March 23, 2016. However, on February 13, 2018, the Principal Commissioner exercised his power of revision under Section 263 of the IT Act and issued a show cause notice to the composer seeking explanation as to why the re-assessment order should not be set aside. Immediately, Mr. Rahman moved the ITAT, which held that the Principal Commissioner was “not justified” in exercising the power of revision. Assailing the ITAT’s order before the High Court, T.R. Senthil Kumar, senior standing counsel for the I-T Department, said the Department would have had no objection if the composer had paid income tax for the amount in his individual capacity and then routed the money to ARRF. He said there was overwhelming evidence to prove that it was the composer’s professional income. According to the counsel, Lebara Mobile also sponsored the trips of Mr. Rahman to the U.K. Assessing the money at the hands of ARRF would not benefit revenue, since the Foundation was entitled to tax exemptions under 11 different heads, he said, and insisted on setting aside the ITAT’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-dept-moves-hc-over-itats-clean-chit-to-rahman/article32586064.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s two-language formula carries Centre’s ‘endorsement’||While Tamil Nadu is witnessing another round of heated discussions on the issue of ‘Hindi imposition’ against the backdrop of the recent National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, what is generally overlooked is that the State has been exempted by the Central government from the enforcement of the Official Languages Act, 1963. Rule 1 (ii) of the Official Languages (Use for Official Purpose of the Union) Rules, 1976, is quite clear. It states: “They [the Rules] shall extend to the whole of India, except the State of Tamil Nadu.” Use of English The Act is essentially meant for promoting the use of Hindi as the official language, even as it also allows the use of English for official purposes. Referring to this aspect of the rules, S. Semmalai, former Education Minister and AIADMK veteran legislator, points out that the State government’s two-language policy draws strength also from the scheme of the Central government itself. “As a result, no pressure can be and should be exerted on our government to change our two-language formula,” he emphasises. ‘Historic resolution’ Recalling a “historic resolution” adopted by the Tamil Nadu Assembly in January 1968, when C.N. Annadurai was the Chief Minister, Mr. Semmalai says the motion had regarded the emphasis on the implementation of the three-language formula as a form of ‘Hindi imposition’. This has been the position of successive governments including the incumbent Edappadi K. Palaniswami government.  Strengthening T.N.’s case To strengthen the case of Tamil Nadu, the legislator reiterates the demand for inclusion of English in the 8th Schedule of the Constitution on the grounds that the language can be called the mother tongue of Anglo Indians. He also wants all languages listed in the Schedule to be declared as official languages of the country, a demand ‘strongly articulated’ by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa several times, he feels. On the BJP’s stand on the language issue and the NEP 2020, its State vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan clarifies that the Central government “does not believe in Hindi imposition,” as otherwise it could have amended the rules. At the same time, the Centre is ‘appealing’ to the State government to take into account recent developments in education and consider changing its policy, as “the State government is a stakeholder in the field”. It is for this reason that “we, as the State unit, are requesting the Chief Minister to revisit his stand”, she says. Besides, there is “nothing wrong” in seeking to create awareness among people and political parties about the need for introducing changes in the language policy, she adds.  The Act is essentially meant for promoting the use of Hindi as the official language, even as it also allows the use of English for official purposes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-two-language-formula-carries-centres-endorsement/article32586043.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||British High Commission to support metro water projects||The British High Commission, Delhi, will soon extend technical assistance for Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board’s “recycle and reuse” tertiary treatment using ultra filtration (TTUF) projects under the Sustainable Cities for Shared Prosperity programme, according to the water board. In a bid to establish a sustainable alternative source of water supply, the CMWSSB is executing TTUF pilot projects to build a tertiary treatment plants in Nesapakkam and Perungudi each with a capacity to treat 10 million litres a day (mld). This is part of the efforts to reduce dependence on freshwater and recharge waterbodies with treated wastewater and promote indirect use of recycled water. Treated wastewater would be let into Porur and Perungudi lakes. Water drawn again from these lakes would undergo another round of treatment before being distributed through the existing drinking water supply. CMWSSB officials said the projects in Chennai was one of the six schemes chosen in various cities, including Bengaluru, for the technical assistance. Nearly 25 projects from different cities were analysed for the flagship programme. The British High Commission will set up a dedicated team to provide technical assistance and help in capacity building and institutional development from October. The team would provide guidance in adopting international practices, including disaster risk reduction, climate resilience and asset management, while executing the projects, the officials said. Pilot projects The pilot projects would be scaled up to 110 mld in both Perungudi and Nesapakkam plants. The capacity would be increased to 260 mld with additions in Kodungaiyur and Koyambedu plants and reclaimed water would be released into nearby lakes. “The detailed project report for the reuse of 260 mld of reclaimed water will be presented to British High Commission’s team for technical scrutiny. The project had been pitched for funding from the World Bank,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/british-high-commission-to-support-metrowater-projects/article32586068.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre, State govt. have washed their hands of public welfare’||The Centre and the State government have washed their hands of the welfare of the public during the COVID-19 pandemic and left the people to fend for themselves, DMK president M.K. Stalin said. “Both governments are asking people to keep washing their hands. But the truth is that they have washed their hands of people’s welfare. There is no help for people’s health, no help to cope with the economic distress. We have to take care of ourselves and be safe,” he said at a virtual memorial meeting for former Congress MP H. Vasanthakumar. He said the actions of the governments ensured that it would take many years for the country’s economy to recover from the pandemic. Recalling his interactions with Vasanthakumar, he said the late MP would always have a smile on his face. “His life provides everyone with lots of lessons. His life shows that self-confidence and the urge to succeed will lift a person to great heights. But now, not only his life but also his death has given everyone a lesson that we should take precautions and carry out our work while protecting ourselves,” he said. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said Vasanthakumar’s smiling face would always be in his memory. “When I went to Kanniyakumari for the Lok Sabha election campaign. I saw what sort of an electoral war zone he was in, where he was up against the might of the BJP. But he was unperturbed by the difficulty,” he said. VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan said Vasanthakumar was a diligent person. “During Parliament sessions, he would prepare notes every day and come prepared for various topics. He would stay on till the end of the proceedings every day. His death is not only a loss for Tamil Nadu but also for democracy.” K. Balakrishnan of the CPI(M), R. Mutharasan of the CPI, K. Veeramani of the Dravidar Kazhagam, Mallai Sathya of the MDMK, H. Jawahirullah of the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi and K.M. Kader Moideen of the IUML paid tribute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-state-govt-have-washed-their-hands-of-public-welfare/article32586041.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corpn. to ramp up surveillance in 15,000 streets||The Greater Chennai Corporation will intensify active surveillance in at least 15,000 streets that have not reported any cases so far. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that over 60% of the 39,000 streets in the 15 zones of the city had registered COVID-19 cases during the pandemic. City health officer Jagadeesan said the civic body would increase testing in areas that had not registered COVID-19 cases so far. “We will increase the number of fever clinics. Door-to-door surveillance will also be stepped up in such streets,” said the official. New cases have been reported in zones such as Adyar, in streets that have so far not seen any infections. For instance, streets in areas such as Velachery are now seeing COVID-19 cases for the first time. Some of the 987 cases reported on Friday were from streets that had not reported infections so far. Of the 10,879 cases in the city, most have been from zones such as Adyar, Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar and Valasaravakkam. Streets in areas such as Mugalivakkam, adjoining areas in outskirts such as Kundrathur, have reported cases because of relaxations in lockdown norms and an increase in transportation of residents. Disinfection drive The civic body has also planned to disinfect congested streets, roads near government offices and commercial areas using sodium hypochlorite solution to arrest the spread of the infection. Volunteers will visit houses on the 15,000 streets to screen vulnerable residents for Influenza-Like Illnesses. Residents who have symptoms will be tested for COVID-19. Arrangements have also been made to take residents to hospitals before obtaining their COVID-19 test results. Civic officials have also been directed to take measures for monsoon preparedness without affecting containment activities.  The civic body will increase testing in areas that have not registered COVID-19 cases so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-corpn-to-ramp-up-surveillance-in-15000-streets/article32586046.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Exploitation of migrant workers can’t continue’||Satisfied prima facie that employers across the State have been exploiting migrant workers for long, the Madras High Court has decided to pass comprehensive orders requiring the principal employers and contractors to get registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act of 1979. Passing interim orders on a couple of public interest litigation petitions filed by Chennai-based sociologist T. Venkata Naga Narasimham, Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha said: “Prima facie, we find that exploitation is going on, spanning the entire State, with respect to the employers in different industries.” “Therefore, what is required, on the first hand, is to undertake a proper exercise of registration, by including industries which have not done so. Unless registration is done under the Act, there will not be any recognition of such employees. Secondly, it has to be seen that those who have registered are complying with provisions of the Act,” they said. The judges pointed out that it was mandatory under the Act for employers and contractors to register themselves if they engage more than five migrant workers, and furnish, periodically, the details of the employees engaged by them not just to Labour Department officials in Tamil Nadu, but also to those in the workers’ home States. Tardy compliance “Even here, we find that compliance is very tardy, starting from the filing of the annual return... When a benefit is derived from such employees, the duty enjoined upon the employers of the State cannot be ignored,” the judges said, and insisted that either the Advocate General or an Additional Advocate General appear on behalf of the State on September 21 and assist the court in disposing of the two PIL petitions. In his affidavit, the litigant had pointed out that the 1979 Act mandated the issuance of passbooks with passport size photographs to every migrant worker. The passbooks must contain details of employment, modes of payment of wages, displacement allowance, return fare payable on expiry of period of employment, deductions made and other such particulars in both English and the language known to the workers. The Act also speaks about the wages to be paid. But in reality, none of these legal provisions are followed by the employers or contractors. The petitioner said the State was clueless about the number of migrant workers in the State and the places where they were concentrated when the lockdown was at its peak and as a result, thousands had to face a great amount hardship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exploitation-of-migrant-workers-cant-continue/article32586048.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan arrested for acquiring Aadhaar, EPIC||The Central Crime Branch has arrested a Sri Lankan national, who was staying with his wife, for possessing Aadhaar and electoral photo identity card (EPIC) through fraudulent means. According to the CCB, Thajudeen Sale, 55, of Colombo was picked up from Shanthi Colony, Anna Nagar, by Q Branch officers and was handed over to the CCB. The CCB officials, during interrogation, learnt that Thajudeen moved to Tamil Nadu in 1989 and had been staying in Chennai since 1996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-arrested-for-acquiring-aadhaar-epic/article32586035.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five-year-old child run over by speeding water tanker in Chennai||A five-year-old boy was killed by a water tanker at Pattinambakkam here on Friday morning. His grandparents, with whom he was travelling on a two-wheeler, and another motorcycle rider were injured, the police said. The victim has been identified as Praneesh of Taramani. The accident occurred at 8.15 a.m. when the child’s grandfather Gopal was taking him on his two-wheeler from Ennore to Taramani. His grandmother accompanied them on the vehicle.  Tanker goes berserk The water tanker, belonging to Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, went berserk, and hit their vehicle from the rear, the police said. In the impact, all the three fell from the vehicle and the boy was caught under the wheels of the tanker. The boy was killed on the spot. The tanker hit a few other two-wheelers on the road and stopped after ramming a traffic signal post, said the police. The driver of the tanker jumped from the vehicle and fled the spot. Passers-by and traffic personnel, who were on duty in the nearby area, came to the spot and sent the child and other injured persons to Government Royapettah Hospital. The police said the driver of the tanker has been arrested. Traffic was affected on Santhome High Road in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-year-old-run-over-by-water-tanker-at-pattinampakkam/article32586033.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC issues directive in Ramkumar ‘suicide’ case||The State Human Rights Commission has directed six prison department officials to appear before it on September 30, in connection with the alleged suicide of P. Ramkumar — the accused in the murder of Infosys techie Swathi at the Nungambakkam Railway Station, Chennai — on September 18, 2016 inside the prison. SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran directed Superintendent of Prison Senthamaraikannan, Deputy Jailor Udhayakumar, Assistant Jailor Pitchandi, Chief Warder Sankarraj, Gr. I. Warders Ramraj and Petchimuthu — all from Puzhal Central Prison — to appear before the Commission at 10.30 a.m. on September 30. The Commission had, in 2016, taken suo motu cognisance of a report published in The Hindu   over the incident. The report quoted a prison official and said around 4.30 p.m. on that day, a jail warder heard an unusual sound and rushed to find Ramkumar lying unconscious with a live electric wire in his mouth. It was “presumed” that he pulled out the live wire from a switchboard and bit it. Ramkumar was rushed to the prison hospital where first-aid was administered. Doctors referred him to the Government Royapettah Hospital where Ramkumar was declared “dead on arrival”, the report added.  (Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-issues-directive-in-ramkumar-suicide-case/article32586060.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||App launched to monitor development schemes||The State Development Policy Council (SDPC), formerly the State Planning Commission, has launched a mobile application to ensure efficient administration in districts where Special Area Development Programmes (SADPs) are going on. Named as Assess-Implement-Monitor (AIM), the application will be tested in a pilot study of SADP in Ambasamudram block of Tirunelveli district. It was launched on Friday by Anil Meshram, member-secretary, SDPC, Chennai. The manual of the application was released by C. Ponnaiyan, vice-chairman, SDPC. The first copy was received by Durairasu, principal chief conservator of forests, Chennai. “During COVID-19, senior government officers... could not physically inspect the ongoing projects and maintenance of existing infrastructure in various parts of the State. Hence we felt the importance of launching an application on which field-level officers can update details with relevant pictures and videos,” said B.C. Archana Kalyani, head, Land Use Division, SDPC. The SADP is going on in 11 districts. “Facts and figures are important for planning. This web and mobile application can be of great use for administrators, police and forest officers who take charge in a district,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/app-launched-to-monitor-development-schemes/article32586037.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A host of safety measures this year||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has always been conducted in adherence to several rules. This year, a host of added precautions and safety norms has been put in place in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The School Education Department had earlier this month asked the centres in Tamil Nadu to follow the guidelines issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for the conduct of the examination. Chief Education Officers have sent these guidelines to all schools which are exam centres. Till last year, candidates were expected to report to the centres an hour in advance. This year, candidates have been allotted staggered shifts to enter the centre from 11 a.m. The exam will begin at 2 p.m. Candidates can carry a transparent water bottle and a 50-ml sanitizer bottle into the centre and wear masks and gloves. Every year, the candidates are checked and frisked. But this time, body pat frisking will not be done. A metal detector, with a long handle, will be used. This will be done after a temperature check of the candidate is done with a thermal temperature gun at the entrance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-host-of-safety-measures-this-year/article32586062.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to get first CNG retail outlet by November||Chennai is likely to get its first compressed natural gas (CNG) retail station at Koyambedu by November. Oil industry sources said work was on at 7 or 8 existing fuel outlets that have enough space to support CNG supply. “Nagapattinam will get a CNG station even before Chennai. This will be the State’s first outlet. The work has been completed there. We are waiting for some permissions, we are likely to take the gas from a pipeline belonging to GAIL,” said a source. As far as gas supply to the outlets in Chennai is concerned, an agreement has been signed with Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL) for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-to-get-first-cng-retail-outlet-by-november/article32586067.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Builder liable for defects even beyond conveyance deed: tribunal||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Appellate Tribunal (TNREAT) has ruled that the responsibility of the builder towards structural defect or any other defect shall continue beyond the conveyance deed of all flats. Sare Squires Association, comprising 268 members who purchased flats in Sare Shelters Projects Pvt. Ltd on OMR Road, had approached the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) stating that common areas, facilities and other amenities were yet to be completed. The buyers said they were given possession between March 2012 and November 2014. TNRERA had rejected the plea on the grounds that the complaint was not maintainable as the flats were handed over before the RERA Act came into force. In their petition before TNREAT, the home buyers pointed out that there was no permanent source of water supply in the apartment complex as the builder had not drilled borewells or dug open wells. The builder also had not made alternative arrangements to lay a pipeline from the Thiruporur town panchyat. TNREAT said as per the provisions of the Act, the builder could not simply wash off hands after the execution of conveyance deed and was liable to rectify the defect. It ruled that the complaints of home buyers were maintainable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builder-liable-for-defects-even-beyond-conveyance-deed-tribunal/article32586055.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||LPG consumers unable to use helpline||LPG consumers in Tamil Nadu, where a vast majority do not speak Hindi, are finding it difficult to deal with emergencies as the all India LPG leak helpline — 1906 — is mostly attended to in Hindi. Though there is an option to choose other languages when consumers call, it does not seem to work efficiently enough. “I had opted for a Tamil-speaking customer service executive when making the call but it landed only to someone who spoke in Hindi. She said she would transfer the call to a Tamil-speaking person. But I cut the call after waiting for 12 minutes. Luckily when I tried the owner of my gas agency, he answered the call and sent a mechanic. But this has become a regular headache for me,” said a customer from Thoraipakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lpg-consumers-unable-to-use-helpline/article32586074.ece
12 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Name Metro station after Karunanidhi’||A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State government to name a Metro Rail station, near the Account General’s and Director of Medical Services (AG-DMS) offices here, after former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. P. Radhakrishnan, secretary of Kalaignar Tamil Peravai, had filed the case on the ground that it was not fair to ignore the name of Karunanidhi when the government had decided to name three different Metro stations after other former Chief Ministers. He pointed out that the Chief Minister had on August 1 announced that the Metro Rail stations in Alandur, Central and Koyambedu would be named after C.N. Annadurai, M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/name-metro-station-after-karunanidhi/article32586069.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postpone pilgrimage to Tirumala: TTD||The Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams (TTD) has appealed to devotees in Tamil Nadu to postpone their pilgrimage during the Tamil month of Purattasi in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the non-availability of online darshan tickets for many dates in September. In a statement, Special Invitee to the TTD Board of Trustees and Local Advisory Committee president A.J. Sekhar said that to fulfil their vows, thousands of devotees visit Tirumala during Purattasi , which starts on September 17 and lasts till October 18 this year. Since darshan tickets were being issued only online and booking had already been done for most of the dates, the devotees should consider postponing pilgrimage to Tirumala this season, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postpone-pilgrimage-to-tirumala-ttd/article32586045.ece
12 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rela signs MoU for perinatal centre||Dr. Rela Institute & Medical Centre (RIMC) has signed an MoU with Mediscan, a provider of foetal scan services, and GBR Fertility Centre and Hospitals, to set up a state-of-the-art perinatal centre in Chennai. According to a press release, the new centre will provide services such as pre- implantation genetics, intrauterine foetal surgeries, genetic counselling and uterine transplantation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rela-signs-mou-for-perinatal-centre/article32586034.ece
12 September 2020||Chennai/ Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala seeks more details on water scheme||At a meeting of the secretary-level committee on inter-State water issues, held in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday, Kerala sought more details from Tamil Nadu regarding the proposed Pandiyar–Punnampuzha diversion scheme. Disclosing this after participating in the day-long talks on a host of inter-State river water issues on Friday, K. Manivasan, Principal Secretary (Public Works) of the State government, who led Tamil Nadu’s team in the negotiation, said the discussion was “extremely positive”. Kerala and Tamil Nadu have also agreed to interact more frequently and facilitate the smooth exchange of information in matters pertaining to river-water sharing, including the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP). The committee on inter-State water issues was formed by the two States after Chief Minister-level talks last September. The meeting sought to establish a cordial atmosphere, wherein talks on the complex water-sharing issues could be taken forward. The Pandiyar-Punnampuzha scheme, aimed at diverting water from the Devala-Punnampuzha river systems, that empties into the Arabian sea, eastwards, will be a multi-purpose project. According to an estimate, nearly 14 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) is wasted annually. As the scheme was originally proposed in the 1960s, and several changes had taken place since, Kerala wanted details regarding the present proposed site of the dam [which will come up in the territory of Tamil Nadu], water availability and storage. The required information would be furnished within a week, Dr. Manivasan told The Hindu . Friday’s discussions also touched upon cooperation between the two States in matters pertaining to flood management in Kerala river basins during monsoon. Following heavy rainfall in August this year, Kerala had requested Tamil Nadu to draw more water from dams that are part of the PAP agreement and the Mullaperiyar dam in Idukki to ease the rising river water levels here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-seeks-more-details-on-pandiyar-punnampuzha-scheme/article32586073.ece
12 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP leader says SIT probe needed into PM Kisan scam||The State government must form a special investigation team (SIT) to probe into the alleged irregularities in the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM KISAN) scheme in the districts, demanded Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Friday. He attended the district executive committee meeting organised by the BJP Coimbatore South District unit at a private wedding hall in Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore district. Speaking to the mediapersons after the meeting, he alleged that various officials were involved in the alleged scam in connection with the PM KISAN scheme in the State and that the investigation must cover all the districts. Alleging that members of the Scheduled Castes are being sidelined in the DMK, Mr. Murugan claimed that former Union Minister and the Nilgiris MP A. Raja, who was recently appointed as the party’s deputy general secretary, was not able to contest for the post of treasurer of the DMK. He asserted that the National Education Policy (NEP 2020) will offer an opportunity for students studying in government schools to study a third language. Mr. Murugan accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of being discriminatory by opposing the NEP 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-leader-says-sit-probe-needed-into-pm-kisan-scam/article32586059.ece
12 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable prices on the rise||Prices of big onions have seen a steady increase in the last few days here. According to M. Rajedran, president of Thyagi Kumaran Market Vegetable Merchants’ Association, the wholesale price of onion on Thursday was Rs. 30 a kg as against Rs. 15 a kg five days ago. About three weeks ago, the average, wholesale price of onion was less than Rs. 10 a kg. The Maharashtra crop was over and new crop from that State was expected only by December. In Karnataka, it was reported that rain had damaged several vegetable crops. Maharashtra and Karnataka were the main suppliers of onions to Coimbatore. Hence, the prices were up. However, there was no shortage in availability as there were no weddings now and hotels were seeing slowdown in business because of the pandemic. Further, business to Kerala had come down. Traders in Coimbatore used to sell about 600 tonnes of onions a day. Now, it was just one-fourth. The sales was largely to local buyers, he said. Even if there was a slight increase in demand, prices may go up, he added. Prices of many other vegetables had also increased in the last few days. The wholesale rate of small onion was Rs. 55 a kg and it was again because of onion growing areas affected by rain. The wholesale rate of carrot was Rs. 40 a kg, beans Rs. 70 a kg, and potato Rs. 35 to Rs. 45 a kg. Price of tomato was going up and it was Rs. 45 a kg on Thursday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-prices-on-the-rise/article32586085.ece
12 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore realises predicted SW Monsoon rainfall for August||Coimbatore had, as on August 31, received 49.5 mm rainfall, marginally less than the long-term average. The Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University had predicted that the district would get a similar quantity of rainfall, said its head S.P. Ramanathan. And, it had received the rainfall in seven rainy days. A day with more than 2.5mm rainfall is considered rainy day. Thus far in this year South West Monsoon season, the district had received 156 mm rainfall – 22.5 mm in June, 83.5 mm in July and around 49.5 mm for August. The prediction for the Season that included September as well was 192 mm. Mr. Ramanathan said the Centre had predicted two or three rainy days in September for 35 mm rainfall. The district was likely to receive rainfall in the next few days, he said and added that there was no increase in temperature. The day time temperature at 34 – 35 degree Celsius and night temperature at 23 degree Celsius was normal and in keeping with the long-term average for the district. On the water supply front, the water level in Siruvani stood at 34.87 feet on August 31 as against the full reservoir level of 49.50 feet. On August 31, 2019, the water level was 41.96 feet and the year before on the same day it was 43.63 feet. Water level a concern Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation said the water level continued to be a cause for concern as the Kerala Government had not let the water level touch the full reservoir level and this meant that the city could face water shortage in Summer 2021 if the North East Monsoon was not good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-realises-predicted-sw-monsoon-rainfall-for-august/article32586076.ece
12 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forge to incubate start-ups on post-COVID technologies||Forge Accelerator is one of the four institutions in the country selected by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to incubate start-ups that are working on technologies relevant for the post-COVID period. The Ministry is implementing “Scheme for Accelerating Startups Around Post-COVID Technology Opportunities” through the Software Technology Parks of India. Four implementing agencies have been selected for it, including Forge Accelerator. Forge will incubate start-ups in south India under this scheme. According to Vish Sahasranamam, founder and CEO of Forge, about 40 start-ups across the country are expected to be incubated under the programme. Those that had a proven prototype and had early trials before the COVID spread can apply. The aim is to support start-ups that were hit by the spread of the pandemic and are looking for opportunities with relevant technologies in the post-COVID period. These should be in areas such Information and Communication Technology and digital transformation. Each implementation agency gets about Rs. 10 lakh as operating grant and the selected start ups will be funded in two to three tranches. The last date to apply for the scheme is September 30. Each seletced incubatee will get up to Rs. 40 lakh as grant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forge-to-incubate-start-ups-on-post-covid-technologies/article32586096.ece
12 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Prioritise STs in recruitment of anganwadi workers in ATR’||With the recruitment of anganwadi workers and helpers under way across the State, a tribal rights activist has requested the Coimbatore district administration to prioritise members of the Scheduled Tribes to be recruited for the anganwadis in the limits of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR). “Officials must give priority to the STs beyond the reservation for the anganwadis in ATR,” said activist S. Thanaraj, who is also the State Co-ordinator of Ekta Parishad, Tamil Nadu. Workers and helpers from general category, who were recruited for the anganwadis present within the ATR limits of Coimbatore district, might not understand the customs and practices of the tribal people, which might result in conflict, he argued. The anganwadi employees who did not live nearby would be forced to depend on women from the tribal settlements to reach the anganwadis every day, Mr. Thanaraj claimed. Petitions in this regard were submitted to District Collector K. Rajamani as well as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on September 7, he said. When contacted, an official from the Integrated Child Development Services based in Coimbatore said around 225 applications had been received for the 106 anganwadis in the ATR as on Thursday. “We are receiving applications from everyone and are not discriminating against any community,” the official said. The last date for receiving applications will be September 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prioritise-sts-in-recruitment-of-anganwadi-workers-in-atr/article32586087.ece
12 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Waterway bridges rebuilt near Karamadai railway station||The Salem Division of Southern Railway completed the works of rebuilding two waterway bridges that were over 50 years old on railway tracks near Karamadai railway station here on Thursday. Officials from the Engineering Department in collaboration with Electrical Department (Traction Distribution), Signal and Telecommunication Department and Operating Department and 40 workers were involved in the rebuilding works, official sources said. The waterway bridges would help prevent stagnation of water on tracks during rain. However, as both the existing waterway bridges were made of stone slabs, the officials decided to rebuild it using reinforced cement concrete blocks. As the special train between Mettupalayam Junction and Dr. M.G.R. Chennai Central was the only train that crossed Karamadai Junction every day in the early mornings and evenings, the officials completed the works in about nine hours on Thursday before the train left Mettupalayam at 7.45 p.m., the sources said. The two bridges were under two railway tracks that were about 100 m apart from each other near the Karamadai station. The tracks were linked upon completion of work on Thursday to ensure that the train services were not disrupted, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waterway-bridges-rebuilt-near-karamadai-railway-station/article32586086.ece
12 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special team formed to treat elephant||The Forest Department on Friday formed a special team of veterinarians to treat a male elephant that has been limping around with a swollen left foreleg within the limits of Mettupalayam forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division since March. As per the directions of Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden S. Yuvaraj, four veterinarians led by Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sukumar will tranquilise the elephant prior to the treatment. “We received the orders from the Chief Wildlife Warden [on Friday] to tranquilise the elephant,” Mr. Sukumar said. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh convened a meeting on Friday to decide the course of action, he said. Estimated to be aged 18 to 20, the male elephant was first spotted with the swollen leg in Nellithurai reserve forest area of Mettupalayam forest range on March 25. The nature and cause of the swelling are yet to be ascertained, according to Mr. Sukumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-team-formed-to-treat-elephant/article32586103.ece
12 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMA reviews containment strategy||Commissioner of Municipal Administration (CMA) K. Baskaran on Friday reviewed the Coimbatore Corporation strategy to contain the spread of COVID-19. In a meeting he held with Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, City Health Officer S. Raja and other senior officials, Mr. Baskaran learnt about the steps the civic body had taken thus far, said a release. He learnt about the COVID-19 care centre facilities in place to house asymptomatic persons, the steps taken to meet spike in case, if any, the quality of food provided to persons at such care centres among other things. The officer also sought details of the triage centres that the corporation had established to coordinate issues related to transport to hospitals or care centres the persons who had reported positive, the availability of doctors and paramedical staff at the centres. The release said he instructed the corporation officials to strictly enforce the COVID-19 safety guidelines like maintenance of physical distancing at public places and use of mask. He also asked the corporation’s field staff to use mask, gloves and personal protection equipment to avoid contracting the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cma-reviews-containment-strategy/article32586110.ece
12 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Disinfect shops thrice daily’||Coimbatore Corporation has asked shopkeepers in the city to disinfect thrice daily their premises. In a release issued here on Thursday, Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said commercial establishments, private establishments, eateries and restaurants, bakeries, hair dressers, drug stores and several such establishments should disinfect their premises thrice daily. The release quoting the Commissioner also asked the establishments to maintain visitors’ register. To medical labs, clinics and private hospitals, he said that they should immediately report about persons displaying COVID-19 symptoms or if their pulse oximeter reading was below the 95% mark. It said that such establishments would do well to reach the corporation COVID-19 control room on 1077, 0422-2302323 or 97505-54321.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfect-shops-thrice-daily/article32586109.ece
12 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers welcome relaxations for agri power connections||Farmers in the district have welcomed the announcements by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission on relaxations for agriculture power connections. According to P. Kandasamy, State secretary of Farmers’ Association (apolitical), announcements related to co-owners of wells getting separate power connections and shifting of the free connection anywhere within the State are welcome measures. “We were not able to shift the power line if a farmer sold his land. Now, he can shift the connection to another farm of his,” Mr. Kandasamy said. He, however said, there were issues such as upper ceiling on land holding to get the benefits. “All outdated norms should be removed and any measure should support marginal farmers too,” he said. There were several marginal farmers with less than half an acre agriculture land. They should be supported and encouraged to continue agriculture. The government should make stringent the norms to ensure that free connections were not misused for non-agri purposes and ensure that marginal and small farmers were not affected by the norms, he said. Horticulture crops did not get free connection. The tariff was also high for these power connections. The tariff should be reduced or these farmers should also get free power, he added. According to Padmanabhan, president of Pollachi Vine Vegetable Growers Association, the relaxations related to power connection for co-owners of wells would bring down a lot of hassles that the farmers were facing now. Similarly, name transfer of the free power connection had also become simple. The government should relax the norms further, and ensure that farmers, who sold their land and bought another agriculture land, got the free connection transfer without delay, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-welcome-relaxations-for-agri-power-connections/article32586097.ece
12 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||17-year-old girl dies by suicide||A 17-year-old girl died by suicide in Annur on Thursday. According to the police, the girl’s parents allegedly reprimanded her for excessive usage of mobile phone, following which she took the extreme step. She died during treatment at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital here on Thursday, the police said. Assistance Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-year-old-girl-dies-by-suicide/article32586106.ece
12 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||23-year-old arrested under POCSO Act||The Podanur police on Thursday arrested a youth on charges of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl. S. Vignesh (23) abducted the victim to Palani in Dindigul district, the police said. He was booked under section 366 (Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the Indian Penal Code along with provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-year-old-arrested-under-pocso-act/article32586088.ece
12 September 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||Toll in cracker unit blast rises to 9||The death toll in last week’s explosion at a firecracker unit at Kurungudi near Kattumannarkovil rose to nine with the death of M. Thenmozhi, 32, at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER) in Puducherry on Friday. Sources said that Thenmozhi, who had suffered 70% burns, succumbed to injuries around 2 a.m. on Friday. With this, all the nine women who were present in the firecracker unit during the blast have died. While five women died on the spot, two others succumbed to burns at Kattumanmarkovil Government Hospital. D. Anitha and M. Thenmozhi died at Jipmer. Preliminary investigations revealed that the unit’s licence had expired and it was not renewed. The unit had started operations on September 4 and had brought the explosives without authorisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-in-cracker-unit-blast-rises-to-9/article32586057.ece
12 September 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Inflow rises at Hogenakkal||The inflow at Hogenakkal rose to 12,000 cusecs on Friday, with the increase in rainfall in Karnataka. The week saw a steady increase in the inflow into Hogenakkal, which reached 10,000 cusecs on Thursday and rose by another 12,000 cusecs on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-rises-at-hogenakkal/article32586094.ece
12 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||School to be opened at tribal settlement, says Minister||A school will be opened at Vilankombai tribal settlement and it will be run by the Forest Department, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said here on Friday. The Minister told media persons at Dasappa Goundan Pudur (D.G. Pudur) in Thookanaickenpalayam Block that there were 38 tribal families in the hamlet and a Special Training Centre under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) was being run by a non-governmental organisation. The Minister said Collector C. Kathiravan had recommended opening of educational institutions in the hamlet and the Chief Minister had passed orders for starting the school. On flood waters behind the Gunderipallam reservoir preventing movement of people to the hamlet, Mr. Sengottaiyan said that only based on the population and vehicle flow a bridge could be constructed. The Forest Department wanted to relocate all the families from the hamlet. Earlier, 107 families lived there and the number was now down to only 38, he said. Sources in the Forest Department told The Hindu that 50 cents of forest land had been demarcated for establishing the school and after passing a resolution in the Kongarpalayam panchayat, construction work would begin. The department was already running 20 full-fledged forest schools in the State and the same system would be implemented here, they said. Sources in the Education Department said that depending on the students’ strength, a primary or elementary school would be established at the tribal hamlet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-to-be-opened-at-tribal-settlement-says-minister/article32586079.ece
12 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents suspend protest against opening of Tasmac outlet||After talks with the district administration on Friday, residents of Gandhi Nagar in Sathyamangalam suspended their protest against the opening of a Tasmac outlet near their area and decided to wait for a court judgment on a case related to the issue. The Tasmac administration had planned to open the outlet on the Sathyamangalam–Coimbatore National Highway near the TNSTC depot and offloaded liquor bottles at the outlet. On Thursday, over 100 women gathered in front of the outlet and opposed its opening. A case was also filed in the court. Manager of Tasmac Manimozhi, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Prohibition Enforcement Wing) Shanmugam and Sathyamangalam Tahsildar Ganesan held talks with the protesters, even as they insisted on speaking to the District Collector. The officials sought a day’s time to solve the issue. But, the protesters did not budge and cooked food at the spot and consumed it. They demanded an assurance that the outlet would not be opened at this location. The officials promised to take up the issue with the Collector. Around 10 p.m., the protestors left the spot, but gathered again on Friday. On Friday evening, a section of protesters held talks with Collector C. Kathiravan who said the administration would wait for the court order and that the outlet would not be opened till then. On their part, the protesters said they would not stage the protest till then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-suspend-protest-against-opening-of-tasmac-outlet/article32586102.ece
12 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Suicide prevention helpline||A suicide prevention counselling centre that aims at helping people in distress and deal with suicidal thoughts was launched. The centre, started jointly by Erode District Legal Service Authority, District Police, Olirum Erodu Foundation and V. Sukra Psychiatric Counselling Centre, was inaugurated on September 10. People in distress can call the toll free number 90955-00955. Deepthi Arivunithi, Principal District Judge and Chairperson of District Legal Service Authority, inaugurated the toll free number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suicide-prevention-helpline/article32586077.ece
12 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Repair work of additional gasifier on at Thathaneri||Madurai Corporation is repairing an additional gasifier and renovating the premises of Thathaneri crematorium, one of the two crematoriums in the city. A Corporation engineer said the additional gasifier, which is being restored, was dysfunctional for the past five years. “The single gasifier was overburdened because of a steady flow of COVID-19 cases round-the-clock. This prompted the civic body to repair the other gasifier,” the official said. Concurring with this viewpoint, a staff at the crematorium, said that a couple of months back the gasifier was working continuously as COVID-19 deaths were higher then. “Due to overheating, the chimney was rendered unfit for usage, and it was later replaced,” he said. Currently the workload has reduced comparatively as COVID-19 deaths have also come down. “On an average, around 10 bodies of both COVID-19 victims and others are cremated now. But, the gasifier, which is highly damaged, needs restoration work. Hence, there is a need to expedite the repairing of the additional gasifier,” he added. The additional gasifier is being placed as a separate unit on the premises. In addition, the Corporation is constructing two bathrooms - one each for men and women, on the premises. “This will help all those who come to perform the last rites at the crematorium, as currently people have to use the private pay-and-use bathrooms outside the crematorium,” said V.P. Manikandan, a social worker who helps in last rites of abandoned elders. Paver blocks are also being laid within the premises to prevent water logging inside the crematorium, said the official. City Engineer S. Arasu said the renovation work is likely to be completed by this month-end. Apart from these amenities, there is also a need to place benches and chairs in the crematorium for those who come to perform the last rites, said Mr. Manikandan. “It will also be useful if a helpline is launched so that the residents can directly contact the crematorium staff,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repair-work-of-additional-gasifier-on-at-thathaneri/article32586359.ece
12 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘File status report on probe into Poolankurichi incident’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State to file a status report on a public interest litigation petition that sought a probe by the District Crime Branch in Poolankurichi incident in Sivaganga district, in which a gang had attacked a couple following an altercation. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State to file the status report on the PIL petition filed by advocate P. Rathinam, who also sought appropriate compensation for the couple. The case was adjourned till September 22 for filing of the status report. The petitioner said that one S. Senthil was beaten up by one P. Prakash and three women. Mr. Senthil and his wife sustained injuries in the attack. Mr. Rathinam said that it was only after the intervention of retired Madras High Court Judge A. Selvam that Mr. Senthil and his wife received proper treatment at a government hospital and the police agreed to look into the issue. However, nothing much happened thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-status-report-on-probe-into-poolankurichi-incident/article32586349.ece
12 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||136 fresh cases reported in Tirunelveli||Tirunelveli recorded the highest number of fresh cases with 136 patients that took the district’s tally to 10,910 and 1,124 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals after 104 persons were discharged on Friday. Kanniyakumari’s tally moved up to 10,738 as it added 123 new cases and hence the number of active cases rose to 785 after 117 patients were discharged. After showing signs of recovery, Thoothukudi’s tally increased to 12,167 with the addition of 101 fresh COVID-19 cases. After 99 patients were discharged from the hospitals, the district had 710 active cases. Tenkasi reported 50 new cases that took its tally to 6,142 and the number of active cases to 563 even as 151 cases were discharged from hospitals. While Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts did not witness any death on Friday, Kanniyakumari lost a patient to the viral infection that took the district’s fatality to 206. Fifty-one people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Friday. The tally of cases rose to 15,169. None of the cases were imported, according to the State Health bulletin. With 93 persons discharged from the district's COVID-19 treatment facilities, the total number of discharged rose to 13,850. The total number of active cases on Friday was 948. Two persons succumbed to the virus on Sunday, raising the death toll to 371. Theni has 85 new cases of COVID-19 patients admitted in hospitals with which the tally moved to 13,605. There were 99 discharges from the hospitals. Dindigul reported 47 new cases and the tally moved to 7,728. The hospitals had discharged 152 patients after recovery on a single day, according to the state medical bulletin. Ramanathapuram had 10 new cases admitted to the hospitals taking the tally to 5,142. There were no discharges from hospitals. Sivaganga had 25 new cases and the tally stood at 4,424. The hospitals had discharged 45 people after treatment. Virudhunagar district registered 31 fresh positive cases that took the number of positive cases to 13,607. With 102 patients having got discharged from various hospitals, the total number of discharge till date stood at 12,933. This has left 472 active patients in the district. The COVID-19 death toll in Virudhunagar district stood at 202 with the death of a man, aged 65 years, at Virudhunagar Government Medical College hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/136-fresh-cases-reported-in-tirunelveli/article32586354.ece
12 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mexican gets life term for murder||The Mahila Court here has sentenced Mexican national Martin Manrique to life imprisonment for the murder of his ex-girl friend and compatriot Cecile Denise Acosta in 2012. The two had quarrelled over the custody of their five-year-old daughter that led to the woman’s death. Sessions Judge G. Ilangovan imposed a fine of Rs. 5000 on Manrique. It was said that in a bid to mislead the police, he had filed a complaint that his ex-girl friend was missing after murdering her. At the time of the incident, Manrique was pursuing research in Mathematics at Kalasalingam University in Virudhunagar district. On the other hand, Acosta was learning Mohiniyattom at Kerala Kalamandalam Deemed University for Art and Culture, Thrissur district, Kerala. It was said that the two had a quarrel over the custody of the child and in the quarrel Manrique killed Acosta. In a bid to dispose of the body, he stuffed it in a travel bag and abandoned it. The body was found partially burnt. A special team was formed to solve the case. According to an official of the team, it was said that Acosta had planned to marry a person living in France and wanted to take her daughter along. This could have annoyed Manrique leading to the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mexican-gets-life-term-for-murder/article32586342.ece
12 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||TANGEDCO employee gets one more chance to clear Tamil test||Coming to the aid of a TANGEDCO employee, discharged from duty for failing to clear the mandatory Tamil examination, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Corporation to give him one more opportunity to clear the test. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Jaikumar of Periyakulam in Theni district, who joined service as Junior Assistant (Accounts) in 2018. Since he did not study Tamil in school, he was asked to clear TNPSC’s Tamil test within two years. The petitioner, who took up the examination only in January 2020, failed to clear it. Hence, he was issued a show-cause notice and subsequently discharged. Therefore, he sought reinstatement. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that in Tamil Nadu, Tamil was the official language and all government communication was in Tamil. Admittedly, TANGEDCO also adopted Tamil as the language of administration and communication. Every employee of the Corporation must know Tamil, without which it might be difficult for them to cope with administrative exigencies. Though the petitioner had shown lethargy and disinterest in qualifying in Tamil, if his service was terminated abruptly, it would have an impact on his career, the judge said. In order to balance the convenience of both sides without compromising on the essential condition, the court said, the petitioner should be given one more chance to clear the Tamil examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-employee-gets-one-more-chance-to-clear-tamil-test/article32586365.ece
12 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bharathi remembered||People from different walks of life garlanded the bust of poet Subramania Bharati, on his death anniversary, at Sethupathi Higher Secondary School here on Friday. Headmaster K.S. Narayanan said usually competitions were held for school students to commemorate the death anniversary. “But, since the school is not functioning owing to COVID-19 pandemic, only the public garlanded the statue,” he said. Bharati joined the school as a Tamil teacher on August 1, 1904. He worked for a monthly salary of Rs. 17.80. Arasan Shanmuganar, a Tamil pundit, went on a long leave and he was the one who recommended the appointment of Subramania Bharati to fill up the vacancy, said Mr. Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathi-remembered/article32586352.ece
12 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fall proves fatal for Head Constable||A police head constable, Maharajan, 42, who had an accidental fall while trying to tie the rope in the flag mast for hoisting the national flag on August 15, died on Thursday night. Police said Maharajan, who was the station writer at Melavalavu police station, had been in medical leave since then. “He had climbed up the pole and tried to insert the rope in the hook atop it. However, the mast broke and he fell down from a height of 10 feet and fractured his leg,” a police personnel said. Without proper food intake, he lost weight considerably and his health condition deteriorated on Thursday night and was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital. However, he died on the way. Police personnel recalled that the 2002-batch constable was very active and sincere and took up greening activity in his village, Kallampatti . Maharajan is survived by his wife and three minor children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fall-proves-fatal-for-head-constable/article32586355.ece
12 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Competitions for students of Classes 6 to 12||Gandhi Memorial Museum and Government Museum, Madurai, are jointly organising competitions for students of Classes 6 to 12 in commemoration of Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary. According to a press release from the museum, drawing and essay writing competitions will be held for students. For students from Classes 6 to 9, the topics for drawing competition are peace or religious harmony. For students from Classes 10 to 12, the topics for drawing competition are ‘Sarvodaya’ or sovereign rights. For students from Classes 6 to 9, the topics for essay writing competition are ‘Interesting life events in Mahatma Gandhi’s life’ or ‘Principles and philosophies of Mahatma Gandhi.’ For students from Classes 10 to 12, the topics for essay writing competition are ‘Social thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi’ or ‘Gandhian principles and natural lifestyle.’ The student’s name, school’s name and their contact number must be mentioned. Students can either submit their essays and drawings directly at the museum or send it to the museum through post. Students will be allowed to submit their entries till 5 p.m. on September 21. The winners will be given prizes at Gandhi Memorial Museum on October 2 by following all safety precautions, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/competitions-for-students-of-classes-6-to-12/article32586337.ece
12 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Government staff who received COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals wait for medical reimbursement||Some of the government employees who paid for their COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals have not been reimbursed under Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, said Tamil Nadu All Government Employees Federation. Its representative S. Jayarajarajeswaran told The Hindu on Friday that at least six employees and their family members who contracted COVID-19 were denied treatment at reputed private hospitals in Madurai unless they paid money upfront even after they produced identity cards and documents to show eligibility under the CMCHS. Later the hospitals did not file for claims too. K. Chinnaponnu, a village health nurse, who contracted COVID-19 recently, said government employees were putting themselves at risk every day and working long hours to ensure that public service goes uninterrupted. “I still have body ache and exhaustion. Since I was treated at Government Rajaji Hospital, fortunately I was saved from the mental trauma of paying huge bills in a private hospital. But some of my colleagues who opted to get treatment at private hospitals have accumulated debts and are in deep trouble. The district administration must take stern action against those private hospitals that have not filed the insurance claims of the employees in accordance with the government order,” she said. A public health official said they will receive written complaints from the affected employees on Monday and take action on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-staff-who-received-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals-wait-for-medical-reimbursement/article32586356.ece
12 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Held for bid to exchange demonetised foreign currency||Eight persons, including a woman, were arrested by the Thilagar Thidal police here on Wednesday on charges of attempting to exchange demonetised currency notes from Brazil. It is said that a special team from Thilagar Thidal police station (crime wing) detained a person, identified as Karunamurthy of Thiruthuraipoondi in Thanjavur district near RMS Road. Interrogation revealed that he had come here to exchange foreign currency notes of higher denomination and a contact had directed him to wait near Periyar Bus Stand. The police team waited in the specific location and secured other suspects also. It came to light that his accomplices had promised Karunamurthy that they could convert the demonetised foreign currencies. “These notes, used in Brazil in the 1970s, are no more in circulation. However, these people were trying to cheat someone by exchanging these demonetised notes,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad said. Eight detained The names of the persons detained were given as Rajendran of Arantangi; Thirumavalavan of Sivaganga; Mahalakshmi of Chokkalinga Nagar in Madurai; Dharmaraj of Peraiyur; Pandian of Theni district; and Ramar and Udaykumar of Udumalpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/held-for-bid-to-exchange-demonetised-foreign-currency/article32586341.ece
12 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Thief held||The police have solved a burglary case with the arrest of N. Ganesan (20) of Andalpuram and recovered gold and silver articles. They said that over seven sovereigns of gold ornaments and two silver lamps were stolen from the locked house of J. Stalin (32) of Ramalinga Nagar on August 29. They found that Ganesan, who was imprisoned in connection with three theft cases, came out of jail on bail on August 10 and indulged in the burglary. Stolen goods recovered Sellur police have arrested two gangs and seized 10 stolen motorbikes. They said that a team, led by Inspector Kottaisamy, intercepted suspects during a vehicle check. While two juveniles confessed to have stolen two motorbikes, another two, S. Deepak (22) and O. Naveenkumar (24) of usilampatti, admitted that they had stolen eight motorbikes. The police have recovered the stolen vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thief-held/article32586348.ece
12 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Butterfly count from September 14||The Green Club of The American College will conduct webinars and competitions and a butterfly survey, as part of the Big Butterfly Month celebrations. The college is among 50 organisations across the country, which will conduct the events.According to a release, butterflies are an important biodiversity indicator. But they are under severe threat and their numbers have sharply declined. Hence, the butterfly count is essential to understand the effect of climate change on the species. It will also help in understanding important trends so that a plan can be formulated to protect the species. The butterfly count will take place from September 14 to 20 at parks, school grounds, gardens, forests and fields. The participants must download one of the three Apps - iNaturalist, ifoundbutterflies and India Biodiversity Portal - and start uploading the pictures of the butterflies. E-certificates will be given to participants. Forms can be obtained by calling 94433 94233 or mailing toacgc1881@gmail.com, said the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/butterfly-count-from-september-14/article32586362.ece
12 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||37 exam centres for NEET in Madurai||National Eligibility-cum Entrance Test (NEET) will be held at 37 centres in Madurai district on Sunday. P. Hamsapriya, the Academic Director of Mahatma Group of Schools, who is also the city coordinator for NEET, said 15,033 students from Madurai have registered themselves to write the exam. All the centres have been equipped to follow the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the government, in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-exam-centres-for-neet-in-madurai/article32586357.ece
12 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Four held for stealing truck||The Namakkal police on Thursday arrested four persons for stealing a truck near Rasipuram here. According to the police, a lorry owned by Buvaneshwara Boopathi near Rasipuram was stolen in August. During a vehicle check near Andalur gate on Thursday, the police arrested Vignesh from Tiruppur and Mahalingam from Salem. On inquiry, theyconfessed to the crime and their accomplice Raju and Venugopal from Tiruppur were arrested and the lorry was recovered. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-stealing-truck/article32586093.ece
12 September 2020||PARAMAKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Leaders pay homage to freedom fighter Immanuel Sekaran||Leaders of various political parties paid floral tributes to freedom fighter and Dalit leader Immanuel Sekaran at the memorial on the occasion of his 63rd death anniversary here on Friday. Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar and Adi-Dravidar Welfare Minister V. M. Rajalakshmi, former minister and DMK leader Tamilarasi, former MP Bhavani Rajendran, Ramanathapuram MP K. Nawaz Kani, MLAs from the Congress, AIADMK, DMK and various political parties and others paid tribute. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Ramanathapuram Range) N. M. Mylvahanan said that those who had got permission from the district administration paid tributes. The police were present at all vantage locations. There was no untoward incident and around 75 vehicles crossed the check posts.. The use of five hi-tech foldable micro drones, each weighing 900 grams for surveillance and crowd management, was very useful, the police said. “There was no big crowd due to the lockdown. Drones designed and developed by Anna University worked with precision. Trained by the Centre for Aerospace Research, a team from the university, about 10 TN Commando Police personnel from Chennai monitored the operations from a specially-installed control room here,” said K. Senthil Kumar, Director Department of Aerospace Engineering, Anna University. Ramanathapuram Collector K .Veera Raghava Rao said  the event passed off peacefully. Elaborate arrangements have been made for visitors to reach the memorial from other districts. Only those who had got permission were allowed to come in their registered vehicles. There were about nine executive magistrates and another 40 sector magistrates monitoring the movement with the presence of 3,960 police personnel. Fire tenders and emergency ambulance services were kept ready. E. Sundari Praba Rani, a family member, told the media that the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should ensure that the government observes a memorial day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leaders-pay-homage-to-freedom-fighter-immanuel-sekaran/article32586053.ece
12 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||VCRC working on cross-breeding of mosquitoes to curb dengue||Scientists at the ICMR-Vector Control Research Centre (VCRC) are working on cross-breeding new generations of mosquitoes with a specific bacteria that will render them incapable of transmitting dengue among humans. VCRC scientists have bred vectors injected with Wolbachia, an endo-symbiotic bacteria that naturally occurs in 60% of the insects and inhibits infection and transmission of dengue from the bacteria-hosting mosquitoes. The eggs of the vector aedes aegypti were injected with the bacterium supplied by Monash University in Australia. The cross-bred local strains will be released into the field strictly under regulatory conditions set by the Government of India. Biosafety of this technology was being evaluated to secure the approval of regulatory bodies for this method. “We have crossed 25 generations of local strains of mosquitoes from the progeny race and are moving towards getting regulatory approvals for the pilot release of Wolbachia harbouring vectors into the community next year,” Ashwani Kumar, VCRC Director, told The Hindu . And the benefit of the experiment could be three-pronged as it would target three major killer diseases transmitted by the Aedes species, namely dengue, zika disease and chikungunya, he said. The VCRC has developed and maintains at its insectaria colonies of two strains of aegypti carrying Wolbachia — wMel Aedes aegypti (Pud) and wAlbB Aedes aegypti (Pud). Genetic codes The colonies of these strains, which do not undergo any change in genetic codes while gaining the ability to inhibit the virus, would be released in controlled volumes from stations to mix and mate with regular aedes mosquitoes, and in the long run outnumber the native species. “The colony proportion released on a weekly basis from release stations within a square kilometre would be determined by the vector population in the area,” Dr. Ashwani Kumar said. At present, Wolbachia in Aedes aegypti has been shown to inhibit the replication and transmission of dengue virus. The Wolbachia harbouring Aedes aegypti strains are being tested in different countries for their potency to establish in nature and control dengue. The cross-bred carrying Aedes aegypti mosquitoes have been released in small-scale field trials in Australia, Brazil, Columbia, Indonesia and Vietnam. Largescale citywide field trials have been conducted in Yogyakarta city in Indonesia, Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, and Medellín in Colombia. “The reduction of dengue incidence in some places, where the Wolbachia hosting mosquitoes overwhelmed native vectors, has been an astonishing 70%-95%,” Dr. Ashwani Kumar said. The WHO Vector Control Advisory Group recently recommended Wolbachia-based control of aedes -borne diseases as one of the biological control methods. Why Wolbachia? According to VCRC scientists, there is neither a specific drug for treating dengue nor an effective vaccine. Controlling the vector mosquito is the only option to prevent transmission of this disease. Use of chemical insecticides, biological control agents and prevention of mosquito breeding are the methods of vector control. However, these measures have yielded only a limited success in reducing the number of dengue cases not only in India but also in other countries. Environmental sanitation – “source reduction” – is the best method, but is not always feasible in all situations, S. Sabesan, senior consultant at VCRC, pointed out. “At present, there are too few studies on whether a similar strategy would work on the anopheles species, which are vectors of malaria,” the Director said. Even if immediately successful in reducing incidence of dengue, the work does not end for VCRC scientists. “We need more long-term studies to see if the Wolbachia presence sustains or declines over a period of time before the project can qualify as a sustainable success,” Dr. Ashwani Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vcrc-working-on-cross-breeding-of-mosquitoes-to-curb-dengue/article32586380.ece
12 September 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Notice served on Kiran Bedi, officials||Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K. Lakshminarayanan has served a notice on Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi and five senior officials, including Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, accusing them of committing contempt of court by “blocking” Cabinet decisions, violating a Madras High Court order. He alleged that they had shown “disobedience” to the court order directing the Administrator (Lt. Governor) and Chief Minister to work in unison to promote cooperative federalism. In his notice, Mr. Lakshminarayanan stated that Ms. Bedi and the officers showed “utter disregard and disrespect to the judgment of the High Court and have wilfully committed grave disobedience to the judgment”. Citingthe order by the Division Benchof the Madras High Court on March 11, 2020, the Parliamentary Secretary said the administrator has to act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers in respect to all matters on which the Legislative Assembly has powers to make laws. The Lt. Governor could refer subjects in which there were differences of opinion with the council of ministers to the President. The court had observed that the Lt. Governor, on her own, cannot outright reject a proposal or direct the authorities to act otherwise, he said, citing the order. Mr. Lakshminarayanan said the court had made it clear that the Lt. Governor could interact with officials only in respect of subjects having a difference of opinion, with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. “In spite of the judgment, you have been blocking implementation of several schemes, decisions of the cabinet, neither implementing nor referring to the President, repeatedly resorting to returning the files with wilful queries and other tactics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/notice-served-on-kiran-bedi-officials/article32586054.ece
12 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G to resume open house||The Raj Nivas will resume Open House sessions from September 14 via WhatsApp video calls. Those who wish to air their grievances may register between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. by calling Raj Nivas on 0413-2337144, 0413-2334050 and 0413-2334051.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-to-resume-open-house/article32586056.ece
12 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T.’s COVID-19 tally touches 19,026, toll 504||Puducherry’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 19,000-mark on Friday with the detection of 504 new cases, even as 12 more deaths raised the toll to 365. All deaths occurred in Puducherry, and the patients belonged to the 40-88 age group. The toll in the capital alone is now 311, followed by Yanam (34) and Karaikal (20). “Health teams have been told to focus on facilitating early hospitalisation of sick patients as late reporting is an important cause for mortality,” Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. New cases were detected from testing 2,823 samples. The Puducherry region accounted for 438 cases followed by Karaikal (35), Yanam (27) and Mahe (four). A total of 394 patients were discharged in 24 hours. The fatality rate was 1.92%, and recovery rate 72.44% in the Union Territory. The figures for Puducherry so far are: 365 deaths, 4,878 active cases, 19,026 cases and 13,783 patients discharged. As many as 92,904 samples were tested so far, of which 71,196 turned out negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uts-covid-19-tally-touches-19026-toll-504/article32586381.ece
12 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||665 samples taken at camp||A total of 665 samples were drawn at a COVID-19 testing camp held at Mettupalayam industrial estate. It was carried out by a team of volunteers from the Mahatma Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Dental Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/665-samples-taken-at-camp/article32586378.ece
12 September 2020||S. SundarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Police stations to be set up in Tiruppalai, Mattuthavani||After Home Department sanctioned two new police stations for Tiruppalai and Mattuthavani in February, Madurai City police have set in motion the process for establishing them. The State government has sanctioned both the stations as medium-type police stations that will have a sanctioned strength of 50 police personnel, with one Inspector of Police. While heavy stations would have 80 police personnel, light stations would have 30 police personnel. Police officials said that while draft proposal for the jurisdiction of both the police stations has already been prepared, final call on the jurisdiction was yet to be taken. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that sanction from Director General of Police for the two new police stations is awaited. However, the Commissioner has instructed the officials to identify rented buildings for the new stations and prepare the jurisdictions of the stations along with maps. Bifurcation, addition The City police had proposed to bifurcate Tallakulam police station with the new Tiruppalai police station. However, some areas of K. Pudur police station would also be added to the new station. Similarly, some portions of Tallakulam police station has also been proposed to be given to Mathichiyam and Anna Nagar police stations, upon bifurcation of Anna Nagar police station with the proposed Mattuthavani police station. Initially, officers and men for the new police stations would be drawn from the existing strength of the city police, till additional strength is sanctioned. Officials are also instructed to prepare a plan for getting vehicles, furniture and other infrastructure for the new stations.  Officials have been instructed to prepare the jurisdictions of the stations along with maps  Prem Anand Sinha Commissioner of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-stations-to-be-set-up-in-tiruppalai-mattuthavani/article32586350.ece
12 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water bodies fill up as rain lashes Salem||Several water bodies filled up in the heavy rain that lashed Salem on Thursday night. According to officials, an average rainfall of 6.8 mm was recorded in the district and the highest rainfall of 44.6 mm was recorded in Salem city. Several water bodies filled up in the rain and surplus water from the Salathampatti lake inundated roads and residential areas in Shivadhapuram. The Corporation officials said drains in the area were being desilted to drain the rainwater. Public Works Department officials said water level at Mettur dam was 91.89 ft against the full reservoir level of 120 ft. T he storage was 54,837 tmcft. The dam received an inflow of 10,045 cusecs. Outflow from the dam to River Cauvery was maintained at 6,000 cusecs, and 700 cusecs was released through East-West canal of the dam. The dam area recorded 4.8 mm rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-bodies-fill-up-as-rain-lashes-salem/article32586092.ece
12 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Rs. 1.8 crore recovered from ineligible accounts’||District Collector S.A.Raman said on Friday that the process of recovering money transferred to ineligible beneficiary accounts under PM- Kisan Nidhi scheme was continuing and Rs. 1.8 crore had been recovered till date. “Based on information that there have been irregularities, over 18,000 farmer accounts were verified and about 10,000 accounts were found to be that of ineligible beneficiaries. About 175 teams including banking, revenue, agriculture and horticulture staff has been formed to recover the money transferred to these accounts. A sum of Rs. 6 crore has to be recovered, out of which Rs. 1.8 crore has been recovered. On Thursday, Rs. 25 lakhs was recovered,” he said. If any of these accounts did not have the entire amount that was credited, the deficit is taken from the ineligible beneficiary, credited to the account and then recovered as an entire sum, he explained. Mr. Raman said private computer centre operators had been involved in the scam. Two persons who had been arrested in Salem had provided details of 10 suspected persons to investigating officials .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-18-crore-recovered-from-ineligible-accounts/article32586099.ece
12 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Yercaud foothills, Kurumbapatti park become butterfly hotspots||Butterfly enthusiasts have identified close to 150 butterfly species at Yercaud foothills and Kurumbapatti zoological park area. As part of their observation in the vicinity of the park and at the foothills, they have spotted a significant population of butterflies and observed that the areas have become hotspots for butterflies. Though an official survey of butterfly species in the region has not been done yet, District Forest Officer R. Murugan said a photographic documentation was being done and species visiting the region were documented with the support of a non-governmental organisation. N. Murugesh of Salem Nature Society here said availability of host plants could be one of the major reasons that led to a significant population in the area. The Society members said that during the migration ahead of Southwest monsoon, they recorded species like Blue tiger, Dark Blue Tiger, Common crow and Double branded crow migrating towards the Eastern Ghats from Western Ghats. M. Elavarasan, a butterfly enthusiast and a member of the Society, said Yercaud foothills and the Kurumbapatti park had become butterfly hotspots and any time one could find 40-50 species there. Lack of human disturbance could also be the reason for significant butterfly population, he added. M. Parthipan, biologist at the Kurumbapatti park, said that over 40 species had been recorded at the butterfly garden in the park. He said there had been a considerable increase in butterfly population in the area compared to last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yercaud-foothills-kurumbapatti-park-become-butterfly-hotspots/article32586083.ece
12 September 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Lorries seized with sand||The Kallal Police seized sand laden lorries and other heavy equipment from a gang on Thursday night. They said that following the Madras High Court Bench directive, surveillance on sand mining had been intensified. They seized the lorries. The VAO has lodged a complaint. Patrolling teams have been entrusted with the task of monitoring movement of lorries during odd hours throughout the day, especially along the Vaigai bed and near check posts. In some locations, the police have been patrolling with revenue and mines officials. Special control room had been opened at the Collector’s office and the Collector J Jayakanthan has been directly supervising seizures on a daily basis. Superintendent of Police Rohith Nathan has instructed all sub-division officers to be alert and register cases against sand miners and seize vehicles. Habitual offenders may have to face stern action as well. Recently, a policeman in Theni district was arrested after he was allegedly found to have connived with a sand mining gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorries-seized-with-sand/article32586343.ece
12 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA scholarship||SASTRA Deemed University has announced a scholarship named after Dr. T. Sitaraman. The scholarship will be given to a student of Thanjavur who has secured a seat in any government medical college. The tuition and hostel fees of the student would be borne by SASTRA under the scholarship. If there were many competitors, the candidate with the maximum score in NEET will be awarded the scholarship, a SASTRA communication said, recalling the selfless service rendered by Dr. Sitaraman and his contribution towards eradicating leprosy in Thanjavur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-scholarship/article32586398.ece
12 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Excavated artefacts displayed||The artefacts recovered during the excavation of ancient civilization sites at Sivakalai and Aditchanallur by the State Government’s Department of Archaeology were displayed. Commissioner for Archaeology T. Udhayachandran visited both sites on Friday to ascertain the progress of ongoing work that commenced on May 25 along with excavations in Aditchanallur near Srivaikundam in Thoothukudi district. The excavators comprising 20 officers from the Department of Archaeology and research students have so far recovered more than 100 ancient articles including burial urns, terracotta stand for pots, human jaw with teeth, iron rods, Tamil-brahmi scripts inscribed on broken potsherds etc. from 26 pits dug in Sivakalai and 72 pits dug in Aditchanallur. Of the 31 burial urns recovered from Sivakalai, 19 have been opened for collecting the materials including paddy grains kept inside. In Aditchanallur, 24 burial urns have been excavated along with terracotta bangles, terracotta hookah, drainage pipes etc. Mr. Udhayachandan examined the articles recovered from Sivakalai and Aditchanallur even as Director of Archaeology Prabhakaran explained details of excavated articles. Plea for museum Writer Muthalankurichi Kamarasu appealed to Mr. Udhayachandran to publish the findings of Sivakalai and Aditchanallur excavations in 24 languages as it was done for discoveries at Keezhadi and create a permanent museum at the site to display the materials recovered at Sivakalai and Aditchanallur so that the public visiting the sites would appreciate the ancient civilization. In Aditchanallur, Mr. Udhayachandran visited the Pandiaraja Temple hillock and the pits dug in this area where Director of Archaeology Bhaskar explained to him about the progress of the work. A human skeleton which was excavated from one of the pits in Aditchanallur was sent for carbon dating in his presence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excavated-artefacts-displayed/article32586345.ece
12 September 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Artefacts recovered at Sivakalai and Aditchanallur displayed||Artefacts recovered during the excavation of ancient sites at Sivakalai and Adichanallur were displayed during the visit of Commissioner for Archaeology T. Udhayachandran on Friday. Mr. Udhayachandran visited the sites to ascertain the progress of the work that began on May 25. The excavators, comprising 20 officers from the Department of Archaeology and research students, have so far recovered more than 100 articles including burial urns, terracotta stand for pots, human jaw with teeth, iron rods and Tamil-brahmi scripts inscribed on broken potsherds from 26 pits in Sivakalai and 72 in Adichanallur. Of the 31 burial urns recovered from Sivakalai, 19 have been opened for collecting materials, including paddy grains, kept inside. In Adichanallur, 24 urns have been excavated along with terracotta bangles, terracotta hookah and drainage pipes. Director of Archaeology Prabhakaran explained to Mr. Udhayachandan about the excavated articles. Writer Muthalankurichi Kamarasu appealed to Mr. Udhayachandran to publish the findings in 24 languages as was done for the discoveries at Keezhadi. In Adichanallur, Mr. Udhayachandran visited the Pandiaraja temple hillock and the pits dug in the area. A skeleton, which was excavated from one of the pits in Aditchanallur, has been sent for carbon dating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artefacts-recovered-at-sivakalai-adichanallur-displayed/article32586071.ece
12 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Southwest monsoon brings surplus rainfall in central region||All the eight districts in the central region have received surplus rainfall under the Southwest monsoon so far this year Normally, the Northeast monsoon is the main rainfall season for the State but this year the Southwest monsoon has given some reason to cheer for farmers and people of central region. Tiruchi district, for instance, has received 410 mm of rainfall from June 1 till September 11, 118% more than the normal average of 188.6 mm for the period. The rainfall has resulted in an increase in area under cultivation in the region substantially. Yet most of the rain-fed tanks in Tiruchi are yet to get good storage. The rainfall, has however, helped give a wetting and maintain sufficient storage in the chain of system tanks fed by irrigation canals, PWD officials say. According to sources only two of the 112 non-system tanks under the control of the Ariyar Division of the Public Works Department in Tiruchi and Karur districts have filled up so far. But with another 20 days to go in the June-September Southwest monsoon season, officials hope the tanks will get appreciable inflows with more rains this month or during the subsequent Northeast monsoon monsoon. Rainfall in Kolli hill ranges has brought in good inflows to the Alathudayanpatti Periya Eri and Jamberi. Both the tanks in Thuraiyur region of Tiruchi district have filled up. The Jamberi is one of the biggest irrigation tanks in the district and irrigates a fertile belt where the famous seeraga samba rice is grown. Jamberi in Vairichettipalayam village has an ayacut area of about 1,020 acres and has a capacity to hold 72.50 million cubic feet of water. The tank gets a major portion of its flow through an inlet channel branching off from the Ayyaru flowing down the Kolli Hills. The Alathudayapatti Periya Eri, with a storage capacity of 47.55 mcft, irrigates about 325 acres. The tank is fed by a channel branching off the Ayyaru near Puliancholai. The surplus flows from the tank feeds the Chinna Eri in the village. Two other non system tanks in Tiruchi district have 91 - 99% storage while another has about 70% storage. Four tanks have 26 - 50% storage and 18 other tanks have less than 25% storage. As many as 71 tanks of the total 98 non system tanks in Tiruchi district have nil storage. In Karur district nine of the non-system tanks have up to 25% storage and five nil storage. The 112 tanks in the two districts have a combined storage capacity of about 2604.53 million cubic feet of water. Currently, their combined storage is just 298.61 mcft, sources in Ariyar Division indicated. However, officials of the River Conservation Division of the Public Works Department, which maintains the system tanks fed mainly by irrigation canals branching off from the Cauvery river, said that the rainfall had helped maintain sufficient storage in the tanks by providing intermittent wetting and bringing down the demand for water for irrigation from farmers. The 76 system tanks in Tiruchi district have 60 to 80%, an official of the division said pointing out that since water was being released for irrigation they would not reach the full capacity. Water has been released from Vazhavankottai tank in Tiruchi district through the Uyyakondan extension canal to feed about 17 tanks in neighbouring Thanjavur district. Water is also being released in the New Kattalai High Level canal which would feed about 63 tanks in Thanjavur district. The PWD would adopt a turn system in the water release and ensure sufficient storage of about 60% in the tanks before the end of this month, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southwest-monsoon-brings-surplus-rainfall-in-central-region/article32586366.ece
12 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||654 new cases, seven deaths||The central districts on Friday recorded 654 new COVID-19 cases. The region also reported seven deaths- two in Thanjavur and one each in Perambalur, Pudukottai, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. A 90-year-old man suffering from tuberculosis and acute respiratory distress syndrome and a 70-year-old woman suffering from coronary artery disease succumbed to the viral infection in Thanjavur. A 77-year-old man from Perambalur, a 67-year-old man from Pudukottai, a 58-year-old man from Nagapattinam, a 70-year-old man from Tiruvarur and an 81-year-old man from Tiruchi also died of COVID-19. Tiruvarur recorded the highest number of cases among the central districts on Friday. Of the 159 patients who tested positive were patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI) and their primary contacts. Of the 145 patients who tested positive in Thanjavur were a staff nurse from a private hospital, a sanitary worker in Varagoor, a sanitary worker in Kalipuliyur, an education officer in Ammapettai block, various employees of private companies and a teacher at a school in Kumbakonam. Many of the patients who tested positive were patients identified through the various fever camps conducted in the district. Thanjavur, on Friday, crossed the 8000-mark with 8,051 total recorded cases so far in the district. Tiruchi recorded 140 new cases for the viral infection on Friday. This included local index cases and several contacts of patients who had tested positive for the infection earlier. In Pudukottai 109 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among the 109 were local cases with no travel or contact history and patients with respiratory illnesses. Nagapattinam recorded a drop in cases on Friday with 48 patients testing positive for the virus. “Most cases being identified are index cases. While we had been recording an increase in cases due to increased testing,” a senior health official said. In Karur, 27 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among the 27 were residents from Mahalakshmi Nagar, Rayanur and Gandhigramam. Ariyalur recorded 16 new cases for COVID-19. While three hailed from Ariyalur urban and Ariyalur blocks, one hailed from Sendurai, three from T. Palur, one from Andimadam and four from Jayankondam blocks. As on Friday, 31 containment zones were created and barricaded in the district. Ten patients tested positive for the viral infection in Perambalur. Among the 10 were three inter-district travellers, six primary contacts of patients who tested positive earlier and one antenatal mother. While six patients have been admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Perambalur, the remaining have been admitted to private hospitals in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/654-new-cases-seven-deaths/article32586392.ece
12 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements in place for conduct of NEET||Arrangements are in place for conduct of National Eligibility- cum- Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges at 22 centres in Tiruchi, from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on September 13. About 9,500 candidates are to appear for the exam at the designated centres in Tiruchi located in engineering and polytechnic colleges along National and State Highways, to ensure hassle-free accessibility for the students, official sources said. Owing to its vantage location, Tiruchi district accounts for 22 out of 238 centres State-wide. NEET exams are also to be conducted at centres in Thanjavur and Karur. The number of centres has been increased substantially this year to meet the social distancing requirements. The candidates per room has been reduced to 12 from 24 until last year, the sources said. Having completed the briefing sessions for Centre superintendents and Invigilators, NTA City Coordinator C.J. Chacko on Friday briefed observers, drawn from the teaching faculty of State universities and other higher educational institutions on the safety protocol to the enforced. According to trainers, students were able to prepare for the NEET by themselves during the lockdown thanks to the launch of the new mobile app, 'National Test Abhyas' by NTA earlier this year. The App was launched during May by the Higher Education Minister to initiate the registered candidates into high-quality mock tests. NEET aspirants were advised to acquaint themselves with the locations of the allotted examination centre beforehand in order to make sure they do not face any difficulty in reaching the centre, on the day of exam. To avoid crowding at the entrances of the examination centres, candidates have been given staggered time slots for reporting., sources said. Responding to the request made by NTA, the Railways and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation have consented to operate special services for the convenience of the NEET aspirants on the day of exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-in-place-for-conduct-of-neet/article32586390.ece
12 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Aggressive testing, contact tracing reasons for spike in COVID-19 cases’||While large number of COVID-19 cases being reported in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts in recent days is being seen as a cause of concern, officials in the districts say that aggressive testing strategies and contact tracing have led to number of patients testing positive for the viral infection. In Nagapattinam, the spike in cases is due to scaled-up testing, A. Liakath Ali, District Epidemiologist, told The Hindu . Nearly 2,000 throat swab samples were lifted over the last week, especially from contacts of patients who tested positive. “If 10 patients test positive in an area, at least 500 more samples are lifted from the locality,” he said. According to Thursday's bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam had so far recorded 3,716 COVID-19 cases. The patients who are testing positive are predominantly index cases with no history of travel or contacts and primary contacts of those who test positive, Dr. Ali said. A total of 80% of these patients continue to be asymptomatic, he added. The fever camps conducted across the district, especially in remote areas and among high-risk groups has helped in identifying more cases, Dr. Ali added. In Tiruvarur, 90% of the patients who test positive are primary contacts and asymptomatic carriers of the virus, P. Vijayakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services said. These patients are identified through fever camps and door-to-door testing in containment areas, he said. A total of 70 fever camps are conducted on a daily basis across the district from where at least 1,500 nasopharyngeal swabs are lifted a day. At least 500 more swabs are lifted at the seven government hospitals in the district, Dr. Vijayakumar said. Of the 2,000 swabs, at least 100 test positive per day, among which only 10 are patients with symptoms for COVID-19 he added. “When we trace contacts for each of the 100 patients, we trace at least 200 people among whom at least 10 more test positive. A similar pattern is noted among patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). When one patient with ILI symptoms tests positive for the viral infection, seven of their contacts, including family members, test positive. The ratio is one ILI patient to seven primary contacts,” he said. Active contact tracing has helped in keeping the spread of the infection at bay in the district, Dr. Vijayakumar said. The positivity rate is around 7.5% while the death rate is 1.6% in the district. The district has reported 4,816 COVID-19 cases so far and this, he said,was due to focussed contact tracing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aggressive-testing-contact-tracing-reasons-for-spike-in-covid-19-cases/article32586391.ece
12 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Outfits seek jobs for Tamils in Central government offices||A week-long agitation, called by the Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam demanding, among other things, 90 % jobs for candidates of Tamil Nadu in recruitments in Central government offices and undertakings functioning in the State, commenced here on Friday. The stir that lasted nearly an hour was led by the Periyakkam's Tiruchi city secretary Ilakkuvan. The agitators assembled in front of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop at Golden Rock where they staged the stir. They protested the recruitment of a large number of North Indian candidates in the Golden Rock Railway Workshop recently. The outfit’s demand was that only Tamils should be recruited for jobs in Central government offices and undertakings functioning in Tamil Nadu. The organisation claimed that thousands of candidates from Tamil Nadu who had completed Act Apprentice training in railways were being ignored by the railway administration. A section of members of the Tamizhaga Vaazhvurimai Katchi staged a separate agitation in front of the workshop pressing for the same demand. The agitators were led by the party's district secretary Royal Raja. Railway Protection Force and City Police personnel had stepped up bandobust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outfits-seek-jobs-for-tamils-in-central-government-offices/article32586393.ece
12 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New coal-fired loco to roll out in February||A coal-fired steam locomotive, being made at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR), is expected to roll out in February. This is the first time that the over 90-year-old workshop has taken up the manufacture of a coal-fired locomotive, Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram said. The workshop, whose core activities include periodic overhaul of broad gauge diesel locomotives and passenger coaches, had earlier manufactured oil-fired steam locomotives for operation on the scenic NMR section. Work on manufacture of the ‘X’ class coal-fired locomotive has commenced. The boilers and cylinders are to be supplied by private companies based in Tiruchi and Coimbatore. The metre gauge locomotive is being built at an estimated cost of Rs. 8.89 crore. Critical components The loco would be equipped with an all-welded boiler and critical components such as hydrostatic lubricator, mechanical lubricator and ejectors. These components have been developed through reverse engineering from private firms, with technical inputs provided by the workshop personnel. The new locomotive would also have a turbo generator to provide power supply to the cabin and the headlight. The tare weight capacity of the loco’s coal bunker would be 3.1 tonnes, while the capacity of the water tank would be 4,550 litres. The coal bunker would be at the rear side of the locomotive. Better illumination The loco would be provided with modified LED fittings for better illumination. A team of 60 technical personnel is involved in the manufacture of the loco, which would also be fitted with a stainless steel water tank for better reliability. Previously, metre gauge coal-fired steam locomotives were made and imported from Switzerland. The workshop also overhauls oil-fired steam locomotives, which are in operation on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coal-fired-steam-loco-for-nmr-to-be-rolled-out-in-feb/article32586061.ece
12 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Girl ends life||A 20-year-old girl who allegedly consumed poison recently in her house at Neikuppai near Samayapuram in the district and was undergoing treatment died on Thursday. Police said the girl was playing with a child of her neighbour when the mother took away the kid. This is said to have led to a quarrel between the two families. Upset over this, the girl consumed poison. She was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. However, she died. The parents of the girl on Friday urged the police to book a case against the child’s parents for driving their daughter to suicide. The Samayapuram police which had initially booked a case under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure altered it under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) and named the child’s father as accused. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-ends-life/article32586400.ece
12 September 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Second tourist season begins in the Nilgiris||The arrangement of flower pots at the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam marked the beginning of the second tourist season in the Nilgiris on Friday. Officials from the Horticulture Department said more than 2.3 lakh flowering plants had already been planted and grown in the garden in preparation for the second season. More than 140 varieties of plants including dahlias, Inca marigolds, French marigolds, begonias, daisies, calendulas, dianthuses, platycodons, arabises, chrystanthemums, asters, primulas, balsams, cyclamens and geraniums, among others, would be on display at the garden. More than 7,000 potted plants were being arranged in the viewing gallery at the garden. The Nilgiris district administration, in a press release, urged tourists to follow established protocols to control the spread of COVID-19. Officials said that following the opening of the parks and gardens in the Nilgiris earlier this week, various measures, including limiting the number of people allowed into the garden and parks at any particular time, as well as ensuring personal distancing, were being strictly enforced. This year, the summer festival, which drew a huge number of tourists to the district each year, had to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The officials expressed the hope that there would be an influx of tourists to the district during the second season, which began in September and continued into October each year. Monitoring officer for the Nilgiris Supriya Sahu, District Collector J. Innocent Divya, Udhagamandalam Sub-Collector Monikha Rana and Joint Director of Horticulture Sivasubramaniam Samraj were present at the garden to inaugurate the second season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-tourist-season-begins-in-the-nilgiris/article32586090.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 394 COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district saw three COVID-19 deaths and 394 fresh cases on Friday, taking the district's overall tally to 21,233 cases. On Thursday, three men aged 42, 70 and 84 died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, a private hospital in Coimbatore and Government Medical College and ESI Hospital respectively. Officials at ESI Hospital said on Friday that the negative results of all the COVID-19 tests done will be sent as a text message to the mobile number of the patients. The text message will also contain a hyperlink, through which the public may access their full reports online to confirm that they tested negative. Out of the total 21,233 cases, 17,259 have recovered and 3,631 were active cases. Coimbatore district reported 343 deaths in total. On Friday, 550 patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovering from COVID-19. Tiruppur reported 124 COVID-19 cases, taking the total cases in the district to 4,190. The premises of the Tiruppur South Regional Transport Office was closed for fumigation on Friday after an employee tested positive, officials said. No deaths were reported for the second consecutive day. Out of the 4,190 cases, 2,757 have recovered and 1,350 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 83 deaths in total. As many as 107 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals on Friday. As many as 298 cases were reported in Salem. Officials said among the cases, 287 are indigenous. As many as 114 cases were reported in Namakkal, all were indigenous. In the Nilgiris, 90 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 2,218. Of the total cases, ,725 persons have recovered, so far. The death toll has increased to 16. Erode reported 70 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 4,275. A total of 65 persons were discharged on Friday, and 970 persons are under treatment. So far, 54 deaths were reported in the district. Krishnagiri reported 39 positive cases and Dharmapuri 96 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-394-covid-19-cases/article32586111.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn continuing quarantine on Gandhipuram street troubles residents||It has been 29 days since the Coimbatore Corporation erected barricades at the Gandhipuram Fifth Street Extension- 100 Feet Road Junction. The extended restriction on movement has troubled the residents, who say they want the corporation to either offer an acceptable explanation or remove the barricades. The corporation had barricaded the southern side of the Gandhipuram Fifth Street Extension on August 14 after more than 50 employees of a nearby jewellery showroom had tested positive. Soon after barricading the street, the corporation had conducted medial camp and disinfection drive. The street residents, none of who had tested positive after the August 14 incident, drove to the northern end of the road to proceed to various parts of the city. They continued to do so hoping that the corporation would remove the poles and sheets it had used to quarantine the place. And, they had renewed the hopes for almost twice the official quarantine period. It had been over 28 days and the civic body had no credible explanation to offer, rued resident P. Rajendran. There were more than 100 houses and as many commercial establishments. All of them suffered because of the barricade, rued the resident. The residents were forced to use neighbouring street to reach even the bus stop that was right next to the junction. And, using alternative routes was not only cumbersome it was inconvenient as well because of the presence of liquor shops, complained X. Felix, another resident. Mr. Rajendran added that the presence of stockists of computer hardware and electronic goods on the street meant movement of goods carriers. With only one entry and exit, the vehicles added to the traffic congestion in the area. Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam urban district secretary R.R. Mohankumar, who had taken up the issue said he bringing the extended quarantine to the notice of the Corporation Commissioner, assistant commissioner of the zone concerned and even Coimbatore South MLA had not yielded the desired result. The delay in removing the barricade only suggested that there was something more than what met the eye. If the district administration or the corporation did not act, the party would mobilise people to stage a protest, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-continuing-quarantine-on-gandhipuram-street-troubles-residents/article32586108.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Demand for residential rental properties up in Coimbatore||With the lockdown restrictions lifted, demand for residential rental properties is up in Coimbatore. According to C.R. Shiva Kumar, president of Coimbatore Association of Realtors, there are many who are shifting to independent houses. "There is improvement in demand for residential rental properties. People want to shift to independent houses. There is a slight shift in residential rental value too. Another area of demand is farm houses," he said. "But, we do not know how long this trend will last," he added. According to a property consultant here, rental deals are happening, though the time is longer. The demand continues to be high for industrial and warehouse properties. The rental value has also not changed much for this segment. One area that is affected is commercial and retail space, the source said. Mr. Shiva Kumar said many occupiers want to renogiate agreements in the case of commercial and retail spaces. They are asking for rental discount or review of the existing agreement. For warehouse and industrial space, specific corridors have become popular and demand for space in these areas is high. Despite the demand in these verticals, nearly 14 % of the total inventory of rental space is vacant here, say sources. Normally, about 9% will be vacant. Now, another 5% to 7% is vacant, they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-residential-rental-properties-up-in-coimbatore/article32586098.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In cool climes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-cool-climes/article32586101.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Unhygienic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unhygienic/article32586105.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Testing kiosks, mobile units inaugurated||Two Covid-19 testing kiosks, as well as three mobile testing vans were inaugurated in the Nilgiris on Friday. Monitoring officer for Nilgiris district Supriya Sahu, Collector J. Innocent Divya, Udhagamandalam Sub-Collector Monikha Rana, as well as officials from the health department attended the event. The two kiosks have been set up at places where crowds usually congregate, at the main bus stand in Udhagamandalam and Charring Cross. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Sahu said that the purpose of setting up the kiosks was to ensure that people have easy access to testing facilities. “There is no stigma attached to contracting COVID-19, and we hope that people who have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 come forward and get tested for free,” said Ms. Sahu. “We are entering another phase of the pandemic, and it is up to the people to act responsibly and come forward to get tested if they suspect they have COVID-19,” said Ms. Sahu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/testing-kiosks-mobile-units-inaugurated/article32586114.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Deaths were high as patients hurried home’||Referring to criticism that the government had failed to control the spread of the infection, he urged his critics “not to belittle” the hard work put in by officials of various government agencies involved in the fight against COVID-19. He said COVID-19 was a new infection, and there was no medicine for it as of yet. He reviewed the implementation of various people’s welfare schemes in Kancheepuram. According to him, when compared to Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, Tamil Nadu had been efficiently curtailing the spread of the pandemic. Minister for Rural Industries P. Benjamin, Kancheepuram Collector P. Ponniah and Chengalpattu Collector A. John Louis were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deaths-were-high-as-patients-hurried-home/article32586044.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem police launches online portal for personnel||Probably, for the first time in State, the Salem District Police has piloted a project for improving the health and well-being of personnel. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger launched an online portal ‘Health Monitoring System’ where on pilot basis the various health parameters of 50 police personnel would be monitored for six months as part of improving general health and well-being of police personnel. According to sources, 22 women and 28 men have volunteered under the scheme. The aim is to motivate personnel to focus on their mental and physical well-being. Dr. Ganiger said that the portal was developed by J. Krithika, DSP (Training) and the personnel could access their personal data from any place. Ms. Krithika, who is an Computer Science Engineering graduate, said that the portal has been designed in such a way that there would be a time stamp on data entered on to it. Dr. Ganiger said that based on the outcome, they are planning to extend it to other personnel in the force as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-police-launches-online-portal-for-personnel/article32586116.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted in the following areas on September 12.  Narayanavalasu line, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.:  Karupanna Gounder Thottam, Nasiyanur Road, Sanjay Nagar, Manickampalayam Housing unit, Indira Nagar, Nalli Thottam, Vettukattu Valasu, Kaamadhenu Nagar, Manickampalayam, Vakil Thottam, Gandhi Nagar, Sakthi Nagar and Amman Nagar.  Collectorate line, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Perundurai Road, Gandhi Nagar, N.G.G.O. Colony, Muthu Karuppannan Street, Palaniyappa Street, Ramasamy Street, Chinna Muthu Second Street, Teachers Colony, EB Colony, Mohan Kumaramangalam Street, Uzhavar Sandhai, Radhakrishnan Street, New Teachers Colony, Ranalakshmanan Nagar, Kumalankuttai, Selvam Nagar, Geetha Nagar, Sangu Nagar, Pari Nagar, Palayapalayam and Pannai Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32586078.ece
12 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Row over shifting Rani Channamma University||A video statement by the former MLA Sanjay Patil has kicked up a controversy over shifting the Rani Channamma University out of Bhutaramanahatti village near Belagavi. The BJP leader’s statement on Wednesday that the university would be relocated to Hire Bagewadi village in Belagavi Rural constituency that he represented earlier has added political colour to his statement. Congress MLA Satish Jarkiholi, who represents Yamakanamaradi constituency, countered Mr. Patil’s statement saying that the university would not be shifted but it would only be expanding its activities by functioning from two locations. Mr. Patil, in the video released from Bengaluru, said that Revenue Minister R. Ashok had cleared the government’s plans to acquire 70 acres of land in Hire Bagewadi village, with consent of farmers. This needs to be ratified by the State Cabinet, he said. He said that since the Union government had refused to approve of the State government’s grant of forest land to the university, the latter was forced to shift base. “There were reports that it could be shifted to Bagalkot. But the State government has succeeded in retaining the university in Belagavi,” he said. He said that he was very happy that the university was coming to his former constituency. Mr. Jarkiholi, however, countered this saying that the university was not shifting to Hire Bagewadi and that there was no need to panic. “It is only expanding its campus as it does not have enough land in Bhutaramanahatti for development,” he said. The State government had given some funds to the university that would lapse if it could not find any land, he said. University officers, meanwhile, said that the State government has hinted at retaining the administrative block and some academic departments in Bhutaramanahatti while shifting other departments to Hire Bagewadi. “As per University Grants Commission guidelines, the main campus for a multi-domain university should be around 100 acres. We could retain the administrative wing on the 30 acres here and have an academic wing in Hire Bagewadi village where we could get 70 acres,” said a senior officer tasked with administration of the university. Earlier this year, Vice-Chancellor of the university Ramachandra Gowda had sought 200 acres — around 120 acres of government land and 80 acres of private farmland — in Hire Bagewadi and Halagimaradi villages in Belagavi Rural constituency. “Then Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli circulated a note to stakeholders seeking opinions. However, the State government did not approve of this proposal after the Jarkiholi brothers said that the university need not move out of Yamakanamaradi constituency. Now, they have come up with this compromise that the office complex should stay in Yamakanamaradi, while classes can be held in Belagavi Rural constituency,’’ the officer said. University Grants Commission rules say that a university should have a 100-acre contiguous campus. However, it can relax the rules if needed, says Dr. Ramachandra Gowda. University Grants Commission has allowed Delhi University to function from four campuses, Bombay University from three campuses and Bangalore University from two campuses. “If we are given two campuses, we will develop both and create a university of excellence,” he said. Student leader and former university syndicate member Narasimha Raichur, decried party politics on the location of the university. “Politicians from all parties should realise that the university is an asset to the region and its development would help students from across North Karnataka. They should stop playing petty politics over its location,” he said. Dr. Ramachandra Gowda and other officials held a series of meetings with farmers asking them to give up their land in Hire Bagewadi and Halagimaradi villages, after which they issued a jointly signed letter to the Deputy Commissioner offering to sell their land for the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-over-shifting-rani-channamma-university/article32586196.ece
12 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Why did Kumaraswamy not act against drug mafia, asks Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has dismissed Janata Dal(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy’s allegation that money from the drug mafia was used to dislodge his government, as ridiculous. “I feel like laughing at such allegations. Does he mean that the drug mafia was active when he was Chief Minister?” he asked. “What was he doing as Chief Minister then? Why did he not take action to end it [drug mafia]? Was he not listening to Intelligence inputs? Did he or did he not instruct police officers to end the menace?,” Mr. Savadi questioned. “If what Mr. Kumaraswamy is saying is true, then he was unfit to be a Chief Minister. He should realise that,” the Deputy Chief Minister told journalists at the Sambra airport here on Thursday. ‘Not connected’ He reiterated his party’s stand that actor Ragini, who was arrested in a drugs related case in Bengaluru, was in no way connected to the BJP. “She volunteered to campaign for some of our candidates. Several film stars campaign for various parties. It does not mean they are members of those parties,” he said. He brushed aside suggestions that the police would be lenient towards Ragini as she was associated with the ruling BJP. “We are committed to ending the drug menace and taking action against all those associated with it,” he said. Reacting to images of Ragini sharing the stage with several BJP leaders, he said that was no proof that the BJP was connected with the drug mafia. “There are images of some members of the drug mafia posing with Congress leaders D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, and also Mr. Kumaraswamy. That some of them could be involved with members of the drug mafia was known neither to them nor to us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-did-kumaraswamy-not-act-against-drug-mafia-asks-savadi/article32586199.ece
12 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Minister Suresh Angadi tests positive||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi has tested positive for COVID-19. He announced this on his social media handles. He said that he was non-symptomatic but he was following the advice of doctors. He appealed to all those who had come in close contact with him in the last few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms. The leader had left for New Delhi from Belagavi on Thursday. He got tested as a COVID-19 negative report is mandatory for MPs to participate in Parliamentary sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-suresh-angadi-tests-positive/article32586201.ece
12 September 2020||BELAGAVI/ KALABURAGI/ HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police intensify search in North Karnataka districts||The unearthing of a drug racket in the State capital, allegedly involving Kannada film actors, and directions from the State police chief seem to have put the police in various districts on alert as more cases related to narcotic substances are being registered and recoveries being made. While the 1,350 kg haul of marijuana in the northern Karnataka districts, most of it from a “sheep farm” in a remote village in Kalaburagi, was the biggest of them, there have been a series of searches in Belagavi and Hubballi-Dharwad. The police have arrested drug peddlers, users, and some people who were illegally farming the crop. The Belagavipolice have also arrested a group that was into the illicit trafficking of narcotic substances between the States of Goa and Karnataka for years. Most of the substance seized is ganja that was either grown locally or was brought from nearby districts. In Belagavi, the biggest haul has been 120 kg seized from a farm in Suttatti village, near Kudchi. The Khanapur police arrested four persons and seized 100 kg of ganja from them at Jamboti village, where youngsters were trying to transport the prohibited goods from Goa into Belagavi. Another recovery of 18 kg of ganja was made at Mugalkhod village. In a span of one week, the Hubballi-Dharwad police and the Davanagere police have made recoveries of ganja weighing between a few hundred grams to over 5 kg.  The local police in Kalaburagi district, where the raid on the “sheep farm” was conducted by the Bengaluru police, say they had little information about drug peddlers in the region. “In the last five years, we have had barely 25 drug-related cases. It is true that we have very little information on active drug peddlers. This notwithstanding, we are trying to go deeper into the issue apart from intensifying vigilance,” Kalaburagi City Police Commissioner N. Sateesh Kumar told The Hindu . Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George said teams have been formed to speed up searches and investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-intensify-search-in-north-karnataka-districts/article32586011.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. school managements ask parents to be invigilators for online tests||Along with work from home, household chores and monitoring online classes for their children, parents have a new responsibility. With no clarity on when normal academic activities will resume, private school managements have begun conducting online tests for students. They have taken parents into confidence, asking them to don the role of invigilators and ensure that their children do not cheat in the tests. Though teachers will be monitoring the test online, parents have been asked to support them. Many schools have tweaked the nature of the tests to presentations and assignments made online and multiple choice questions. Teachers say this academic year, focus on answering long descriptive questions has reduced. But are parents right for the role? School managements, which are attempting to move away from a marks-based assessment, admit that many “helicopter” parents are found trying to assist their children in answering some of the questions. Gayatri Devi, principal of Little Flower Public School, said that they have no choice but to do the online test. “Students can start the test by entering the OTP and invigilators are monitoring the test. We have, however, found that parents are helping children answer the test. So we are constantly telling parents not to worry too much about marks, and instead focus on the learning outcomes of their children so that the teachers can help them if they have not understood certain concepts,” she said. Dakshayini Khanna, principal of Harvest International School, said that students before the test, she sent a letter to parents requesting them to motivate students for a fair assessment and support in resolving technical issues. “Encourage your child to be honest and sincere. We request you to be the supervisor on the teacher’s behalf. Make them understand that marks do not matter. If they just copy and the teacher feels that they have learnt everything, it is a loss for them. Integrity is the most valued at this time when there is no supervision,” she said in her letter. Manila Carvalho, principal, Delhi Public School (East), said while most unit tests have been multiple choice questions, the mid-term assessment will be subjective and students will have to write descriptive answers. “The teachers cannot monitor all the students. Parents will have to be there as a guard and ensure that students do not indulge in malpractices,” she said. Many parents also feel that their children have not fared well in online tests as it is a new format. “The MCQs have to be answered in 30 to 45 seconds. The question disappears if the student does not answer them quickly. Although my daughter knew most of the answers, she was unable to attempt all the questions,” said Ranjitha S., parent of a class five student.  Encourage your child to be honest and sincere. We request you to be the supervisor on the teacher’s behalf. Make them understand that marks do not matter. Integrity is the most valued at this time when there is no supervision Dakshayini Khanna, principal, Harvest International School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-school-managements-ask-parents-to-be-invigilators-for-online-tests/article32586002.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Study: Link between mothers’ diet and heart function in babies||While it is known that a woman’s diet is linked to the well-being of her baby, doctors from the Department of Paediatric Cardiology at the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences have found that the consumption of a thiamine-deficient post-partum diet is directly linked to heart failure in babies. A diet comprising largely of only white rice can deprive new mothers of this vital nutrient. The doctors studied 250 babies, between 0 and 6 months who showed severe pulmonary hypertension, over a period of six years from January 2013 to November 2019. Evaluation revealed severely elevated pressure in the right side of the heart and the blood vessels of the lungs, which is known as pulmonary hypertension. The doctors found that the life-threatening condition is related to the deficiency of a vitamin in the breast milk of mothers and can be treated with the common, cheaply available vitamin thiamine or Vitamin B1, said C.N. Manjunath, institute director, one of the authors of the study. Of the 250 babies who were admitted, 230 had dramatic and complete improvement and were cured of the disease. The research was recently published in the peer-reviewed ‘Archives of Disease in Childhood’. “We recorded the dietary patterns of mothers and found that polished rice is their staple food. Consumption of polished rice can result in breast milk that is nutritionally depleted. This directly leads to heart failure in newborns. Thiamine was administered and serial echocardiography was performed and 231 babies responded well to thiamine,” said Jayranganath M., one of the lead authors. Usha M.K. Sastry, the other lead author, pointed out that polished rice is aesthetically pleasing for its colour, texture and ease of cooking, but stripped of the nutritious outer layer, which is rich in Vitamin B1. “Strict restrictions are imposed on new mothers for two to three months after childbirth, as part of a dietary tradition, where they are given meals comprising just rice and devoid of dal, beans, legumes, and vegetables. This tradition is common in most parts of Karnataka, and a few parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,” she explained. The doctors said a high degree of awareness and thiamine supplementation in relevant geographical areas is required to tackle this fatal disease. The study has recommended providing new mothers with a diet rich in red rice, parboiled rice, ragi, millets with abundant milk and vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-link-between-mothers-diet-and-heart-function-in-babies/article32586021.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court pulls up advocate for his conduct||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ‘invited’ an advocate to a videoconference hearing to pull him up for sending repeated emails and making phone calls to the Registrar (Judicial) and the secretary to the Chief Justice and using abusive language against them. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi, summoned advocate Jagadish Shastry telling him that it wanted to ‘congratulate’ him for his behaviour. Pointing out to him that the decision on posting every petition and responding to mails is decided based on Chief Justice’s instruction as per the Standard Operating Procedure devised in view of COVID-19, the Bench told him that he could complain to the Chief Justice of India if he had any complaint against the Chief Justice. Apology When the advocate, while apologising for his conduct, said that he had no grievance against the Chief Justice but was upset that a petition had not been posted, the Chief Justice said his conduct discouraged employees of the High Court, who were working under stress when 101 members of the total around 1,200 staff of the court had tested positive for COVID-19. The Chief Justice asked the advocate to find out which High Court in the country was allowing physical hearing of cases in this situation, while pointing out that nine Benches had been designated for physical hearing of cases apart from hearing cases through videoconference. When Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi said that generally advocates didn’t act like that, the Chief Justice agreed with him, saying that by and large advocates were cooperating with the court staff and only a few of them were behaving rudely quite often.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-pulls-up-advocate-for-his-conduct/article32586007.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro services available from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.||Namma Metro services, which came back on track in a phased manner from Monday after a gap of over five months, extended the timing of operations. Trains began operating from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. on both the Green Line and Purple Line from Friday. Peak hour frequency will be of five minutes and non-peak hour frequency will be of 10 minutes. From Monday to Thursday, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) had operated trains for only six hours a day from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., keeping in mind peak commuting hours. Ajay Seth, MD, BMRCL, said that based on the footfall and demand, they would consider increasing the number of trains and also further extend the timings. “For the first few days, we ran trains for six hours a day. Three hours in the morning and three hours in the evening. Now we are running them for 14 hours a day. Depending on the response, we will take decisions on increasing trips or extending the timings,” he said. Before the COVID-19 crisis, Namma Metro services were available from 5 a.m. to midnight (at Majestic). Shankar A.S., Executive Director (Operations and Maintenance), BMRCL, said that the cap of 400 passengers per train would continue. “It has been five days since we have resumed our services. We are yet to reach 400 passengers per train. With the timings extended, we are expecting more ridership,” he said. With the extension in timings, the BMRCL said the rise in ridership is “slow but steady”. On September 7, the first day of resumption of services on the Purple Line, 3,770 passengers travelled in Namma Metro. On September 8, the number went up to 5,031. On September 9, when services on the Green Line also resumed, a total of 14,438 passengers travelled. On September 10, the number went up to 18,925 on both the routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-services-available-from-7-am-to-9-pm/article32585997.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence: 2 cases to be transferred to NIA||The Union government has decided to transfer the investigation in two criminal cases, registered in relation to August 11 incidents of violences in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli localities of the city, to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Karnataka High Court was informed on Friday. A submission in this regard has been made before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of PIL petitions seeking transfer of probe to NIA, payment of compensation for damages caused to public and private properties during the violence, etc. NIA’s Special Public Prosecutor P. Prasanna Kumar told the Bench that a decision to transfer the two cases, in which provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, have been invoked by the city police, has been taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and orders are expected to be issued shortly. Earlier, Advocate General Prabhuling K. Navadgi told the Bench that the Director-General and Inspector General of Police had on September 3 sent an email to the Secretary, MHA, intimating invocation of provisions of the UAP Act as mandated in the Section 6 of the NIA Act. The A-G’s response was to the court’s query made during an earlier hearing on whether the State had informed the Centre on invoking the provisions of UAP Act to as per NIA Act. The statement filed by the government shows that intimation of invoking of the UAP Act was given to Commissioner of Police on August 18 an on the same day the COP had intimated to the DG&IGP, who in turn informed the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) on August 19. However, the ACS (Home) intimated the Centre through e-mail only on September 3 after the HC on August 28 asked government whether the Centre was given the information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-riots-two-cases-to-go-to-nia/article32586008.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP Administrator takes charge||Senior IAS officer Gaurav Gupta took charge as Administrator of he Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Friday morning. His appointment was necessitated with the term of the BBMP council coming to an end on Thursday. Speaking to reporters after assuming charge, Mr. Gupta said he would consult Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, senior officials and former councillors. “The councillors were elected by the people. They know the issues and their opinions matter,” he said. With regard to handling COVID-19, Mr. Gupta said the civic body has already taken up several initiatives to bring down the number of cases. “We will discuss with the government about increasing testing in the city,” he said. Heavy rains have been lashing the city and several low lying areas have been inundated. “The civic body draws up monsoon preparedness plan each year. We will review the situation and take necessary steps,” he added. About the implementation of the budget, Mr. Gupta said he would meet with senior BBMP officials to discuss the budget. “We will ensure that the budget is implemented realistically,” he said. Though the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, mandates conduct of elections before the expiry of the five year term of the council, the elections have not yet been announced. The State government just completed the delimitation exercise and the voters’ list will be revised based on delimitation by November 30. Meanwhile, the State government has constituted a select committee to finalise the BBMP Bill, 2020. The Bill will be placed before the next Assembly session, said BJP MLA S. Raghu, who heads the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-administrator-takes-charge/article32586004.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All residents of BU hostels to be tested||All students of Bangalore University’s hostels in the Jnanabharathi campus will be tested for COVID-19 after two students in the hostel tested positive. Final year undergraduate and postgraduate students returned to the hostels last week as they have to attend revision classes for the final examination slated this month. K.R. Venugopal, vice chancellor, said that the two students who tested positive have been sent to two city-based hospitals. While one student is from Doddaballapura, Bengaluru Rural district, another hails from Jammu and Kashmir. “We are monitoring the health of all students in the hostel. We will get everyone tested and organise mass testing camps,” said Prof. Venugopal. He said they are in touch with health experts and want all students to undergo the RTPCR test as many of them have undergone the antigen test, which is not accurate. Currently, there are around 150 students in the men’s hostel and 120 students in the ladies’ hostel. In the next few days, authorities expect around 200 students will be present in the ladies’ hostel and 300 students in the men’s hostel. After this incident, Prof. Venugopal has said that they want to reduce or keep the theory revision classes in a “low profile” manner while conducting practical classes is “unavoidable”. “We have once again educated them on how to maintain social distancing, wear masks and use sanitisers regularly,” the vice chancellor said. A final year M.A. student told The Hindu that the university had asked all students to get tested for COVID-19 before they come to the campus. “The two students who tested positive gave their swabs for testing and came to the hostel even before their results were out. Although the duo lived in their own rooms, they came in contact with other students in the common dining area,” a student said. Following this incident, Prof. Venugopal said that the university would not allow students in the hostels till they produce a COVID-19 negative test report. The final semester undergraduate examination for Bangalore University students begins on September 12 and postgraduate examination begins on September 28. While the UG students have been attending physical contact classes for revision since September 1, classes for PG students will begin on September 14. Many students are worried after this incident. Some students have decided not to attend the revision classes. “I will attend my practical classes and write the examination. I will not attend the revision classes and put my health at risk,” said a final year M.A. student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-residents-of-bu-hostels-to-be-tested/article32586001.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK meets Yediyurappa to discuss rain havoc||Janata Dal (S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday, apparently to discuss issues related to the havoc caused by rains in constituencies represented by his party’s MLAs. The meeting, which lasted 20 minutes at the Chief Minister’s official residence, has given rise to much political speculation. In recent months, Mr. Kumaraswamy has been seen as being “soft” on the BJP government and has said that his party was not in favour of destabilising the government. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said the rains had damaged a lot of areas, particularly in Dasarahalli constituency which is represented by JD(S) MLA Manjunath. Areas such as Chikkabanavara and Peenya in the city have been severely affected by rains, he said. During his tenure as Chief Minister, Mr. Kumaraswamy had granted Rs. 515 crore for various projects in those areas of the city, but only Rs. 16 crore has been released, the JD(S) leader said. He said he has urged the CM to release more funds to the constituency since several low-lying areas have been flooded, causing damage to houses and public properties. Asked about the ongoing probe into a drug racket, he said, “Let us see whose names will emerge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-meets-yediyurappa-to-discuss-rain-havoc/article32586009.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four held, drugs seized||Four people were arrested and opium and ganja recovered in separate incidents. The Upparpet police on Thursday arrested two persons and recovered 600 grams of opium worth Rs. 2.5 lakh from them. Khader Ahmed, 24, and his associate Gopi Narayana, 24 were arrested from Tulasi Park, which is situated a few yards from the police station. The police are investigating to ascertain the source of the drugs. The Bagalagunte police arrested two persons and recovered 2.1 kg of marijuana from them. Vinay, 24, and Akhil S., 22 were allegedly caught red-handed near Dhobi Ghat road. They told the police they had bought the drugs from a source in Ullala Upanagar. The police are on the lookout for that person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-drugs-seized/article32586013.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Around 27,500 eligible to sit for NLAT today||With the court giving its go-ahead, students can appearfor the National Law Admission Test (NLAT)-2020 on Saturday. This entrance test is the gateway to the five-year B.A. LLB (Hons) programme and one-year LLM programmes at the prestigious National Law School of India University, Bengaluru. According to NLSIU, Bengaluru, 27,500 candidates are eligible to appear for the test. As many as 120 seats are available for B.A. LLB (Hons) and 50 seats are available for their LLM programmes. The test was mired in controversy as the university announced its own test 10 days ago and decided that admissions would not be based on the Common Law Entrance Test (CLAT) scores as there was a delay in conducting CLAT this year because of the pandemic. The Consortium of Law Universities took objection and said if the university did not reconsider its decision, it would be removed from the consortium. Following criticism that the test was “exclusionary” as many students did not have the necessary infrastructure to take the test, the university relaxed the technical specifications and also facilitated access to 35 centres where the test will be held. Meanwhile, the university also released an examination integrity announcement and said that any evidence of exam malpractice would be taken seriously and would result in disqualification. For any assistance, candidates can call 080-47189145. Simulation troubles Many candidates who have registered for NLAT and were to take the simulation test on Friday were unable to log in as they received the email about their test after the test had started. Some candidates said they were not able to login and move past the verification stage. Many candidates also took to social media and posted emails sent by the university after the test had started. One of the candidates said, “I am extremely worried and hope the same thing will not happen tomorrow. If not, I will have to waste an entire year.” Another candidate said that she could not log in as the system did not recognise her face. Many candidates also complained that the proctor did not identify malpractices. However, university authorities said all those who received emails late for the test were given an option to take another simulation test at 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/around-27500-eligible-to-sit-for-nlat-today/article32586017.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. Order on deferring payment of VDA stayed||In a relief to lakhs of employees working in various medium and small-scale industries, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday stayed the execution and operation of the State government’s July 20 order on allowing industries to defer payment of Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) for the period between April 1, 2020 and March 31, 2021. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the interim order while terming the government’s order “ex-facie illegal”. The interim order will be in force till the disposal of the petitions filed by various trade unions. The July 20 order had allowed deferring payment of VDA to the workers falling in the category of scheduled employments identified under the Minimum Wages (MW) Act, 1948, in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises sector in the State. The Bench said that the Government Order did not indicate any “special reason” for exercising the power under Section 26(2) of the MW Act for granting exemption to the industries. It also observed that the July 20 order did not reflect the formation of opinion on the necessity to grant exemption from application of the MW Act. Karnataka Industrial and Other Establishments Employees’ Federation, All-India Central Council of Trade Unions, All-India Trade Union Congress, and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions had questioned the legality of the order. The government, based on representations from the MSMEs seeking deferment of VDA payment citing the financial crisis brought about by COVID-19, had issued the July 20 notification after holding meetings with industry and trade union representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-order-on-deferring-payment-of-vda-stayed/article32586015.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ganapathy case: interim relief for Mohanty||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday stayed a Special Court order of taking cognisance of offence against senior IPS officer Pronab Mohanty for allegedly abetting then Deputy Superintendent of Police M.K. Ganapathy to commit suicide. Justice G. Narendar passed an interim order on a petition filed by Mr. Mohanty, questioning the August 28 order the Special Court to exclusively deal with criminal cases related to elected MPs/ MLAs in the State of Karnataka. The High Court also stayed further proceedings before the Special Court. ‘Taken in violation’ It was contended on behalf of Mr. Mohanty that the cognisance of offence was taken in violation of the mandatory requirement of prior sanction for prosecution of a public servant under Section 170 of the Karnataka Police Act read with Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Special Court had taken cognisance of offence against former Minister K.J. George, and senior IPS officers A.M. Prasad and Mr. Mohanty after rejecting the closure report submitted by the Central Bureau of Investigation, which said that it did not found any material to prove the allegation that the harassment by the three accused forced Ganapathy to end his life. The High Court also ordered issue of notice to M.K. Kushalappa, father of Ganapathy, the CBI, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganapathy-case-interim-relief-for-mohanty/article32586019.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BIAL opens India’s first on-Airport Public Bonded Warehouse||With an aim to make Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) a cargo hub, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) recently opened what is said to be India’s first on-Airport Public Bonded Warehouse, which is expected to reduce supply chain costs and facilitate trade in and around Bengaluru. The facility will help re-export of goods, long-term storage of bonded cargo, assist in partial clearances and allow value-added services such as labelling, packing and re-packing services. The 10,000 sq.ft. warehouse facility will be operated by Cargo Service Centre (CSC) in the jurisdiction of theBengaluru Customs. KIA has the largest air cargo terminal in south India, with a handling capacity of 570,000 MT and an average travel time of nine hours from major manufacturing clusters across south India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bial-opens-indias-first-on-airport-public-bonded-warehouse/article32585995.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 425 crore for Brindavan||Brindavan Gardens at Krishnaraja Sagar in Mandya will be developed as a world-class garden at a cost of Rs. 425 crore, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said on Friday. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said the garden would be developed on a PPP model in four phases. Referring to the Mekedatu project, the Minister said that a proposal of Rs. 9,000 crore was prepared and submitted to the Central Water Commission in 2019. He said the project would lead to the submergence of 5,051 hectares of forest area, including 3,181 hectares of wildlife area. The Union Ministry of Forest is studying the proposal, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-425-crore-for-brindavan/article32586016.ece
12 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic police avert daylight robbery, 2 held||Alert traffic police averted a daylight robbery on the busy Coles Park junction on Thursday. According to the police, the accused, Asif and Tausif, intercepted Joshini, who was riding a scooter, and tried to snatch her handbag. The two were later arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-police-avert-daylight-robbery-2-held/article32585999.ece
12 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||KVGB staff club extends financial help to three meritorious students||The Staff Recreation Club of Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) has extended financial assistance to three meritorious students from poor background. In a simple function at the bank here on Friday, Chairman of KVG Bank P. Gopi Krishna handed over cheques for Rs. 10,000 each to the three students. He said that following reports about the three students that appeared in a section of the media, the Staff Recreation Club of the bank had come forward to extend help to them. Mr. Gopi Krishna also said that the Educational Loan Scheme outlined by the bank was very attractive and aimed at providing financial support to deserving and meritorious students for pursuing higher education in India and abroad. The students thanked the bank for the help and said that support from the media and benevolent donors had strengthened their resolve to study further in pursuit of their goals. General Managers of the bank B.C. Ravichandra and P. Nageswara Rao and General Secretary of Staff Recreation Club Shrikant Hegde and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvgb-staff-club-extends-financial-help-to-three-meritorious-students/article32586203.ece
12 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Transgender community seeks safety||The recent murder of a transgender woman on a footpath in the heart of the city has shocked many. Members of the community are worried about their safety and have urged the police to arrest the accused. The crime was committed on the night of August 24 in front of a private bank on B.M. Road, a few meters away from the police station. The accused had allegedly thrown a brick of cement on the woman’s head and killed her and then raped the body. The incident had received wide attention after CCTV camera footage of the incident went viral. For a couple of days, the police had difficulty ascertaining the identity of the victim. As they got to know that the victim was a transgender, the Hassan police contacted Prakruthi Samudaya Seva Samsthe that works for the community. Varsha Hassan, head of the organisation, told The Hindu, “The police contacted us and we identified the victime as one of our members. She had registered with us and the organisation had provided her benefits including the food kits during the lockdown.” Later the body was handed over to her family in Belur. The victim, around 50, often travelled to Mumbai and Hyderabad. “Her family told us that she left saying she would be going to Mumbai. It seems that on the day she somehow got stuck in Hassan with no bus to reach her destination and decided to sleep on the pavement, where she was later found dead. This incident has only highlighted the difficulties we face. If she had a place to stay, she would have been alive,” Ms. Varsha said. LGBT people face difficulty in renting homes. A few members of the community are staying in a rented house at Mavinahalli, on the city outskirts. The house owner often faces harsh comments from neighbours and the police for renting his house to them. “Our families have sent us out. We struggle hard to lead a life as we don’t get jobs easily. Many of the community people either go begging or do sex work. And, the whole community is blamed for the mistakes committed by a few,” Ms. Varsha said. No arrest The police, following the incident, conducted a drive in Hassan to rehabilitate beggars with no shelter. They were all shifted to temporary shelters. However, there has been no progress with the investigation into the case. The officer said the investigation was going on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transgender-community-seeks-safety/article32586210.ece
12 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Implement housing schemes effectively’||Minister for Housing V. Somanna has appealed to elected representatives and officers to ensure that housing schemes are implemented effectively and without delay. “If the land required for the scheme is made available, his department would release funds,” he said at a review meeting here on Friday. The Union government has decided to provide a roof for all homeless people. The Prime Minister’s Office had called him five times to enquire about the progress of the schemes. “When the Union government is eager to provide funds, we should make better use of it. I wish the elected representatives get the land sanctioned and I will provide funds for house construction,” he said. The State government had planned to construct 5.4 lakh houses. The officers should work hard to meet the target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/implement-housing-schemes-effectively/article32586209.ece
12 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||301 more test positive||The total number of COVID-19 cases reached 11,179 in Hassan with 301 people testing positive on Friday. With one death reported, the number of deaths stands at 242. So far, 8,161 have recovered and 2,776 are undergoing treatment. Of these, 52 are in the intensive care unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/301-more-test-positive/article32586206.ece
12 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||A person allegedly murdered his seven-month-old daughter by drowning her in a bucket at home in Kadur on Thursday. The police took Umashankar, the accused, into custody on Friday. He is an advocate. Umashankar had married Manjula, an employee at the court, a couple of years ago. This is said to be his second marriage. He was not legally separated from his first wife. The couple began having differences on many issues recently. He had apparently expressed that he wanted a son, not daughter. When his wife was at work, he allegedly murdered the baby on Thursday. Based on the complaint filed by Manjula, the Kadur Police arrested Umashankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested/article32586208.ece
12 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University to take final semester exams closer to students||With final semester examinations of undergraduate and post-graduate courses scheduled to start on September 15, Mangalore University is virtually taking the examinations on the doorsteps of students this time in the face of the COVID-19 situation. Students from outside who cannot take to the examinations for 2019-20 on the university campus and in their respective colleges due to COVID-19 factors can appear for the examinations in Bhutan, Manipur, Jammu and Kashmir and on Lakshadweep Islands. The university has tied up with the Programme Officer, Scholarship and Student Support Division under the Ministry of Education, Bhutan; the Manipur University, a Central university at Imphal; the University of Kashmir, Srinagar; and the Department of Education, Union Territory of Lakshadweep to conduct the examinations for some students in those places, P.L. Dharma, Registrar (Evaluation), Mangalore University, told The Hindu . Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya, the Syndicate, the highest decision-making body of the university and the deans of respective faculties have approved of this initiative as a one-time measure, he said. Mr. Dharma said that 20 students will write the examinations in Manipur University, six students in Lakshadweep, two in the University of Kashmir and three students will appear for the examinations in Bhutan. He said that the scanned version of the question papers will be e-mailed to those four examination centres outside the State only after the examinations in Mangalore University, Mangalagangotri and its colleges in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts begins. The first page of the answer book will have the scanned version of the certified page provided by the university to the heads of those examination centres/institutes. All other pages will have to be certified by the authorised respective heads in those centres. Students in those centres can download their hall tickets online. Mr. Dharma said that 205 of the 208 colleges in three districts under the university have been considered as examination centres as a one-time measure. It is to help students reduce their movement in view of COVID-19. He said that many post-graduate students who stayed in hostels on the Mangalagangotri campus of Mangalore University at Konaje need not come to campus to write the examinations. Arrangements have been made for them to appear for the examinations in identified colleges in the three districts. “We are taking the examinations on the doorsteps of students this time with the help of all teachers,” he said and added that the teachers have played a pivotal role in it. Mr. Yadapadithaya said that if some final semester students are not able to attend the examinations now, examinations will be conducted for them one more time in January next. And, they will still be considered freshers. It won’t be supplementary examinations for such students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-university-to-take-final-semester-exams-closer-to-students/article32586198.ece
12 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard rescues 24 fishermen after their vessel suffers engine failure||Indian Coast Guard personnel has rescued 24 fishermen stranded in the Arabian Sea 15 nautical miles off the coast of Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada district. A release from Coast Guard District Headquarters here said that the fishermen were onboard fishing vessel Qamral Bahar. After having left Bhatkal fishing port, the vessel lost propulsion due to an engine failure and was in a dangerous condition amid a turbulent sea. Upon the request of the Fisheries Department, Karwar, Indian Coast Guard ship Kasturba Gandhi was diverted for rescue operations. The ship reached the spot on Thursday night and assured the stranded fishermen of their safety. They were shifted to the ship and handed over to Fisheries Department officials on Friday morning. Meanwhile, Indian Coast Guard was keeping electronic surveillance along the coast to guide fishing boats to safety. Regular weather bulletin is being transmitted, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-rescues-24-fishermen-after-their-vessel-suffers-engine-failure/article32586204.ece
12 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Beary gets its own script||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy has introduced an independent script and numerals in Beary which is said to be spoken by about 20 lakh people all over the world. So far, Beary was written in the Kannada script. Beary is an ethnic Muslim society, concentrated largely in coastal Karnataka, with its own distinct traditions and language. Academy chairman Rahim Uchil released the script and numerals here on Friday in the presence of members of an expert committee that had prepared them. The script has 13 vowels, 33 consonants and nine numerals. Mr. Uchil said that the committee had worked for six months on this. Claiming that Beary is about 1,000 years old, he said that the academy would use social media to create awareness on the newly-introduced script and numerals. The academy will also launch an app through which the script and numerals can be keyed in. He said they would publish the 2021 Beary calendar using Beary script and numerals. The calendar will also have the Kannada script and Arabic numerals. Mr. Uchil added that the academy had taken up a proposal of introducing Beary as the third optional language in schools from Class VI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beary-gets-its-own-script/article32586006.ece
12 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||54-year-old Abhimanyu to carry golden howdah this Dasara||It’s official. The 54-year-old Abhimanyu, one of the longest serving members of the elite Dasara jumbo squad, has been identified by the Forest Department as the potential successor to take on the mantle of carrying the 750 kg golden howdah in this year’s Jamboo Savari from the incumbent lead elephant Arjuna, which has turned 60 and may be retired from the big task. Following the Dasara High Power Committee’s decision to scale down the Jamboo Savari and restrict the Vijayadashami procession within the premises of Mysuru Palace, the Forest Department has identified five elephants as advised for the finale and the same has been communicated to the government, which is expected to give its nod soon and thereafter the shortlisted jumbos will be brought to Mysuru for training. Bar in place Arjuna’s name is not on the list as there is a bar on using elephants above 60 years of age for any rigorous work. In its place, Abhimanyu’s name had been recommended for the role of lead elephant. Others in the list include, two ‘Kumkhi’ elephants for the lead elephant – Cauvery and Vijaya; ‘Pattada Ane’ Gopi and ‘Nishane Ane’ Vikrama. The government, in all likelihood, is expected to formalise the list of jumbos recommended by the department which went through various factors before finalizing the list. Deputy Conservator of Forests Alexander confirmed to The Hindu that the list of five elephants had been sent to the government for its consent. “On getting its approval, we shall proceed further and bring the elephants from their respective camps for training within the palace premises,” he added. The two elephants – Pattada Ane and Nishane Ane – would be given for the rituals at the palace by the royal family and the same would also be used in procession with the lead elephant and its companions, he added. 25 days Mr. Alexander said 20-25 days were enough for the training since the tasks were limited to the palace. None of the elephants will be taken out of the palace. All activities will remain within the palace precincts. He said Arjuna’s name was dropped over the government order on retiring elephants above 60 years of age and services of such jumbos could be used in any rigorous activities.  On getting the government’s approval, we shall proceed and bring the elephants from their respective camps for training within the palace premises. Alexander Deputy Conservator of Forests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/54-year-old-abhimanyu-to-carry-golden-howdah-this-dasara/article32586215.ece
12 September 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Abhimanyu to carry Dasara howdah||It’s official. The 54-year-old Abhimanyu, one of the longest serving members of the elite Dasara jumbo squad, has been identified by the Forest Department as the potential successor to take on the mantle of carrying the 750-kilo golden howdah in this year’s Jamboo Savari from the incumbent lead elephant Arjuna, which has turned 60 and may be retired from the big task. Following the Dasara High Power Committee’s decision to scale down Jamboo Savari and restrict the Vijayadashami procession within the premises of Mysuru Palace, the Forest Department has identified five elephants as advised for the finale. Arjuna’s name does not figure in the list as there is a bar on using elephants above 60 years of age for any rigorous work. In its place, Abhimanyu’s name has been recommended for the role of lead elephant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abhimanyu-to-carry-dasara-howdah/article32585998.ece
12 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nine taluks declared ‘flood-affected’||Four taluks in Mysuru district and all three in Kodagu have been declared ‘flood-affected’. One each in Mandya and Chamarajnagar districts affected by the recent rains have also been identified as flood-hit. The State government, in its order dated September 10, declared 130 taluks in 23 districts ‘flood-hit.’ These will remain in the affected list until further orders. Hunsur, K.R. Nagar, Mysuru and Periyapatna, that saw heavy rain and flood last month are among the taluks declared flood-affected, besides Kollegal in Chamarajnagar district and K.R. Pet in Mandya. In Kodagu, Madikeri, Somawarapet and Virajpet, which bore the brunt of flood and landslips in the beginning of August, were declared flood-hit. The order, issued by K. Umapathy, Joint Secretary of Revenue Department, Disaster Management, has asked DCs of these districts to strictly implement the orders issued by the government with regard to relief work complying with the guidelines of SDRF/NDRF. The Central team, accompanied by district officials, had recently visited the affected areas to assess the damage. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also submitted a memorandum to the team seeking Central relief. Loss of Rs. 415 crore According to Minister in-charge of Kodagu district V. Somanna, a loss of Rs. 415 crore had been estimated based on the damages to infrastructure across Kodagu. As many as 91 villages bore the brunt of the floods and nearly 28 witnessed landslips. Out of five missing persons following a landslip near Talacauvery, the bodies of three had been traced. Two others remain missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-taluks-declared-flood-affected/article32586216.ece
12 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||200 test positive in Alappuzha||The district reported 200 COVID-19 cases and 199 recoveries on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 178 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Twelve people who came from other States, nine from abroad and one health staff too tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also reported two COVID-19 related deaths. The deceased were identified as a 77-year-old woman from Cherthala and an 83-year-old man from Thycattussery. They died on August 22 and September 5 respectively. With these, the official COVID-19 death toll in the district reached 19. Among the 178 contact cases, 28 were reported from Alappuzha, 26 from Cherthala South and 12 cases each from Veeyapuram and Purakkad. Other cases Rest of the locally transmitted cases were from Aroor (10), Karthikappally (9), Thrikkunnappuzha (9), Devikulangara (7), Veliyanad (6), Ambalappuzha (5), Mararikulam North (5), Ramankary (5), Thazhakara (5), Vayalar (4), Cherthala (3), Haripad (3), Kayamkulam (3), Kumarapuram (3), Thanneermukkom (3), Chettikulangara (2), Thuravoor (2) and one case each from Cheppad, Chennithala, Kuppapuram, Karuvatta, Mannar, Mannancherry, Mavelikara, Mulakuzha, Palamel, Panavally, Punnapra South, Pulinkunnu, Pallippad, Pattanakkad, Thekkekara and Thycattussery. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,927.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/200-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32586382.ece
12 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||GSI recommends shifting of housing lines at Pettimudy||The Geological Survey of India (GSI) has recommended shifting of the housing lines from the flanks of the streamlets at Pettimudy as there is uncertainty over the prevailing conditions in the scarp area that triggered the landslip on August 7. No new constructions should be allowed in the mouth area or close to the stream flanks, says a report submitted to the District Collector. The inhabitations on the hill slope of Pettimudy should be kept at a safe distance. The incessant and high intensity rainfall on continuous days was assessed as the triggering factor of the Pettimudy landslip. Instability in the slope “The incessant and high intensity rainfall on the preceding days is assessed as the triggering factor. It is inferred from the site conditions that the instability in the slope has been induced by reduction of strength on super saturation and increase in pore water pressure of the overburden material. The steep slope of the terrain and nature and thickness of the overburden material are the major factors owed to this,” the report says. Safe distance The report recommends that human inhabited areas should be kept at a safe distance from the streamlets and also from the main river so that the risk from slope failures as well as flooding can be avoided. The GSI also recommends precautionary measures while undertaking construction work of the road to Edamalakkudy through Pettimudy. District geologist Biju Sebastian told The Hindu that that the landslip at Pettimudy was not human-induced and it pointed out how the areas that were not listed as landslip-prone could turn sensitive to natural calamities. There was a landslip on the opposite side of the same hill in the forest at Pettimudy. However, that incident did not come to the notice of the public. There should be early warning systems on the human inhabited slope areas and measures to shift people to safer areas in case of extremely heavy rainfall, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gsi-recommends-shifting-of-housing-lines-at-pettimudy/article32586383.ece
12 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Man held on charge of sexual abuse||A 50-year-old man who allegedly drugged and sexually abused a 15-year-old girl in the guise of removing evil spirits from her, was remanded to two weeks of custody on Friday. The accused, Ibrahim, who lives in a rented house in Taliparamaba, was remanded in custody by the Taliparamba court. The crime took place in the house of the girl on Wednesday morning, when the accused reached the house to treat her relative for leg pain. However, stating that the child was possessed by evil spirits, he allegedly drugged the child before abusing her. Based on the complaint received by the Child Line, a police team arrested the accused on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-sexual-abuse/article32586266.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PG programme aspirants plead for extension of allotments||Several aspirants enrolled in universities and colleges outside Kerala getting ready for their delayed final semester undergraduate exams fear that they may lose an opportunity to apply for the postgraduate programmes offered by universities and affiliated autonomous colleges in the State. The final semester undergraduate exams, which got delayed owing to the pandemic crisis, are scheduled to be held from the third week of September in some of the universities outside the State while a few others are planning to hold it in October. The aspirants said that the admissions to postgraduate programmes in universities and autonomous colleges in the State would be complete by the time their results are published. “Our final semester exams are scheduled between September 21 and 30. The results are expected to be uploaded before October 23. Some of the universities in Kerala have already started the admission process for its postgraduate programmes,” said a student enrolled in a college affiliated under the University of Madras. A worried parent expressed the hope that the universities and autonomous colleges in the State would extend the deadline for admission. “The admission this time is based on the marks scored in the qualification exam as the institutions had decided not to hold the entrance test in view of the COVID-19 situation. “The students in outside varsities, whose exams are delayed, will miss a chance to pursue their higher education for no fault of theirs,” he said. Schedule not announced A senior official of Mahatma Gandhi University said that they had not yet announced the admission schedule for admissions to the postgraduate programmes. “The results of the candidates under the private registration mode have not been published. “The aspirants in outside the State, whose final semester exams were delayed, could avail the supplementary registration held after the first three allotments,” he said. The Principal of an autonomous college in Ernakulam said that the instuttion usually looked at whether the universities in the State had published the results before announcing the schedule for admission to the postgraduate programmes. “We hope to finish the allotment process by the end of this month and plan to start the online classes by October first week,” he said.  We hope to finish the allotment process by the end of this month and plan to start the online classes by October first week Principal of an autonomous college in Ernakulam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-programme-aspirants-plead-for-extension-of-allotments/article32586273.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Centralised allotment for BEd admissions||The admission to all BEd training colleges affiliated to universities in the State will be held through a centralised allotment process (CAP) online. The decision by the Higher Education Department has found place in its order dated September 7. The proposal to opt for a single-window CAP is learnt to have emerged in view of the COVID-19 situation. Students had pointed out that the existing pattern of collecting application forms from the BEd colleges of their choice was not practical in view of the restrictions imposed in view of the pandemic outbreak. So far the institutions used to carry out the admission process on their own based on the notification issued by the universities concerned and as per the norms prescribed by the National Council for Teacher Education. The department hopes that the CAP will ensure transparency, merit, reservation, and rule-based and barrier-free admission of students. UG, PG admissions The order says admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate programmes offered by unaided arts and science colleges affiliated to the universities within the State would be held through CAP. The universities will conduct a minimum of four continuous allotments. The number of supplementary allotments will be decided by the universities. Colleges will not be permitted to conduct spot allotments for merit seats after the completion of allotments. Universities have to implement their own mechanism to fill the vacant seats, preferably through online allotments. Application fee The application fee for the CAP allotments will be decided by the universities. The details of the candidates admitted to the management quota have to be uploaded by the college authorities on the online admission portal on the date of admission itself. Any admission reported after the date of closing of the admission will be considered irregular. Such candidates will not be permitted to register with the university and appear for the examinations. The CAP for postgraduate programmes in arts and science colleges affiliated to the universities in the State was implemented in the academic year 2010-11. The single-window online system was implemented for undergraduate programmes in 2011-12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centralised-allotment-for-bed-admissions/article32586302.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Laurel comes State’s way for promoting start-ups||Kerala has been recognised as the ‘top performer’ in developing a strong start-up ecosystem for the second consecutive year in the States’ Start-up Rankings for 2019 brought out by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). Kerala shares the award with Karnataka. The award for the ‘best performer’ goes to Gujarat. In its certificate of appreciation, the DPIIT observes that the State government has taken exemplary initiatives in establishing institutional support for women-led start-ups, including pre-incubation support, subsidies and seed funding; a robust venture funding mechanism for start-ups; and support in the form of hackathons and financial incentives. It also recognises the State as an institutional leader, a regulatory champion, a procurement leader, an incubation hub, seeding innovation leader and scaling innovations leader. In its report elaborating the criteria based on which the award is given, the DPIIT observes that Kerala remains the first and only State to have committed 1% of its annual budget earmarked for entrepreneurial development activities. Seven parameters The recognition for the State is based on seven metrics – institutional support, simplifying regulations, easing public procurement, incubation support, seed funding support, venture funding support, and awareness outreach – in terms of development of a startup ecosystem. Saji Gopinath, CEO, Kerala Startup Mission, and Ashok Kurian Panjikaran, Head, Business Development of the KSUM, have been recognised as “Start-up Champions of the State.” The State has drawn a score of 63% in terms of institutional support, 50% in simplifying regulations, 48% in easing public procurement, 33% in awareness and outreach and 28% in seed funding support. However scores of 100% and 16% in venture funding support and incubation support on either ends of the spectrum turn out to be surprising. KSUM sources say that the low score in terms of incubation support conceals more than it reveals in that the thrust is on physical infrastructure developed by the government and government agencies. Kerala follows a decentralised mechanism with focus on extending incubation support, including in virtual space, rather than developing physical infrastructure involving huge capital expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laurel-comes-states-way-for-promoting-start-ups/article32586293.ece
12 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||An act of kindness by police leaves Nandana ‘smiling’||When Nandana rang up the helpline of ‘Chiri’, a novel project run by the Kerala Police to help children in distress during the pandemic, she hardly expected a solution to reach her within a matter of hours. But that was exactly what happened. The despondent 14-year-old Standard 9 student from Ayyampuzha in Ernakulam district had called the helpline on Thursday morning to share how her online education was being marred by the lack of a smartphone. While she was able to follow classes through televised sessions thanks to a television set donated by the panchayat with the help of local residents and some voluntary organisations, she was neither able to receive notes or submit assignments, mostly done over WhatsApp, without a smartphone. Her family could hardly afford a smartphone either, as her father Vinu, a casual worker, remains confined to bed after being diagnosed with a nerve disorder nine months ago. And this forced her mother Nisha to give up her job at a local bakery to be by her husband’s side all the time. “I saw the telephone number of Chiri in a newspaper and decided to tell them about my issue,” Nandana said. The helpline received the call on Thursday morning and conveyed the message to the Ayyampuzha police station. Hardly an hour later, cops from the station came calling at her home. “It was the first such case we attended within our station limits under the Chiri project. We found her circumstances to be very trying and her problem genuine,” said Thrideep Chandran, Station House Officer, Ayyampuzha. Moved by her plight, Mr. Chandran bought a mobile phone out of his own pocket and handed it over to her in the evening itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-act-of-kindness-by-police-leaves-nandana-smiling/article32586276.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Opposition councillors up in arms over housing project||Opposition councillors raised a furore at the Kochi Corporation Council meeting on Friday protesting against the delay in proceedings for the first housing tower for landless families under the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) housing project at Thuruthy in West Kochi. After it was found that some expenses were not factored into the initial estimate of Rs. 18 crore, the revised estimate had taken the cost of the 12-storey tower to Rs. 39 crore. Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) had agreed to contribute the remaining Rs. 21 crore towards the construction of the tower. Administrative sanction had been obtained from the government and the matter had to be placed before the council. But the Opposition claimed that the matter had not been presented before the council yet and was leading to inordinate delays in the completion of the project. Mayor Soumini Jain told The Hindu that the official in-charge of the project had presented the matter for inclusion in the day’s supplementary agenda. Since a matter of policy could not be placed in the supplementary agenda, it had been set aside for another day, she said. An agenda to appeal against a High Court order from June to restore the Konthuruthy river to its original width within a year was placed before the council and passed on Friday. The Mayor said that the decision to appeal to the Supreme Court against the order was necessary in the light of the difficulties in implementing the High Court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-councillors-up-in-arms-over-housing-project/article32586279.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Football icon exhorts youth to shun drugs||Former Indian football team captain I. M. Vijayan has urged the new generation to find their high in life. He was talking after inaugurating the anti-drugs webinar, Kaavalal, organised jointly by the excise department’s Vimukthi Mission, National Service Scheme, and District Sports Council for higher secondary students here on Friday. He called for concerted efforts to protect youngsters from the menace of drugs and urged society to be alert to this threat. Assistant Excise Commissioner and Vimukthi district manager G.Sajithkumar delivered the introductory address. Jacob John, State coordinator, NSS, Higher Secondary, presided. Assistant excise inspector P.A. Vijayan conducted the class. Students of Sacred Heart, Thevara, and KPMHSS, Poothotta, attended the inaugural webinar aimed at empowering youngsters to stay away from the lure of drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/football-icon-exhorts-youth-to-shun-drugs/article32586274.ece
12 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam has 3,081 active patients now||A total of 295 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. The number of active cases in the district has crossed the 3,000-mark, with 3,081 people currently being treated for the disease. Of those who tested positive, 17 had arrived from outside the State. Three health workers at private hospitals in the district and five CISF personnel have been infected. A 32-year-old police officer from Cherthala has also tested positive. Positive cases were also reported from Vengola, Thrikkakara, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Choornikkara, Muvattupuzha, Vaduthala, Vyttila, Kumbalangi, Chellanam, Kalamassery, Kadungalloor, Edathala, Edapally, and Ayavana. As many as 63 persons recovered on Friday. At present, 21,212 people are in quarantine. Of them, 18,935 are in home quarantine and 101 at COVID care centres. For testing, 1,479 samples were collected at government facilities, while 689 samples were collected at private hospitals and laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-has-3081-active-patients-now/article32586278.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Solar panels to generate 1,000 kW power||Friday’s commissioning of roof-top solar panels at the Ernakulam Town Hall proved a landmark in Cochin Smart Mission Limited’s Rs. 5.80-crore initiative to generate 1,000 kW power from solar panels erected over 28 government buildings in the city and West Kochi. The panels atop the Town Hall, inaugurated by Mayor Soumini Jain, will generate 80 kW of power, the largest-capacity individual solar plant as part of the project. The roof-top solar project was conceived by CSML to use renewable energy as a major energy source for the city (with 10% total energy requirement from solar power) in line with government policy and guidelines. The panels on government buildings will generate between 20 KW and 80 kW of power. The average energy production per day over a year is expected to be 4,000 units once the 1,000 kW installation is ready. The surplus energy, if any, can be exported to the KSEB grid, CSML sources said. The average per-day production from the panels atop the Town Hall will be 320 units, and the monthly production 9,600 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-panels-to-generate-1000-kw-power/article32586270.ece
12 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Help for elderly just a call away||With the district administration urging the elderly to remain indoors to avoid chances of contracting the COVID-19 infection, a call centre has been set up to see that their needs are met without having to venture out. The call centre, working out of the Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Kalamassery, has reached out to around 8,000 of the 4.5 lakh senior citizens in the district since it began functioning a week ago. The centre is operated by instructors at the ITI, who work in two shifts of 10 people each. They facilitate access for the elderly to medicines or other supplies through ASHA workers, anganwadi staff members, Kudumbashree members, or through the local Vayomithram unit of the Kerala Social Security Mission, which provides healthcare support to senior citizens within the corporation and municipality limits. “For the elderly living alone, the calls have been a source of support at a time when social and religious gatherings are not safe,” said Vijayashree M.M., a technical assistant who has been helping at the call centre. The cell was formed on the District Collector’s orders. It functions from from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. and can be contacted at 0484-2753800.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-for-elderly-just-a-call-away/article32586277.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PIL filed in HC against byelections||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been moved in the High Court seeking to issue directions to the Election Commission of India not to proceed with the byelections for Chavara and Kuttanad constituencies as the elected members will get hardly four months time to officiate as MLAs. The petition was moved by Varghese Perayil, State president of the Voters Association of Kerala. The commission had announced that the byelections would be held in November 2020. It will be difficult for the voters and those on election duty to participate in the process because of the COVID-19 restrictions, he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pil-filed-in-hc-against-byelections/article32586284.ece
12 September 2020||KOCHI/THRISSUR,KERALA||NIA moves HC against bail as Alan and Thaha walk out of jail||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has moved the Kerala High Court challenging the bail granted to Alan Shuhaib and Thaha Fazal in the Pantheerankavu Maoist case. The release of the accused, the agency argued on Friday, would lead to social unrest and give out a wrong message to terrorists and their outfits, besides adversely affecting the national security. The order of the trial court militated against the settled law in various cases, the NIA contended. The trial court indiscriminately granted bail to the accused after seeking to simplify the gravity of the offences and ignoring the strong prima facie materials furnished by the prosecution. ‘UAPA undermined’ The trial court happened to overlook the fact that granting of bail would undermine the very objective of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the national agency argued. The High Court posted the case for Monday. Meanwhile, the two youths, who had been in jail since November 1, were released on bail from the high-security prison at Viyyur, near Thrissur, on Friday. Happy duo The two expressed happiness on getting the bail. There have been widespread allegations that the arrest of the youths and their imprisonment were ‘blatant violation’ of human rights and misuse of the UAPA provisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-moves-hc-against-bail-as-alan-and-thaha-walk-out-of-jail/article32586298.ece
12 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||303 persons test positive in Kollam||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 2,154 on Friday with 303 more persons, including three health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. While the number of recoveries was a comparatively low 22, Kollam Corporation once again reported the highest number of cases with more than 60 new patients. The health workers include three staff members of Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, aged 25, 35, and 34 who are residents of Mayyanad, Kalluvathukkal, and Poothakulam. Kollam district currently has 17,405 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,39,156. While 946 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 25,946 primary and 6,189 secondary contacts of the new cases. At present 15 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres are functioning in the district. Warning on functions The Health Department has urged the public to avoid crowds and maintain physical distancing during betrothals, weddings, funerals and other functions. Recently, a lot of collective contact cases were reported following events, with the attendees transmitting the infection to other persons. “Stick to minimal guests during functions and 2-metre physical distance should be maintained between the invitees. Do not skip washing hands and using sanitiser,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/303-persons-test-positive-in-kollam/article32586384.ece
12 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||221 cases in Kottayam||The number of cases here continued to rise with 221 persons testing positive on Friday. All of them were contact cases. Kottayam municipality led the tally with 45 persons including 10 employees of a firm at Puthenangadi testing positive. Athirampuzha, where 17 employees from two firms tested positive, had 24 cases. Meenadam had 14 cases while Pampady had 12 cases. Cases were reported from Changanassery, Kurichy, Manarcaud, Vazhappally, Nedumkunnam and Kooroppada. Ninety two people recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/221-cases-in-kottayam/article32586387.ece
12 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Solar panels to power schools in Kozhikode||By the end of the year, at least 20 government schools, including lower primary, upper primary, high and higher secondary schools, within the Kozhikode Corporation limits will be completely solar-powered. The second phase of the solar power project in schools was inaugurated by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran at the Government Lower Primary School at Puthiyangadi on Friday. 10 schools Education standing committee chairman M. Radhakrishnan said 10 schools were selected for solar electrification in the second phase at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh. While the works have been completed at Government Vocational Higher Secondary School for Girls, Nadakkavu, and Government L.P. School, Eranhikkal, and Government L.P. School, Puthiyangadi, the works are expected to be completed at Government High School, Nallalam; Government UP School, Puthiyangadi; Government Teachers’ Training Institute (Men, Mananchira); Government Higher Secondary School, East Hill; Government U.P. School, Vellayil West; Government L.P. School, Kacherikkunnu; and Government Achuthan Girls L.P. School, Chalappuram by the end of the year. In the first phase, the Corporation had completed the project in 10 schools at a cost of Rs. 75 lakh.  Schools will have solar panels of 5 kW to 20 kW capacity based on their size and need. The project is being implemented through the direct involvement of INKEL, Kochi. The Corporation has set aside another Rs. 1.5 crore for powering 20 more schools in the city. The plan was to cover all government schools in the city by the end of 2021, said Mr. Radhakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-panels-to-power-schools-in-kozhikode/article32586263.ece
12 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No let-up in Kozhikode, cases soar in Malappuram||Kozhikode recorded 261 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, of which 206 were of local transmission. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said six of the newly infected persons had returned from foreign countries while 16 came from other States recently. The source of infection could not be detected in 33 cases, she added.Those who were infected locally include two health workers in Kozhikode Corporation. There are 2,201 people under treatment at various treatment centres in the district at present. As many as 105 persons undergoing treatment recovered on Friday. There are 16,924 people under observation in the district. In Malappuram COVID-19 cases in Malappuram saw yet another spike on Friday when 390 people tested positive for the virus. The number of active cases in the district soared to 2,542. District medical authorities said 358 of the new cases confirmed on Friday were of local transmission. While the source of infection in 14 persons could not be traced, nine persons came from other States and five from abroad. There are also four health workers among the infected. Officials said that 111 infected persons recovered on Friday. As many as 39,110 people are quarantined across Malappuram. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 109 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. The number includes one person each from Malappuram and Kozhikode. When 71 were infected through local contacts, seven came from other States and two from abroad. The source of infection could not be traced in 29 cases. There were 46 recoveries in Palakkad on Friday. In Thrissur As many as 184 positive cases were reported in Thrissur district on Friday. Of them, 177 were cases of local transmission. Seven health workers have been infected. The source of infection in three cases is not known. While there are 1,992 active cases in the district, 105 people recovered from the disease on Friday. There are 11,248 people under observation in the district. In Wayanad Fifty-two people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday. Of them, 35 were infected through contact, while 13 came from other States and four returned from abroad. Fifteen persons recovered from the disease on Friday. As many as 2,768 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-kozhikode-cases-soar-in-malappuram/article32586262.ece
12 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Big aircraft operation at Calicut airport to remain suspended||The suspension of operation of wide-bodied aircraft will continue at the Calicut International Airport till a five-member team of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), probing the Air India Express crash at the airport last month, submits its report and provides recommendations to avoid such accidents in the future. Sources said that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has asked the airport authorities to temporarily stop the services of big aircraft of Air India and Saudia (Saudi Arabian Airlines) until further notification. Five months The team led by Captain S.S. Chahar has been given a period of five months to finish the investigation. Until then, all wide-bodied aircraft will be rerouted to the Kochi airport. The Boeing 737-800 Air India Express flight 1344 involved in the accident was a narrow-bodied aircraft that was part of the Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indian nationals stranded in Dubai due to the pandemic. A combination of factors, including the torrential rain, was believed to have led to the crash. K. Mohammed Shahid, Joint General Manager, Air Traffic Management, has submitted a report on the accident to the Airports Authority of India. Teams from the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and Boeing are assisting the AAIB in its probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/big-aircraft-operation-at-calicut-airport-to-remain-suspended/article32586260.ece
12 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Story contest||A short story competition is being organised in memory of Navaneeth, a former deputy chief cabin crew of Air India, by his friends and those who studied with him at Government Arts and Science College, Meenchanda. Contactnavaneethamawards 2020@gmail.comor 7510633599 for details. Last day for entries is October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/story-contest/article32586259.ece
12 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity seeks help from CUP||Calicut University Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj has sought the help of Cambridge University Press (CUP) to publish the findings of researchers. He was opening an online workshop jointly organised by the CUP and the internal quality assurance cell of Calicut University here on Thursday. Mr. Jayaraj said the research journals of the university could be included in the list of publications of Cambridge University as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-seeks-help-from-cup/article32586258.ece
12 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Parents stage dharna outside school||The protest by a section of parents at Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Thathamangalam, continued on Friday as the school management did not heed their demands. The parents staged a dharna in front of the school protesting against the expulsion of students from online classes for failing to pay the special fees. Student organisations such as the KSU, SFI, and ABVP also took out protest marches on Friday demanding that the school management change its stand. Over 200 students were ousted from the online class groups for not paying the special fees in time. Police said they would hold talks with the school management and find a solution to the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-stage-dharna-outside-school/article32586269.ece
12 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||93 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 93 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 69 contracted the virus through local contact while 14 had landed from abroad. The remaining ten persons came from other States. The COVID-19 clusters at Kadakkad and Kollakunnu accounted for six and five cases respectively. Adding to the concern, the source of contact for several patients were yet to be identified. Meanwhile, one more person, identified as an 87-year-old man from Kavumbhagam, near Thiruvalla, succumbed to the virus during the day. The person, who had been confirmed of the infection six days ago, was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Thiruvalla. The death has not been included on the official list of the State government so far. The district currently has 1,161 active cases and 14,736 persons under surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/93-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32586385.ece
12 September 2020||Thiruivananthapuram,KERALA||Inter-State travel brought virus strains to Kerala: study||The first and the most comprehensive report on the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 isolates from Kerala has reported that the virus strains currently circulating in the State and causing local outbreaks were introduced through inter-State travel in early days of the epidemic, followed by local circulation. Despite being a State with a sizeable expatriate population, none of the virus strains in the State could be traced to international travellers. The pre-print of “Initial insights into the genetic epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 isolates from Kerala suggest local spread from limited introductions” appears in bioRxiv , a preprint repository for the biological sciences. Scientists after calculating tMCRA (time to most recent common ancestor) to assess the point in time when these strains were introduced into the State puts it between early March-June, after which local spread occurred. The study, a collaborative effort of the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, and Government Medical College, Kozhikode, thus suggests that while focussed measures for testing, tracing contacts and quarantine measures for international travellers very effectively prevented local spread, the same diligence was not applied when inter-State travel resumed post lockdown. “What we are seeing today is an extension of the local spread which must have begun in the State early in the epidemic. All the virus samples we sequenced from Kerala belonged to the A2a clade which is predominant in India, within which we identified three clusters, the largest shares genomes from Odisha; the second cluster’s ancestry potentially traces to Maharashtra and the third cluster shares genomes from Karnataka,” Vinod Scaria, senior scientist, CSIR-IGIB, told The Hindu . Though the study samples are not representative of the entire State, the pattern cannot be very different across the State, said R. Chandni, Head of Emergency Medicine, Kozhikode Government Medical College and the principal investigator of the study. Mutant variant It has already been reported that virus clade A2a, circulating in Kerala, is marked by the mutant variant D614G. This study also uncovered four novel genetic variants and 89 variants identified only in Kerala. Genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 abroad has led to insights into the temporal and geographical spread of the virus and disease dynamics. “Despite reporting the first COVID-19 case in India, Kerala has been late in initiating genomic surveillance studies, which could have identified the early outbreaks. Genomic surveillance can still help the State uncover outbreaks,” a scientist said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inter-state-travel-brought-virus-strains-to-kerala-study/article32586289.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||494 test positive in capital||The capital district recorded 494 COVID-19 cases on Friday with local transmission accounting for almost all of the cases. The official death toll also rose to 132 with three more deaths being confirmed by the National Institute of Virology as due to the disease. These include the deaths of a 75-year old woman, who hailed from Pappanamcode; 47-year old Pattom native, and a 66-year old Kilimanoor-native woman. Barring the cases of two Tamil Nadu natives which are being treated as imported ones, as many as 492 cases were due to local transmission. These included 15 health workers. Worryingly, the incidence of infection without any known sources remained high with 81 such cases being reported on Friday. These include cases in several parts of the State capital including Ulloor, Muttathara, Poonthura, Karamana, Nalanchira, Thirumala, Vikas Bhavan, Balaramapuram, Enchakkal, Pachalloor, Vallakadavu, Manacaud, Manikyavilakom, Valiyasala and Pettah. Other cases emerged from Vattappara, Kanjiramkulam, Ayira, Thonnakkal, Attingal, Kadakkavoor, Chenkal, Pirappancode, Aruvikkara and Peringamala. Despite remaining pandemic-free until July end, COVID-19 cases continued to mount in Attingal. Those who were diagnosed with the disease on Friday included workers of a textile shop and a car showroom in Attingal, and a shopping mall in Thiruvananthapuram city. The latter is known to have last reported for work on September 4. 308 recover With 308 people recovering from the illness, the number of active cases in the district stood at 4,927. As many as 1,085 people were ordered to go into quarantine on the day. There are currently 3,649 people who are being monitored in hospitals for COVID-19 symptoms. Containment zones were declared in Punnakkamugal and Chanthavila; Bhajamadam in Kadakkavoor grama panchayat; Ambalathinvila Lakshaveedu (SC Colony area) and parts of Office ward in Vilavoorkkal grama panchayat; Idathara and Manjamala in Pothencode grama panchayat; Kallazhi in Varkala municipality; and parts of Vattaparambu and Kamukinkottukonam in Ottasekharamanagalam grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/494-test-positive-in-capital/article32586330.ece
12 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Total caseload crosses one lakh mark||Kerala’s total COVID-19 case burden crossed the one lakh mark on Friday to reach 1,02,254, with the reporting of 2,988 new cases. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 35,056. On Friday, 1,326 people recovered from the disease. With 73,900 recoveries so far, the number of active cases stands at 27,877. 282 in ICUs According to the Health Department’s data, 282 patients are critically ill and in ICUs, with 66 on ventilatory support. The department added 14 more deaths to its provisional COVID-19 death list, taking the State’s official death toll to 410. Three deaths each were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, and Thrissur; two from Alappuzha; and one each from Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Kannur. Of the 2,988 new cases reported on Friday, 2,809 cases (94%) are locally acquired infections. The pattern has been consistent for the past one month or more. In 265 cases, no epidemiological link could be established. These include infection reported in 52 health-care workers, of which 15 cases each were reported from the capital and Kannur. Thiruvananthapuram reported 494 cases, of which all except two cases are a result of local transmission. Malappuram has 390 cases, Kollam 303, Ernakulam 295, Kozhikode 261, Kannur 256, Kottayam 221, Alappuzha 200, Thrissur 184, Palakkad 109, Kasaragod 102, Pathanamthitta 93, Wayanad 52, and Idukki 28 cases. The number of hotspots is 594.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-caseload-crosses-one-lakh-mark/article32586282.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Suspected suicide of CPI(M) worker triggers protests||The suspected suicide of a 41-year-old CPI(M) woman activist in a building owned by the party near Parassala late on Thursday sparked protests with local residents and political rivals accusing party functionaries of being responsible for the death. Asha of Azhakikonam, near Udiyankulangara, was found hanging in the building in Udiyankulangara around 11 p.m. shortly after she was reported to have gone missing. The area witnessed tense scenes on Friday after Congress activists accused the police of attempting to cover up the incident. Demanding that the police divulge the content of a purported suicide note recovered from the building, they also laid siege to the Parassala-Udiyankulangara road for hours. It was later revealed that the deceased purportedly attributed “mental harassment” that she faced from the party’s local committee members Kottamam Rajan and Alatharavilakom Joy to her taking the extreme step. The note also stated that while the complaint had been raised at party committees, no action was initiated. While Asha’s husband Sreekumar claimed that she had gone missing after leaving their house to attend a local committee meeting on Thursday, the party leadership maintained that no such meeting took place. The CPI(M) district committee also refuted allegations that the incident had taken place in a party office. While the premises was owned by the party, the area had no access paths and had remained deserted for long, according to a statement. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded the constitution of a special investigation team led by an officer in the rank of Inspector General of Police to probe the case. Asha is survived by husband Sreekumar and two sons. The body was shifted to the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital here. The Parassala police have registered a case of unnatural death. (Suicide prevention helpline DISHA can be reached at 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspected-suicide-of-cpim-worker-triggers-protests/article32586329.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NEET-UG to be held tomorrow||There is a marginal fall in the number of candidates taking the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) 2020 on Sunday in Kerala with 1,15,959 having registered for the exam, a drop of 1,755 when compared to 1,17,714 last year. However, the number of exam centres has gone up from 218 to 322 in view of the COVID-19 protocol and to enable effective physical distancing. While 24 candidates used to be accommodated in a hall earlier, it has been halved this year. The test being conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for admission to MBBS, BDS, and other undergraduate medical courses will be held from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The pen and paper-based test will have 180 multiple-choice questions – 45 questions each from physics and chemistry and 90 from biology. Entry will be permitted to the centres until 1.30 p.m. Candidates will be permitted to carry masks, gloves, transparent water bottles, and hand sanitiser. While body pat frisking will not be done, frisking using metal detector will be mandatory at all centres. Dress code As during previous years, candidates will be required to adhere to the dress code. Light clothes with long sleeves are not permitted. Those wearing customary dress should report at least an hour before the last reporting time, i.e. 12.30 p.m., to ensure adequate time for proper frisking. While slippers and sandals with low heels are permitted, shoes are not allowed. To ensure staggered entry, candidates will be ushered in batches of 15 girls and 15 boys to two different registration rooms, where thermal scanning and document verification will be undertaken. Candidates recording body temperatures of 37.4 degrees Celsius will be taken to isolation rooms where their documents will be verified. They will be allotted separate rooms to take the examination if their temperature does not fall to below 37.4 degrees Celsius.  Candidates will be permitted to carry masks, gloves, transparent water bottles, and hand sanitiser. Frisking using metal detector will be mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neet-ug-to-be-held-tomorrow/article32586299.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Backyard watch’ keeps dragonfly enthusiasts riveted||Students and professionals alike are busy watching dragonflies across the State and photo-documenting them as a part of the Backyard Odonata Watch, the Kerala leg of the National Dragonfly Festival. Within the first 16 days, dragonfly enthusiasts have recorded an impressive 106 species all over the State. Theses include dragonflies endemic to the Western Ghats such as Travancore Bambootail, Goan Shadowdancer, and the very common ones like Green Marsh Hawk that inhabit even urban areas. More than 1,000 observations from ponds, puddles, and streams have been shared in the ‘Dragonflies of Kerala’ Facebook page as a part of the Backyard Odonata Watch organised jointly by the WWF-India, Society for Odonate Studies (SOS), and Thumbipuranam. “It is commendable that citizen-scientists have recorded 62% of the dragonfly species recorded from Kerala till date in such a short time,” says SOS president Jeevan Jose. “What amazed us is that all these observations were made from the backyards of the observers, following COVID-19 restrictions,” says Renjan Mathew, Kerala State Director, WWF-India. Aamina Ismail, a zoology graduate from Aluva, says she was able to sight Black-tipped Ground Skimmer, an uncommon dragonfly from the garden. “Now the first thing I do every morning is to go in search of dragonflies.” Aimed at creating awareness about dragonflies and to promote conservation, the Kerala chapter of the festival Thumbimaholtsavam 2020 includes field observations, webinars, and competitions. “We aspire to document at least 150 species of dragonflies out of the 170 reported from Kerala before the backyard watch concludes in October,” says Jeffin John, a coordinator of Thumbipuranam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/backyard-watch-keeps-dragonfly-enthusiasts-riveted/article32586287.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EICL gets permit to transfer raw material||The Department of Mining and Geology has issued a movement permit to English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL) for transferring raw material kaolinite from 2.72 hectares of land in the company's possession at Thonnackal. The Thapar Group company had a valid mining lease on the said land, company officials said. EICL had halted operations on August 10 citing huge losses and acute shortage of raw material, much to the dismay of its employees. The latest development, nevertheless, would not help the company achieve full-fledged operations at its units in Thiruvananthapuram, sources said. It would serve to meet roughly 30-40% of the raw material requirement. Following the crisis, the employees' unions and the management had requested the State government to permit EICL to resume mining. The captive mines of EICL in the districts have remained shut for the past two years, according to them. Uncertainty However, uncertainty continues to prevail over the revival of operations at EICL units at Kochu Veli and Thonnackal. Employees' unions of EICL have been on agitation mode since August 10 pointing out that the closure has affected the livelihood of 1,500 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eicl-gets-permit-to-transfer-raw-material/article32586331.ece
12 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Stone laid for KTDC hotel at Kanyakumari||The foundation stone for a guest house-cum-hotel of the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) at Kanyakumari was laid by Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran on Friday. The 34-room facility is being constructed at an estimate of Rs. 17.6 core. It will have a multi-cuisine restaurant to cater to tourists . The facility coming up on the premises of the Kerala House facing the beach is on the lines of the KTDC’s highly successful “Raindrops” hospitality endeavour in Chennai. The Minister said the mega project of the KTDC would be executed in a time-bound manner. KTDC chairman M. Vijayakumar and Director of Tourism P. Bal Kiran attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laid-for-ktdc-hotel-at-kanyakumari/article32586333.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Film award jury reconstituted||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy has reconstituted the jury for selecting the winners of the State Film Awards of 2019. Actor Jomol, writer Benyamin, and playback singer Lathika have been included in the jury. The jury is headed by filmmaker and cinematographer Madhu Ambat, with filmmakers Salim Ahmed and Abrid Shine, cinematographer Vipin Mohan, editor L. Bhoominathan, and sound engineer S. Radhakrishnan as members. Academy secretary C. Ajoy will be the member secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-award-jury-reconstituted/article32586300.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KFC to tap bond market for Rs. 250 crore||The Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) has hit the BSE electronic bidding platform on Friday to raise Rs. 250 crore from the debt market by issuing non-SLR bonds of Rs. 100 crore, with a greenshoe option of Rs. 150 crore, on private placement basis. The bonds, rated AA (SO) by two Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) approved rating agencies with stable outlook for investment, would have a tenure of 10 years bearing a coupon rate payable semi-annually and be redeemable from the sixth year onwards. The KFC has raised Rs. 1,600 crore so far from bond market in seven issues so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfc-to-tap-bond-market-for-rs-250-crore/article32586285.ece
12 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC test today||COVID-19 patients too will be allowed to attend the tests planned by the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) on Saturday. Arrangements have been made with the help of the Health Department. The tests are being held for the posts of Assistant Insurance Medical Officer in the Insurance Medical Services Department (Category no: 233/19) and Assistant Surgeon/Casualty Medical Officer (Category no: 305/19, 234/19, 235/19 and 329/19).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-test-today/article32586301.ece
12 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IGNOU exams from September 17||As many as 5,000 students of IGNOU are appearing for the term-end exams to be held at nine centres including Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Pathanamthitta, under the IGNOU regional centre, Thiruvananthapuram, from September 17 to October 16. Hall tickets can be downloaded fromwww.ignou.ac.in. For details, dial 0471 2344113/2344120/9447044132.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ignou-exams-from-september-17/article32586292.ece
12 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Call centre for elderly opened||A call centre has been opened exclusively for elderly persons in Thrissur to provide them with more care and consideration in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The objective of the Senior Citizen Welfare Call Centre is to ensure food, medicines, rest and treatment for elderly persons and to expand the functions of the district-level senior citizen welfare cell. District Collector S. Shanavas on Friday inaugurated the call centre opened at the Government Higher Secondary School, Ayyanthole. The call centre with District Social Justice Officer as nodal officer will function in two shifts with 10 volunteers in each shift. The volunteers include teachers, ICDS supervisors, anganwadi workers, MSW students, voluntary organizations and Kudumbashree workers. The project is part of the State government’s reverse quarantine programme. People can contact the Senior Citizen Call centre on 0487-2224050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-centre-for-elderly-opened/article32586268.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Flood of woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-of-woes/article32586265.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All set to roll out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-to-roll-out/article32586272.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Resuming Friday prayers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resuming-friday-prayers/article32586389.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In queue for services||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-queue-for-services/article32586335.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||When duty calls...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-duty-calls/article32586295.ece
12 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kisan Rail reaches Delhi in 40 hours||The first Kisan Rail from South India that left Anantapur arrived at the Adarsh Nagar Railway station in Delhi after a 40-hour journey. Farmers and officials ensured the fruit load was immediately loaded onto the local vans at 4.30 a.m. to be transported to Azad Fruit Mandi. After the mandi began functioning, the Horticulture Department officials went to the stalls where the produce was being sold. People expressed happiness at the quality of fruits and vegetables, mainly tomatoes. However, farmers were not fully happy with the cost of sending the consignment as it did not workout cheaper than transportation by lorry. It involved transportation in vans from farm to railway station, loading it on the train employing workers and again similar expenses in unloading and sending them from station to the mandi. A farmer said the price for transport by road was directly from the farm to mandi, whereas the transportation by train involved multiple transfers with loading and unloading activity. “If the Railways reduces the freight charges, it could work out for us,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kisan-rail-reaches-delhi-in-40-hours/article32586436.ece
12 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two women crushed under groundnut thresher||Two wome got crushed under a groundnut thresher at Guntupalli village in Kothacheruvu mandal on Friday. According to police, Shantha Bai (52) and her daughter Pramila Bai (28) died on the spot. As many as 15 daily wagers were working at the thresher mounted at an agricultural field. Sources said that the thresher was not mounted on the ground properly. It reportedly lost balance owing to the vibration and fell on the victims who stood very close to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-women-crushed-under-groundnut-thresher/article32586403.ece
12 September 2020||BHIMAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Aqua unit raided, documents verified||Officials of the Factories Department raided a private aqua export company on the town outskirts and verified the records. On receiving information that about 15 child labourers were employed in the unit, a team led by Inspector of Factories Ramakrishna inspected it on Thursday. “We inspected the company and the dormitories and verified the attendance registers but didn’t find any child labour,” Mr. Ramakrishna said. Thirty employees, mostly women, were working in the unit at the time of the raid, he added. However, a few employees alleged that the management got prior information about the raids and shifted the girls, aged below 15 and hailing from Odisha, to some other location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aqua-unit-raided-documents-verified/article32585722.ece
12 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, along with two sons, jumps into tank in Chittoor||A homemaker allegedly threw her two sons into a village tank before jumping into it in at a forested hamlet Balaji Colony, near the tourist spot Talakona in Yerravaripalem mandal, 90 km from here, on Thursday. According to the Piler rural police, Gowthami (26) and Venkataramana (30) of Yerravaripalem got married some five years ago and settled near Talakona. They have been working in agriculture fields. The couple has two sons, Dharani (4) and Thoneswar (2). Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the family reportedly ran into tough times. Reeling under financial problems, Gowthami and Venkataramana reportedly used to quarrel frequently, forcing the elders from the village to intervene. In this backdrop, the woman reportedly took her two sons and was seen leaving towards the bus stop on the outskirts of the hamlet in the morning. Her husband who reached home at around noon, after finding his wife and sons missing, launched a search for them in and around the hamlet. In the afternoon, the bodies of his wife and children were found in the water body. Upon information, the police rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies. which were later sent to the Government Hospital at Piler for post-mortem. The police have registered a case and the investigation is on. Helpline People suffering from depression and suicidal thoughts can always seek assistance by dialling the helpline number 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-along-with-two-sons-jumps-into-tank-in-chittoor/article32586404.ece
12 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committed to empowering women: CM||Chief Minister Y..S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the outstanding loans of women in the Self-Help Groups (SHG) will be directly credited into their accounts in four phases under the ‘YSR Aasara’ scheme. Under the scheme, 87.74 lakh women belonging to 8.71 lakh SHGs will be benefited. The outstanding loan of Rs. 27,168.83 crore of all the SHGs will be reimbursed and credited to their accounts in four phases. The first instalment of Rs. 6,792.20 crore was released by the government and credited to the accounts of the SHGs on Friday. Launching the scheme at his camp office here, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy urged the beneficiaries to use the money as an investment to promote their businesses. The government, as part of YSR Cheyutha, has already tied up with leading corporate companies such as ITC, Amul Dairy and Reliance to impart training and support women willing to set up businesses in the dairy, aquaculture and other sectors. Under YSR Aasara scheme too, women can benefit from the knowledge and experience of leading corporate firms. List of schemes “I wish to see every woman, right from the time of her birth to the time she enters motherhood and becomes a grandmother, enjoy the benefits of our welfare schemes. Under YSR Sampoorna Poshana, we are providing nutritional support to lactating mothers and infants. We are introducing English medium from the pre-primary stage. Under the Jagananna Ammavodi scheme, we are depositing Rs. 15,000 directly to the accounts of 43 lakh women. Under Vidya Deevena scheme, we are reimbursing fees of students. This year, we have paid Rs. 4,200 crore, which includes Rs. 1,800 crore arrears, under the Vidya Deevena scheme,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Under YSR Vasati Deevena scheme, the government is giving Rs. 20,000 to women and under Nadu-Nedu, the government is giving all schools and hostels a complete facelift,” he said. “We have also given Rs. 1,400 crore under the YSR Sunna Vaddi scheme to women in the 45-60 age group, and we are covering all women, irrespective of their region and affiliations. Our government is committed to empowering women from the weaker sections, and we have provided 50% reservation for women in all nominated posts. We are giving house sites to 30 lakh women, but the opposition parties are bent on scuttling the programme and have filed cases in various courts. We are spending Rs. 1,500 crore towards providing old-age pension to 60 lakh senior citizens and ensuring that the pension is given to them at their doorstep by the volunteers,” the Chief Minister said. Claiming that A.P. was the first state to enact the Disha Act that provides stringent punishment to those who abuses, stalks or assaults women, he said that the under the Act, a provision had been made to ensure that investigation was completed within a week and charge-sheet filed within two weeks. Prohibition Under the new prohibition policy, he said the government withdrew permits to 43,000 belt shops and 4,380 permit rooms, and this had come as a major relief to women. “All these schemes are aimed at real empowerment of women at every level, which also leads to development in society,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, P. Viswaroop, and Ch. Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna, Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, MLAs R.K. Roja and V. Rajani, Adviser S. Ramakrishna Reddy, CEO, SERP, Raja Babu, and officials of the Panchayat Raj, BC Welfare, Social Welfare, and Minority Welfare departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committed-to-empowering-women-cm/article32586412.ece
12 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BHEL plans Centre of Excellence in Vizag||Minister for Industries, IT, Skill Development and Training Mekapati Gowtham Reddy has said that Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) has agreed to set up a Centre of Excellence in Visakhapatnam and the company will constitute a committee to pursue the idea of its CEO Nalin Singhal. The Minister, who was in Delhi meeting several Ministers, CEOs of major central government corporations, said that a proposal was sent to BHEL to set up solar panel units at every district in the State. After meeting the CEO of Niti Aayog Amithabh Kanth, Mr. Gowtham Reddy said that a digital convention was proposed in Visakhapatnam. The Minister also said that Niti Aayog CEO had expressed his satisfaction over the policy decisions of the State government. The State, which has topped the country in the Ease of Doing Business rankings, also became the first State to provide a restart package to MSMEs. The AP Industrial Policy is among the major policies that has won the approval of many industries. Bhavanapadu port The Niti Aayog CEO also promised that the Central government would support the development of Bhavanapadu port and also the State government in setting up of 30 skill development institutes. “We hope that the Centre will handhold the State government in reviving agriculture and industrial sectors, which continue to remain as the backbone of the country. The Niti Aayog CEO has also expressed his happiness after coming to know of ‘Naadu-Nedu’ programme under which more than 14,000 schools are being given a facelift and promised to support the State in development of major ports at Bhavampadu, Kakinada and Ramayapatnam,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhel-plans-centre-of-excellence-in-vizag/article32586429.ece
12 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special cell to redress grievances of forest staff soon, says PCCF||Principal Chief Conservator of Forest and Head of Forest Force N. Prateep Kumar has said that a special monitoring cell will be set up to solve the grievances of forest department personnel. All the pending issues relating to payment of compensation, arrears of PF and gratuity and providing jobs under compassionate appointment category, will be completed in the next 90 days. Addressing forest department officers and personnel after paying tributes to National Forest Martyr’s Day here on Friday, Mr. Kumar assured that he would personally monitor all aspects relating to the welfare of department personnel. Nineteen personnel in the department had laid down in their lives in the line of duty in the State so far. “We will set up a Forest Welfare Fund soon after getting the consent of the Chief Minister. I urge all the staff to take care of themselves and their families and to be on the right side of the law. No matter how much you are tempted, resist all the temptations and work sincerely in the areas of enforcement,” said the PCCF. Earlier, District Forest Officer, Task Force, Ramachandra Rao read out the names of martyrs who had laid down lives so far. Senior IFS officerswere also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-cell-to-redress-grievances-of-forest-staff-soon-says-pccf/article32585713.ece
12 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Controversy over Guntur Collector's remarks blows over||The controversy over the remarks of Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar at a review meeting on COVID-19 at Narsaraopet blew over, after the medical officer, Soma Naik, reportedly said that he was apologising for his remarks. Mr. Samuel said that he had lot of respect and appreciation for the hard work being done by field-level health workers, government staff over the last five months stretching beyond their capacities. He also assured that all the issues raised by the doctors would be resolved. The issue arose after the doctor rose at a meeting and pointed out certain issues relating to hospitalisation of COVID-infected patients. The Collector who took objection to a certain word used by the doctor, asked him to leave the hall and after some time, said case would be booked under Disaster Management Act as the officer was showing his disobedience. Later, the doctor was taken to the camp office of the DSP and after some time, said that he expressed his apology over the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/controversy-over-guntur-collectors-remarks-blows-over/article32585711.ece
12 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roja points accusing finger at Naidu||APIIC Chairperson and Nagiri legislator R.K. Roja on Friday alleged that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was behind the incident relating to the gutting of temple chariot at Antarvedi. A detailed investigation would bring the facts to light, she told the media at the APIIC office here. “Mr. Naidu has a history of fanning communal tempers and creating law and order issues,” Ms. Roja alleged. Showering praise on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, she said the YSRCP government had, in the last over one year, shown that that it cared for women. Under YSR Aasara scheme, the government would disburse outstanding loans to more than 80 lakh women of SHGs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roja-points-accusing-finger-at-naidu/article32586413.ece
12 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘An inspiration for people’s movements’||Activists of North Andhra on Friday recalled the contribution of Swami Agnivesh, the son of the soil, to the environmental battles waged against the successive governments to protect the Sompeta wetland and Nowpada swamp in Srikakulam district. He died while undergoing treatment for a liver ailment at a hospital in New Delhi on Friday. Mr. Agnivesh, original name Vepa Shyam Rao, was born in Srikakulam district on September 21, 1939. Associated with the National Association of People’s Movement (NAPM), he had been a great source of support and inspiration for the movements, they said. Addressed a meet “I vividly remember Swami Agnivesh fondly announcing Srikakulam as his birthplace while addressing a local gathering here in December 2010. His support to the struggles for the protection of the Sompeta wetland (known as Beela) and Nowpada swamp added strength to the movements,” said former Human Rights Forum secretary V.S. Krishna. “Mr. Agnivesh had extended every possible support for the two movements where thermal power projects were proposed and took a firm stance against the State brutality on the people’s movements in the district,” added Mr. Krishna referring to the Sompeta police firing (July 2010) against the protesters. Sat in protest Paryavarana Parirakshana Samithi (PPS-Sompeta) president Y. Krishna Murthy said, “Swami Agnivesh had sat for sometime with the protesters at a relay hunger strike venue in Sompeta.” Post 2010, Swami Agnivesh had joined a dharna in New Delhi, where he spoke on the destructive development planned in Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-inspiration-for-peoples-movements/article32586415.ece
12 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joint probe by JNTU-K, police begins into answer sheet racket||The authorities of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Kakinada (JNTU-K) and the Kakinada police began a joint investigation into the alleged tampering of the examination answer sheets by a six-member gang, based on the internal inquiry by the university professors. The professors during their inquiry found tampering of answer sheets of the supplementary examinations (final year B.Tech. first semester), held in November 2019. JNTU-K Controller of Examinations Venkata Reddy told The Hindu on Friday: “The inquiry by professors began in December last, after an evaluator found that a hall-ticket of a candidate was found attached to the 32-page answer sheet. By August end, we traced the involvement of the six-member gang, led by a Vizag man in the rocket.” According to Prof. Venkata Reddy, the modus operandi of the gang was the Visakhapatnam-based kingpin, Rammohan Rao, handed over the empty answer sheet booklets to the student, G.Vedavyas Naidu, who filled it with the answers at his residence and returned it to Rammohan Rao. Three JNTU-K outsourced employees, who were transporting the answer sheets from north Andhra to Kakinada in the university’s vehicle replaced the answer sheets during the travelling.” Rammohan Rao was the former employee of an engineering college in Srikakulam district where he worked in the examination section. “The gang thus changed the six answer sheets of the supplementary examinations (November 2019) for three times in the same vehicle that transported the answer sheets from north Andhra Pradesh,” said Prof. Venkata Reddy. The student from an engineering college in Vizianagaram district confessed to his crime and revealed that Rs. 20,000 was collected from him per one subject by Rammohan Rao. Suspended The three outsourced employees of JNTU-K -- N. Nagaraju, N. Ganga Raju and V. Bapi Raju – who were part of the rocket have been suspended from the service, said JNTU-K Registrar Ch. Satyanarayana. He said that a complaint was lodged with the Sarpavaram police on August 29 seeking further investigtion into the racket. No arrests so far Sarpavaram CI R. Govindra Raju said: “Cases have been registered against the outsourced employees under the AP Public (Prevention of Malpractices and Unfair (Means) Act, 1997. Investigation is on and no arrests have so far been made in the case.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joint-probe-by-jntu-k-police-begins-into-answer-sheet-racket/article32586437.ece
12 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP and JSP activists stage dharna||BJP State president Somu Veerraju, accompanied by the activists of the BJP and the JSP, staged a dharna in front of the office of the Sub-Collector in Rajamahendravaram on Friday, demanding the release and withdrawal of cases filed against the 43 persons who were arrested on charges of pelting stones on a church at Antarvedi in East Godavari. Later, Mr. Veerraju submitted a memorandum to Sub-Collector Anupama Anjali putting forth the demand, and asserted that the 43 persons were participating in a State-wide protest called against the burning of the chariot belonging to the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi on September 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-and-jsp-activists-stage-dharna/article32586416.ece
12 September 2020||KALIDINDI (KRISHNA DT.):,ANDHRA PRADESH||550 Indian soft-shelled turtles seized, three held||In a joint operation, the police and the forest department officials conducted a raid and seized 550 Indian soft shelled turtles, being smuggled from the State. On a tip-off, the Kalidindi police and the Wildlife officials raided Sanarudravaram village, in Krishna district on Friday, and seized the turtles packed in a van. Police arrested three persons, said Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) N. Satyanandam. The seized turtles, along with the accused, were handed over to Forest officials, the DSP said. Eluru Divisional Forest Officer (DFO-Wildlife) C. Selvam said the turtles were collected from Kolleru Lake bed villages in Krishna and West Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/550-indian-soft-shelled-turtles-seized-three-held/article32585717.ece
12 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks action plan to prevent attacks on temples||BJP Mahila Morcha national in-charge D. Purandeswari on Friday urged the State government to come up a with an action plan to stop the “increasing attacks” on temples across the State. Leading a protest by the party activists demanding the release of those arrested in connection with a protest staged at Antarvedi in East Godavari district, Ms. Purandeswari said handing over of the case relating to burning of the temple chariot indirectly amounted to admitting the government’s failure to offer protection to places of worship belonging to the Hindus. Temple lands Those responsible for the arson at Antarvedi should be immediately brought to book, she said. It was unfortunate that there had been a series of attacks on temples in the State, the latest being the one at Antarvedi, she said, adding that large tracts of lands belonging to temples had also been encroached upon. While the State government extended subsidies for pilgrimage to members of other religious communities, the facility had not been extended to those visiting Hindu pilgrimage centres, she lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-seeks-action-plan-to-prevent-attacks-on-temples/article32586418.ece
12 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navaratnalu have won people’s heart: Sucharitha||Home Minister M. Sucharitha has exhorted women constable trainees to render service with confidence and offer protection to the people. Speaking at the passing-out parade of the 19th batch of women constables (Civil, Armed Reserve, Communication) here on Friday, she said the government had endeared itself to all sections of people by implementing a host of welfare schemes under Navaratnalu. ‘Spandana a hit’ The novel ‘Spandana’ initiative had evoked a very good response from the people, who included those from the marginalised sections of society, she said. The innovatively-designed programme had facilitated resolution of public grievances in a time-bound manner, she added. The Disha Act had ushered in a woman-friendly ambiance in the State, she said. In all, 398 women constables were trained at the Police Training Centre. Director General of Police D. Gautham Sawang said the decision of the government to give weekly off to the police personnel had a rejuvenating effect on them and improved their efficiency. Statistics stand testimony to improvement in police functioning with 88% case disposal rate and 64% conviction rate, compared to 78% disposal rate and 58% conviction rate earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navaratnalu-have-won-peoples-heart-sucharitha/article32586419.ece
12 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll goes up to 736 as 16 more die in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Even as 16 more people succumbed to coronavirus in the south coastal Andhra districts during the last 24 hours, 2,314 patients were discharged from various COVID-19 facilities during the period, said to be the highest single-day recovery in the recent days. Eight patients each died of the virus in Nellore and Prakasam districts, taking the combined death toll in the two districts to 736. Nellore district has registered 377 deaths till date and the virus has claimed 359 lives in Prakasam district, said a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday night. In a reversal of the trend of the sharp spike in the positive cases this month, 1,181 patients were recovered from the infection in Prakasam district. As a result, the number of active cases has come down to 14,859. More than 19,000 patients have been recovered from the infection in the district till date. Much to the relief of the health authorities, 1,133 people were discharged on recovery in Nellore district at a time when the hospitals are overflowing with patients. With this, 36,466 patients have been cured of the infection in the district. Sample testing The number of new patients stood at 901 in Prakasam district during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases registered so far to 34,508. As many as 4,994 persons were tested negative for the disease during the period. So far, 3.28 lakh persons have been tested for the virus in Prakasam district. As many as 778 people were identified with infection in Nellore district during the period. With this, the cumulative confirmed cases in the two districts have gone up to 78,493, including 43,985 in Nellore district. The two districts have been recording a high number of positive cases during this week. However, the number of patients getting discharged from the COVID facilities exceeded the number of fresh admissions by 635 during the period. AT present 22,378 patients are undergoing treatment in both the districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-goes-up-to-736-as-16-more-die-in-nellore-prakasam-districts/article32586407.ece
12 September 2020||PEDDAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies during child birth||A 22-year-old woman died due to pulmonary embolism a few minutes after delivering a still-born baby at the Area Hospital here in East Godavari district in the early hours of Friday. East Godavari District Coordinator for Hospital Services (DCHS) T. Ramesh Kumar has said the baby was believed to be dead as the umbilical cord had wrapped around the foetal neck during the delivery. Ch.Pujitha of Peddapuram mandal was admitted to the Area Hospital on Wednesday and delivered a still-born baby during normal delivery in the early hours of Friday. “Mortality due to pulmonary embolism is rare during delivery,” said Dr. Kumar. Dr. Kumar has said an internal inquiry had been ordered and show-cause notices served on the staff who attended to the pregnant woman.  An internal inquiry has been ordered T. Ramesh Kumar DCHS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-during-child-birth/article32585714.ece
12 September 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR officials make arrangements for operating more trains||The Vijayawada division of South Central Railway (SCR) is making arrangements for operating more special trains from Saturday. The railways, which suspended all passenger services completely due to the pandemic for about 45 days, resumed special trains a few days ago. The railway management has decided to run more special trains from September 12. Railway officials sanitised the platforms, waiting halls and the ticket issuing counters as they anticipate an increase in passenger rush on the platforms. About 12 special trains, including those from MGR Chennai Central to New Delhi, Chhapra-MGR Chennai Central, Jaipur to Mysore Junction and other trains, will pass through Vijayawada Junction. The trains are being operated with limited halts. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas said the guidelines issued by the State government would be followed in operating the special trains in the State. “Only reserved passengers will be allowed and there will be no general compartments in the special trains. Passengers are requested to follow COVID-19 protocol and maintain cleanliness on the railway premises,” Mr. Srinivas said. Meanwhile, the Indian Railways have taken up maintenance of bridges, culverts and tracks in the division for the last few months as passenger trains had been suspended for a long period, which is for the first time, in the history of railways in wake of the pandemic. COVID tests SCR management has arranged COVID-19 tests for all its staff in the division. As many as 477 employees underwent tests during the three-day camp, conducted from September 9 to 11. The Personnel department supervised the arrangements, Mr. Srinivas said. “We are making all-out efforts to fight the pandemic and reach out to all employees and provide safety to passengers,” the DRM added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-officials-make-arrangements-for-operating-more-trains/article32585724.ece
12 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bond with Srikakulam||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao expressed shock over the death of Swami Agnivesh on Friday. Born in 1939 in Srikakulam district, he was a great inspiration to all human rights activists and trade union leaders, he said. “Swami Agnivesh did not have relatives here. But he shared his bond with Srikakulam when he took part in an agitation against the proposed Kovvada nuclear power project. His death is a great loss to the country,” said B. Krishnamurthy, CPI(M) State secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bond-with-srikakulam/article32586420.ece
12 September 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Is the pandemic curve flattening ?||In the last one week, the district, especially in the city limits, there has been a sharp drop in COVID-19 positive cases. Till about August 30, the district has been registering 900 to 1,000 cases on an average daily. But since September 2, there has been a drop by over 50%. On September 6, the number of cases recorded was 573, on September 7 it was 387, September 8 it was 426, September 9 it was 414 and on September 10 it was again 414. The drop is significant, but both District Collector V. Vinay Chand and COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, say that it is too early to say that the curve is tapering down. “We are closely monitoring the situation and the next one week to 10 days is crucial. If the trend continues, then we can come to a conclusion,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. Though there is a drop, the health officials are keeping their fingers crossed. Resurgence of cases after a significant drop also has been the trend world over during this pandemic. “We have seen such resurgence in China and also in Delhi in the recent times. We are now treading cautiously,” said the District Collector. “Another worrying factor is recurrence. Though in the district or in the city we have not recorded many such cases, where a person was infected for the second time, but there are a few cases and we are closely monitoring them,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “We also insist that such cases should immediately brought to our notice, as they need to be studied more closely,” he added.  Extensive testing One theory supporting the drop in cases, is extensive testing. The health officials in tune with district administration and the GVMC have covered the 750 clusters or containment zones. “We have tested close to 90% of the population in these containment zones and our strategy of 3Ts (test, track and treat) appear to have paid us dividends,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. ‘No shortage of kits’ Negating the speculation that the drop in cases may be due to shortage of rapid antigen kits, Dr. Sudhakar said, “There is no shortage of rapid antigen or RT-PCR test kits. On Wednesday, we received 80,000 rapid antigen kits. Even if we conduct 4,000 tests per day, it will last us 20 days. Moreover, every fourth or fifth day, the kits are replenished.” Keeping the focus on testing, the district administration has decided to test all who report at the PHCs with fever. “We have decided to keep fever as the benchmark now,” he said. As part of the focussed testing strategy, the District Collector has added one more medical officer at each of the 72 PHCs in the GVMC limits. “We already have one MO posted at the 72 PHCs in each of the 72 wards and now we will have one more who will focus only on testing and swab collection,” said Dr. Sudhakar. The house surgeons at KGH and Andhra Medical College, have devised a unique way to reach out to the positive cases who are in home isolation. The district administration has set up a call centre in AMC to inquire about the health of the positive cases under home isolation. As per the records, there are 5,016 cases in home isolation and there are two computers manned by two doctors who undertake the job of calling them and inquiring about their health condition and checking their vitals. “On Thursday, 10 house surgeons brought their laptops and at a stretch called over 4,900 patients and inquired about their health and checked their vitals,” said Dr. Sudhakar, appreciating innovativeness of the young doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/is-the-pandemic-curve-flattening/article32586453.ece
12 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri City feels pride as its units partner with aircraft project||Even as Rafael aircraft were inducted into the Indian Air Force, Sri City industrial enclave in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh feels pride over the development, as two of its units -- Hunter Douglas and Siddhartha Logistics -- are associated with the Dassault’s aircraft project. It was Hunter Douglas that had installed the ‘Luxalon 300C’ metal ceiling at the aircraft’s service hangar at Ambala Air Force Station in Punjab. Similarly, Siddhartha Logistics Private Limited holds the inventories of individual parts at its modern warehouse and also offers warehousing services to many defence industry manufacturers, including Israel Aerospace Industries. Sri City Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy announced that the industrial enclave had taken the ‘Make in India’ and ‘Make in AP’ call of the Central and State governments respectively with due seriousness. “We feel honoured as these units are able to contribute their best to the nation. With constant support and encouragement from the State government, Sri City emerged as one of the mega industrial parks in the country, thus fuelling India’s ambition of becoming a manufacturing hub, giving a fillip to creation of jobs and taking the economy on the fast track,” he said. Sri City-based VRV Asia Pacific was recently in the news for supplying a large storage tank with a Liquid Nitrogen (LIN) shield to ISRO’s Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota as an import substitute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-city-feels-pride-as-its-units-partner-with-aircraft-project/article32586430.ece
12 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five-year-old boy drowns in tank||A five-year-old boy drowned in a tank at a building complex under construction on Karakambadi Road on Friday. The boy, Charan, reportedly was playing near the tank and accidentally fell into it. His parents came searching for him and found his body in the tank. The parents picked up a quarrel with the owner of the construction site for negligence as the tank was not covered properly. The Alipiri police received a complaint in this regard and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-year-old-boy-drowns-in-tank/article32586409.ece
12 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six months since first case, daily tally still close to peak||It has been six months since the first COVID-19 case was reported in the State and 9,999 new infections, which is still close to the peak of single-day tallies, were reported in the past day. The tally has gone up to 5,47,686 and the death toll climbed to 4,779 with 77 new deaths reported in the past day as of Friday morning, according to the Health Department's bulletin. The biggest single-day tally of 10,830 infections was reported nearly 16 days ago. The recovery rate has gone up to 81.56% with a total of 4,46,716 recoveries including the 11,069 recoveries in the past day. There are 96,191 active cases in the State currently. The death rate remains at 0.87%. In the past day, 71,137 samples were tested for COVID and so far 4.45 lakh samples were tested at a positivity rate of 12.30%. The tests per million ratio is at 83,373 and confirmed cases per million ratio is at 10,256. In the past six months since March 12, when the first case was reported in Nellore district, an average of 2,977 new infections were reported per day. COVID spread was fastest in the past two months in the state as 95% (5,18,518) of the total cases were reported. In the first four months, only 5% cases, that is 29,168 were reported. In six months, the pandemic has seen 1.03% of the State's population contract the virus and 8.34% of it was tested. New deaths and cases East Godavari again reported the biggest single-day tally among the districts and three reported more than a thousand new infections. The new infections and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (1,499 cases and 4 deaths), West Godavari (1,081 and 5), Chittoor (1,040 and 8), Guntur (920 and 7), Prakasam (901 and 8), Nellore (778 and 8), Kadapa (698 and 9), Vizianagaram (594 and 5), Srikakulam (570 and 3), Anantapur (557 and 6), Kurnool (497 and 1), Krishna (451 and 7) and Visakhapatnam (413 and 6). Krishna district has crossed the 20,000-mark and has the lowest tally. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (73,996), Kurnool (50,679), West Godavari (48,329), Anantapur (48,105), Chittoor (47,509), Guntur (44,067), Visakhapatnam(42,849), Nellore (41,819), Kadapa (34,788), Prakasam (34,508), Srikakulam (30,942), Vizianagaram (26,790) and (Krishna 20,410).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-months-since-first-case-daily-tally-still-close-to-peak/article32586424.ece
12 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC posts SLP on Amaravati land scam to Sept. 22||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court has directed the parties to the Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed by the Andhra Pradesh government in the case pertaining to Anne Sudheer Babu, a retired MRO, who is accused of committing irregularities in the assigned land transactions in Amaravati, to furnish the required documents by September 22, and posted the matter for final disposal to that date. Mr. Sudheer Babu had allegedly tampered with assigned land records in Thullur mandal of Guntur district and got them registered in the name of some businessmen through fraudulent means. The Andhra Pradesh High Court had stayed the investigation by the CID after he filed a quash petition. Thereafter, the State government filed the SLP in the Supreme Court. State argument Appearing for the State, senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and P.S. Narasimha said the impugned land transactions were part of a huge land scam in Amaravati and alleged that Mr. Sudheer Babu had forced persons belonging to the SC and ST communities to transfer their lands before the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) was executed in the capital. The aggrieved were made to believe that the government would acquire lands without compensation, and they could reap the expected benefit by transferring the lands to a person by name Brahmananda Reddy and others. Justice Lavu Nageswara Rao said he was prima facie unhappy with the High Court order, and that there would be no further adjournments. Presenting the arguments on behalf of the accused, advocate Sidharth Luthra said there were discrepancies in the translation of the FIR. Justice Ravindra Bhat said even if there were changes in the translation, that would be inconsequential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-posts-slp-on-amaravati-land-scam-to-sept-22/article32586425.ece
12 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRM-AP partners with Northeastern University||SRM University-AP has partnered with the Northeastern University at Boston in U.S., for impactful education and research work. Representatives of the two universities have signed a Memorandum of Understanding. The MoU committee of SRM-AP is working to bring top universities from across the globe to give the students international exposure that will help them chart out a bright future. A statement issued by the university on Friday said this partnership would pave the way for mobility of faculty, scholars and students between the institutions, joint teaching, research projects and cultural activities besides student services and support to them. The university is also looking at possibilities like professional development programmes for faculty and staff, programme-based partnerships, joint development of the ongoing and new curricula and academic projects and collaboration in academic publications and other materials of mutual interest. The university is in the process of extending the collaboration to the department level. To begin with, the focus is on Computer Science and Engineering and Mechanical Engineering and later, other engineering, science and management streams will be included in the alliance. Internships The university is also exploring opportunities for internships, semester-abroad programmes and other educational and research activities that will greatly benefit the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-ap-partners-with-northeastern-university/article32585716.ece
12 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PD Act invoked against five in Krishna||The Krishna district police, in association with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) personnel arrested five persons allegedly involved in illegal trade of gutkha and ganja and liquor smuggling, and booked them under the PD Act. Following the recommendations by Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu, District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz issued orders invoking Preventive Detention (PD) Act, against the accused, who were allegedly involved in many cases in the last few years. The accused were facing more than 10 cases in Nandigama and Nuzvid divisions. Despite several warnings, they did not mend their ways, the SP said. SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal said police tightened security on the border with Telangana and deployed special and mobile parties to check sand and liquor smuggling. “Smugglers are operating from Kanchikacherla, Penuganchiprolu, Nandigama, Chandarlapadu, Gampalagudem and other areas. They are resorting to illegal activities and creating law and order problems in the district,” Mr. Jindal said. “PD Act has been invoked against Kothamasu Venkata Naga Rajeswara Rao, Kothamasu Chakradhar, Dasa Shekar, Annam Sambasiva Rao and his brother Annam Sudhakar in the last few days,” Mr. Babu added. The modus operandi of the accused was to develop contacts with the gutkha, ganja and Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) sellers in the neighbouring States. They will import the banned products and supply them to retail sellers in West Godavari, Krishna, East Godavari, Guntur and other districts, the SP said. “The suspects have wide network with gutkha and liquor sellers in Odisha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and other States. Vigil has been kept on more smugglers and retail traders also,” Mr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pd-act-invoked-against-five-in-krishna/article32585721.ece
12 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CBI probe will bring out facts’||The case pertaining to the burning of the wooden chariot belonging to the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district has been handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to enable a thorough inquiry into the incident, Home Minister M. Sucharitha has said. Fire broke out at around 1 a.m. on September 6 gutting the chariot. Addressing the media on Friday, Ms. Sucharitha said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was serious about the incident. “The allegations of the TDP and other parties are giving rise to various doubts. The culprits will be brought to book soon,” she said. “Some political parties are giving a religious colour. The CBI inquiry will bring out the facts,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-probe-will-bring-out-facts/article32586421.ece
12 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ban on Maoists extended||The State government has declared the Communist Party of India (Maoist) as an unlawful organisation for a further period of one year with effect from August 17, 2020. The government issued G.O.s banning the CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organisations on Friday. The government also declared the All India Revolutionary Students’ Federation (AIRSF), the Viplava Karmika Samakhya (VIKASA), the Singareni Karmika Samakhya (SIKASA), the Radical Students’ Union (RSU), the Rythu Coolie Sangham (RCS), the the Radical Youth League (RYL), all frontal organisations of the CPI (Maoist), as unlawful associations for a further period of one year with effect from August 17, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ban-on-maoists-extended/article32586431.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Show cause notice issued to Sravan Shipping||A show cause noticed was served on Sravan Shipping Services Private Limited for alleged non-compliance of rules under the Ammonium Nitrate Rules-2012, by the Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. Sravan Shipping is a CFS agent for ammonium nitrate, which is imported through Visakhapatnam Port. The notice was served after a police inquiry reportedly found a number of violations in the storage of the hazardous material in the warehouse complex and has asked the management to respond to the notice within a week’s time, failing which the NOC (no objection certificate) would be revoked, eventually leading to the cancellation of the licence. As per the inquiry, there were gross violations of safety provisions, as enshrined in Ammonium Nitrate Rule 2012, violations of provisions related to maintenance of records and submissions of returns as per the rules and violations of licence condition in constructing the store houses with different dimensions without keeping safety distance as specified in the rules and as proposed by Sravan Shipping Services Private Limited in the site plan, based on which the NOC was given. As per the rules enshrined in the Ammonium Nitrate Rule-2012, the safety distance between a store house and compound wall is 9 m and between a store house and protected works is 90 m. Sravan Shipping has 10 store houses in the facility. As per the inquiry by the police, the 90 m distance between a store house and protected works had been compromised an even the 9 m between each store house was not adhered to. In some case the distance between store houses was less then 2 m. Most importantly, the Ammonium Nitrate Rule specifies that 1 sq mt should be allocated to 1 MT of AN. But as per the floor plan most of the store houses are built in less than 5000 sq mt, but the licence was obtained for storing 5,000 MT. The police inquiry also unearthed that the mandatory norm of maintaining a distance of 0.6 m between stacks was not being followed. The monthly returns as mandated by the rule, has also not been reportedly followed. The AP Pollution Control Board in a letter to Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives on August 7 this year, had pointed out that the facility shall store AN only in C-3, C4 and C-5. It observed that the facility developed about 4,11,000 sq. ft and was using 2,11,000 sq ft for storage of AN, as against specified area of 1,03,000 sq ft in the EC. The APPCB stated that the facility installed fire fighting system for C4 and C5 only which is inadequate and has not installed fire fighting system for C3. The NOC for the licence, which is issued by the Controller of Explosives (PESO), is issued by the Commissioner of Police based on reports submitted by RDO, DMHO, town planning dept of GVMC, Fire Department and Traffic Department. The first NOC was given in January 2014, second one in November 2014 and last one was issued in November 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/show-cause-notice-issued-to-sravan-shipping/article32586433.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 6 more deaths||With 413 news infections reported on Friday, the district COVID-19 cumulative tally stands at 43,561 in Visakhapatnam. Six more persons died due to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 316. The district also saw 529 persons discharged/recovered from the virus on Friday, as per the COVID-19 bulletin. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Special officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, the number of active and recovered cases in the district is 5,385 and 37,860 respectively. He said that there were 118 very active and 55 active clusters. A total of 192 clusters were denotified by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-6-more-deaths/article32586450.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land grabbers will not be spared, warns Vijaya Sai||Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has said that if anyone tries to encroach the government lands in Visakhapatnam district, they will not be spared. Addressing the media during a programme at Collectorate here on Friday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy asked the public to inform the District Collector, Commissioner of Police or GVMC Commissioner, if they have any information about encroachment of government land. “I have also instructed the officials concerned to take strict action against such persons.” Reiterating that Visakhapatnam would soon become the Executive Capital of the State, the RS member said that the land rates in the city were on the rise and because of it, some persons were trying to grab the government lands. The MP also appreciated officials of various departments for their efforts in COVID-19 management. Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, District Collector V. Vinay Chand and a few others launched ‘Mana aarogyam, mana chethilo’ written by Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the book would be very useful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-grabbers-will-not-be-spared-warns-vijaya-sai/article32586432.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC pleads with Centre to bail out weavers||P.V.N. Madhav, MLC, has appealed to Union Minister for Textiles, Women and Child Development Smriti Irani to come to the rescue of handloom weavers in Andhra Pradesh, who were hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to the Union Minister, Mr. Madhav said that nearly four lakh weavers live in Andhra Pradesh and 20 lakh family members depend on this profession for their livelihood. Only some of the families have identity cards, while those who do not have them were not in a position to get the benefits being given by the State and Central governments. During the lockdown, the weavers had no work due to restrictions imposed by the Centre. The already produced product was kept in the looms due to lack of transportation. Owing to the closure of spinning mills, the raw material to be used for handlooms was stopped, completely affecting the livelihood of weavers. The MLC noted that the Centre was earning nearly Rs. 3,000 crore revenue through the export of handloom products. The Centre should take a few proactive steps to strengthen the handloom industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-pleads-with-centre-to-bail-out-weavers/article32586428.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. indifferent to attacks on temples, allege BJP, Jana Sena||A protest was organised by the BJP and the Jana Sena Party (JSP) activists at the Collectorate here on Friday against the alleged indifference of the State government to a series of attacks on temples and burning of chariots. MLC P.V.N. Madhav, former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju and BJP district president Raveendra Medapati were among those who took part in the protest. They demanded arrest of the accused responsible for the attacks on temples and unconditional release of Hindu leaders, who were arrested for staging a protest at Antarvedi. Later, they submitted a memorandum to the District Collector. In the memorandum, they expressed concern at the growing attacks on Hindu places of worship and burning of temple chariots in the State. The burning of the chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Antarvedi in East Godavari district had hurt the sentiments of Hindus. they said. The State government ordered a CBI probe into the chariot fire, only after the BJP and the JSP had launched agitations, they claimed. Several such incidents had occurred in the past in the State and the probe should also include those incidents, they said. Leaders of both the parties alleged that the police had foisted false cases on 37 Hindus, who had participated the protest at Antarvedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-indifferent-to-attacks-on-temples-allege-bjp-jana-sena/article32586441.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6.6 lakh women from district will be benefited by YSR Asara: Collector||A total of 6,61,317 women from 63,476 Self-Help Groups (SHGs) from the district are being benefited by the YSR Asara scheme launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. Out of total Rs. 1,837.76 crore, Rs. 459.43 crore has been released as part of the first phase of instalment, on Friday, he said. Mr. Jagan launched the scheme in a video conference on Friday. As part of the programme, 87,74,602 women from 8,71,302 SHGs from various parts of the State are going to be benefited. Out of the Rs. 27,168.33 crore which would be released in four instalments, Rs. 6,792.20 crore has been released on Friday. Mr. Vinay Chand said the beneficiaries from the district, include 2,22,675 women from 21,980 SHGs working with GVMC, 22,635 members from 1,753 SHGs of Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA), 38,561 women from 3,645 SHGs of Tribal Project Management Unit (TPMU) and 3,77,446 women from 36,098 SHGs of District Project Management Unit (DPMU). Nagamani, a member of Saibaba SHG, spoke to Mr. Jagan during the video conference and thanked him for launching the scheme. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and Mr. Vinay Chand gave cheques to the beneficiaries on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/66-lakh-women-from-district-will-be-benefited-by-ysr-asara-collector/article32586446.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jute mill workers happy with compensation’||Members of the four workers unions on Friday said that they were happy with the decisions made during the agreement between Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and the management of Chittivalasa Jute Mills on September 8. Members from the INTUC, AITUC, TNTUC and the Congress Workers Union held discussions with Mr. Srinivasa Rao at the Circuit House here on Friday. Speaking to the media, they alleged that some were intentionally creating rumours on the issue. They said that Mr. Srinivasa Rao was the MLA during the lockout of the jute mill and was well aware of the issues being faced by the workers. The decisions made under the Minister are being welcomed by all the workers, they said. They said that apprentices would also receive Rs. 10,000 as compensation. About 6,300 workers will be benefited by the Rs. 25 crore compensation package and each worker will receive about Rs. 27,500, they added. The management agreed to pay the compensation to the workers by December. The management would pay Rs. 11 crore in October, Rs. 7 crore in November and Rs. 7 crore in December. G. Venkat Reddy from INTUC, D. Appala Reddy from Congress Workers Union, S. Acha Reddy and M. Devullu from TNTUC and, K Eswara Rao from AITUC were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jute-mill-workers-happy-with-compensation/article32586448.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu, Lokesh involved in Antarvedi incident: MP||YSR Congress Party V. Vijayasai Reddy alleged that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh were involved in the Antarvedi incident. Speaking to the media here on Friday, he said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy sought CBI probe into the incident and all the persons involved in it will be exposed. He said that the police were suspecting involvement of several people from Guntur and Hyderabad in the incident. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao alleged that a few political parties were trying to foment unrest in the State in the name of religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-lokesh-involved-in-antarvedi-incident-mp/article32586451.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expedite land acquisition for project: Minister||The Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi project, when completed, can provide irrigation facilities to eight lakh acres in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said. At a review meeting with officials of the Irrigation Department at the Zilla Parishad meeting hall here on Friday, he directed the Deputy Collector Murali to complete the land acquisition process quickly. He suggested that problems, if any, could be sorted out with the assistance of local people’s representatives. He asked the officials to complete the right and left channels in an expeditious manner. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had already given the administrative clearances for the project and directed the Executive Engineer to complete the re-tendering process early. Once that was done, the Chief Minister would lay the foundation stone. He gave the break-up of the number of acres to be irrigated by the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expedite-land-acquisition-for-project-minister/article32586458.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam temple official suspended||The Commissioner of Endowments has suspended Y. Srinivasa Rao, the Assistant Executive Officer of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamyvari Devasthanam, Simhachalam, pending further inquiry in the alleged gold scam. As per an internal inquiry, it was found that Mr. Srinivasa Rao had delayed filing a criminal complaint in the police station against the accused in the gold scam, despite the Executive Officer directing him to do so expeditiously. The suspended official had also allegedly placed two of the accused, both outsourced employees, in key positions against the instructions of the EO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-temple-official-suspended/article32586434.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haemoglobin meters distributed||The government has distributed digital haemoglobin meters under the ‘Anaemia Mukt Bharat’ scheme for detection of anaemia. Children in the 5 to 18 years age group, women in the 20 to 49 years age group and pregnant women would be screened, according to the DMHO K. Vijayalakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/haemoglobin-meters-distributed/article32586442.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New logo of APEPDCL launched||Chairman and Managing Director of APEPDCL Nagalakshmi S. launched a new logo of APEPDCL along with with K. Raja Bapaiah, (Director Projects), B. Ramesh Prasad, Director (Operations), P.V.V. Sathyanarayan, CGM(HRD), M.Y.Koteswara Rao, GM(HRD), and C. Srinivasa Murthy, GM(IT), at the APEPDCL corporate office here on Friday. The CMD said that the new logo is being used by APEPDCL in all official activities and correspondence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-logo-of-apepdcl-launched/article32586444.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Masks donated to GVMC sanitary staff||Visakha Dairy Trust Chief Executive Officer Adari Anand Kumar donated about 6,000 masks to sanitary staff of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) here on Friday. He handed over the masks to Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao at his office. Mr. Anand Kumar appreciated the efforts of the frontline workers during the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/masks-donated-to-gvmc-sanitary-staff/article32586447.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3.5 tonnes of ganja destroyed||About 3.5 tonnes of ganja seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence in three different cases, was destroyed by the Customs Department, here on Friday. The seized ganja was handed over to the department by the DRI for storage and destruction. On Friday, it was incinerated at APPCB-controlled facility at Ramky Enviro Engineers in Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/35-tonnes-of-ganja-destroyed/article32586455.ece
12 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCI bags maintenance contract||Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCI) has successfully bagged the project for post monsoon maintenance dredging at New Mangalore Port for a period of three years. The work allotted is valued at Rs. 111.22 crore and the estimated annual dredging quantity is about 6.50 million Cum and the work shall be carried out from October to January each year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dci-bags-maintenance-contract/article32586454.ece
12 September 2020||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sirimanotsavam to be held on October 27||The Sirimanotsavam will be organised at the Pyditalli Ammavari temple in Vizianagaram on October 27. However, the festival would be a low-key affair this year in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Assistant Endowments Commissioner G.V.S.S.R. Shastry told the media here on Friday. “All COVID-19 protocolswill be followed strictly,” said Mr. Shastry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sirimanotsavam-to-be-held-on-october-27/article32585715.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Antarvedi fire: BJP wants CM, Minister to resign||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Jana Sena Party (JSP) on Friday demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao, saying that the YSRCP government had failed in protect the chariot of the Antarvedi temple. BJP activists led by party leaders Reddi Pavani, Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju, Nadukuditi Eswara Rao, Baggam Rajesh and others staged a demonstration at the Collectorate here and shouted slogans against the State government. “The YSRCP government is busy consolidating its minority vote bank,” said Ms. Pavani. Meanwhile, Jana Sena leaders Palavalasa Yashaswini and Tyda Ramakrishna Rao demanded that the CBI inquiry should be extended to other temples where many irregularities such as grabbing of land, apart from the Antarvedi temple fire incident. Later, the leaders of both the parties submitted a memorandum to Vizinagaram Collecctor M. Hari Jawaharlal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/antarvedi-fire-bjp-wants-cm-minister-to-resign/article32586408.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YVU inks pact with World Forum of Education||The Yogi Vemana University (YVU) on Friday singed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Bengaluru-based World Forum of Education for mutual exchange of expertise, resources and facilities at the global level to help build knowledge-building societies. The YVU is the first university in the State to ink a pact with the WFE, the university officials said. Vice-Chancellor M. Surya Kalavathi and Registrar D. Vijaya Raghava Prasad gave a detailed account of the objectives and commitment of the university towards keeping pace with the global standards during a virtual interaction programme with WFE Chancellor Roopa Vasudevan. As part of the MoU, the two institutes have agreed to launch student-centric programmes to improve their skill sets to help them meet the competency at the global level. WFE founder and chairperson Bharat Lal Meena, global vice-president Umashankar Kumar, YVU’s Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) director M.V. Shankar were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yvu-inks-pact-with-world-forum-of-education/article32586410.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to good old days?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-to-good-old-days/article32586457.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tech upgrade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tech-upgrade/article32585975.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inspiring devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inspiring-devotion/article32586427.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Livelihood matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/livelihood-matters/article32586439.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A move towards issuing conclusive land titles: CM||The State government has firmed up its resolve to reform the revenue administration, enabling it to issue conclusive titles to land owners. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said the government had decided to amend/repeal some revenue acts in its efforts to usher in a transparent and hassle-free issue of conclusive title deeds, ending once for all the problems arising out of land transactions. “No government had the courage to reform the area. But there has to be a beginning and the two pieces of legislation introduced in the Assembly are aimed at overhauling the system to make it people-friendly, especially farmers and the poor,” he said. The Chief Minister was speaking in reply to a more-than-six-hour debate on the passage of the two acts – the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020, and the Telangana Abolition of the Posts of Village Revenue Officers Act 2020 – which were passed by the Assembly on Friday. Two other Bills Two other Bills – The Telangana Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2020 and the Telangana Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2020 – supplementing the amended revenue acts were also passed. The Chief Minister said there were several loopholes in the existing system, giving scope for corruption and harassment of the poor. “These are systems with multiple knots leading to disputes. The government remaining a mute spectator to the system is a crime and hence, my government took the decision,” he said. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said there were close to 170 Acts governing the Revenue sector of which several had been repealed to suit the State’s convenience and 87 Acts covering revenue administration were still in operation. “Some of these Acts will be repealed in due course, but the government is not in a hurry,” he said. Assignment lands On assignment lands, he said the assignment had been made in an “unscientific” manner. “For instance, certificates of assignment lands were issued for more than 9,000 acres in a village in Suryapet district when the actual extent of the lands was 1,500 acres. Some villages were omitted altogether,” he said. The Chief Minister said the purpose of assignment was generating economic activity to assignees. But it had turned out to be “political assignment”, with the lands never shown to the assignees. “They need step-by-step rectification and the government is moving in the direction,” he said. Mr. Rao, however, said the government took care to ensure that interests of Dalits and weaker sections, in possession of assignment lands, and the tribes cultivating lands given under the ROFR Act were protected. “A special column will be created in the land administration portal Dharani for the lands classified under the ROFR Act,” he said. The Chief Minister said the government was committed to protecting the interests of land owners and incorporation of the ‘enjoyment’ column in passbooks was leading to disputes. “We went to the elections on this issue and we got people’s mandate,” he said. Compensation to tenants should be settled between tenants and land owners, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-move-towards-issuing-conclusive-land-titles-cm/article32586240.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana adds 2,426 more COVID cases||The State on Thursday reported as many as 2,426 COVID cases, which spikes the total number to 1,52,602. With another 13 deaths reported on the same day, the total number of fatalities in Telangana rose to 940. The bulletin issued to the media by the Office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare recorded that as many as 2,324 persons infected with novel coronavirus recovered on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,19,467. The number of active cases stands at 32,195. This includes 25,240 who are in home and institutional isolation. The number of cases in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits was recorded as 338, marginally higher than the 327 cases reported on the previous day. Five other districts reported more than 100 cases. These are: Nalgonda (164), Rangareddy (216), Medchal Malkajgiri (172), Karimnagar (129) and Warangal Urban (108). The bulletin recorded that 62,890 samples were tested for COVID on Thursday, increasing the total number of tests done to 20,16,461.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-adds-2426-more-covid-cases/article32586228.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Listing of sown extent as part of regulated farming is a model practice’||The Legislative Council was informed on Friday that enumeration of crops cultivated in a record extent of over 1.41 crore acres this Vanakalam (Kharif) season in Telangana as part of the regulated farming advised by the State government is a model practice for the entire country. Answering questions raised by members K. Damodar Reddy and K. Narayana Reddy, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated that along with horticultural crops the extent covered this season was 1,41,08,000 acres and it is expected to increase by some more extent as paddy transplantation is due in a few areas irrigated by Krishna waters. He explained that cotton was sown in 59.7 lakh acres, paddy was transplanted in 50.61 lakh acres, redgram cultivated in 10.6 lakh acres, soyabean sown in 3.95 lakh acres, maize in 2.19 lakh acres, greengram in 1.54 lakh acres and jowar in 1.03 lakh acres. The paddy cultivation includes superfine variety Telangana Sona, which also has the low glycemic index, in over 10 lakh acres. The listing of crops cultivated was done with the help of gadgets given to Agricultural Extension Officers (AEOs) in 2,604 clusters. To verify the exact crop-wise extent sown, farmers were sent messages (SMS) to their phone numbers in three phases. Rythu Bandhu On Rythu Bandhu investment support scheme, the Minister stated that a total of Rs. 28,299.16 crore was given to landholding farmers during the five crop seasons beginning from 2018 Vanakalam. The reach of similar schemes introduced by West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh after the launch of Rythu Bandhu here was not as wide as the one in Telangana, the Minister stated. He stated that a tripartite agreement was signed by the State Government, Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University and Indian School of Business for branding and marketing strategy for propagation of Telangana Sona at national and international level. The government had also taken up construction of 2,601 Rythu Vedikas, platform for mobilising the farming community at village level, at a cost of Rs. 22 lakh each, including Rs. 12 lakh each funding from the Agriculture Department and Rs. 10 lakh under the A total of 136 philanthropists had donated land for construction of Rythu Vedikas and another 24 gave money for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/listing-of-sown-extent-as-part-of-regulated-farming-is-a-model-practice/article32586241.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre’s role in helping State fight virus not acknowledged’||Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy refuted the allegations of the Telangana government by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and some of his Cabinet colleagues that the Centre was discriminating against the State in release of funds and extension of cooperation, including in the fight against COVID. He gave detailed account of funds released by the Centre for various programmes, supply of food grains to the poor for the last eight months and supply of material and medicines to fight the pandemic and offered to prove it if either the Chief Minister or any other Minister seeks to differ on any of the aspects spoken about by him on Friday. The Union Minister addressed a virtual press conference on Friday, following the remarks of the Chief Minister and other Ministers in the Assembly on Wednesday and Thursday on devolution of funds and other cooperation extended by the Centre stating there was a huge gap in the Centre’s claims and what the State received practically. “From supply of N95 masks, PPE kits, HCQ tablets, COVID testing kits and supply of ventilators to release of Rs. 350 crore funds to fight the virus, the Centre has been doing everything it can to help Telangana along with other states. I am glad that Mr. KCR at least admitted the fact on release of funds. Of the 1,400 ventilators sent by the Centre to Telangana, about 500 have not even been opened so far though people are spending huge amounts of money for ventilator facility to COVID patients in private hospitals,” he said. He alleged that the State government had failed to build confidence among people on the public healthcare sector and to cover up its mistakes it was trying to blame the Centre in tackling COVID. Even as a representative of the Centre, he had never criticised the public health facilities in the State, he noted. The Centre had also sanctioned 168 basti dawakhanas for the State but its participation was not acknowledged. “Even for KCR kits, Rs. 6,000 per kit is being borne by the Centre but the State has not deemed it fit to include PM’s name for it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centres-role-in-helping-state-fight-virus-not-acknowledged/article32586223.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mecca Masjid opens post lockdown||Mecca Masjid was thrown open to the public and Friday prayers were performed for the first time after lockdown, albeit with a limited number of congregants. Gates were closed when around 50 people entered the mosque that led the khateeb to declare that congregants perform zohar (afternoon)  prayers as well. Both Friday prayers and zohar prayers are offered in the afternoon. But, unlike the zohar prayers, the Friday prayer, as per Sharia, is preceded by a khutba or sermon, and also witnesses a larger congregation. Speaking to the media, khateeb of the mosque Maulana Rizwan Quraishi said that there was a consensus among scholars from the Hanafi School of Islamic Jurisprudence that one of the conditions for acceptability of Friday prayers is izn-e-aam (general permission) of congregants, meaning the free movement of people in and out of a mosque. Maulana Quraishi said that he noticed that all the gates of the Masjid were closed once there were around ‘50 or 52’ persons inside the mosque. With gates being closed, izn-e-aam condition for acceptance of Friday prayers is not fulfilled, he said. “Whenever there are restrictions, when people are stopped for Friday (prayers), and doors of mosques are closed, and congregants are stopped from entering, then as per Sharia, Friday prayers are said to be not offered,” he said. Maulana Rizwan Quraishi added on Friday, “I appeal to the police that they soften their stand and let congregants go to the mosque. I saw that gates were locked and signs were put up, so out of compulsion, I had to announce that as per the Sharia, those who have come here also offer zohar prayers. In case Friday prayers are not valid, they would have prayed zohar.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mecca-masjid-opens-post-lockdown/article32586230.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH junior doctors continue protest||Junior doctors of Osmania General Hospital (OGH) continued to boycott elective surgeries on Friday, even as they pressed for their demands. Doctors wore black bands near the out-patient and emergency blocks of the hospital and demanded better facilities in operation theatres, a fully-equipped acute surgical care unit, fully-equipped post operative ward, separate wards for medicine, orthopaedics, general surgery departments and provision of more oxygen ports, monitors, and ventilators. As was earlier reported in these columns, elective surgeries in general surgery and orthopaedics departments are not being performed since mid-July. They were being done in operation theatres in the in-patient ward. After the hospital was flooded due to the rains in July, patients from other wards were moved to other sections of the hospital. However, elective OTs of the two departments were not accommodated and elective surgeries were kept on hold. Meanwhile, Nagulu, a 54-year-old man who set himself ablaze on Thursday morning near Ravindra Bharathi, is being treated at OGH for burns. On Friday, Director of Medical Education Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy visited the hospital to check on him. However, sources said that he did not meet the protesting junior doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ogh-junior-doctors-continue-protest/article32586232.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Freeze on dealings in wakf, temple lands||In a major policy decision, the State government has decided to freeze transactions on Wakf and endowment lands, including temple lands, till further notice. No permission will be accorded to registering wakf/endowment lands and no-objection certificates would not be issued forthwith. The details of these lands would be kept in the auto-lock facility on the Dharani portal to ensure that the software did not allow any transactions of the kind. “A hara-kiri has been witnessed on these lands for the past several decades. We have to protect these properties,” Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said, adding that the government had powers under Section 22 (a) of the Registration Act to ban registration of these properties. The Chief Minister said the wakf properties were in excess of 77,000 acres and the endowment lands, including temple lands, were spread over 87,235 acres, going by the gazettes issued by the State government from time to time. Of these, over 57,000 acres of wakf lands and an equal extent of endowments/temple lands were under encroachment. He said the Recognition of Forest Rights Act was a Central act and the State had limited scope in it. Pattas on these lands would not be valid as the Act did not confer ownership. It was meant to give rights on forest produce to tribes. The government had, however, decided to provide benefits of Rythu Bandhu to farmers engaged in cultivation of these lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/freeze-on-dealings-in-wakf-temple-lands/article32586236.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Y security to Kangana based on H.P. govt. plea’||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy stated that the Centre has provided ‘Y’ category security with CRPF personnel to Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut following a request by the Himachal Pradesh government after assessing threat perception to her life and harassment by some sections. Mr. Reddy stated this during a web conference held with media persons on Friday. Father of the actress had approached the HP government by writing a letter seeking security to his daughter by explaining the threat to life being faced by her and harassment meted to her by some sections, particularly in Maharashtra. The actress’ father also met State’s Chief Minister personally with the same request, he said. Mr. Reddy said that the Centre would not intervene in any matter dealt by the State government, including that of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s reported suicide. Inquiry into the case by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was only a result of the Supreme Court directions, he said. On power bill Responding to a question on the opposition of some States to the amendments proposed to the Electricity Act by the Centre, Mr. Reddy said the Centre would not do injustice to any State and the objective behind the amendments to the Act is to make the power distribution companies (Discoms) economically viable by streamlining their performance, including steps to get funding for subsidies given by State governments. Justifying the proposal of metering the power supply to agricultural pumpsets, the Union Minister said there is nothing wrong in knowing consumption by the agriculture sector and the State governments could continue free power by reimbursing the Discoms proportionately. “As such the Centre has no objections to free power given by States to any sector. They can do it by metering the consumption too. Andhra Pradesh has taken the lead in announcing that it would go for fixing meters to agricultural connections to make appropriate allocation to Discoms,” Mr. Kishan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/y-security-to-kangana-based-on-hp-govt-plea/article32585994.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Create history winning Dubbak bypolls: Uttam||With an aim to make an impact in the Dubbaka by-elections to be held soon, the Telangana Congress held a preparatory meeting with all the senior leaders participating, urging that the party needs to make a huge difference to the State politics winning the elections. The meeting discussed the strategy to be adopted in taking the campaign forward and failure of the government to fulfil the promises made. Mr. Uttam Reddy said that the Congress workers must create history by winning the elections. He said the oustsees of Mallannasagar did not get adequate compensation while thousands of poor families are waiting for the delivery of double bedroom houses. Mr. Damodar Rajnarsimha claimed the Congress is fighting a ‘dictator’ with huge money bags but collectively the TRS can be beaten.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/create-history-winning-dubbak-bypolls-uttam/article32586244.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress plans to release GHMC list well in advance||Congress party would finalise the candidates for the Greater Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (GHMC) elections well in advance and the Mayoral candidate would be decided after the finalisation of reservations. Addressing the preparatory meeting of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) here with Congress leaders and division presidents, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said Hyderabad witnessed development only during the Congress regime and the city needs Congress party to get back its lost glory. AICC secretary Sampath, Hyderabad City president Anjan Yadav, Medchal district president Srisalam Goud, RR district president Narsimha Reddy, former MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan, Youth Congress president Anil Yadav, TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayan Reddy and chairman Minority Wing Sohail were among those who attended. Stating that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government stands on a bunch of fake promises and false claims, he attributed the development of Hyderabad to the previous Congress governments. He said the TRS government did not fulfil a single promise it made to the people in the last GHMC elections and deplorable civic conditions reflected the continuous neglect by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Reddy asked the Congress cadre to enlighten the people about the achievement of previous Congress regimes and the failures of present TRS regime. He directed the division presidents to complete the process of formation of committees by September 18. The formation of committees for blocks should also be completed at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-plans-to-release-ghmc-list-well-in-advance/article32586234.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Caught between fighting parents, 3-year-old girl dies||A violent fight between a couple resulted in the death of their three-year-old daughter in Miyapur late on Thursday. The incident took place around 6 p.m. at TN Nagar. According to Miyapur police, the couple Advaiah, a garbage rickshaw puller and his wife Varanasi Durgamma, a labourer, was living with their two daughters, with the former’s mother and brother. They used to have frequent altercations and on Thursday too, Advaiah came home in an inebriated condition and picked up an argument with Durgamma. “As her mother-in-law, Shivamma reprimanded her, Durgamma got upset and decided to go to her mother’s place. She left the house with her two daughters, Sunitha and Nandini, aged three and one year, respectively,” police said. While she was walking towards her mother’s house, Advaiah held her hand and tried to take her to their house. “When Durgamma refused to come, Advaiah grabbed a stick and hit their elder daughter Sunitha, as a result of which she suffered a severe head injury and died on the spot. Based on the complaint lodged by Durgamma, a case was registered, and her husband was taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/caught-between-fighting-parents-3-year-old-girl-dies/article32586243.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Newly wed bride kills husband||A newly married woman killed her alcoholic husband at Tappachabutra here on Friday morning as she was unable to bear the harassment, according to the police. Samreen smashed Mohammed Aslam’s head with a pestle after a heated argument. They got married 20 days ago and were living at Aslam’s house at Mujahid Nagar. He is a daily-wage earner. “Aslam was addicted to alcohol and every day he used to fight with her. On Thursday night too the couple had an argument. Next day morning, when he picked up a fight again, Samreen hit on his head with a pestle,” inspector G Santosh Kumar said. He said that Aslam was soon rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared him dead. A murder case was registered, and Samreen was taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/newly-wed-bride-kills-husband/article32586242.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Forest Martyrs Day observed||Minister for Environment and Forests A. Indrakran Reddy paid rich tributes to the martyrs in the Forest Department on the occasion of Forest Martyrs Day, and recalled their sacrifices. Observing the day at the Nehru Zoological Park on Friday, Mr.Indrakaran Reddy said since 1984, 21 officers of various cadres have sacrificed their lives for protection of forests and wildlife. He lauded the excellent services by the officers and staff during the pandemic, and expressed regret at demise of few officials due to COVID-19. He called upon everyone to protect the forest resources for ourselves and future generations. Forest Department personnel were asked to utilise the technology in protection of the resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/forest-martyrs-day-observed/article32586246.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Double lung transplant on COVID patient||A double lung transplant surgery was successfully performed on a 32-year-old COVID patient at the main branch of KIMS in the city on Friday. Patient Rizwan from Chandigarh was suffering from sarcoidosis that affected his lungs and deteriorated his health rapidly. A double lung transplant was the only permanent option for cure. The situation worsened when the patient contracted COVID while awaiting his lung transplant. His oxygen need increased in these circumstances from 15 litres a minute to 50 litres a minute for the past eight weeks. A team led by Dr. Sandeep Attawar, a thoracic organ transplantation surgeon at KIMS, found a match in a person declared brain-dead in Kolkata. His lungs were airlifted to save Rizwan’s life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/double-lung-transplant-on-covid-patient/article32586225.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||5G Use Case lab launched at IDRBT||A 5G Use Case lab for banking and financial services has been launched by the Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT) here. The lab, set up as part of a major research project awarded to IDRBT by the Centre’s Department of Telecommunications and Department of Financial Services (DFS), was inaugurated on Friday by Joint Secretary, DoT, Ministry of Communications, Hari Ranjan Rao. A release from IDRBT said that the lab will identify India-specific use cases of 5G in banking and financial services sector as well as support implementation of the technologies on a par with developed countries in the sector. Considering that India has the second largest mobile penetration in the world and a diverse digital divide, the security gaps in 5G technologies and services would also be identified along with use cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5g-use-case-lab-launched-at-idrbt/article32586224.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TN MP is new AICC in-charge for Telangana||Manickam Tagore has been made AICC in-charge for Telangana replacing R.C. Khuntia. Mr. Tagore is Member of Parliament representing Virudhunagar in Tamil Nadu. The AICC has replaced party in-charges in several States. Mr. Tagore was earlier AICC secretary for Karnataka. He was a Parliament member from the same constituency from 2009 to 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tn-mp-is-new-aicc-in-charge-for-telangana/article32586245.ece
12 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||2BHK units allotted||Double bedroom houses constructed at Narsapur were allotted by drawing lots at Vipanchi auditorium on Friday by MD Farooq Hussian. In total, 1,347 units were allotted to beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2bhk-units-allotted/article32586238.ece
12 September 2020||Bhopal,||Cong. names candidates for reserved seats in M.P.||The Congress on Friday announced its candidates for the by-elections to 15 Assembly seats, including all reserved constituencies, in Madhya Pradesh. Two of them were earlier in the BJP. Mukul Wasnik, All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, released the list of candidates for nine seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes and for two seats set aside for the Scheduled Tribes, after approval from party president Sonia Gandhi.  Bypolls nationwide The by-elections to 27 seats are due along with the by-elections nationwide and the Bihar Assembly election. Premchand Guddu, the candidate for Sanwer (SC), is a former Congress Lok Sabha member from Ujjain. He had joined the BJP but returned to the Congress in May. Kanhaiyalal Agarwal, the candidate for Bamori, won the seat in 2008 as a BJP candidate, but later contested as an Independent. Gohad (SC) candidate Mevaram Jatav had contested in the seat previously on Congress ticket. Phool Singh Baraiya, the party’s candidate in the Rajya Sabha election in June and a former Bahujan Samaj Party leader, is the candidate from Bhander (SC). “The Congress is fighting for its self-respect in these by-elections,” said Rasheed Kidwai, visiting fellow, Observer Research Foundation. “A cursory glance at the list indicates there will be a keen contest over caste factors, local issues and COVID-19-related economic hardships, in which the personality of candidates will be a central theme,” he said. Amid a political tussle in March, 22 seats fell vacant after Congress rebels, including 19 supporters of former Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, resigned, precipitating the fall of the 15-month Kamal Nath government. Later, three more Congress MLAs switched over to the BJP. Vacancies due to deaths Two seats had earlier fallen vacant with the death of the incumbents. The Congress has announced its candidates for most of the seats in the Gwalior-Chambal region, Mr. Scindia’s stronghold. The BSP last month named eight candidates and said it would contest in all 27 seats. The BJP is yet to declare its candidates.  AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik released the names for nine seats reserved for SCs and two for STs after approval from the party president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-names-candidates-for-reserved-seats-in-mp/article32586193.ece
12 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM hits out at AAP||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday termed as ‘irresponsible’ the Aam Aadmi Party’s ‘negative’ campaign about the State government’s handling of the COVID-19 situation. In a virtual meeting with party MLAs, Capt. Amarinder said India is facing a war-like situation, and a united fight alone could tackle the problem. But AAP was busy in petty politics amidst the crisis, he said. Contrary to what AAP was projecting, Delhi’s situation was much worse than Punjab, he said. With 2.90 crore population, Punjab has 18,000 active cases, while Delhi with 1.80 crore has 25,000 plus active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-cm-hits-out-at-aap/article32586195.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||Freedom of speech and expression not an absolute right, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the freedom of speech and expression provided under Article 19 of the Constitution is not an absolute right. The court made the observation while refusing to grant interim protection from arrest to a woman booked for allegedly making derogatory comments on Twitter against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son and Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a criminal petition filed by Sunaina Holey (38), through advocate Abhinav Chandrachud, seeking to quash the FIRs filed against her. She had posted three tweets on different occasions. In April, soon after the lockdown, she posted a video of a person blaming the Prime Minister for the COVID-19 crisis and tagged the CM in it. In another tweet, she put up a caricature of the CM and his son. Later, she responded to a Twitter user who asked how she being a north Indian could criticise ministers from Maharashtra. She said in a tweet that she is an Indian and doesn’t believe in regional differences. Additional public prosecutor J.P. Yagnik told the court that despite a notice being issued under Section 41A (notice of appearance before police officer) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Ms. Holey had not appeared before the investigating officer to cooperate with the probe. Mr. Chandrachud said she was apprehensive that if she visited the police, she would be arrested. The court took on record Mr. Yagnik’s oral assurance that she will not be arrested for two weeks. Mr. Chandrachud said her tweets had become political and her right under Article 19 of the Constitution was being breached. To which the court said, “Perhaps citizens are under the impression that freedom of speech and expression is an absolute right, without any restrictions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/freedom-of-speech-and-expression-not-an-absolute-right-says-hc/article32586328.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||185 police personnel test positive||A total of 185 Maharashtra Police personnel tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total case tally in the force to 18,405. Of them, 185 have succumbed to the virus so far, according to an official on Friday. Those detected with the infection so far comprise 1,992 officers and 16,413 constables, with the number of persons recovering standing at 14,608, the official said. “The number of active cases in the Maharashtra Police is 3,612, consisting of 453 officers and 3,159 constables,” he said. The personnel have been on the ground in full strength across the State to enforce the lockdown, said officials. A total of 2,52,551 cases of violations have been registered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/185-police-personnel-test-positive/article32586326.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||Custody of KKM members extended till September 19||A special court in Mumbai on Friday extended the custody of three Kabir Kala Manch (KKM) members with the National Investigation Agency till September 19. Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe (32), Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor (36) and Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap (33) were arrested earlier this week in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case. They were produced before special NIA Judge D.E. Kothalikar on Friday after their first remand period of four days ended. Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, appearing for the NIA, said further custody was required as the allegations against the three were serious, the case involved “deep-rooted conspiracy” and required detailed probe. “The three need to be confronted with data recovered from the other accused in the case,” Mr. Shetty said. The three, all residents of Pune, are members of the KKM, which is a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), according to the NIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/custody-of-kkm-members-extended-till-september-19/article32586325.ece
12 September 2020||mumbai,||Police to probe drug charge against Kangana||The Maharashtra government on Friday asked the Mumbai Police to probe drug use allegations against Kangana Ranaut, while the Bollywood actor turned her attention to Congress president Sonia Gandhi asking her to intervene and stop the harassment of women. The city police received a communication from the State Home Department to probe claims that Kangana used banned substances and narcotics drugs, a senior police official said. The Mumbai Crime Branch will look into the matter, he added. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday that the Mumbai Police will probe allegations by Adhyayan Suman, son of actor Shekhar Suman, that Ms. Ranaut took drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-to-probe-drug-charge-against-kangana/article32586191.ece
12 September 2020||Pune,||Will fight to get justice for Marathas: Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government will do everything in its power to ensure that the Maratha community gets justice, but it will not tolerate the politicisation of the reservation issue. “This government has been sincere on this issue and will not back down even for a moment to demand and secure justice for the Maratha community. This is a fight in which all of us are together. We will do everything we can to ensure that the apex court upholds the quota for the Maratha community. In this regard, we will take into account the suggestions of all concerned. Opposition leaders, too, will be briefed on the matter,” said Mr. Thackeray at a meeting via video-conferencing with Maratha outfits. State Minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan, who heads the Cabinet sub-committee on the Maratha reservation issue, said the government is mulling options to move an application in the Supreme Court to vacate its interim stay order. Mr. Chavan said it was not impossible to get the apex court to reverse its decision and urged Maratha outfits to show restraint. “This is a legal battle which needs to be fought through legal means… It is pointless to agitate in the streets,” he said.  Leader of Opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said Mr. Thackeray’s government had failed in effectively defending Maratha reservation. “The government has fallen short in its efforts… While I do not want to play politics, this government should have focused more on the legal aspects of the matter. It should take a lesson from the court’s ruling to prepare better,” he said. BJP State president Chandrakant Patil said the government had “lost the match in the Maratha reservation issue in the final ball”. “The State government has proved unsuccessful in convincing the Supreme Court. Our government [erstwhile BJP-led government] had fought for 90 long days to ensure that the quota bill endured in the Bombay High Court,” Mr. Patil said. BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Satara, Udayanraje Bhosale, urged the State government to promulgate an ordinance to provide reservation to the Maratha community. Ajit Pawar warns of action Irked by complaints of poor management of the newly set up jumbo COVID-19 facilities in Pune, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar rapped district administration officials and senior medical authorities on Friday. He said complaints of medical negligence and insensitive staff at these facilities would no longer be tolerated. Mr. Pawar, who is also Pune’s Guardian Minister, was speaking at his weekly review meeting with senior officials of the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies. “If there is any lacuna in information on the availability of beds or medical negligence, then strict action will be taken,” he said, impressing on authorities on the urgent need to restore faith of the public in the credibility of these jumbo hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-fight-to-get-justice-for-marathas-uddhav/article32586327.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Congress will recover lost ground in M.P.’||After rebel Congress MLAs and their supporters switched sides along with Jyotiraditya Scindia, the party is scrambling to shore up its organisation in the Gwalior-Chambal region. In an interview,  Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh says the party will recover lost ground ahead of the bypolls for 27 Assembly seats in M.P.  The party has suffered erosion of its organisation in the Gwalior-Chambal region. How challenging has it been to rebuild the organisation there? Mr. Scindia wanted a share in more than 10 districts, including Morena, Neemuch, Mandsaur and Ujjain. We used to allow him to control those districts organisationally. Out of his appointees, 35-40% have left. Kamal Nath has kept all our people together and reconstituted the organisational structure in those districts from the booth to the district level. New people have joined us. And I think we will be able to recover the lost ground. At the same time, people never expected Mr. Scindia to leave the Congress. And even his supporters have not approved his act of leaving. What will the strategy be for the by-elections? Promises, keep them apart. Because people are quite fed up with promises. But what is more important is people feel let down. The electorate feels cheated as they voted for the Congress. Therefore, there is huge anger against them. You’ve recently said the lack of ideological clarity was harming the Congress. Do you view the perceived saffron posturing by Mr. Nath and the central leadership around the ground-laying ceremony for the Ayodhya Ram temple as an example of that? Why give it a colour? The Congress respects people of all religions. We have never done politics of religion. If Mr. Nath or the Congress has welcomed the decision of the Supreme Court for the temple, it is not against the ideology. And he has always respected people of other religions. But there is no question of taking sides on that. Will the lack of a permanent leadership in the Congress and the letter of the leaders have a bearing on the coming elections countrywide? It is unrelated. Further, Sonia Gandhi is the undisputed leader of the Congress. As regards the 23 signatories, instead of writing a letter and making it public, they could have asked for the issues to be discussed in the committee, requested Ms. Gandhi, for it who would have definitely agreed. I have been in the party since 1971. Congress has had splits four-five times. Every time, it is this family which has got the bulk of the Congress supporters. Therefore, I personally do not visualise the Congress without the Nehru-Gandhi family. The Parliament session is going to begin from September 14. What is going to be the party’s agenda this time? There are three ordinances that may affect farmers, small and medium traders and consumers. We are opposing all three. The fourth relates to the opening up of the cooperative sector for public share holdings. Narendra Modi and the BJP say Sardar Patel would have been a better PM than Jawaharlal Nehru. If Mr. Modi idolises Sardar Patel, why is he acting against the cooperative movement that made Sardar Patel the leader of farmers of Gujarat?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-will-recover-lost-ground-in-mp/article32586194.ece
12 September 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Intra-Afghan peace talks to begin today||Much anticipated negotiations between Afghanistan’s warring parties are likely to be “contentious,” U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned on Friday, but are the only way forward if Afghans are to find peace after decades of relentless conflict. Mr. Pompeo made his comments en route to Qatar, where intra-Afghan negotiations are to begin on Saturday, a day mostly reserved for ceremony before the hard task of hammering out a road map for a post-war Afghanistan begins. The negotiations were laid out in a peace deal Washington brokered with the Taliban and signed in Doha on February 29 aimed at ending the war and bringing U.S. troops home ending America’s longest conflict. “We expect Saturday morning, for the first time in almost two decades, to have the Afghans sitting at the table together prepared to have what will be contentious discussions about how to move their country forward to reduce violence and deliver what the Afghan people are demanding — a reconciled Afghanistan with a government that reflects a country that isn’t at war,” Mr. Pompeo said on the plane taking him to Doha. U.S. pullout President Donald Trump made the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan a promise before the 2016 presidential election. In the countdown to this November’s presidential polls, Washington has ramped up pressure to start intra-Afghan negotiations. At a news conference on Thursday, Mr. Trump called the talks “exciting” and said Washington expected to be down to 4,000 troops by November. Even though delays have plagued the start of talks, Washington began withdrawing some of its 13,000 troops after the February 29 deal was signed. Withdrawal of the remaining troops does not hinge on the success of intra-Afghan negotiations but rather the commitment made by the Taliban in the deal to fight terrorists groups that could threaten the U.S. and its allies. UN envoy to Afghanistan Deborah Lyons called the talks possibly “the start of something truly momentous”. She called for a reduction of violence as Afghanistan waits to reach a permanent cease-fire. Ready to return Mr. Pompeo in his comments made it clear the U.S. was ready to return soldiers to Afghanistan if it saw a threat emerging and the Taliban reneged on their commitments. The White House and its peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad have refused to give specifics on commitments made by the Taliban, citing security concerns. “Our commitment to reduce our forces to zero is conditioned on them executing their obligations under the agreement (which is) so very clear about their responsibilities with respect to terrorist activity taking place in Afghanistan,” Mr. Pompeo said. But Mr. Pompeo warned of spoilers to peace. “It’s very clear that the violence levels have to come down to acceptable levels,” he said. The Afghan delegation left the capital late on Friday afternoon for Doha and it included Abdullah Abdullah, who heads the High Council for National Reconciliation, the powerful umbrella group that will oversee the negotiation team headed by former intelligence chief Mohammed Masoom Stanikzai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/intra-afghan-peace-talks-to-begin-today/article32585632.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal party concludes prolonged meeting||The prolonged meeting of the Standing Committee of the ruling Nepal Communist Party ended on Friday. The meeting was convened in July and continued ever since which makes it one of the longest discussion for the party in recent times. “The meeting of the Nepal Communist Party Standing Committee has concluded by passing a special resolution based on the report of the task force. Disputes within the party have ended and party unity has been strengthened,” said Foreign Minister of Nepal Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. The Standing Committee meeting was convened a month after the new map of the country was unveiled, which brought the country into a diplomatic spat with India. The map was passed unanimously by the ruling party though it failed to bridge differences between the sections of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli and party co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’. The standing committee yielded a resolution, which gave greater stability to the tenure of Prime Minister Oli, who has the assurance of the committee to execute his political responsibilities as per electoral promises. It also gave Mr. Prachanda the central authority to “convene meetings of the party and execute, control party affairs”. The 13-point resolution aims to create a smooth working condition for Prime Minister Oli, who had to deal with frequent criticism from the supporters of Mr. Prachanda in the standing committee during July. With the meting behind him, Mr. Oli is expected to focus on Nepal's foreign relations in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepal-party-concludes-prolonged-meeting/article32585627.ece
12 September 2020||BRUSSELS,||EU stands united as Brexit trade talks unravel further||The 27 European Union nations on Friday presented a reinforced united bloc in dealing with the United Kingdom and negotiating a trade deal after the British government said it plans to violate part of the Brexit divorce agreement signed by both sides less than a year ago. Anger and bafflement at the U.K’s. plans not to honour an international treaty with a Bill that would diminish the EU’s oversight of trade between mainland Britain and Northern Ireland mixed with steadfast resolve to stand together as time runs short to find a smooth economic transition for Brexit by December 31. “We have never in recent history — or, maybe in ancient history dealing with other countries — seen such a renegement on an agreement,” Ireland’s Europe Minister, Thomas Byrne, said. “It is unacceptable,” he told the BBC. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s plan put the talks on a future trade deal in an even deeper rut. Even though a no-deal Brexit on January 1 would hit EU nations like Ireland, France, Belgium and the Netherlands especially hard, none were ready to cave in and meet U.K. demands, which the EU views as seeking free access to the EU market while refusing to guarantee fair competition. “We will never accept any kind of decision that might weaken or jeopardise the European single market, French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said. He added, “We have made very clear that all European countries remain united and strong.” At a meeting of eurozone Finance Ministers in Berlin, all other comments made backed Mr. Le Maire’s stance. Ireland, which has the EU’s only land border with the U.K., stands to lose the most in a breakdown of trade talks. Irish Finance Minister Paschal Donohoe welcomed “solidarity and support” from his colleagues in other EU countries. The British government has acknowledged it would violate the Brexit agreement with the Bill that would diminish the EU’s oversight of trade between mainland Britain and Northern Ireland. But it denies it is trying to renege on the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-stands-united-as-brexit-trade-talks-unravel-further/article32585626.ece
12 September 2020||Washington,||N. Korea issues shoot-to-kill orders to prevent virus: U.S.||North Korean authorities have issued shoot-to-kill orders to prevent the novel coronavirus entering the country from China, according to the commander of US forces in the South. The impoverished North — whose crumbling health system would struggle to cope with a major virus outbreak — has not confirmed a single case of the disease that has swept the world since first emerging in China, the North’s key ally. Pyongyang closed its border with China in January to try to prevent contamination, and in July state media said it had raised its state of emergency to the maximum level. U.S. Forces Korea (USFK) commander Robert Abrams said that the border shutdown had increased demand for smuggled goods, prompting authorities to intervene. The North introduced a new “buffer zone, one or 2 km up on the Chinese border,” General Abrams told a conference organised by the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington on Thursday. “They’ve got North Korean SOF (Special Operations Forces) out there. ... Strike forces, they’ve got shoot-to-kill orders in place.” The border closure had effectively “accelerated the effects” of economic sanctions imposed on the North over its nuclear programs, he added, with imports from China plunging 85 percent. The isolated country is also grappling with the aftermath of Typhoon Maysak, with its state media reporting more than 2,000 houses have been destroyed or inundated. As a result, General Abrams did not expect to see any major provocations from Pyongyang in the near future, although he said it might show off a new weapons system at next month’s celebrations of the 75th anniversary of the founding of Kim Jong-un’s ruling party. “The regime right now — the military — is focused principally on getting their country recovered and to help mitigate the risk of COVID-19,” he said. “We’re not seeing any indications right now of any sort of lashing out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-issues-shoot-to-kill-orders-to-prevent-virus-us/article32585630.ece
12 September 2020||Washington,||Hackers from Russia, China targeting U.S. vote: Microsoft||Microsoft said on Thursday it thwarted recent cyberattacks from China, Russia and Iran targeting both Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns, as technology giants scrambled to protect election security less than two months ahead of the U.S. vote. The announcement came as Twitter said it would implement a policy next week to remove “false or misleading information intended to undermine public confidence in an election,” including unverified claims of victory; and Google said it would take steps to ensure its “autocomplete” search feature doesn't make such misguided suggestions. Microsoft said that attackers have been targeting staff from the campaigns of President Donald Trump and his Democratic rival, Joe Biden. “In recent weeks, Microsoft has detected cyberattacks targeting people and organisations involved in the upcoming presidential election,” said corporate vice president Tom Burt. It was clear that “foreign activity groups have stepped up their efforts targeting the 2020 election as had been anticipated,” according to Mr. Burt. The attackers have targeted political operatives, think tanks, consultants and political parties in Europe as well, Microsoft said. It identified a Russia-based group called Strontium which Mr. Burt said “has attacked more than 200 organisations,” and China-based Zirconium, which he said “has attacked high-profile individuals associated with the election, including people associated with the Joe Biden for President campaign and prominent leaders in the international affairs community.” An Iran-based group dubbed Phosphorus has been targeting personal accounts of people associated with the Trump campaign, Microsoft said. The majority of those attacks were stopped by Microsoft security tools, and those targeted or compromised were alerted, according to Mr. Burt. Russia is trying to undermine voters' faith in the U.S. electoral system and especially in voting by mail ahead of the November 3 election, according to a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) analysis. A statement in August from the National Counterintelligence and Security Center said Russia is actively working against Biden's candidacy, favouring Mr. Trump as it did in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hackers-from-russia-china-targeting-us-vote-microsoft/article32585634.ece
12 September 2020||Clovis,||15 killed, half a million evacuated due to U.S. bushfires||Firefighters were battling unprecedented wildfires up and down the U.S. West Coast on Friday that killed 15 people and forced more than half a million others to flee their homes, with officials warning of more deaths to come in the days ahead. The true scale of destruction was impossible to count across wide stretches of California, Oregon and Washington cut off from the world by an apocalyptic wall of flames, fuelled by record heatwaves and intense, dry winds. The August Complex Fire became the biggest recorded blaze in Californian history on Thursday, after multiple fires in the state's northwest combined under high temperatures and winds to rip through 7,46,000 acres of dry vegetation. More than 2.6 million acres have been burned across the whole state so far, a Cal Fire spokesman said on Thursday evening. Half a million people have been evacuated in neighboring Oregon, where the government said firefighters were “prioritising life (and) safety as they battle a record 9,00,000 acres of wildfires.” Unprecedented wildfire Governor Kate Brown said that the amount of land incinerated by fires in just the last 72 hours was twice the state's annual average, and that at least five towns had been “substantially destroyed.” “We have never seen this amount of uncontained fire across our state,” she told a press conference. Huge wildfires are becoming more common, with the World Meteorological Organization saying the five years to 2019 was “unprecedented” for fires, especially in Europe and North America. Climate change amplifies droughts which dry out regions, creating ideal conditions for wildfires to spread out-of-control and inflict unprecedented material and environmental damage. Local Oregon officials confirmed two deaths in the Santiam Canyon region south of Portland, and a third in the Ashland area, near the California border. Police went door to door to make sure that residents were evacuating the city of Molalla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/15-killed-half-a-million-evacuated-due-to-us-bushfires/article32585623.ece
12 September 2020||Lahore,||Uproar in Pakistan over gang rape case||A Pakistani police chief faced a growing backlash Friday after he seemed to blame the victim in a gang rape case because she was driving at night without a male companion. The controversy started after a woman said she was assaulted and raped by multiple men in front of her two children when her car ran out of fuel near the eastern city of Lahore late on Wednesday. Speaking to media, Lahore police chief Umar Sheikh repeatedly chided the victim for driving at night without a man, adding that no one in Pakistani society would “allow their sisters and daughters to travel alone so late”. Protests held Sheikh went on to say the woman — a resident of France — probably “mistook that Pakistani society is just as safe” as her home country. Human Rights Minister Shireen Mazari said his remarks were unacceptable. “Nothing can ever rationalise the crime of rape,” she added. Protests were held in cities across Pakistan on Friday, and Mr. Sheikh's comments sparked demands for his resignation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uproar-in-pakistan-over-gang-rape-case/article32585635.ece
12 September 2020||London,||U.K. inks key trade deal with Japan||Britain on Friday announced its first major post-Brexit trade agreement — a deal with Japan — as its negotiations with the European Union become increasingly fractious. The Department for International Trade said the accord, which largely replicates the current EU-Japan deal, will be worth £15.2 billion ($19.5 billion). The government said U.K. businesses will benefit from tariff-free trade on 99% of exports to Japan and that it will give British businesses a gateway to the Asia-Pacific region. U.K. Ministers trumpeted the new bilateral agreement with Japan as a clear sign to Brexit opponents that agreements can be struck elsewhere. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Twitter that the deal showed “we have taken back control of our trade policy & will continue to thrive as a trading nation outside the EU.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-inks-key-trade-deal-with-japan/article32585624.ece
12 September 2020||Seoul,||Kim displayed uncle’s corpse, says Trump||The headless body of Kim Jong-un’s executed uncle was displayed to senior North Korean officials, U.S. President Donald Trump told the author of an upcoming book on the U.S. President. Jang Song Thaek, the North Korean leader’s uncle by marriage and a hugely powerful figure within the regime, was purged for treason and corruption in 2013, in what was widely seen as Mr. Kim mercilessly asserting his authority. “Kim tells me everything. Told me everything,” Mr. Trump told the Washington Post investigative journalist Bob Woodward, according to his forthcoming book Rage . “He killed his uncle and he put the body right in the steps,” Mr. Trump said, in an apparent reference to a building used by senior officials. “And the head was cut, sitting on the chest,” he added in excerpts from the book seen by AFP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kim-displayed-uncles-corpse-says-trump/article32585628.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sex work with face masks and hand sanitisers||It is a little past 7 p.m. and 45-year-old Sonia wonders how the evening will play out. She is dressed in a nightgown and a mask. Her make-up box containing brilliant shades of lipstick and an array of mascaras lies open in front of her. Sonia is not sure how many men will turn up today. In Kashmiri building on Garstin Bastion Road (GB Road, now renamed Swami Shradhanand Marg) in New Delhi, business is listless in COVID-19 times. Most women left for their native villages once the nationwide lockdown, announced to contain the spread of the virus, was imposed on March 25; only a handful have returned several months since. The building used to heave to loud music, now it has fallen silent. The world’s oldest trade faces its toughest challenge from a 21st century pandemic and the end is nowhere in sight. Sonia is one of the courtesans, or ‘tawaif’ as she calls herself, who lives in ‘kotha 5217’, also known as Kashmiri building. All the women of this kotha are trained in the classical dances and music. They take pride in carrying forward the legacy of mujra performances, the dance of courtesans which originated in Mughal courts. But this year has been particularly difficult for them. With the number of COVID-19 cases steadily rising across the country, the laughs and songs of the night are a faint echo of the past. Taking precautions An hour later, two men climb up the paan-stained staircase. They wear masks around their neck. There is a whiff of alcohol in the air. The women, who are decked up in their shimmering outfits, are not wearing their masks. But they all possess masks, they say. The women say no camp was set up to test the sex workers for COVID-19. Whoever wanted to get a test done went for a test on their own. A bottle of sanitiser is kept on one side of the room. One of the drunken men pulls out a Rs. 100 note and pushes it into the golden blouse of the woman nearest to him. It is impossible to practise physical distancing in this trade. “I feel scared all the time but what can I do? This is my work. If I act on this fear, I won’t be able to earn. I am not trained to do anything else,” says the woman in the golden blouse. The staircase goes up to the second floor. In a hall sits Saloni. She returned to Delhi on August 17 as lockdown norms were slowly eased. She is wearing denims and a white tee. The hall, which by 8 p.m. generally starts filling up with men holding cigarettes in their hand and carrying a bottle of alcohol in their pockets, is empty. Saloni’s soft voice echoes in the hall and for a brief moment, it creates the illusion that there are many voices. By now, Saloni would have been ready, mostly in a saree, but today she starts dressing up only a little after 8:30. “ Kitna soona lag raha hai yahan. Accha nahin lag raha (It’s so empty. It doesn’t feel right),” she says. Priyanka, who stands close to her, agrees. She feels a sense of loss too. The 40-year-old woman has been working here for the last 22 years. She has two teenage sons who are both aware of what their mother does for a living. “They’ve accepted it,” she says. Priyanka learnt dancing here at the kotha. “I don’t know when things will become normal. I am just waiting,” she says. By normal, she means no sanitiser, no masks, no virus. As of now, there are only a handful of customers. They are quite apprehensive too. “But masks and sanitisers are the only solution we have,” says Saloni. It’s impossible not to have close contact in this profession, says Priyanka. “I can’t die hungry. I have to feed my family after all. The most we can do is not allow people who have visible symptoms to come here.” By visible symptoms, she refers to coughing and breathlessness. She has gleaned this information from television. “The women don’t indulge in sex work inside the kotha here. It’s an elite place. Customers come and take them in their cars, mostly to hotels, after making prior appointments,” says a 36-year-old tea seller working near the building. In the present scenario, it is a guess how the women will conduct themselves should they choose to leave with a customer. In contrast to the kotha, where there are mujra performances, are the brothels. Here, women are slowly getting back to the trade after the pandemic hit their pockets. It wasn’t something they had anticipated or could prepare for in advance. Their daily earnings dwindled and slowly disappeared as the nationwide lockdown kept getting extended. “In the last 25 years that I have been here I have never faced such a situation,” says Pooja, a native of Rajasthan who lives in a brothel right opposite Kashmiri building. Her parents in the village pushed her into sex work, she says, and now she doesn’t want to get out. Since the lockdown, Pooja has been making her ends meet and taking care of her teenage son with her meagre savings. Local NGOs have been providing rations once every 15 days. The sex workers haven’t yet figured out how they’ll save themselves from contracting the virus. But they have their “own ways,” they say. For instance, at one of the brothels on the road, the kotha in-charge, or ‘madam’, as she is referred to, is Kamla. She says she doesn’t allow any “riff-raff” and people who don’t “look hygienic” to step in. Just then, a lean man climbs up the stairs after gazing at one of the women standing by the window. He is welcomed with a liberal spray of sanitiser. “This is a must,” says 23-year-old Devika. For money, which is hard to come by in these times, they will eventually succumb to what the “customer demands,” says Kamla. But women like her are hopeful that the COVID-19 situation will get better and they won’t have to worry while coming in close contact with their clients. “As of now, we are encouraging only known customers and accepting the ones who look clean,” she says. But in a trade where close contact is an absolute necessity, how do you save yourself from the constant threat of COVID-19? “You can’t,” she says plainly. She is aware of the occasional brawls that break out even now when the women insist that men wear condoms. The fear from the virus will induce some sanity in the business, she hopes. Helpful customers, kinder police During the pandemic, a handful of loyal customers are helping the women and the kotha. The caretaker of kotha 5217, Inderjeet, says a 65-year-old client who has been visiting the kotha since his youth has been helping the women. “He has been coming here for decades. He was a patron of music and was popular here. His entire family knows he comes here regularly and he considers this place his second home,” he says. During the lockdown, the old-timer called up Inderjeet and others at the kotha and asked them if they needed ration or money. He got them ration delivered too. “There are two businessmen in this area who are regulars. They took care of us monetarily whenever we needed help,” Inderjeet says. Over the last few months, the police too have been trying to make sure the women working here are fed. Often called to settle local brawls in the past, policemen appear to have emerged as the saviours now. A Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspector, who has been a beat officer here for over three years, is unhappy that the women have been given an informal nod by “higher-ups” to start working again. “ Itne mahine bachi rahi hain. Ek do mahine ki baat aur thi. Bachi rehti. Inme se ek ko bhi corona ho gaya to bohot nuksaan ho jaega (They have remained safe for months. It was only a matter of one or two months and they would have remained safe. If one of them contracts the virus, it’ll spread like wildfire),” he worries. The Assistant Sub-Inspector talks of how he organised ration kits to be delivered twice a month for the women who chose to stay back. Ration kits typically involve some rice, lentils, oil, salt and flour. In a business where exchanging notes is a daily affair, the pandemic has dealt a cruel blow. Independent women are now at the mercy of others. Luckily for them, help has come from several quarters, including the police, who are not exactly known for their kindness to those less fortunate and lower down the social ladder. The Assistant Sub-Inspector also recalls helping women working at the brothels by getting them married against the wishes of those who controlled their lives. He says, “The women may now sound like that they don’t wish to leave but most of them had been forced into sex work. Often, girls fall in love with a client and wish to go with them. They just want to be sure that they won’t be troubled after they leave, so they rope in the police. I have helped many such girls get married.” Most women working here have his number saved on their phones and call him in case there is a problem. “Most complaints used to be about drunken men creating a ruckus about money or forcing themselves on women. Often, the men take energy pills before coming here, which causes problems to the women,” he says. However, in the last five months, the only calls he has received are from women in financial distress. It’s not just clients and the police who have helped the sex workers on Swami Shradhanand Marg. Three boys, all sons of sex workers, also tried to do their best during the initial months of the COVID-19 outbreak. Arjun Rathor (24), Kunal Kumar (19) and Aakash (18) were born and brought up here. When the lockdown was announced, they saw how their mothers and aunts were braving a financial crisis. They knew what they had to. “All three of us reached out to all the NGOs and their members and told them about the situation. Thankfully, a lot of people came forward and helped us with ration, sanitary pads, and food from time to time,” says Arjun. In their early teenage years, Arjun and Kunal became volunteers at an NGO called Kat Katha which aims to enable women and children at brothels to study and realise their dreams. Arjun now works for an NGO called Change With One as a photographer. “The NGO I work for got us rations a few times and Kat Katha also helped us,” he says. Kunal got in touch with an organisation which helped with sanitary pads. The trio also worked with the police whenever they facilitated ration distribution. “I could see that my mother and other women living in the brothel were facing a very hard time. This is the least we could do,” Kunal says. Pride in the profession Sonia’s two children – a 16-year-old son and a 19-year-old daughter – live with her family in Rajasthan. The children don’t know what she does in Delhi. “According to them, I have a private job here,” she says. “One of my children is in school, the other in college.” A trained classical singer, Sonia has been working in the kotha for the last 20 years. She learnt singing from a school in Mandi House. A photograph of her holding a sitar stands is in a corner of her room. Sonia shows it to every client who walks in. “This is our family tradition. My paternal aunt and grandmother used to be tawaifs too,” she says. For Sonia, there’s a sense of ancestral pride which comes from the history attached to the kotha. It’s one of the most famous kothas on Swami Shradhanand Marg, and is considered “posh” in the trade. Touching her ears in obeisance, Sonia mentions historical characters who used to perform and sing. “ Begum Akhtar saamne raha karti thi, Noor Jehan Begum saamne raha karti thi. Naseem Bano ki building saamne hi hai (Begum Akhtar, Noor Jehan, Naseem Bano... they all used to live across the street,” she says. “ Hum mujre wale hain aur baki sab peshewale wale hain (We only perform mujra and others in the area indulge in sex work),” she says. Sonia is protective of all the young women who work here. She ensures that they don’t talk to ‘strangers’. She claims that no woman in this brothel has been forced to work here. Preeti, 28, agrees. As she gets ready for the evening in her blue and gold sequined dress, she says, “I have come here on my own. No one has forced me.” She works out of the adjacent room. Caregiver Inderjeet cribs about the change in attitude of customers and the women who live here. He talks of a more genteel past. His patrons are no longer alive and he is responsible for the safety of the women who have made Kashmiri building their home. Inderjeet prays that this too will pass. He hopes that business will pick up once the virus is taken care of by a vaccine. Saloni, 30, sits opposite Inderjeet. She says she learnt dancing here at the kotha when she joined about eight years ago. For her, this is a “family business”. She has a five-year-old daughter who believes her mother goes to “office”. Just then Saloni receives a call from a friend who works here with her and who is at home. She has just delivered a baby. “ Lockdown main sabki ladkiyan ho rahi hai… pata nahi aisa kyun ho raha hai (During the lockdown, all the women working here have given birth to daughters… I don’t know why this is happening),” she says. She does not sound happy. In a profession peopled with women, who do not always call the shots, the birth of a boy is what brings cheer to their lives. The future of a daughter remains as uncertain as the life of the mother who gave birth to her. Names have been changed to protect the identity of the women||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sex-work-with-face-masks-and-hand-sanitisers/article32585621.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A game of chess in the Himalayas||With the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) refusing to die down, despite the marathon military and diplomatic-level talks, the obvious question that stares at every stakeholder is this: is 2020 another 1962? While the future is uncertain, the present is undoubtedly tense. As stated by India’s External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar, this is “surely the most serious situation” along the India-China border “after 1962”. The parallels are hard to ignore. In August 1959, after the first border clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Longju, in the eastern sector, China said Indian troops had crossed the McMahon Line and opened fire, and the Chinese border guards had fired back. The next day, New Delhi protested against the Chinese statement, saying it was Chinese troops that had moved into Indian territory and opened fire. Sixty-one years later, the statements issued by India and China after the border clashes are eerily similar. Both sides accuse each other of transgressing across the LAC. Both sides accuse each other of opening fire. Both sides blame each other for the current stand-off. The trigger What led to the war? To understand the current tensions, one has to go back in history. When the Longju incident happened, not many in India might have thought the border tensions would lead to a full-scale Chinese invasion. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Defence Minister V.K. Krishna Menon were absolutely certain that China would not attack India. Nehru had betted big on India’s friendship with China. He saw both countries as victims of imperialism and the natural leaders of Asia. The realist in Nehru believed that peace on India’s northern border was an imperative for the newly-born republic’s rise and material development. So in the 1950s, Nehru continued to defend China in international fora. India accepted Chinese sovereignty over Tibet and signed an agreement with Peking over trade with Tibet. But what Nehru hoped in return for India’s friendship was China respecting its bequeathed boundaries — the McMahon Line in the east and the frontier (based on the 1842 Tibet-Kashmir agreement) in the west. Nehru was wrong. The first setback to this position was the Longju incident. Within two months, an Indian police patrol team in Kongla Pass in Ladakh came under Chinese attack. This was a wake-up call for Nehru. He asked Chinese troops to withdraw from Longju in return for an assurance from India not to reoccupy the area and proposed that both sides pull back from the disputed Aksai Chin, where China had already built (unilaterally) a strategic highway. China rejected this proposal and made a counter offer — to recognise the McMahon Line in the east in return for India’s recognition of Chinese sovereignty over Aksai Chin. Nehru, having checked the historical maps, documents, including revenue records and land surveys, which he got from the India Office in London, rejected the Chinese offer because he thought it would mean India abandoning its legitimate claims over Aksai Chin. After the collapse of the Nehru-Zhou Enlai [Chou en Lai] talks in 1960 in Delhi, tensions escalated fast. China intensified patrolling along the border. In November 1961, Nehru ordered his Forward Policy as part of which India set up patrol posts along the LAC, which was seen as a provocation in Beijing. In October 1962, Mao Zedong ordered the invasion. The parallels The situation today is not exactly the same as 1962. Back then, the Tibet factor was looming over India-China ties. As soon as the Dalai Lama took refuge in India, Chinese leaders, including Deng Xiaoping, had threatened “to settle accounts” with the Indians “when time comes”. China also feared that India was providing help to Tibetan rebels, after the 1959 rebellion. Today, both sides have managed to sidestep the Tibetan question in their bilateral engagement. And unlike in 1962, when India was not politically and militarily prepared for a war with China, today’s conflict is between two nuclear powers. But the problem is this; while the overall situation is different, the border conflict looks similar to what it was in the late 1950s and early 1960s. The boundary has still not been delimited and demarcated. China has not recognised the McMahon Line and India has not accepted China’s control over Aksai Chin. Despite the volatile situation, an uneasy truce prevailed on the border at least since 1975 and both sides have made improvements in ties since Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s visit to Beijing in 1988. This period of truce allowed both countries to focus on their development. But that truce has now been disrupted with China first moving to block Indian patrolling in the Finger area of Pangong Tso and the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh during the summer. India then made a forward move on the southern banks of Pangong Tso last month, similar to Nehru’s Forward Policy in 1961, taking over the heights of the Kailash Range. When Nehru ordered the Forward Policy, his aim was to secure the vast border and prevent further incursions. He never thought China would attack. Now, despite the experience of 1962, India appears to be taking a calculated risk by making forward movements. This led to the opening of fire in the region, for the first time in 45 years. So, practically, the border situation is back to what it was in 1961.  Strategic dominance In the run-up to the 1962 war, Mao had taken a “unity and struggle” policy towards India. This meant, laying emphasis on unity with India on mutually agreeable matters while continuing the struggle over the border issue. Nehru failed to understand the gravity of this approach. He first saw only unity, and, after the Longju and Kongla clashes, he saw only struggle. China, on the other side, consistently played what game theorists call the game of “strategic dominance”— the strategy which would yield positive outcomes, irrespective of the strategies of the rival player. Back then, China saw itself as the most powerful force in Asia. Japan had been devastated by the war. The British withdrawal and the partition of the subcontinent had changed the geopolitical balance in the continent. Mao was facing challenges to his leadership within the party after the disastrous Great Leap Forward. Globally, there were cracks in the Sino-Soviet alliance, especially after the Soviet intervention in Hungary. When it set the ball of border tensions rolling, it knew that the ultimate risk would be a limited war and it was ready to take that risk because even in the event of a war, China calculated that it could retain its strategic dominance. And it did so in 1962. Understanding China’s moves The Chinese strategy today is not very different from that of the 1960s. Now, China considers that it has arrived on the global stage as a military and economic superpower. The COVID-19 outbreak has battered its economy, but it is recovering fast. India, on the other side, is in a prisoner’s dilemma on how to tackle China. India is a big, rising power, but is going through short-term challenges. Its economy is weak. Its geopolitical standing in the neighbourhood is not in its best days. Unlike in the 1960s, when Nehru’s non-alignment was blamed for Chinese aggression, today’s India has cautiously moved toward the United States. But still, there is no guarantee that it would deter China or if the U.S. would come to India’s help in the event of a war. A combination of all these factors might have led China to believe that it can play the game of strategic dominance once again. If India plays it on China’s terms, there will be war. The question is whether it should walk into the trap laid in the Himalayas, or learn from the experiences of 1962. stanly.johny@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-game-of-chess-in-the-himalayas/article32585614.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Smothering the housing rights of the urban poor||In a short order (https://bit.ly/3hktF2F) with devastating consequences, the Supreme Court of India on August 31 ordered the removal of about 48,000 slum dwellings situated along the railway tracks in Delhi. A three-judge Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, in one of his last orders before his retirement, directed State authorities to remove the jhuggi jhopri clusters in the railway safety zone within a period of three months. Most shockingly, the order stated that “no Court shall grant any stay with respect to removal of the encroachments” and in case any such interim order is granted “that shall not be effective”. Relying on an affidavit filed by the Railways, the Court observed that there is a “predominant presence” of slums in close vicinity of the 140 km-long railway line in Delhi. It noted that while the National Green Tribunal had constituted a special task force for the removal of encroachments from railway property — “There seems to be some political intervention against removal of such encroachments”. The Court ordered that these “encroachments”should be removed within three months and “no interference, political or otherwise, should be there.” A flawed order The Supreme Court order which seeks to summarily demolish informal settlements of poor urban residents is deeply disturbing and raises serious legal questions. The order is fundamentally flawed because the Court has ignored principles of natural justice, judicial precedents on the right to shelter, and state policies governing evictions. The order violates principles of natural justice and due process since it decided on the removal of jhuggi jhopris without hearing the affected party, the jhuggi dwellers. The order was passed in the long-running case, M.C. Mehta vs. Union of India & Ors. , regarding pollution in Delhi and was in response to a report by Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority for the National Capital Region on the piling up of garbage along railway tracks. However, neither this case nor the report concerns itself with the legality of informal settlements. Still, the Court made an unconvincing connection between the piling of garbage and the presence of slums and gave an eviction order without giving the residents a fair hearing. The Court ignored its long-standing jurisprudence on the right to livelihood and shelter upheld in various judgments. In the landmark decision concerning pavement-dwellers, a five-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Olga Tellis & Ors vs. Bombay Municipal Corporation & Ors. (1985) held that the right to life also includes the “right to livelihood” and that no eviction shall take place without notice and hearing those affected. Further, in Chameli Singh vs. State Of U.P. (1995), the Supreme Court recognised the “right to shelter” as a component of the right to life under Article 21 and freedom of movement under Article 19(1)(e). The Court also failed to consider the policies and case laws on slum eviction and rehabilitation in Delhi. In Sudama Singh & Others vs Government Of Delhi & Anr. (2010), the High Court of Delhi held that prior to any eviction, a survey must be conducted and those evicted should have a right to “meaningful engagement” with the relocation plans. The procedure laid down in this judgment formed the basis for the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015. This was reiterated in Ajay Maken & Ors. vs Union Of India & Ors. (2019), a case concerning the demolition of Shakur Basti on railway land, where the Delhi High Court invoked the idea of the “Right to the City” to uphold the housing rights of slum dwellers. This case led to the framing of a Draft Protocol for the 2015 Policy on how meaningful engagement with residents should be conducted. However, neither the case laws nor the state policies were referred to by the Court. Evictions amid pandemic The Supreme Court order that threatens to leave lakhs of people homeless amid a health and economic emergency is callous and unconscionable. As the pandemic makes urban informal livelihoods more vulnerable, the UN Special Rapporteur on the right to adequate housing has called on member-states to declare an end to forced evictions. However, as in a recent report of the Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN), over 20,000 people were displaced in 45 incidents of forced evictions between March 25 and July 31, when India was under lockdown. Over the last three years, over five lakh people have been evicted, most often for various “city beautification” projects. The courts have also played an active role in such demolition drives, often under the premise of environmental protection. The present order follows the trajectory of court-led evictions, highlighted by Anuj Bhuwania in his book, Courting the People: Public Interest Litigation in Post-Emergency India , whereby the court admits a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), ignores the specific issues and proceeds on a tangential topic, relies on reports of court-appointed committees and orders the demolition of slums, often without hearing the affected population. This represents a dangerous turn of PIL jurisprudence whereby its procedural relaxations are used to deny principles of natural justice to the most marginalised groups. The promise of the right to housing offered by Sudama Singh and Ajay Maken is now being undone by an insidious and legally dubious order that pre-empts other courts from giving orders to stop the eviction. The Court disdainfully refers to how “political interference” does not allow “encroachments” to be evicted. However, it is often through such political negotiations that residents of informal settlements incrementally make claims on housing and exercise their “Right to the City”. These residents would now need to employ a combination of political and legal strategies to protect their housing rights and ensure that no eviction or rehabilitation is conducted without their prior informed consent. Mathew Idiculla is a lawyer and researcher on urban issues and a consultant with the Centre for Law and Policy Research. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/smothering-the-housing-rights-of-the-urban-poor/article32585617.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pushback||The Trump administration has revoked visas for more than 1,000 Chinese citizens, mainly students and researchers, deemed to be risks to national security owing to their alleged connections to Chinese military establishments and concern over industrial espionage. The White House’s latest policy action has been housed under Mr. Trump’s May 29 announcement responding to China’s curbs on democracy in Hong Kong. Among the reasons stated was the intention to block the entry of persons associated with slave labour, thought to be a reference to alleged rights violations of China’s Uighur Muslims. According to the Department of Homeland Security, the revocation is also targeting those who might engage in unjust business practices or attempt to steal coronavirus research, and, more broadly, abuse their student visa status to exploit the intellectual property of academia. This visa policy comes after measures that have tightened the screws on the U.S. immigration system, including halting the issuance of green cards and skilled worker visas and challenging the issuance of student visas for college programmes that have migrated entirely to online mode due to the pandemic. However, in the prior cases of visa issuance bans, the nationals of a single country were not targeted in the way that Chinese citizens have been under this week’s visa revocation. The deeper context of this spat is the cycle of hostile tit-for-tat exchanges between Washington and Beijing, principally tariff wars in the realm of trade, but extending to human rights and China’s COVID-19 response. On the one hand the Trump administration might have overreached in this broad-brush policy, perhaps sweeping up innocent researchers with no more than nominal association with a government-affiliated academic entity in China. However, it is more than likely, given the successive industrial espionage incidents that have been prosecuted by the U.S., that potential spies or saboteurs are facing removal proceedings too. Ultimately, countries such as China and Russia, which have arguably sought to interfere in the U.S.’s domestic affairs, could be facing a blowback. However, given the pressure-cooker conditions in U.S. politics due to an imminent election, there is a strong likelihood of a heavy-handed response to any further suspicions of foreign interference, especially because such a response would be of considerable campaign value to the incumbent. If Mr. Trump remains in the Oval Office, he will doubtless persist with his friendly approach toward Moscow, while seeking to keep Beijing on the back foot. The policies of his Democratic rival, Joe Biden, are expected to be the reverse to an extent, although Chinese President Xi Jinping would be unwise to anticipate a quick thaw in frosty bilateral ties in that case too. Either way, China’s economic aggression will continue to face pushback from a wounded and angry America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pushback/article32585610.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Glimmer of hope||The “five-point consensus” reached by the Foreign Ministers of India and China in Moscow on Thursday provides a glimmer of hope of a diplomatic solution, while thousands of troops from both countries remain deployed along the border. It is, however, only a glimmer. Each point, outlined in a joint statement, has been affirmed previously by the two neighbours, both in past boundary agreements and in talks held since June that have failed to de-escalate tensions. The LAC remains tense, facing its worst crisis since 1962. Both sides have agreed to take guidance from previous understandings, including on “not allowing differences to become disputes”, a formulation of 2017 that has not lived up to its promise. They agreed the current situation suits neither side, troops should quickly disengage, maintain proper distance, and ease tensions. Both sides said they would abide by all existing agreements, continue dialogue, and expedite work on finding confidence building measures to maintain peace. At the same time, stark differences remain, including on the key question of whether both sides will return to the status quo ante prior to China’s transgressions. The issuing of the joint statement was somewhat unusually accompanied by separate press statements, which struck discordant notes on key issues. India stressed that peace on the boundary was essential for ties, and that recent incidents had impacted the broader relationship. The Chinese statement, on the other hand, sought to emphasise the importance of “moving the relationship in the right direction” and to put the border “in a proper context”. China’s statement also quoted India’s Foreign Minister as saying India believed China’s policy toward India had not changed and that it did not consider relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question. This characterisation of India’s stand was a sharp contrast from Delhi’s recent public statements, which have emphasised border peace as a prerequisite to taking forward the broader relationship. Moreover, a day before the talks, China’s official news agency issued a commentary placing the onus entirely on India to defuse tensions, accusing India of “reckless provocations”, telling India “to learn from history”, and reiterating that China “will not lose an inch of territory”. It is welcome that India and China have finally found something to agree on. Thursday’s consensus, however, is only the first step of a long road ahead. The continuing rounds of talks should be aimed sincerely at disengagement, and not at presenting a veneer of diplomatic engagement even while China strengthens its hold along the LAC. India will need to verify before it can trust each of China’s steps from now on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/glimmer-of-hope/article32585609.ece
12 September 2020||New delhi,||Gold ETFs log inflows for fifth straight month amid pandemic||Gold ETFs witnessed an inflow in August, for the fifth month in a row, amid major economies staring at a recession due to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Net inflow in gold exchange traded funds, i.e. the ETF category, reached Rs. 5,356 crore in the January-August period, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India showed. A net sum of Rs. 908 crore was pumped into gold-linked ETFs last month, lower than the net Rs. 921 crore in July. The inflows meant assets under management (AUM) of gold ETFs climbed by over 4% to Rs. 13,503 crore at the end of August from Rs. 12,941 crore at July-end. Month-wise, investors put in a net Rs. 202 crore in January, Rs. 1,483 crore in February, but withdrew Rs. 195 crore in March on profit-booking. Inflows resumed in April at Rs. 731 crore, followed by Rs. 815 crore in May and Rs. 494 crore in June. “Gold prices came off their all-time high in August, after witnessing an almost uninterrupted rally this year. This probably provided a good entry point for investors to invest in the yellow metal,” said Himanshu Srivastava, associate director manager research at Morningstar India. ‘Safe haven’ “With all major economies staring at a recession due to the spread of the... pandemic, gold, with its safe-haven appeal, has emerged as one of the best-performing asset classes and a preferred investment destination among investors,” he added.   Given the threat posed by the pandemic to the global economy and markets, he said the segment may continue to see traction with investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-etfs-log-inflows-for-fifth-straight-month-amid-pandemic/article32585607.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Corona Kavach health cover may get a fresh lease of life||With little respite in sight from the rising number of COVID-19 positive cases in India, insurance regulator IRDAI may soon issue instructions on mainstreaming or renewing the short-term Corona Kavach cover. “We are thinking of ways and means,” said T.L. Alamelu, Member (Non Life), IRDAI, at an Assocham event. “Probably sooner than later we will issue instructions on how it can be mainstreamed or renewed or there could be features of porting, migration.” To a query on the road ahead forCorona Kavach, a cover health insurers began offering since July 10 following a mandate from IRDAI, she said “I think we were very optimistic in thinking everything is going to end probably in a few months. “I don’t think that is going to happen soon.” Though most of the people who bought the policy opted for the longest tenure of 9.5 months, IRDAI wants them to continue getting good cover not only for COVID-19 but for entire health spectrum, she added. These policies are popular. “Initially, there was huge growth. Even now, week-on-week there is a 15% growth in [the number of] policies,” she said, pointing out to how public awareness of health insurance had also grown exponentially. The share of health insurance business has grown from 27% in March to 30% in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/corona-kavach-health-cover-may-get-a-fresh-lease-of-life/article32585586.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||RBI targets compliance at banks with CCO norms||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday laid down guidelines for appointment of chief compliance officer (CCO) in banks to ensure uniform approach with regard to compliance and risk management culture across the banking industry. The CCO should be appointed for a minimum fixed period of three years in the rank of a general manager or not below two levels of the rank of CEO, the RBI said in a circular. Appropriate criteria “Such an independent compliance function is required to be headed by a designated CCO selected through a suitable process with an appropriate ‘fit and proper’ evaluation/selection criteria to manage compliance risk effectively,” the RBI said.  Further, there shall not be any “dual hatting”, the RBI said. In other words, the CCO “shall not be given any responsibility which brings elements of conflict of interest, especially the role relating to business”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-targets-compliance-at-banks-with-cco-norms/article32585590.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wholesale sales of PVs, two-wheelers rise in Aug.||Automakers saw positive growth in dispatches to the dealers in August with passenger vehicle (PV) sales rising 14.2% and two-wheeler sales increasing 3%, amid expectation of better demand during festive season. As per the data from the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), domestic wholesale sales of PVs stood at more than 2.15 lakh units in August, a growth of 14.2% from the year-earlier period. Similarly, two-wheelers sales rose 3% to more than 15.59 lakh units. While motorcycle sales rose 10% to more than 10.32 lakh units, scooter sales declined 12% to about 4.56 lakh units. “We are beginning to observe growth which is instilling confidence back into the industry, especially in the two-wheeler and PV segments,” said Kenichi Ayukawa, president, SIAM. He, however, addedthough the industry witnessed year-on-year growth in August, it should be noted that the base figures in August 2019 were very low, as the industry had contracted by about 32% for PVs and 22% for two-wheelers in 2019 over 2018. “Still, a 14% growth of PVs and 3% in two-wheelers in this August indicates recovery trends for the Industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wholesale-sales-of-pvs-two-wheelers-rise-in-aug/article32585592.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Withdraw levy on outbound travel’||The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH) on Friday said it had requested the government to withdraw the tax collected at source (TCS) on outbound travel as proposed in the Finance Bill 2020, terming it ‘uncompetitive.’ FAITH, which represents almost all major industry associations related to the travel and tourism, said the proposal will make tourism products sold from India more expensive by 5%-10% as against when booked through travel companies based outside of India. “Indian travel agents and tour operators are already more expensive due to imposition of 5% GST on tours which foreign travel agents and tour operators are not subject to,” it said. Earlier, the government had, on the industry’s plea, deferred the implementation of TCS to October 1 as opposed to April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/withdraw-levy-on-outbound-travel/article32585593.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||Tatas’ share pledge block vindictive, says SP Group||The Shapoorji Pallonji Group that owns 18.37% in Tata Sons on Friday said the Tatas moving the apex court to block its plan to pledge shares for raising funds reeked of vindictiveness and oppression of minority shareholder rights. On September 5, Tata Sons had moved the Supreme Court seeking to restrain the Mistry group from raising capital against their Tata Sons shares. Through the petition, the Tatas had sought to prevent the SP Group from creating any pledge of shares. The SP Group was planning to raise Rs. 11,000 crore and had signed a deal with a marquee Canadian investor for Rs. 3,750 crore in the first tranche. The SP Group’s shareholding in Tata Sons is valued at more than Rs. 1 lakh crore. Tata Sons’ plea came a day after the SP Group signed an agreement with the investor. The move by Tata Sons “will jeopardise the future of 60,000 employees and over 1 lakh migrant workers of various SP Group entities,” an SP Group spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tatas-share-pledge-block-vindictive-says-sp-group/article32585596.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Gujarat emerges best for start-ups again: DPIIT||Gujarat has again emerged as the best performer in developing start-up ecosystem for budding entrepreneurs, according to the ranking of States and Union Territories by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). Gujarat was categorised as the best performer among all States and one Union Territory (UT) Delhi, barring north-eastern States and other UTs. A total of 22 States and 3 UTs participated in the exercise. Releasing the rankings on Friday, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said that it will help in further promoting the start-up ecosystem by the Centre, States and UTs. He said for funding of start-ups, the ‘Fund of Funds’ was supporting them and many PSUs were coming forward with dedicated funds to startups. DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra said more than 36,000 start-ups were recognised by the department so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gujarat-emerges-best-for-start-ups-again-dpiit/article32585602.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Moody’s lifts Bharti Airtel rating outlook to stable||Moody’s Investors Service on Friday revised Bharti Airtel’s credit outlook rating to stable from negative on account of easing of competition in the telecom sector, increase in 4G customer base and mobile services rates from December. It also considered options given to Bharti to make payment of pending adjusted gross revenue in instalments while revising the outlook. “Moody’s... has affirmed Bharti Airtel Ba1 corporate family rating and senior unsecured rating,” the rating agency said in a statement. ‘Improving profitability’ “The ratings affirmation and change in outlook to stable reflect improving profitability at Bharti’s core Indian mobile business, because of a moderation in industry competition, an increase in its 4G customer base, and a tariff hike from December 2019,” Moody’s Senior VP Annalisa DiChiara said. “The staggered payment resolution related to AGR liabilities is also a positive development. Overall, the company’s operating flexibility is improving and will benefit from a gradual expansion of profitability, which will provide a buffer against any material deterioration in credit measures and support a steady deleveraging,” Ms. DiChiara added. Moody’s said it could upgrade Bharti’s ratings if its operating performance improves such that its consolidated leverage is sustained below 2.5 times, which needs to be achieved in conjunction with a material expansion in profitability at its Indian mobile business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/moodys-lifts-bharti-airtel-rating-outlook-to-stable/article32585608.ece
12 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Japan’s Orix to buy $980 mn Greenko stake||Japan’s ORIX Corporation has entered into a framework pact to invest at least $980 million to buy a stake in renewable energy firm Greenko Energy Holdings. The transaction values Greenko equity at about $5.75 billion. In addition to acquiring 20% stake in Greenko from the founders’ group, ORIX will integrate its entire wind power generation business in India into Greenko. The integration will be in exchange for Greenko’s new shares. The acquisition will add approximately $100 million to EBITDA in the first full year after close, it said. It will increase Greenko’s overall operational RE capacity to about 6.5 GW.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/japans-orix-to-buy-980-mn-greenko-stake/article32585588.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Altisource said to cut 100 jobs in India||Altisource Business Solutions, the Indian arm of Luxembourg-based Altisource Portfolio Solutions, a technology and services provider for mortgage and real estate industries, has laid off more than 100 staff in India in the last two days, employees impacted by the retrenchment said. Karnataka State IT/ITeS Employees Union (KITU), representing technology workers in India, confirmed the development and said it was all set to move court against Altisource’s ‘unethical mass lay offs.’ An e-mail query sent to Altisource in India had not got any response until the time of going to the press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/altisource-said-to-cut-100-jobs-in-india/article32585594.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||GDP to shrink 11.5% this fiscal: Moody’s||Moody’s Investors Service on Friday slashed India’s growth projection for the current fiscal to (-)11.5%, from (-)4% estimated earlier, saying the economic contraction would be more pronounced due to the lockdown and continued rise in COVID-19 cases. The rating agency also projected India’s debt burden to peak at about 90% of GDP in the current fiscal and the Centre’s fiscal deficit to be close to 7.5% of GDP. The debt burden was 72% last year, while the fiscal deficit stood at 4.6%. “As the number of daily reported cases increases... the possibility of renewed lockdown measures continues to present downside risk to our forecasts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-shrink-115-this-fiscal-moodys/article32585599.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||SEBI shortlists Bharti, Wipro to rejig IT infra||Markets regulator SEBI has shortlisted eight companies including Bharti Airtel, Wipro and Tata Communications to revamp its IT infrastructure network and communication systems. The other shortlisted companies are Hewlett Packard Enterprise India, IBM India, NTT India, Orange Business Services India Technology and Sify Technologies. SEBI said it is looking to refurbish its IT infrastructure network and communication systems. Besides, it is planning to have a centralised control over its network and IP telephony infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-shortlists-bharti-wipro-to-rejig-it-infra/article32585603.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Centre releases Rs. 6,195 cr. grant to 14 States||The Centre has released Rs. 6,195 crore to 14 States as monthly instalment of post-devolution revenue deficit grant. A.P, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal are the 14 States. “The government on September 10, 2020 released Rs. 6,195.08 crore to 14 States as the sixth equated monthly instalment of the Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission,” the Finance Minister’s office said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-releases-rs-6195-cr-grant-to-14-states/article32585598.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,||USFDA nod for Granules generic of Focalin XR||Drugmaker Granules’ U.S. arm has received marketing approval from the U.S. FDA for Dexmethylphenidate HCl extended-release capsules. A bioequivalent of Focalin XR, a trademark of Novartis AG, it is used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Granules said. Dexmethylphenidate HCl ER Capsules had U.S. sales of about $556 million for 12 months ended July, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/usfda-nod-for-granules-generic-of-focalin-xr/article32585587.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Route Mobile IPO subscribed over 74 times on last day of bidding||Route Mobile’s initial public offer (IPO) was subscribed 74.36 times on the last day of bidding on Friday, reflecting huge investor appetite for the issue. The Rs. 600-crore issue of the cloud communications service provider, received bids for over 89 crore shares against the total issue size of 1.21 crore shares. Retail individual investors’ portion was subscribed 12.85 times, merchant bankers said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/route-mobile-ipo-subscribed-over-74-times-on-last-day-of-bidding/article32585597.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||NCLAT asks NCLT Mumbai to decide afresh on PNB’s insolvency plea against Mittal Corp||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has set aside an order of the NCLT, rejecting a plea filed by the Punjab National Bank (PNB) to initiate insolvency proceedings against Mittal Corp and directed it to decide afresh ‘expeditiously.‘ NCLAT observed the NCLT had dismissed PNB’s plea on the basis of a circular issued by the RBI on February 12, 2018, which was not applicable in this matter.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclat-asks-nclt-mumbai-to-decide-afresh-on-pnbs-insolvency-plea-against-mittal-corp/article32585600.ece
12 September 2020||New York,||Azarenka meets Osaka in final||Victoria Azarenka came from a set down to stun record-chasing Serena Williams on Thursday and set up a US Open final against Japan's Naomi Osaka. Azarenka recovered from a 6-1 hammering in the first set to win the next two 6-3, 6-3 and schedule her first Grand Slam final appearance in seven years. Azarenka, who had a son in December 2016, will bid to become only the fourth woman to win a Grand Slam singles title in the Open era after having children. She faces a formidable opponent in two-time Grand Slam winner and fourth seed Naomi Osaka, who defeated 28th seed Jennifer Brady 7-6(1), 3-6, 6-3. Remarkable run The former World No. 1 is enjoying a remarkable renaissance in New York that the Belarusian credits to finding humility, following several years disrupted by injury and a custody battle over her son. After a first set plagued by double faults and unforced errors, Azarenka turned the tide in the second, upping her service game and getting more returns in play as she began to dictate lengthy rallies. She sustained the momentum and went on to win the decider. The defeat ended Williams' hopes of winning a record-equalling 24th singles Grand Slam.  Lucky break Brady, 25, had not dropped a set during her run to her first Grand Slam semifinal. And, the World No. 41 went toe-to-toe with Osaka until the first set tie-break. In set two, Brady broke serve in the eighth game to take a 5-3 lead. She then successfully held to take the match to the decider. The breakthrough came when Osaka broke serve in the fourth game that included a lucky net-cord point for the Japanese. Osaka has now won her last 10 matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azarenka-meets-osaka-in-final/article32585985.ece
12 September 2020||Mugello (Italy),||Bottas completes ‘double top’||Valtteri Bottas completed a controlled ‘double top’ as he outpaced Mercedes team-mate Lewis Hamilton in Friday afternoon’s crash-hit second practice for this weekend’s first Tuscan Grand Prix. Spectacular circuit Bottas clocked a best time of one minute and 16.989 seconds around the spectacular 5.245-kms Ferrari-owned Mugello circuit, two-tenths quicker than championship leader Lewis Hamilton with Max Verstappen a familiar third for Red Bull. It is the fifth Friday at successive events that the Finn has been fastest in at least one session. But he went better this time by topping both sessions, boosting his bid to close the 47-point lead that Hamilton has built up in the title race. The afternoon session was stopped twice for red flags after Lando Norris crashed his McLaren after spinning and, later, Sergio Perez of Racing Point collided with Kimi Raikkonen's Alfa Romeo. Alex Albon was fourth in the second Red Bull ahead of the two Renaults of Daniel Ricciardo and Esteban Ocon, Perez and last Sunday's Monza winner Pierre Gasly of Alpha Tauri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bottas-completes-double-top/article32586124.ece
12 September 2020||Chennai,||‘It will be disastrous if Ranji can’t be held’||When will the Indian domestic cricket get underway this season? Or will these competitions, the lifeline of cricket in the country, happen at all in 2020-21? Tamil Nadu coach D. Vasu is aware of the challenges in a season ravaged by COVID-19. But then, he has not lost hope. With the government opening up, and lifting several restrictions, the TNCA hopes to complete its league fixtures, including the semifinal and final of the first division league, in October. Bio-bubble Vasu, a respected former South Zone allrounder, told The Hindu , “The first division league should conclude by mid-October. After that we need to get about 30 State senior team probables into a secure bio-bubble.” He added, “All of us should stay together in a hotel and strictly adhere to the rules of the bio-bubble. And those breaking the bubble will go to the back of the queue.” Vasu said, given the logistical concerns, the Ranji Trophy might return to a zonal format. “We might have two or three centres in the South Zone and the whole team could travel in a bus instead of flights. The driver of the vehicle too should be part of the bubble.” Things will fall in place There is a likelihood of the domestic season beginning with the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 competition in mid-November and Vasu noted a lot of things would fall in place during the tournament. Vasu said the consequences would be disastrous for Indian cricket if the Ranji Trophy was not held this season. “We can have it on a zonal basis or a knock-out format from the very start but we cannot give this prestigious competition a miss.” He said, “We all would need to see the SOP from the BCCI for domestic competitions. Then, we can work on that.” Last season, Tamil Nadu excelled in the shorter formats, reaching the final of both the Syed Mushtaq Ali and Vijay Hazare tournaments. But then, it got off to a disastrous start in the Ranji Trophy, losing outright to Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh in its initial matches. The side came back strongly towards the end of the league but lost out on qualification. “We have learnt our lessons from the last season. We have a team with a lot of ability. It has to be channelled in the right direction,” said Vasu. Firstly, the uncertainty over the domestic programme has to clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-will-be-disastrous-if-ranji-cant-be-held/article32586024.ece
12 September 2020||Tuscan Mugello (Italy),||Drivers braced for challenge||Formula One drivers are expecting this weekend’s first Tuscan Grand Prix to be an exhaustive test of their physical condition — and probably the toughest challenge of the season. The spectacular Mugello circuit is normally used for MotoGP and some junior categories of single-seat car racing, but has never before hosted an F1 Grand Prix. Mugello, close to Florence, is set in flowing semi-mountainous parkland and is owned by Ferrari, which this weekend celebrates its 1000th Grand Prix entry. “It's going to be an absolute killer physically,” said George Russell of Williams. Incredible circuit “I've raced here once before in 2014 when I was competing in Formula Renault and it’s an incredible circuit — so fast and so flowing. “Turns six, seven, eight and nine will be absolutely flat out, probably, or flat out in seventh gear anyway, I think. “I think Arrabiata will be quite easy flat, but it’s the corners before — Casanova and Savelli. Those are the difficult ones.” He added that the drivers’ had organised a sweepstake to see who is going to do it — go flat out through those corners — first. “We’ll let you know on Sunday,” he quipped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/drivers-braced-for-challenge/article32585981.ece
12 September 2020||MANCHESTER,||Maxwell, Marsh revive Australia||England fast bowlers Jofra Archer and Mark Wood shared six wickets in their first ODI since last year's World Cup final before Glenn Maxwell and Mitchell Marsh revived Australia's innings at Old Trafford on Friday. Australia was in danger of being dismissed cheaply when it slid to 123 for five, but finished on 294 for nine. The visitors’ recovery was built on a stand of 126 between all-rounders Maxwell (77) and Marsh (73). Archer struck an early blow when he removed dangerman David Warner on his way to figures of three for 57 from his 10-over spell. And Wood, who was on target first ball, finished with three for 54. Archer produced a superb 90 mph delivery that clipped the top of middle and off stumps to bowl opener Warner for just six. First-change Wood then struck with his opening ball of the match when Australia captain Aaron Finch wafted outside off-stump and was caught behind by Jos Buttler. Marcus Stoinis, batting at No. 3, immediately square-cut the Durham quick for four and looked in good touch before falling for 43. Wood found the edge of Stoinis’ bat and Buttler took a fine catch. Steve Smith was ruled out of the match following a knock on the head off a throwdown from a member of the coaching staff while batting in the nets on Thursday. Smith is set to undergo a fresh concussion test. Precautionary An Australia team spokesman said Smith was being rested as a precaution despite passing a concussion assessment and would have another such test on Saturday ahead of Sunday's second ODI.  The scores:   Australia 294 for nine in 50 overs (Marcus Stoinis 43, Mitchell Marsh 73, Glenn Maxwell 77, Jofra Archer three for 57, Mark Wood three for 54) vs England. Toss: England .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maxwell-marsh-revive-australia/article32585979.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Archers begin to find rhythm in national camp||The archers in the national camp at the Army Sports Institute in Pune are slowly getting into their stride. The camp started on August 25, but most archers have been observing the mandatory 14-day quarantine after assembling from different parts of the country. Tarundeep Rai, Pravin Jadhav, Vishwas and B. Dhiraj, who were already at the institute before the camp began, started training straightaway. “They are in their normal rhythm and routine. Some started yesterday [Wednesday] and some are joining today [Thursday] after quarantine. They start slowly, with 10-metre shooting and physical exercise, with the focus on flexibility. Concentration is more on muscle endurance and strength,” said physio Arvind Yadav. Given the travel restrictions, not all 16 archers have joined the camp. Some are still in the process of arranging their journey to Pune. “Most of the archers did not have the space and exposure to train during lockdown. So, we have to be careful with the physical preparation,” said Arvind, who has the experience of assisting the team in the Olympics and Asian Games. A cautious approach is the key even if the archers are hungry and enthusiastic to train hard, despite there being no competition in the calendar this year. “We have to put some restrictions and make the athletes understand that they can’t go really hard. They still need to have all those muscles activated before activity,” said Arvind, emphasising the vital aspect of tuning the body to meet the rigours of training. Look good Most of the archers were occupied with fitness work and short-distance shooting during the lockdown. “Overall, things look good. We need to set small goals and keep progressing every day,” said Arvind. It will be the job of the physio to lay a strong foundation for the archers before the coaches take over in fine-tuning their technique. The Indian men have won the Olympic quota for Tokyo. The women’s team has a chance to qualify next year; an individual quota has already been won.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archers-begin-to-find-rhythm-in-national-camp/article32586119.ece
12 September 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Technique, tactics still important’||Even though hockey has become faster players with skills and acumen still hold the key, according to Dutch legend Floris Jan Bovelander. At a webinar, titled ‘The Future to Peak Performance,’ on Friday, Bovelander spoke about the advantage of being a good player. “Now it’s a faster game (with) stronger passing and more running. The main thing still is technique and tactics. “The game-changers are still the most talented players because they have got good skills and an overview of the pitch,” said Bovelander, who is the technical director of Naval Tata Hockey Academy (NTHA), Odisha. “The deciding moments are always done by those who are more talented, (having) understanding of the game and (can) read the game (well). “They know when to hit, when to go forward, to give the right pass in the right direction… sometimes that’s gifted, but you have to develop that by playing a lot of matches from the grassroots until you reach a level.” In order to become a better player, Bovelander suggested, one needed to focus on the basics. “Sometimes I feel, it’s not only in India, but in Holland and everywhere, we are working on the details while the basics are not done yet. If you want the best recovery programme at the grassroots level, it’s fine. But if you spend some more time on the basics of the game, you improve more.” Coaching the coaches Bovelander also stressed on coaching the Indian coaches for the future. An Olympian weightlifter from Iran, Kazem Panjavi, who is the chief coach of Odisha weightlifting high performance centre, agreed. “Every coach has a different way to teach and I respect all of them. When I received some lifters, it was difficult to remove what I felt was bad technique. I tried to understand their problem and slowly used different methods of strength training so that their technique became better,” said Panjavi, another panelist at the webinar. Panjavi said teaching good technique from the beginning and coaching the coaches about newer trends were essential steps to produce good lifters consistently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/technique-tactics-still-important/article32586305.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||Rajput alleges interference in coach selection||Lalchand Rajput, the chairman of Mumbai Cricket Association’s (MCA’s) Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC), has alleged that select members of the apex council have tried to influence the coaches’ appointment procedure. Less than 48 hours after the CIC interviewed all the 24 shortlisted candidates for coaching positions for the forthcoming domestic season, Rajput has written a scathing letter to MCA president Vijay Patil. “We respect Mr. Sachin Tendulkar but his name is used unnecessary (sic) everywhere to put pressure that Sachin has recommended X, Y and Z. If Sachin has to make any recommendations, he can directly talk to the President and CIC as we all know him very well. Tendulkar is an icon we respect and I am sure if he has any suggestions, he has every right to put his views across to us,” Rajput wrote in the email, accessed by The Hindu , addressed to Patil and marked to all other members of the apex council. Stressing that the CIC, which also includes former Test cricketers Raju Kulkarni and Sameer Dighe, is “here to improve Mumbai's cricket and will take some harsh decisions” if required, Rajput concluded with: “We are all no-nonsense persons who will not succumb to such tactics and pressure.” Rajput singled out Amit Dani, the former Mumbai assistant coach who is the only elected First Class cricketer in the apex council, for allegedly trying to influence him. “I am always open [to] suggestions ... but Mr. Amit Dani cannot tell me that I should include X or Y, which I have not liked. Now I know why Mumbai cricket is going down because being an apex council member, they can throw their weight around and get things done. We, as CIC, will not allow these things to happen.” ‘Misunderstanding’ It is gathered that Dani was acting after being asked by the president to interact with the CIC. While Patil didn’t respond to the request for a comment, Dani told The Hindu : “It’s nothing but a misunderstanding and will be sorted out soon.” On Wednesday, the CIC conducted interviews to select coaches for various teams. It is understood that former India pacer Salil Ankola and former Mumbai coach Sulakshan Kulkarni are front-runners for the Ranji team coach’s position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajput-alleges-interference-in-coach-selection/article32586368.ece
12 September 2020||London,||Will Liverpool hold off challengers?||Jurgen Klopp has warned Liverpool’s title rivals that splashing out on new signings is no guarantee of success as the Premier League champion starts its new campaign against Leeds on Saturday. Klopp’s side is back in action just seven weeks after Jordan Henderson lifted the trophy to mark the culmination of Liverpool’s first title-winning campaign for 30 years. But for Manchester City, Manchester United and Chelsea, the brief break since last season has given them a much-needed chance to improve their firepower by splashing out in the transfer window. Biggest spender Chelsea has been the biggest spender as Frank Lampard invested around £200 million on Timo Werner, Kai Havertz, Hakim Ziyech and Ben Chilwell, with Thiago Silva arriving on a free transfer and goalkeeper Edouard Mendy reportedly set to join from Rennes as well. Forced to surrender the title he had won for the previous two seasons, City boss Pep Guardiola has responded by signing Dutch international Nathan Ake from Bournemouth to finally plug the hole in the heart of his defence left by Vincent Kompany’s departure in 2019. City has also signed promising Spanish winger Ferran Torres from Valencia as Guardiola looks to revitalise a team that seemed weary towards the end of a frustrating season that petered out with its limp Champions League quarterfinal defeat against Lyon. Across Manchester at Old Trafford, United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has a vibrant young team that finished strongly after the January arrival of Bruno Fernandes. A full season for Portugal playmaker Fernandes, combined with Solskjaer’s swoop for Ajax midfielder Donny van de Beek, should allow United to narrow the gap to Liverpool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-liverpool-hold-off-challengers/article32585980.ece
12 September 2020||Hyderabad,||This year we have gone with young talent: Murali||Sri Lankan spin legend and bowling coach of Sunrisers Hyderabad, Muttiah Muralitharan, feels the appointment of Trevor Bayliss as head coach can shape a different way of thinking, after seven years under Tom Moody. “I know TB (Bayliss) for he coached me for four years in Sri Lanka,” Murali said in an interview posted on the SRH Facebook page. “I also know Brad (assistant coach Brad Haddin) against whom I’ve played. So, we know each other and hopefully TB will do a good job,” the spin legend said. “This IPL is something special, because after COVID-19 and six-seven months of staying home and nothing to do, we are back with SRH and, hopefully, we will do well in this tournament,” he said. “This year we have gone with young talent because we are looking at giving opportunities to the youngsters and trying to get the best out of them,” Murali said. “Hopefully, our efforts will come good,” he added. Murali said he was lending a hand in training too. “There aren’t too many net bowlers around. I thought I would give them a hand,” he said. Incredible tournament Star batsman Kane Williamson said IPL was an incredible tournament to be part of. “For most of us, it is after a long time without any cricket. It's great and I know the guys are looking to get started. It is great to meet some of the new young players,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-year-we-have-gone-with-young-talent-murali/article32585988.ece
12 September 2020||KOLKATA,||More women’s representation in boxing||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) intends to have more women representation in the federation’s functioning. A proposal to raise the women’s representation in different areas to 25% saw unanimous acceptance at an Executive Council meeting on Thursday, said a BFI release. The BFI has also recommended revamping its Women’s Commission keeping in tune with various international sports organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/more-womens-representation-in-boxing/article32586303.ece
12 September 2020||Mumbai,||BCCI AGM postponed||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has informed its affiliates that the COVID-19 outbreak has resulted in postponement of its Annual General Meeting (AGM), supposed to be held before September 30 every year. Letter to State units “... you are hereby informed that the BCCI will not have its Annual General Meeting by September 30, 2020. We will keep you informed regarding the date of the Annual General Meeting,” BCCI secretary Jay Shah on Friday wrote in a letter to all the State associations. Since the BCCI is registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975, it has to conduct its AGM by September 30 every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-agm-postponed/article32586120.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Fun and frolic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fun-and-frolic/article32586117.ece
12 September 2020||Chennai,||Chahar trains with the team||Chennai Super Kings received a shot in its arm when its go-to swing bowler, both at the beginning and at the ‘death’, Deepak Chahar, trained with the team in Dubai on Friday. CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said, “Yes, it is a great piece of news to us. Chahar has done well for us in the past.” Viswanathan dismissed rumours that CSK was eyeing England’s in-form Dawid Malan as a replacement for Suresh Raina. He said, “First, we have our full quota of foreign players and cannot buy an extra player. “Secondly, Raina is an Indian player and we, according to the IPL rules, are not permitted to take a foreign player instead of him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chahar-trains-with-the-team/article32586022.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Fun and frolic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fun-and-frolic/article32585977.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The restless mind||Vallalar, in his Deivamanimanalai, laments that his mind is not under his control. This is an anguish expressed by many saints, to make us realise that control of the mind is the first step towards God realisation, said M.A. Manickavelu in a discourse. Thayumanavar compares the mind to a monkey. A monkey is always restless, and never remains in one place for long. The mind is also akin to a monkey, because it never remains focused on anything. It keeps thinking of different things, one after another. When this is the nature of the mind, how can we concentrate on God? Vallalar compares the mind to a mad monkey, in another work of his. He addresses his mind as a monkey and declares to his mind, “Do not think I am like others. You cannot control me.” Thayumanavar speaks of the importance of keeping the mind free of worldly thoughts. In Kandar Anubhuti, Araunagirinatha says that Lord Muruga taught him to be silent. Silence is a form of penance, and aids meditation. Constant chattering bodes no good. Most of us have not acquired the practice of remaining silent and still, and therefore, our minds too do not remain focused on God. Even when we go to a temple, the mind is in rewind mode, going over the day’s activities and happenings. Or we spend time observing how others in the temple are dressed. True worship is to feast one’s eyes on the deity in such a way that when we come home and meditate, we are able to bring up before the mind’s eye the deity we saw in the temple. Vallalar also says that his old karma follows him. The solution to this is again worship of God. Appar says that after he witnessed the dancing form of Siva in Chidambaram, his karma was destroyed. This means his sanchita, prarabdha and agamaya karma were all destroyed in one stroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-restless-mind/article32585690.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 07:39 IST,||Sudoku - September 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-12-2020/article32586532.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sci-fi laced with ragas||For his first big scale production, Aseem Trivedi is in great company. The 24-year-old musician and singer from Mumbai has gone from releasing independent singles and providing backing vocals in the Hindi film industry to composing music on his maiden TV series, JL50 , streaming on Sony Liv. The sci-fi series, revolving around the crash-landing of a plane that had been missing for 35 years, stars big Bollywood names such as Abhay Deol, Pankaj Kapur and Piyush Mishra. As the music director and composer of JL50 , Aseem has composed five songs, including originals, ‘Gharonda’, ‘Main Hi Hoon’, ‘Now I’m Here’ and ‘Jugnu(Jungle ki Raat)’. The last one has been co-composed with Piyush Mishra, who wrote the song. And Aseem is starstruck to have worked with the multi-hyphenate talent behind the music in Gulaal and Gangs of Wasseypur. It was a surreal moment for Aseem to share the recording studio with Mishra: “Until just two days before that, I had only seen him on my phone,” he laughs. “As soon as I read the lyrics to ‘Jungle ki Raat’, I knew what I had to do with the track. It’s intense, and has some of the best lyrics,” says Aseem over a phone call from Kanpur, where he has temporarily moved back to. He is quick to add that Piyush was a pleasure to work with. “Someone of his stature could have easily overridden me. But he would never interrupt me if I had an idea in mind, he would let me tell him what I thought the treatment of this section of song should be like. There was no arrogance, it was like working with a friend,” he says.  It was a step up, learning to compose music for songs, admits Aseem. “I had to be careful about what’s going on in the story. We were in conversation with the director (Shailender Vyas) every day. If they were changing the scene’s visual treatment, we had to change the track as well,” he says. His ‘Now I’m Here’ resounds in one of the web series’ pivotal scenes, “so I had to be particularly careful about the tempo it demanded,” he says. The track has a late 1980s-early 1990s vibe to it, which is why, he adds, “We got Siddharth Basrur on board for his trademark grunge.” Frontman of Mumbai progressive metal band Goddess Gagged, Siddharth has also given voice to movies such as David . The rock scene, however, was far from Aseem’s childhood. Having grown up in Kanpur, Aseem has had a background in Hindustani Classical music. His previous release, ‘Rooh’, is testament to that, and in keeping with that style, ‘Jugnu’ too starts and ends with an electric sitar riff. “In another song, we had the Rageshree raga incorporated into sarangi,” he says. “It was not until I arrived in Mumbai, at 18, for college, that I began experimenting with new genres of music and learning Western music theory,” he says. It was here that Aseem joined a six-member acapella group, Instrumen. “We are actually working on harmonising Ritviz’s ‘Udd Gaye’ with a Billie Eilish song.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sci-fi-laced-with-ragas/article32586312.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Amritsar on my mind||Amritsar has been on my mind for a while now. I keep thinking of all the food that the Punjab city has to offer, and planning (in my mind) a dhaba crawl. The first stop will be for a frothy glass of lassi , then for some hot, freshly fried Amritsari fish, on to soft kulcha and chholey and so on. The good bit about life is that when you can’t fulfil your dream, your dream comes to you. Last week, I received a message from a young hotel executive I’d met during those days when people met people. She told me that The Oberoi Gurgaon was now delivering food, and sent me a copy of its huge menu. I looked at it, and decided I would have the Amritsari fare: machchi, gosht, chholey and kulchey . I am greatly fond of Amritsari fish. I tried cooking it at home once, but without much success. I suppose it is — as our master cooks tell us — a town’s air and water that add to the taste of regional cuisine. I had picked up the recipe from a slim book that I read every now and then just to get a whiff of Amritsar. The author of The Dhabas of Amritsar is a food lover called Yashbir Sharma. He talks about little places and their well known food items, and even provides the reader with recipes. In the Amritsari fish recipe he says the fillet is first mixed with vinegar. The vinegar is then wiped off with a napkin. The fish is dipped in a mix of besan , curd, ginger-garlic paste, a beaten egg, lemon juice, carom seeds, red chilli powder and salt. It is then deep fried, and served with chaat masala. The fish, overseen by Oberoi’s executive chef Manish Sharma had two marinades, too. Chef Sharma tells me that the fish is first marinated with turmeric, chilli powder, and salt. Then, it is dipped in a mix of besan , red chilli powder, ginger-garlic paste, cumin, whole coriander seeds, ajwain , chopped coriander, and occasionally some rice flour for added crispiness. I loved the fish (Rs. 1,225). It had a nicely crispy outer layer, and the river sole fillet within was moist yet firm. But what I really enjoyed was the Amritsar Meat Tariwala (Rs. 1,475). The pieces were just the right size (40g, said the chef!) and were deliciously tender. I suppose what gave the curry its incredible taste was the ghee it had been cooked in. In a heavy cast iron vessel, whole masalas — cinnamon, cardamom, and bay leaves — had been added to hot ghee. Ginger, garlic, and onions were fried, and then fresh tomato purée went into the masala. The mutton was cooked on slow heat, and, when done, topped with strong black cardamom powder and pepper. I had some of this with a lachcha paratha and was ready to call it a day. But I had to first taste the Amritsari dal — mixed panchmela dal — which also had a tadka of ghee. Then I had a bit of the Amritsari chholey with kulchey (Rs. 1,025), but realised that it was actually Pindi chholey , which is dark, thick, and dry. The kulcha — not the kind you get in Amritsar, but delicious, nevertheless — had a thick stuffing of potatoes and onion. I ended my meal with something called Kahlua rasmalai. I would have liked the rasmalai without the Kahlua, I think. Or the Kahlua without the rasmalai. The delivery menu (call 9811289169) is huge and includes everything from Peking duck and Moplah biryani to nigiri sushi and lemon roast chicken. You can also ask for breads, pastries, quiches, and meats. I like the way hotels and restaurants are reaching out to us. I may not be in a restaurant right now, but I do get a picture of the hustle and bustle there. I can imagine them, just as I can visualise my Amsitsar food fiesta. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/amritsar-on-my-mind/article32586152.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Novelist Hari Kunzru on his latest book, Red Pill||Novelist Hari Kunzru is in his study, in a casual T-shirt, a wall of books behind him. It could have been any other pleasant pre-fall morning, but it isn’t — the world is in the middle of a pandemic. Yet, Kunzru is a busy man. On September 3, the 1969-born writer started a podcast called Into The Zone and is now in the midst of launch activities for his  sixth  book, Red Pill , which released in India on September 8. “It’s a funny time, a strange time to be launching a book,” says New York-based Kunzru over a video call. His latest gripping work starts off with the British-Indian protagonist’s time at a writer’s fellowship in Wannsee, Germany, but quickly unravels into a whole lot more. It is at once a story about surveillance and privacy, paranoia and mental health, Donald Trump’s election into the White House, and the narrator’s obsession with an ultra-violent police show that leads him to tracking its alt-right director on the dark Web’s various forums. Kunzru talks to Weekend on the current conversation on democracy, why surveillance is hard to write about, and the formal deviations that he was tempted to make in writing Red Pill . Excerpts from the interview:  How excited are you for the launch? I’m very interested to see how it lands right now, because there’s an election coming up in the US, and everything is very tense. A lot of the themes of the book relate to that kind of atmosphere, the anxiety that I know is in many places in the world as well. You end the book with the 2016 US elections. It’s almost time for the next one. Have these intervening years added to the book?  I didn’t know the book was going to end at that moment, until sometime after I’d started. But the idea — that the protagonist has apocalyptic fears about the world, but his wife is a more pragmatic person, a mainstream Democratic Party voter who believes in the political process and that the world is essentially a reasonable place — interested me. It became apparent that it would be interesting to have those two perspectives start to bleed into each other. There is a sort of question mark over democracy and its procedures that seems to be a bigger conversation than one country. It’s the right time for this book. How did the concepts of privacy and surveillance string together seemingly different sections of the book?  Surveillance is a very difficult thing to write about because much of it is to do with how we behave when we feel we are being watched. Any one of us who has an electronic device — we understand that we are at least potentially being watched. But it’s a very hard thing to generate a conflict out of. A lot of my characters seem to have a conversation with a double, or with somebody who is like them, but unlike and opposed to them. And in this story, the character Anton [the alt-right director of the fictionalised police show] emerges [to bring on the conflict]. Did it affect you to write this intense story in first person?  When I’m writing, I take some seed of a feeling that I have, and explore what it would be like to take it further — to imagine what it would feel like for my anxiety to get worse and worse. In a way it’s therapeutic, this is what I do instead of paying for a therapist [laughs]. Like the protagonist, you were also on a fellowship at the American Academy in Berlin, which you’ve clarified is nothing like the one in the book. Can you talk about real life overlaps?  I wanted [the protagonist] to be a writer because I wanted him to be able to talk in certain ways about the ideas that he’s having. Also, I thought that it’s important at this point that a character’s being desi needn’t be central to the book. There are a couple of scenes where it matters: like the scene where he meets the refugee father and daughter, and they look at each other and have that moment of ‘Oh okay, you have brown skin too’. Because one of the things about being in Berlin in the first half of 2016 was that it was just after Angela Merkel [Chancellor of Germany] had allowed in a million refugees in an extraordinary gesture. Very frequently, Germans would mistake me for a refugee, and would speak to me as they would speak to a new refugee — either very positively, or very negatively. It was very interesting to me to understand that I was being seen like that.  Published by Simon & Schuster, Red Pill is priced at Rs. 599   There is a sort of question mark over democracy and its procedures that seems to be a bigger conversation than one country. It's the right time for this book||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/novelist-hari-kunzru-on-his-latest-book-red-pill/article32585943.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||gauravguptastudio.com||Joining designers like JJ Valaya and Tarun Tahiliani, Delhi-based Gaurav Gupta has brought his couture to the online space. And in just a couple of days, smaller items like the Galactic loafers for men and ruffled tops for women have sold out. While the Comfort Couture edit features structured pantsuits, capes and gowns starting at Rs. 30,000 for a co-ord set, both men and women have bridal edits — evening wear, reception, sangeet and destination wedding included. Unlike many other designers, Gupta isn’t reluctant about adding ‘sale’ to his beautiful website. There are inaugural discounts of up to 70% for the taking — try the peplum dresses for under Rs. 10,000, linen bandhgala jackets at Rs. 24,000 and Gupta’s signature sari gown at half the price. The brand’s online couture process is fairly straightforward. Once an order is placed, a design consultant will get in touch for sizing and customisation details (lining, coverage and length). The garment will be handmade in their atelier and delivered in sustainable, recycled plastic packaging. The site is laid out seamlessly and is light enough to load even with a slow internet connection (useful if you are shopping while on another endless Zoom call). A quick view option would make for easier browsing. Payment options include credit and debit cards via RazorPay and PayPal. Up next:Augmented reality shopping and ready-to-wear collections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gauravguptastudiocom/article32585933.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sneakerhood by Ajio||The Sneakerhood — apart from being a catchy-yet-not-trying-too-hard pun on the term sneakerhead — is a tidy little marketplace from online shopping platform Ajio for the first-time sneaker-shopper as well as those who are looking to acquire another for their collection. They have a fairly large virtual inventory covering the usual suspects like Armani Exchange, Nike, Skechers, Adidas, Steve Madden, ASICS and Puma. The price range (from approximately Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 20,000) will leave most buyers happy with the choice at hand. The sorting could use some work as it keeps throwing up other irrelevant options (like briefs and trunks under shoes!). But outside of that, you can arrange them neatly enough — by colour, size, style, brands — to zero in on what you may want. But serious sneakerheads who nerd over every upcoming launch may not be entirely taken with this site. It is a collection of regular sneakers and not the coveted lifestyle ones (like Air Jordans, Nike SB, Adidas Yeezy) which have people queuing up online or outside stores and the kind which sell for many times on the seconds market. Very few addresses sell those in India and even then, the launches are on pre-appointed dates and times. I suspect Ajio too will acquire such events and that would add some serious cred to their already large inventory. Even if they don’t, remember that those chaps make up a tiny percentage of the total sneaker sales volumes. The regular Jai doesn’t want to spend two months’ earnings on a pair of shoes and most people will never get the deal behind camping overnight for anything that you will wear on your feet! Add in a few exclusive discounts and deals and you are sorted. So, by all means, check out this new online space; even if not for buying, it’ll make for some seriously cool eye candy. Up next:Hopefully, a dedicated tab to navigate to Sneakerhood from the Ajio homepage and improved search options that do not include all the footwear on the site||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sneakerhood-by-ajio/article32585936.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Cat Deeley’s book of joy||Next week, the So You Think You Can Dance host (since 2006) will be able to read her own children’s book for her two sons. With the release of The Joy in You on September 15, Deeley has added ‘children’s book author’ to her already impressive list of roles. “ The Joy In You is a book of moments, ideas, thoughts and feelings, top and tailed with love. I wanted to be able to show my children a snapshot of life’s journey and make them contemplate what will fundamentally make them happy,” she says. With wonderful illustrations by British artist Rosie Butcher, the book encourages children to believe in themselves and embrace self-expression. Read the full story on    weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cat-deeleys-book-of-joy/article32585929.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Beard, bard and bird||Beard, bird, rustic seat, bare feet — if all these don’t signal ‘spirituality’ what does? And if that’s not sugar for the Great Indian Voter Ant, then what is? And yet, ‘spiritual politics’ need not be an oxymoron. No less a person than Gandhi proved that you could practise it with panache. The problem with borrowing from Gandhi’s playbook though is that it’s easy to get the dress right, but much harder to acquire even a fraction of that blazing self-honesty and courage. A courage that did not get frightened by activism but embraced it. That did not reject intellectualism but encouraged it. That wasn’t suspicious of diversity but lived it. Read the full column on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/beard-bard-and-bird/article32585931.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Fall for bridal wear||Chennai-based designer Chaitanya Rao is coming up with a virtual runway show featuring a bridal collection created for the digital wedding. “I had a little over a week to make seven new designs, working within the constraints of what the karigars could do,” he explains. The line includes organza saris and silk blouses with floral embroidery and organic cotton jacketlehengasfeaturing traditional motifs. For the rest, we will have to wait till the show debuts on his social media platforms on September 15 at 5.30 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fall-for-bridal-wear/article32585957.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Terry Fox Run online||Like most annual events, the 12th edition of the Terry Fox Run in Chennai has gone online. From tomorrow to September 20, sign up to take part in the virtual run that aims to spread awareness and raise funds for cancer research. There is no registration fee (although you are welcome to donate) or age limit: all participants can run, walk, skate or cycle on any one of these days, take a photo and upload it to the site to get a certificate of participation. Details and registration on terryfoxrunchennai.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/terry-fox-run-online/article32585945.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Swipe nights begin||Starting today at 10 am, for three consecutive weekends, dating app Tinder brings their Swipe Night event to India. The first-person, in-app, interactive event follows a group of friends, with users playing the protagonist. You'll be challenged with moral dilemmas and practical choices that impact what happens next (almost like a choose your own adventure book) and who you match with once the event ends. There are only seven seconds to make each decision. On the Tinder app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/swipe-nights-begin/article32585947.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil comedy rising||Amazon Prime Video got its first unscripted Tamil show yesterday. The new edition ofComicstaan— the hugely popular stand-up reality show — goes regional withSemma Comedy Pa, and judges Praveen Kumar, Karthik Kumar and Rajmohan Arumugam. Joining these veteran comic artistes are Vidyulekha Raman and Mervyn Rozario as hosts. The show features seven comics, including Abhishek Kumar of the viral Mrs Janaki fame, Syama Harini and Annamalai, Yogi and Karthi Durai. Now streaming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tamil-comedy-rising/article32585949.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Conscious retail’ fix||Via Kochi magazine has curated an online pop-up store called 7Things. This includes graphic T-shirts, wellness products from Nature's Veda, home décor from Viakerala, kurtas by Aaraam Se, accessories by Annahmol, cookware by kitch.in and western wear by Salt Studio. Till tomorrow, on store.viakochi.com. Handloom weaves like Benarasi, Ikat and Kota Doria find a place in Padmashali’s new website. Get ready for the festive season with saris, dupattas and salwar sets, starting from Rs. 5,000. On padmashali.co||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/conscious-retail-fix/article32585951.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Jogen via Japan||The travelling exhibition of 40 select works by artist Jogen Chowdhury from the collection at Glenbarra Art Museum in Himeji, Japan , is now on display at Vadehra Art Gallery in New Delhi till October 1. The show traces the artist’s career from the 1960s when he was a student in Paris, until 2005 — it is one of the most extensive collections in private hands, with works across several mediums, ranging from early drawings to detailed works in his signature cross-hatch style as well as rare canvases. Details on vadehraart.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/jogen-via-japan/article32585953.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||News for 10 and below||In an increasingly digital world where kids are exposed to news and global affairs, how do parents explain what is happening around us? Former Reuters correspondent and mother to eight-year-old girl Leela Sivasankar, Lyndie Prickitt breaks down international and national news in a way that children can grasp. They share their conversations in Newsy Jacuzzi, their weekly podcast, which has junior journalists (not one above the age of 10) bring us information from different parts of the world. Available on Apple Podcasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/news-for-10-and-below/article32585955.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Commercial realty’s Covid reboot||Companies may have quickly adapted to the new working normal — virtual meetings, home offices and online events — but the commercial market has not been as swift to overcome Covid-linked uncertainties. Similar to other asset classes, a number of deals in the office segment have been put on hold or pushed to subsequent quarters. With corporates and MNCs working towards reshaping their office space requirements and work culture, the commercial real estate sector is in for a much-needed overhaul. After March, there was widespread anticipation that office space demand will see a major decline, but current trends suggest otherwise, says Santhosh Kumar, Vice-Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. Kumar is seeing a gradual pick-up in demand momentum in key cities. “All stakeholders, including developers, were quick to adjust to new realities and changed their business strategies. Some MNCs are now on an office leasing spree,” he says. With leasing and construction activity coming to a standstill in the first few months of the lockdown, research by Savills India reveals that total leasing declined by almost 60% in H12020 across six major cities to 13mn sq. ft (as compared to the year-ago period). “With businesses gradually opening up over the last one month, we expect that fresh supply and leasing activities will improve in the second half of the year,” says Anup Vasanth, Managing Director. Tracking progress Before COVID-19, the average rental yield of commercial properties was 6-10%. However, with the demand for commercial properties sliding, there is a marginal dip in commercial rental yields, finds an Anarock report. With many companies opting for work-from-home (WFH), office space tenants are able to bargain with their landlords, says Kumar. He, however, predicts that the demand slowdown and low rentals might last only for a short period of time. Sanjay Dutt, Chairman, FICCI Real Estate Committee, says that India’s office market has shown nearly 98-99% rent collection. With relevant micro market vacancies being low and even some marginal rental growth, he thinks its sustainability is demonstrated. This can be attributed to the fact that office space is linked to global consumption complemented by cost arbitrage, talent pool, scale, competitiveness, and geopolitical advantage, he said in the recent Knight Frank-FICCI-NAREDCO Real Estate Sentiment Index Survey. Despite the temporary halt in construction activities for a significant portion of Q2 2020, the first quarter witnessed an increase in additional office stock compared to the first half of 2019 — growing to 3.5mn sq. ft from 2.8mn sq. ft. “This can be attributed to some earlier plans for the phased launch of quality office spaces by developers preparing to meet the expected demand from MNCs,” says Vasanth. Most of these buildings came into the market before the pandemic and some still await completion certificates. Chennai’s market Chennai closed 2019 with an absorption of 6mn sq.ft. In the January-June period last year, the city had absorbed 2.5mn sq.ft and H1 2020 is not far behind at 2mn sq.ft. A large chunk of this, however, is from prior commitments, says Juggy Marwaha, CEO, Commercial, Prestige Group. Till date, Chennai’s absorption has been 2.8mn sq.ft and factors that have driven demand include the rush towards SEZs due to the Sunset Clause (which came into effect on April 1). As Marwaha explains, a certain level of disruption has been caused with many mid-sized and start-up companies giving up space, largely in the CBD area, and larger clients leaving in the suburban and peripheral micro-markets across various asset grades. Slightly above 1mn sq.ft. of office space has been exited across micro-markets and Grade A, B, and C assets. The vacancy still stands below double digits. With Chennai easing lockdown restrictions, market sentiments and demand is expected to become robust in the next few months in places such as OMR, Mount-Poonamallee and CBD. Cost saving debate Over the next few months, there will be pressure on companies to cut costs and the WFH element is likely to impact new leasing in the short term. However, the office leasing market is expected to recover from early 2021, according to Savills India report. The pandemic has opened conversations around contractual obligations, lock-in periods, exit notices, and force majeure clauses among other things, from both a developer and occupier perspective. In the short to medium term of 6-12 months, there will be good quality stock available to occupiers, and the market may thus lean towards being tenant favourable. There is a question about how much WFH might have impacted rentals or cost-cutting for companies. Market studies show that even with 50% WFH, cost savings for large occupiers are minimal — just about 1% of their operating income, says Aditya Virwani, CEO, Embassy Group. He quotes surveys that have demonstrated “that more than 90% employees miss the office work environment given lack of social interaction, IT issues, low motivation levels etc”. Several large occupiers are exploring strategies to bring employees back to the office, says Virwani. “We do not foresee any major reduction in the office footprint of bluechip companies.” New trends Another trend that’s picking up pace is co-working. “The demand for flexible office spaces is increasing and will continue to drive demand over the next quarters. This is largely because there is a possibility that start-ups and other businesses that occupied expensive spaces may want to move out,” says Kumar of Anarock. In addition, companies need to get used to social distancing norms at the workplace. “They will have to de-densify their office spaces. From 80 sq.ft. per employee, the space allocated is being increased to 120-130 sq. ft. per person,” he says. IT/ITES companies that prefer quality spaces from prominent developers continue to seek out large tech parks. “Tech parks offer facilities like thermal scanning of employees, periodic disinfection of buildings, visitor tracking, etc., which companies would otherwise need to take care of independently in standalone buildings,” explains Virwani. The business park concept is gaining prominence in Chennai, he says. “The city has primarily seen a concentration of Grade B buildings at the city centre. However, with time, the Chennai market has become open to modern Grade A spaces in business parks. With increasing health concerns, companies are now more concerned about employee safety.”  Slightly above 1mn sq.ft. of office space has been exited across micro-markets and Grade A, B, and C assets in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/commercial-realtys-covid-reboot/article32585959.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s fuelling retail revival?||Amidst the pandemic-induced slowdown, essential goods will fuel Indian retail industry’s growth in the coming quarters as consumer expenditure continues to remain focused on essentials — particularly food and grocery — reveals the latest report by Anarock and Retailers Association of India (RAI) titled ‘Indian Retail – Certainty Despite Headwinds’. The average bill value for essentials has gone up 1.5 times after the lockdownؙ has been lifted — from Rs. 650 per basket in early March to more than Rs. 900 per basket presently. Food and grocery, followed by apparel, FMCD and electronics, furniture and home furnishings will see a V-shaped recovery within the next 2-3 quarters. Other segments like beauty, wellness and personal care and home essentials may take 4-6 quarters to recover fully. Organised retail and e-commerce are on an upswing. According to IBEF, the share of Indian organised retail will double to 18% in 2021 (from 9% in 2017). Likewise, e-commerce is expected to more than double to 7% from the previous 3% in the same period. Rise of the omnichannel  Anuj Kejriwal, MD and CEO, Anarock Retail says, “COVID-19 will work as a catalyst for the growth of organised retail and e-commerce in India. Online spending is on a marked rise with online shoppers projected to increase from 15% in 2019 to 50% of the total online population by 2026.” In other new retail industry trends, omnichannel retailing is evolving rapidly with brands collaborating actively to enhance their reach. “Many are using malls or in-mall stores as urban warehouses to ensure faster delivery to customers and are tying-up with existing e-commerce/delivery portals to leverage their existing network and ensure reduced additional cost,” he adds. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, Retailers Association of India (RAI), says “Omnichannel was gaining importance before the pandemic and the crisis has enhanced the importance of retailers having an omnichannel strategy since concepts of digital browsing, click and collect, curbside delivery, video shopping etc. have gained importance. The pandemic has propelled consumers to purchase based on convenience either as delivery to home or by shopping at nearby stores (offline) or by scheduling their shopping time in advance.” In today’s pandemic-transformed retail landscape, essential commodities are a top priority for Indian shoppers. Recent surveys by RAI suggest that grocery and fashion are the top two preferred options immediately after relaxations in lockdown. As many as 33% of consumers were excited to shop post the lockdown while 75% of respondents in tier-II & tier-III cities plan to visit stores in malls in the next 3 months. Offline retailers have witnessed a conversion rate of 90% post-COVID-19 versus 20% - 40% pre-COVID-19. Sanitised spaces The report further highlights the hygiene and sanitation measures being adopted by malls and store operators to combat COVID-19 blues. Above all, mall owners are looking to minimise touchpoints by going digital and sanitising cars before letting them in the parking spots. With valet services, cars are sanitised before and after the car is returned to a customer. Sanitisation of customers’ belongings before mall entry also figures high on the list. Store operators are sanitising apparel after every trial, steam-ironing them and returning them to the rack after 24 hours. Apart from social distancing markers at billing counters, both bags and products are sanitised after purchase. Many are also using tech options for consumers to order before entering the store, or for home delivery of products. Automation and contactless technology will redefine the shopping experience in the future, and retailers will need to adopt such technologies.  Anarock Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/whats-fuelling-retail-revival/article32585971.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Broader recovery expected in 2021||At the ongoing CII Realty & Infrastructure Conclave 2020 — organised by realty consultancy JLL, in partnership with The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) — several experts are discussing opportunities, sharing insights and predicting the next course of action for the industry. Addressing the conclave’s 12th edition, Ramesh Nair, Chairman, CII Realty & Infrastructure Conclave and Country Head, India, JLL, said, “Stakeholders need to prepare for long-term impacts of the pandemic. Ongoing changes will only accelerate the pace of transformation that would have taken many years otherwise. It is time to reinvent spaces, rethink strategies, bring collaboration into workplaces and make them more human.” Office market Christian Ulbrich, Global CEO & President, JLL added, “Offices of the future will be less about densely packed floors, and more about providing flexible creative hubs for people to interact, socialise, innovate and learn —the things people have missed most during lockdown.” Adoption of technology will be key going ahead. Globally, corporates are revaluating strategies. De-densification, splitting up of offices will gain momentum as more focus will be on collaborative technology. More corporates will adopt flexible working practices. The phenomenon of work-from-home (WFH), at best, will be a supplement to the traditional way of working from office.   The residential story While there are certain uncertainties, the worst is behind for the residential sector. With interest rates at their lowest levels in 15 years and developers offering more flexible to accommodate buyers’ concern, this could be the best time to buy a property. There is also renewed interest from NRIs and joint families. Residential sales in the affordable and mid segments are expected to show the fastest turn around. Consolidation in the market is likely to further speed up. Silver lining With the economy opening gradually, retail footfalls have started picking up, office absorption levels are improving and industrial production is accelerating. Hotels have been allowed to re-open and many companies are planning a re-entry into their offices. Over the next couple of quarters, all eyes will be on the ability of India to survive or contain the pandemic. Warehousing is one of emerged as the preferred investment class with $6.4 bn commitment announced/ invested by institutional investor during 2017-2020. Further, data localisation laws shift from captive to colocation data centre and emerging trends like 5G, edgecomputing,and the internet of things (IoT) will drive demand for data centers. The current situation has given developers an opportunity to innovate, reinvent and revisit their strategies on maintaining business continuity to navigate through this pandemic. While the primary focus is shifting to overall well-being, the stress on health, sustainability and wellness is renewed vigor and is gaining prominence across asset classes. But a broader recovery is expected in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/broader-recovery-expected-in-2021/article32585973.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Get your DIY game on||The spirit of do-it-yourself (DIY) has suddenly taken urban India by storm. DIY, which initially gained traction as a method of building, modifying, or repairing something on your own (without the help of experts or professionals) has been associated mainly with projects in the home improvement and maintenance domain for decades. But these days, especially over the past few months in lockdown, DIY has caught everyone’s attention — from arts and crafts and home décor to fashion and films. The design revolution may have begun slowly, but is picking up steam fast. If you haven’t tried it yet, here are three easy projects you can begin with:  Bottle lamp  Aim: To  convert a striking bottle into an unusual lamp  What you need: A bottle, bulb holder and wire, bulb, lampshade, glue  What to do: Wash the bottle thoroughly and soak it in water overnight to remove the label easily. Once dry, find a local glass store and request the tradesman to drill a hole through the bottom. Get an electrician to install a bulb holder and run the wire through the hole. Next, you need to pick out a lampshade. If you have one, good enough, or browse through online décor stores that have several options. You may have to glue the shade on if it seems shaky. Alternatively, you could make one without the lampshade and use it as a bottle lamp with string lights.   Funky Table   Aim: To  add a diner-like vibe to your home  What you need: Photos, scrapbook paper, cellotape, scissors, a sheet of glass  What to do: Bring out all the postcards you have collected on your travels. If you don’t have any, simply select them online (allposters.com is a good option). Posters, vintage ads and postcards work well. Get them developed at a photo studio into 4×6 size prints. Wipe off the rectangular table — dining table, coffee table or desk — with a solution of white vinegar (1 part) and water (3 parts). Let dry. Arrange the photos, interspersed with postcard-sized pieces of scrapbook paper, to form a harmonious collage. Don’t stick them on with fevicol; only use cellotape. Top the table with a sheet of glass and you’re good to go.   Tyre furniture  Aim: To create a rather unusual décor accent  What you need: 3 old tyres (could be hatchback tyres or auto tyres, depending on the size of table you want; sourcethem from the puncture shop); black oil paint, brushes, a sheet of glass, metal bars  What to do: Begin by washing the tyres inside out. Once dry, spread them out on a thick layer of newspapers (important since you don’t want to mess up the floor). Layer with a coat of black paint, allowing each side to dry before you turn it over. Stack the painted tyres on top of each other and get a sheet of glass fitted in the hole on the top tyre. If you want to design chairs, add metal arms on wither side of the tyre stacks and you’re done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/get-your-diy-game-on/article32585969.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Assessment of property tax||We reside in an apartment complex at Chromepet and our owners association has not been registered. The 12-year-old complex comprises 16 units. How do we go about getting it registered? Could you send us details of the application form, payment procedure and documents required?  Arunachalam Lakshmanan Chennai You have to make an application in Form No. I given in the appendix of the Tamilnadu Societies Registration Rules. The same can be obtained from the Registrar of Societies having jurisdiction over the location of your apartment complex. You have to attach the bye-laws to your application, signed by atleast seven members and one witness. In 2000, our building promoter had applied for regularisation of unauthorised/deviated construction. Last year, CMDA has passed orders and it has been regularised. The main deviation was an unauthorised basement area of 2,000 sq.ft. There was deviation of a few hundred sq.ft. in the other areas of the building. Is it legal to charge infrastructure and development charges on the whole built up area of the building or should it be charged only on the unauthorised/deviated area? Since its not a new building and facilities such as a road, street lighting, pavement, drainage etc. are existing, can I appeal against the charges? Anonymous Chennai When an application is filedbefore CMDA for regularisation, CMDA, on assessing the nature of approvals sought, will send a demand notice for payment of applicable fees and charges. It is only upon payment of the same that approvals are issued. Any objection to their levy may be raised at the demand stage. Once the charges are paid and approvals are obtained, the same cannot be challenged later in the usual course. The builder of our flat(s) hadgot an assessment order from Tambaram municipality for payment of property tax for my flat. When I took possession, I was unaware of the existence of such an order. I applied to the municipality and they issued a second order for the same flat wherein the amount to be paid was higher than the earlier one. I have been paying tax, as per the order given to me, since 2011 end. As per the municipality records, outstanding dues are being shown against me. When I explained the issue to officials, they promised to cancel the earlier order but it has not been done till date. I wrote to the municipality in this regard in 2018, followed by several visits, to no avail. What further action can I take to get the earlier order cancelled ?  Anonymous Chennai For every municipality, there is a Taxation Appeals Committee. This is a statutory committee as per Section 23A of Tamilnadu District Municipality Act. You may make an application to this committee for necessary relief. If you are not satisfied with the order of the committee, you may approach the court for suitable remedies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/assessment-of-property-tax/article32585963.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Commercial realty’s Covid reboot||Companies may have quickly adapted to the new working normal — virtual meetings, home offices and online events — but the commercial market has not been as swift to overcome Covid-linked uncertainties. Similar to other asset classes, a number of deals in the office segment have been put on hold or pushed to subsequent quarters. With corporates and MNCs working towards reshaping their office space requirements and work culture, the commercial real estate sector is in for a much-needed overhaul. After March, there was widespread anticipation that office space demand will see a major decline, but current trends suggest otherwise, says Santhosh Kumar, Vice-Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants. Kumar is seeing a gradual pick-up in demand momentum in key cities. “All stakeholders, including developers, were quick to adjust to new realities and changed their business strategies. Some MNCs are now on an office leasing spree,” he says. With leasing and construction activity coming to a standstill in the first few months of the lockdown, research by Savills India reveals that total leasing declined by almost 60% in H12020 across six major cities to 13mn sq. ft (as compared to the year-ago period). “With businesses gradually opening up over the last one month, we expect that fresh supply and leasing activities will improve in the second half of the year,” says Anup Vasanth, Managing Director. Tracking progress Before COVID-19, the average rental yield of commercial properties was 6-10%. However, with the demand for commercial properties sliding, there is a marginal dip in commercial rental yields, finds an Anarock report. With many companies opting for work-from-home (WFH), office space tenants are able to bargain with their landlords, says Kumar. He, however, predicts that the demand slowdown and low rentals might last only for a short period of time. Sanjay Dutt, Chairman, FICCI Real Estate Committee, says that India’s office market has shown nearly 98-99% rent collection. With relevant micro market vacancies being low and even some marginal rental growth, he thinks its sustainability is demonstrated. This can be attributed to the fact that office space is linked to global consumption complemented by cost arbitrage, talent pool, scale, competitiveness, and geopolitical advantage, he said in the recent Knight Frank-FICCI-NAREDCO Real Estate Sentiment Index Survey. Despite the temporary halt in construction activities for a significant portion of Q2 2020, the first quarter witnessed an increase in additional office stock compared to the first half of 2019 — growing to 3.5mn sq. ft from 2.8mn sq. ft. “This can be attributed to some earlier plans for the phased launch of quality office spaces by developers preparing to meet the expected demand from MNCs,” says Vasanth. Most of these buildings came into the market before the pandemic and some still await completion certificates. Chennai’s market Chennai closed 2019 with an absorption of 6mn sq.ft. In the January-June period last year, the city had absorbed 2.5mn sq.ft and H1 2020 is not far behind at 2mn sq.ft. A large chunk of this, however, is from prior commitments, says Juggy Marwaha, CEO, Commercial, Prestige Group. Till date, Chennai’s absorption has been 2.8mn sq.ft and factors that have driven demand include the rush towards SEZs due to the Sunset Clause (which came into effect on April 1). As Marwaha explains, a certain level of disruption has been caused with many mid-sized and start-up companies giving up space, largely in the CBD area, and larger clients leaving in the suburban and peripheral micro-markets across various asset grades. Slightly above 1mn sq.ft. of office space has been exited across micro-markets and Grade A, B, and C assets. The vacancy still stands below double digits. With Chennai easing lockdown restrictions, market sentiments and demand is expected to become robust in the next few months in places such as OMR, Mount-Poonamallee and CBD. Cost saving debate Over the next few months, there will be pressure on companies to cut costs and the WFH element is likely to impact new leasing in the short term. However, the office leasing market is expected to recover from early 2021, according to Savills India report. The pandemic has opened conversations around contractual obligations, lock-in periods, exit notices, and force majeure clauses among other things, from both a developer and occupier perspective. In the short to medium term of 6-12 months, there will be good quality stock available to occupiers, and the market may thus lean towards being tenant favourable. There is a question about how much WFH might have impacted rentals or cost-cutting for companies. Market studies show that even with 50% WFH, cost savings for large occupiers are minimal — just about 1% of their operating income, says Aditya Virwani, CEO, Embassy Group. He quotes surveys that have demonstrated “that more than 90% employees miss the office work environment given lack of social interaction, IT issues, low motivation levels etc”. Several large occupiers are exploring strategies to bring employees back to the office, says Virwani. “We do not foresee any major reduction in the office footprint of bluechip companies.” New trends Another trend that’s picking up pace is co-working. “The demand for flexible office spaces is increasing and will continue to drive demand over the next quarters. This is largely because there is a possibility that start-ups and other businesses that occupied expensive spaces may want to move out,” says Kumar of Anarock. In addition, companies need to get used to social distancing norms at the workplace. “They will have to de-densify their office spaces. From 80 sq.ft. per employee, the space allocated is being increased to 120-130 sq. ft. per person,” he says. IT/ITES companies that prefer quality spaces from prominent developers continue to seek out large tech parks. “Tech parks offer facilities like thermal scanning of employees, periodic disinfection of buildings, visitor tracking, etc., which companies would otherwise need to take care of independently in standalone buildings,” explains Virwani. The business park concept is gaining prominence in Chennai, he says. “The city has primarily seen a concentration of Grade B buildings at the city centre. However, with time, the Chennai market has become open to modern Grade A spaces in business parks. With increasing health concerns, companies are now more concerned about employee safety.”  Slightly above 1mn sq.ft. of office space has been exited across micro-markets and Grade A, B, and C assets in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/commercial-realtys-covid-reboot/article32585961.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Novelist Hari Kunzru on his latest book, Red Pill||Novelist Hari Kunzru is in his study, in a casual T-shirt, a wall of books behind him. It could have been any other pleasant pre-fall morning, but it isn’t — the world is in the middle of a pandemic. Yet, Kunzru is a busy man. On September 3, the 1969-born writer started a podcast called Into The Zone and is now in the midst of launch activities for his  sixth  book, Red Pill , which released in India on September 8. “It’s a funny time, a strange time to be launching a book,” says New York-based Kunzru over a video call. His latest gripping work starts off with the British-Indian protagonist’s time at a writer’s fellowship in Wannsee, Germany, but quickly unravels into a whole lot more. It is at once a story about surveillance and privacy, paranoia, and mental health, Donald Trump’s election into the White House, and the narrator’s obsession with an ultra-violent police show that leads him to tracking its alt-right director on the dark Web’s various forums. Kunzru talks to us  on the current conversation on democracy, why surveillance is hard to write about, and the formal deviations that he was tempted to make in writing Red Pill . Excerpts from the interview: How excited are you for the launch? I’m very interested to see how it lands right now, because there’s an election coming up in the US, and everything is very tense. A lot of the themes of the book relate to that kind of atmosphere, the anxiety that I know is in many places in the world as well.  You end the book with the 2016 US elections. It’s almost time for the next one. Have these intervening years added to the book?  I didn’t know the book was going to end at that moment, until sometime after I’d started. But the idea — that the protagonist has apocalyptic fears about the world, but his wife is a more pragmatic person, a mainstream Democratic Party voter who believes in the political process and that the world is essentially a reasonable place — interested me. It became apparent that it would be interesting to have those two perspectives start to bleed into each other. There is a sort of question mark over democracy and its procedures that seems to be a bigger conversation than one country. It’s the right time for this book. How did the concepts of privacy and surveillance string together seemingly different sections of the book?  Surveillance is a very difficult thing to write about because much of it is to do with how we behave when we feel we are being watched. Any one of us who has an electronic device — we understand that we are at least potentially being watched. But it’s a very hard thing to generate a conflict out of. A lot of my characters seem to have a conversation with a double, or with somebody who is like them, but unlike and opposed to them. And in this story, the character Anton [the alt-right director of the fictionalised police show] emerges [to bring on the conflict]. Did it affect you to write this intense story in first person? When I’m writing, I take some seed of a feeling that I have, and explore what it would be like to take it further — to imagine what it would feel like for my anxiety to get worse and worse. In a way it’s therapeutic, this is what I do instead of paying for a therapist [laughs]. Like the protagonist, you were also on a fellowship at the American Academy in Berlin, which you’ve clarified is nothing like the one in the book. Can you talk about real life overlaps?  I wanted [the protagonist] to be a writer because I wanted him to be able to talk in certain ways about the ideas that he’s having. Also, I thought that it’s important at this point that a character’s being desi needn’t be central to the book. There are a couple of scenes where it matters: like the scene where he meets the refugee father and daughter, and they look at each other and have that moment of ‘Oh okay, you have brown skin too’. Because one of the things about being in Berlin in the first half of 2016 was that it was just after Angela Merkel [Chancellor of Germany] had allowed in a million refugees in an extraordinary gesture. Very frequently, Germans would mistake me for a refugee, and would speak to me as they would speak to a new refugee — either very positively, or very negatively. It was very interesting to me to understand that I was being seen like that.  Published by Simon & Schuster, Red Pill is priced at Rs. 599   There is a sort of question mark over democracy and its procedures that seems to be a bigger conversation than one country. It's the right time for this book||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/novelist-hari-kunzru-on-his-latest-book-red-pill/article32586137.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Cat Deeley’s book of joy||Bedtime story sessions in the Deeley-Kielty home in Los Angeles are special. Cat Deeley, the So You Think You Can Dance host (since 2006) reads ‘everything and anything’ to their two sons Milo (4) and James (2) — from information on the cornflakes box, encyclopaedias on dinosaurs, Peter Rabbit , Thomas The Tank Engine to the British children’s book Guess How Much I Love You . “They love books and I love reading to them. I do silly voices and they read along. We sometimes make up our own theme tunes,” shares the television presenter in an email interaction. Finding the words Soon Deeley, 43, will be able to read her own children’s book for her sons. With the release of The Joy in You on September 15, she has added ‘children’s book author’ to her already impressive list of roles. “ The Joy In You is a book of moments, ideas, thoughts and feelings, top and tailed with love. I wanted to be able to show my children a snapshot of life’s journey and make them contemplate what will fundamentally make them happy,” says the former teen model who got her big television break with SM:TV , a popular children’s show, that also kickstarted the hugely successful careers of television presenting duo, Ant and Dec. With wonderful illustrations by British artist Rosie Butcher, the book encourages children to believe in themselves and embrace self-expression. “For many years, it had been my ambition to author a children’s book. After becoming a mama myself, it felt like the time was right. I know how I feel at the end of the day when it comes to bedtime. Normally I’m too tired to think and completely inarticulate. I wanted to create a book for those moments, that said everything I wanted to say when I couldn’t find the words,” says Deeley, who was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Host for a Reality or Reality-Competition Programme in 2011. When she isn’t encouraging dancers on the American reality show, the artiste has been a guest actor, reality show presenter and also became a Unicef UK Ambassador in 2010. It began with Noddy Deeley tells me her love for reading started as a child. “I was an insomniac even when I was little. I would read all the time when I couldn’t sleep, insatiably devouring books at all times of the night or early morning.” Her favourite author was Enid Blyton. “My obsession began with Noddy. I would remember every single word on every single page, correcting my mother if she skipped over anything. Then I progressed to The Faraway Tree , The Enchanted Wood , The Wishing Chair , The Famous Five , The Secret Seven and Malory Towers .” It’s no wonder that Deeley wants to pass on her fondness for books to her children. The high point of this summer, she says, has been teaching Milo to read. “It’s his new passion and hopefully he will carry his love for a great book into his adult life too.” These are turbulent times and the world can seem like a scary place even for adults but Deeley, as always, is looking for positives. “Everyone is healthy and I get guilt-free time to spend with the boys. I’ve not missed a minute of James’ gabbling and his ridiculously cute little lisp.” In between dance In June this year, Deeley announced that the 17th season of So You Think You Can Dance had been cancelled because of pandemic-related restrictions. Understandably the fans, much like Deeley, were also heartbroken. For the 15 seasons that she’s been a part of the show, it’s been a source of constant happiness in her life. “I enjoy the fact that when the right dancer comes together with the right choreographer, hair, make up, music, lighting, staging something magical can happen. Something that can physically move the audience in the way any great piece of art should be able to.” Until she returns to set, though, Deeley finds moments of contentment every day. “The older you get the more you realise it’s the simple things that bring you cheer — laughing at a great joke, that first cup of coffee in the morning, waking up to a sunny day. Sometimes we just need to be reminded of our joyful six-year-old selves.”  Published by Penguin Random House, The Joy in You is priced at Rs. 1,299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cat-deeleys-book-of-joy/article32586147.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A portrait of vibrant India||“Can you identify Toda tribes of the Nilgiris from a photograph taken in the 1860s or 1870s?” asks Madhavan Pillai. He is the founder of ArkNet Images, an initiative to research and preserve the photographic heritage of India. “It is difficult. Their attire, physical features, colour of skin, and the environment where they live looks different from how the Todas live today. Photographs help document history; freeze moments and preserve them for posterity.” That explains why he launched the ‘People of India’, a photo book project to visually document the vibrancy of the people of India, starting with their ‘typical’ physical attributes, dress, occupation, culture and other aspects of their life. “We plan to bring out the first volume as a tribute to a young India on her 75th anniversary,” says Madhavan. Photographers, including amateurs, from all over the world can submit entries. “The jury looks at not just the aesthetics but accuracy to ensure that it is an authentic documentation. We plan to bring out eight volumes.” The theme for the first volume is portrait of a nation. “Each volume follows a narrative. We are looking at traditional portraits that are shot in the studio with a formal photography backdrop. The emphasis has to be on the portrait’s face. It could be a mugshot, standing or seated posture.” Entries of environmental portraits of people in their workspace are also allowed. “For example, a farmer engaged in farming or a fisherman at sea. The environment is as important as the person’s personality. It could be a street, home, an office or a restaurant. We can also have family and group portraits of people staring into the camera shot at any location. And, candid photographs.” Madhavan who is now based at Udhagamandalam in the Nilgiris has been a photojournalist for many years. “I have documented mining industries across India, from coal and diamond to gold, mica, marble and sandstone mines. As a part of social photography, I capture images from the perspective of women, workers, and child labourers, to bring about a change and make their lives better.” In Ooty, Madhavan along with two others also converted a discarded toilet complex into an art gallery. Madhavan also curates the Ooty Film Festival every year. This time, on October 2, he will be holding a virtual documentary festival, which is themed on the environment. His blog maddyworks.com documents Indian photography history from 1836 (officially, photography came to India in 1842). “ I profile photographers, the process they used and what they shot. It could be social photography, people, monuments, wars, or the 1857 Mutiny. Before the invention of photography, it was expensive for the common person to have a portrait made. The privilege was reserved for the rich and famous. With the advent of photography processes like daguerreotype, calotype, and later the wet collodion processes, portrait making became faster and affordable. There was an explosion in consumer interest in portrait photography in the 1850s.” Madhavan also set up the Goa Centre for Alternative Photography, a research centre on photographic processes. “The People of India project emerged from this journey. It will help blur boundaries and connect with our counterparts across the country. It’s going to be a book on the Indianness of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-portrait-of-vibrant-india/article32586310.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records second biggest spike in fresh COVID-19 cases||Delhi recorded 4,266 fresh cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours – its second-highest single-day spike, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. The total number of cases now stands at 2,09,748. Over 60K testing A record number of COVID-19 tests — 60,580 — were also done in the past 24 hours. This is the first time that over 60,000 tests were done in a day. The number of cases has also remained high with Thursday and Wednesday witnessing the highest single-day spikes with 4,306 and 4,039 cases respectively. Though the number of tests has gone up compared to Thursday, the positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) has fallen to 7% from 7.3% on Thursday. This is the lowest positivity rate in more than 20 days. 21 more deaths Also, 21 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,687, the bulletin added. Of the total cases, 1,78,154 people have recovered and there are 26,907 active cases. Out of the total 14,230 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 8,199 (57.6%) were vacant, as per government data on Friday. However, 57.8% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 68.7% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. Also, the number of containment zones in the city jumped to 1,329, which is the highest till now. The government has decided that Mohalla clinics will start COVID-19 testing on all working days between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. “In order to augment the COVID-19 testing drive, it has been decided to initiate testing at all AAMCs from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on all working days with immediate effect,” an order issued on Thursday read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-records-second-biggest-spike-in-fresh-covid-19-cases/article32586185.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP takes jibe at BJP over notices to demolish slums in the Capital||Attacking the BJP over notices of demolition of slums in the city, AAP on Friday alleged that the BJP wants to demolish every slum in the city. The party also shared a letter written by the Delhi government-run Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to the Railways, in which it has been asked to not demolish any slum without providing alternative accommodation. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that the government has attached a list of 45,857 pucca houses in the letter and said that if the BJP government does not provide pucca houses to people, then the AAP government will do it. He said that the Supreme Court was hearing a matter regarding the cleaning of garbage and in that hearing, the Central government submitted an affidavit in August 2020. “The Supreme Court was hearing a case only on the cleanliness of Delhi, but the BJP’s Railway Ministry secretly filed an affidavit and demanded the removal of slums. The BJP government, in its affidavit to the SC, has noted that due to Kejriwal government, slum demolition is not taking place. We take this admission as our pride,” Mr. Chadha said. Mr. Chadha said that here the BJP-ruled Centre observed that the people who stay in the slums around the railway tracks are the reason behind dumping of garbage on the tracks. They noted that due to these people the railway tracks are dirty and that is why the BJP government wants these slums should be demolished and due to the Kejriwal government, they are unable to evict these slum dwellers, he said. “This clearly exposes the real agenda of the BJP. But on behalf of the AAP, I want to tell the BJP that we are proud of the fact that due to the Kejriwal government you could not demolish the slums and had to note this on the affidavit. I want to tell you that not a single person will be displaced from these slums till the time Mr. Kejriwal is alive. We will not allow any such demolition,” he said. Mr. Chadha said that the BJP government also submitted an action-taken report of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to the SC, which also noted that due to Kejriwal government slum demolitions were stuck. Meanwhile, the party said that many youth leaders, including Sachin Bidhuri, who had contested the Assembly elections from Tughlakabad on a Congress ticket, joined AAP on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-takes-jibe-at-bjp-over-notices-to-demolish-slums-in-the-capital/article32586175.ece
12 September 2020||Jaipur,||Ajay Maken’s Rajasthan visit marked by protests||A two-day visit of All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Ajay Maken, recently appointed in-charge of Rajasthan, to the State for interacting with the party functionaries was marked by protests and display of infighting. Rival factions in the ruling Congress sought Mr. Maken's attention to different issues. Mr. Maken visited Ajmer on Wednesday and Jaipur on Thursday to meet a cross-section of party workers and office-bearers and obtained their feedback on the issues affecting the people. He also tried to evolve a consensus in the party’s State unit in the aftermath of the recent month-long political turmoil. Congress workers tore posters, staged a protest and shouted slogans against Health Minister Raghu Sharma in Ajmer. Masuda MLA Rakesh Pareek staged a sit-in outside the police station demanding the release of party workers who were detained. In Jaipur, the party workers raised slogans outside the Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters with the demand that Mr. Maken meet them individually. Promises more meetings Mr. Maken, who has replaced Avinash Pande as the AICC in-charge of Rajasthan, later said he was unable to give time to all the Congress workers because of restrictions imposed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said he would hold a meeting every month in Jaipur and discuss the feedback submitted by Ministers in charge of districts. Mr. Maken is also part of a three-member committee set up by the Congress to look into the issues raised by former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters during the political crisis. His visits in August-end and this week assume significance for the impending organisational changes and Ministry reshuffle. The senior Congress leader told reporters here that the coordination between the government and the party structure would be strengthened and denied that there were any divisions or factionalism in the State unit.  Mr. Pilot said here on Friday that Mr. Maken had interacted with the Congress functionaries in an “open atmosphere” and their feedback would help strengthen the party. He described the protests by rival factions as “over-enthusiasm” of party workers because of limited time available for interactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ajay-makens-rajasthan-visit-marked-by-protests/article32586167.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Gahlot reviews phase-2 trials of contactless e-ticketing app||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot reviewed the phase-2 trials of the contactless e-ticketing app in cluster buses on Friday. He also conducted a real-time inspection of the app on route 429 during by purchasing a ticket. The department has started the phase-2 trial of contactless e-ticketing app ‘Chartr’ in its cluster buses. The trial is being conducted by a Special Task Force, which consists of expert members from Transport Department, Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology (IIIT-D), Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd. (DIMTS), Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and World Resources Institute (WRI). The phase-1 trial of the ‘Chartr’ App was conducted for three days on all cluster buses of route number 473. “Now that we have increased testing and are witnessing another spike in cases, an app-based contactless ticketing is crucial in minimising surface contact. This is a very simple and smooth process, and I could book my ticket in a few seconds. I am extremely happy to note that within five days of starting trial, 6% of total ticketing on the selected routes are being done through the app now,” the Transport Minister said. Ticket booking Passengers can take an e-ticket through the app after boarding the bus. The app can be downloaded from Google Playstore. One can also WhatsApp “Hi” on 9910096264 to get the app URL. A user can also see all stoppages of a bus and all the buses arriving in the next half an hour with details like expected time of arrival (ETA). The ETA also gets updated real time during the passenger’s journey in the bus. Once the passenger reaches their destination as entered in the app, the ticket becomes invalid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gahlot-reviews-phase-2-trials-of-contactless-e-ticketing-app/article32586182.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC deploys flying squads across stations to keep check on violators||Following complaints on social media from commuters pertaining to co-passengers not wearing masks and adhering to social distancing norms, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday said they have deployed flying squads across corridors to carry out random checks. The officials said with the flying squad in place, around 150 passengers were “counselled” and Rs. 200 fine was imposed on 92 passengers each for “creating nuisance". ‘Handed over to police’ The officials said initially, violators would be “advised and counselled” but they may also be handed over to police if required. “Our intention at this time, when metro services are yet to be made fully operational, is to advise and counsel them into adopting these norms with a positive attitude...However, if people are still found flouting the norms then they will be penalised under relevant Delhi Metro law,” said DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. The DMRC has also introduced a new set of announcements inside metro coaches. “In addition, there is a deployment of over 1,500 DMRC officials, staff and civil defence volunteers at metro stations across the network to guide and help commuters who may not be fully aware of these newly introduced norms,” said an official. From Saturday, the nearly 400-km-long Delhi Metro network will become fully operational with services available throughout the day. Services on the network have resumed since September 7 in a graded manner with staggered timings. On Friday, the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West – Botanical Garden) and Grey Line (Dwarka – Najafgarh) corridors became operational. Services under the Stage 2 operations were extended to 12 hours a day before being made available throughout the day from September 12. NEET exams The DMRC also announced that in view of the NEET examination on Sunday, services on the Phase-III network, which usually begin from 8 a.m. on Sundays, will be available from 6 a.m. Ridership on the Delhi metro network crossed the 1 lakh mark with a footfall of around 1.28 lakh till 7.30 p.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-deploys-flying-squads-across-stations-to-keep-check-on-violators/article32586189.ece
12 September 2020||Aligarh,||Masked robbers loot Aligarh jewellery shop||In a bizarre incident on Friday, armed robbers allegedly looted a jewellery shop in Aligarh while following the COVID protocol and escaped with ornaments and cash worth Rs. 36.5 lakh. The incident that happened in broad daylight in the busy Banna Devi area of the city came to light when the CCTV footage of the incident went viral. In the video, two young men could be seen entering a jewellery shop, later identified as Sunder Jewellers. With mouths covered with masks, they forward their hands towards one of the three persons sitting on the other side of the counter. He, assuming they are customers, sanitises their hands. After that, one of them casually takes out a country-made pistol and calmly points it at the shop owner and the salesman. The third person, perhaps apprehending what the boys were up to, quickly stands up walks inside the shop through a door. One of the robbers starts filling a bag, that he is carrying, with the jewellery that the salesman was showing to the four customers already present in the shop. In the meantime, one more robber rather sheepishly enters the shop and helps those already looting the shop.  Quick getaway Their supposed leader then jumps the counters and pulls wads of cash from the space beneath a big locker. The three put the loot in the bag and move out within a few minutes. The customers remain absolutely quiet all this while. Police officers said that the shop owner had claimed that the robbers had taken jewellery worth Rs. 36 lakhs and Rs. 50,000 in cash.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/masked-robbers-loot-aligarh-jewellery-shop/article32586168.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘DU trying to resolve issues of students aspiring to go abroad for higher studies’||The Delhi University on Friday told the High Court that its officials are exploring the best possible solution to address the issue of early results for the students, who have got admission in foreign universities for higher studies. The counsel for Delhi University said till now there are eight students of postgraduate programmes and 180 students of undergraduate courses who have requested for comfort letters to be submitted to foreign universities for admission. A Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad granted time to the varsity to take a decision on it and listed the matter for further hearing on September 14. Advocate Mohinder Rupal, representing the Delhi University, said the varsity officials are conferring with each other to come up with the best possible solution to address the anxiety of the students studying in final year undergraduate courses who have applied to foreign universities for admission, so that the comfort letters are worded properly and the aspect of the date of declaration of the results is also dealt with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-trying-to-resolve-issues-of-students-aspiring-to-go-abroad-for-higher-studies/article32586179.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||No CBSE exam results in their hands yet, future in limbo for riot-affected students||At least three girls from north-east Delhi, which was affected by the riots that broke out earlier this year, are a clueless lot as they have not received their Class XII results yet. While Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said schools have been informed about the results and told to communicate them to the students, sisters Sonam (18) and Muskan (17), and their friend Layba (18) have been waiting since July 13 when the results were announced. They claimed to have visited their school several times only to return disappointed. Sonam and Muskan want to devote a year to prepare for entrance examinations for a law degree. Currently, however, they are looking for jobs in the private sector. “We need our Class XII certificate to apply for jobs. What should we do?” asked Sonam. Layba’s father Shamshuddin, a factory worker, said his daughter had to plead with an institution offering a fashion designing course to let her pursue based on her Class XI documents. Girls visited school “We told them that riots broke out in our area due to which examinations and results were affected. They allowed her, but we will need the certificate for a computer course she wishes to pursue,” he said. All the three girls said they have visited their school but the teachers allegedly told them that they have no information. “However, a teacher asked us for our admit cards on Thursday,” added Sonam. Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations, CBSE, said: “There are some students whose results have been given to the schools. These are the students who could only take one or two exams and they can’t be assessed on that. Our online system also doesn’t accept this result, which is why it doesn’t show online. They have to take their remaining exams, after which their results will be announced,” he said. The board informed that the results of 400 students were withheld when the results were declared as they could only appear for one or two examinations. Exams at some places couldn't be held due to the lockdown and some were postponed in Delhi due to the riots. However, the results of most of them were subsequently declared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-cbse-exam-results-in-their-hands-yet-future-in-limbo-for-riot-affected-students/article32586180.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Two arrested for duping scores of investors||Two men were arrested for allegedly cheating thousands of people in several States. They swindled approximately Rs. 42,000 crore by promising them good returns through a ponzi scheme, police said on Friday. The accused are directors of a U.P.-based company named M/s Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited and have been identified as Sanjay Bhati and Rajesh Bhardwaj, they said. They were arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police. A probe was initiated after the police received complaints from several victims. Elaborating on the duo’s modus operandi, Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said the accused induced their victims to invest Rs. 62,000 for a bike to get an assured return of Rs. 9,500 per month, including the principle and rental income on the bike, till one year. As the offer was lucrative, many invested in the scheme. “In January 2019, the company launched an electric bike scheme. In this scheme, they again provided a lucrative offer to invest Rs. 1.24 lakh for a bike and get an assured return of Rs. 17,000 per month till one year. Initially, the company had repaid the amount but after winning investors confidence, they defaulted and absconded,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-arrested-for-duping-scores-of-investors/article32586186.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘BJP, AAP shadow-boxing over settling slum dwellers’||The Delhi Congress on Friday said that the BJP and AAP were shadow-boxing over the issue of slum dwellers near railway lines facing imminent eviction. The Congress alleged that both parties are doing nothing to save those people. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that despite being in power, the BJP and AAP fooled the people by trading charges and counter-charges instead of taking strong steps to address the relocation issue of the slum clusters. “Delhi Congress has filed a petition along with the aggrieved party, on the guidance of senior lawyer Salman Khurshid, in the Supreme Court on Friday against its order for the demolition of the slum clusters adjacent to railway tracks. Congress will do whatever is possible to protect these clusters as people have been living there for the past 30-40 years and they feel betrayed,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar added that the BJP and AAP promised in their election manifestos that they would relocate the slum dwellers or give them in-situ flats, but nothing had happened and they were creating political melodrama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-aap-shadow-boxing-over-settling-slum-dwellers/article32586171.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt. considers slum dwellers only as vote bank’||The Opposition BJP on Friday issued an “ultimatum” to the Delhi government demanding that it shift slum dwellers residing near railway tracks to vacant flats in its possession. If it fails to allot 52,000 such housing units to such individuals in the next 90 days, the party would shift them in vacant houses on its own, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. “The Delhi government considers slum dwellers only as vote bank, and never as human beings,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “Why is he silent on the rehabilitation of the slum dwellers living along railway tracks? Why did the Delhi government deprive them of benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana?” he asked. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said the DDA, which comes under the Centre, had built 3,000 houses in the last six years for slum dwellers in Kalkaji; 2,800 in Kathputli Colony and 1,775 flats in Jailer Bagh, Ashok Vihar were about to be ready. “As many as 52,000 houses are ready for slums dwellers. The Centre has spent 50% of the cost of constructing these houses,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-considers-slum-dwellers-only-as-vote-bank/article32586172.ece
12 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Poor response to renewal of bar licences in Gurugram||Around one-third of the bar owners in the Millennium City have sought the renewal of licences since the government decided to grant permission to them to serve liquor to the guests starting this month. Cyber Hub has been hit hard with uncertainty over the opening of the offices in its surroundings. Of the 91 bars and hotels in the West Zone of the Gurugram Excise Department, including the Cyber Hub, only 35 have applied for the renewal of licences since September 1. The department has, so far, issued licences to 22 of them. Similarly, the East Zone, comprising Sector 29 commercial area and Golf Course Road, has received 66 applications for renewal and 29 of these have been approved. The East Zone has 196 bars and hotels. Eight and 12 bars in West and East Zones respectively had already surrendered their licences before September 1. The hotels with ratings of three stars and above were allowed to serve liquor in rooms through an order on July 16. Sources in the excise department said the bar owners in the Cyber Hub were reluctant to open their outlets since the management of most of the corporate offices in Cyber City area had informally conveyed to their employees that they might need to work from home this year. Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner (Excise, West) Anirudh Sharma told The Hindu that the government had not fixed any deadline for the renewal of the licences keeping in view the unprecedented situation and it’s approach was pro-business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/poor-response-to-renewal-of-bar-licences-in-gurugram/article32586177.ece
12 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||24-yr-old trader arrested for molesting several women||A man has been arrested for allegedly molesting women on isolated roads in the city, the police said on Friday. The 24-year-old trader, Tauseef Khan, was seen groping a woman on August 13 in Daryaganj on a CCTV footage, they said. The incident happened when the trader stalked and groped the victim when she was about to enter her home. After committing the crime, he fled the spot. The woman then lodged a complaint at Daryaganj police station following which an FIR was registered under the Indian Penal Code section of molestation. A team was then formed to nab the accused. During the investigation, CCTV footage of around 20 cameras was scanned. A scooty was seen in few cameras following which the registration number of the two-wheeler was taken down, an officer said. “The vehicle was registered in the name of a person, who lives in east Delhi. A team reached the house. The house owner informed that the particular vehicle is with his relative, who lives in the Old Delhi. The accused was then nabbed,” said an officer. “The accused confessed to the crime. He said in the evenings, he stalks women on his scooty and then molests them. He admitted of molesting more than 30 women in the last two months,” said an officer. The police said they have only two FIRs registered against him. Based on his confession, the police will reach out to other victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/24-yr-old-trader-arrested-for-molesting-several-women/article32586187.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||gauravguptastudio.com||Joining designers like JJ Valaya and Tarun Tahiliani, Delhi-based Gaurav Gupta has brought his couture to the online space. And in just a couple of days, smaller items like the Galactic loafers for men and ruffled tops for women have sold out. While the Comfort Couture edit features structured pantsuits, capes and gowns starting at Rs. 30,000 for a co-ord set, both men and women have bridal edits — evening wear, reception, sangeet and destination wedding included. Unlike many other designers, Gupta isn’t reluctant about adding ‘sale’ to his beautiful website. There are inaugural discounts of up to 70% for the taking — try the peplum dresses for under Rs. 10,000, linen bandhgala jackets at Rs. 24,000 and Gupta’s signature sari gown at half the price. The brand’s online couture process is fairly straightforward. Once an order is placed, a design consultant will get in touch for sizing and customisation details (lining, coverage and length). The garment will be handmade in their atelier and delivered in sustainable, recycled plastic packaging. The site is laid out seamlessly and is light enough to load even with a slow internet connection (useful if you are shopping while on another endless Zoom call). A quick view option would make for easier browsing. Payment options include credit and debit cards via RazorPay and PayPal. Up next:Augmented reality shopping and ready-to-wear collections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gauravguptastudiocom/article32586135.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sneakerhood by Ajio||The Sneakerhood — apart from being a catchy-yet-not-trying-too-hard pun on the term sneakerhead — is a tidy little marketplace from online shopping platform Ajio for the first-time sneaker-shopper as well as those who are looking to acquire another for their collection. They have a fairly large virtual inventory covering the usual suspects like Armani Exchange, Nike, Skechers, Adidas, Steve Madden, ASICS and Puma. The price range (from approximately Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 20,000) will leave most buyers happy with the choice at hand. The sorting could use some work as it keeps throwing up other irrelevant options (like briefs and trunks under shoes!). But outside of that, you can arrange them neatly enough — by colour, size, style, brands — to zero in on what you may want. But serious sneakerheads who nerd over every upcoming launch may not be entirely taken with this site. It is a collection of regular sneakers and not the coveted lifestyle ones (like Air Jordans, Nike SB, Adidas Yeezy) which have people queuing up online or outside stores and the kind which sell for many times on the seconds market. Very few addresses sell those in India and even then, the launches are on pre-appointed dates and times. I suspect Ajio too will acquire such events and that would add some serious cred to their already large inventory. Even if they don’t, remember that those chaps make up a tiny percentage of the total sneaker sales volumes. The regular Jai doesn’t want to spend two months’ earnings on a pair of shoes and most people will never get the deal behind camping overnight for anything that you will wear on your feet! Add in a few exclusive discounts and deals and you are sorted. So, by all means, check out this new online space; even if not for buying, it’ll make for some seriously cool eye candy. Up next:Hopefully, a dedicated tab to navigate to Sneakerhood from the Ajio homepage and improved search options that do not include all the footwear on the site||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sneakerhood-by-ajio/article32586136.ece
12 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Withdraw cases against farmers: Cong.||A day after farmers-police clash in Haryana’s Kurukshetra, the Congress party on Friday asked the State government to withdraw cases filed against protesters within 10 days or else be ready to face a mass movement. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who visited Pipli in Kurukshetra to meet farmers and commission agents, said that the BJP-JJP government had committed an unforgivable sin by using batons against the farmers. “The government which uses lathis or bullets against farmer, can’t last long ,” said Mr. Hooda. “We give a 10-day ultimatum to the government to take back cases registered against farmers. Otherwise we will have no other option but to launch a mass movement against the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/withdraw-cases-against-farmers-cong/article32586170.ece
12 September 2020||Guwahati,||Govt. aid for last rites of virus victims||The Assam government has decided to pay up to Rs. 5,000 each for the last rites of COVID-19 patients whose relatives refuse to receive the body or cannot bear cremation expenses. The amount, according to requirement, would be paid to the administration of a district from the funds provided by the State unit of the National Health Mission, an order issued by the Health Department said on Thursday. “This is in view of the difficulties communicated by the deputy commissioners regarding the cremation of COVID patients,” said Samir K. Sinha, Principal Secretary for Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-aid-for-last-rites-of-virus-victims/article32586169.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Adopt courses to meet market needs: Minister||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday visited polytechnic institutes at Dwarka and Rajokri and directed them to adopt courses that meet the market requirements. “Both the institutes have good infrastructure and capable faculty. Courses of these institutes have become irrelevant due to their inadaptability with the changing times,” the Minister added. Mr. Sisodia had announced that focus on skill education will be his prime agenda during his second term as Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/adopt-courses-to-meet-market-needs-minister/article32586183.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Gautam Gambhir inaugurates six more trommel machines at Ghazipur landfill||East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir on Friday inaugurated six more trommel machines at Ghazipur landfill bringing the total number of such machines to be installed at the site within one year to 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gautam-gambhir-inaugurates-six-more-trommel-machines-at-ghazipur-landfill/article32586173.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- L-G brief||L-G Anil Baijal on Friday inaugurated the Integrated Command and Control Centre of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) Smart City. He also inaugurated Shera Maidan Sports Complex at Mandir Marg. Mr. Baijal asked the NDMC Chairperson to contact the head of other civic bodies or other such agencies for implementing it in other parts of Delhi too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nikhil-l-g-brief/article32586176.ece
12 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- DU brief||Delhi University students can now access their degrees using DigiLocker, the university said on Friday. To access the degree, the student needs to make an account on the platform and raise a request with the university, entering their details following which a digital version of the certificate will be saved in their account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sidharth-du-brief/article32586190.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Terry Fox Run online||Like most annual events, the 12th edition of the Terry Fox Run in Chennai has gone online. From tomorrow to September 20, sign up to take part in the virtual run that aims to spread awareness and raise funds for cancer research. There is no registration fee (although you are welcome to donate) or age limit: all participants can run, walk, skate or cycle on any one of these days, take a photo and upload it to the site to get a certificate of participation. Details and registration on terryfoxrunchennai.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/terry-fox-run-online/article32586138.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Swipe nights begin||Starting today at 10 am, for three consecutive weekends, dating app Tinder brings their Swipe Night event to India. The first-person, in-app, interactive event follows a group of friends, with users playing the protagonist. You'll be challenged with moral dilemmas and practical choices that impact what happens next (almost like a choose your own adventure book) and who you match with once the event ends. There are only seven seconds to make each decision. On the Tinder app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/swipe-nights-begin/article32586139.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil comedy rising||Amazon Prime Video got its first unscripted Tamil show yesterday. The new edition ofComicstaan— the hugely popular stand-up reality show — goes regional withSemma Comedy Pa, and judges Praveen Kumar, Karthik Kumar and Rajmohan Arumugam. Joining these veteran comic artistes are Vidyulekha Raman and Mervyn Rozario as hosts. The show features seven comics, including Abhishek Kumar of the viral Mrs Janaki fame, Syama Harini and Annamalai, Yogi and Karthi Durai. Now streaming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tamil-comedy-rising/article32586140.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Conscious retail’ fix||Via Kochi magazine has curated an online pop-up store called 7Things. This includes graphic T-shirts, wellness products from Nature's Veda, home décor from Viakerala, kurtas by Aaraam Se, accessories by Annahmol, cookware by kitch.in and western wear by Salt Studio. Till tomorrow, on store.viakochi.com. Handloom weaves like Benarasi, Ikat and Kota Doria find a place in Padmashali’s new website. Get ready for the festive season with saris, dupattas and salwar sets, starting from Rs. 5,000. On padmashali.co||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/conscious-retail-fix/article32586141.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Jogen via Japan||The travelling exhibition of 40 select works by artist Jogen Chowdhury from the collection at Glenbarra Art Museum in Himeji, Japan , is now on display at Vadehra Art Gallery in New Delhi till October 1. The show traces the artist’s career from the 1960s when he was a student in Paris, until 2005 — it is one of the most extensive collections in private hands, with works across several mediums, ranging from early drawings to detailed works in his signature cross-hatch style as well as rare canvases. Details on vadehraart.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jogen-via-japan/article32586142.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||News for 10 and below||In an increasingly digital world where kids are exposed to news and global affairs, how do parents explain what is happening around us? Former Reuters correspondent and mother to eight-year-old girl Leela Sivasankar, Lyndie Prickitt breaks down international and national news in a way that children can grasp. They share their conversations in Newsy Jacuzzi, their weekly podcast, which has junior journalists (not one above the age of 10) bring us information from different parts of the world. Available on Apple Podcasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/news-for-10-and-below/article32586143.ece
12 September 2020||September 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Fall for bridal wear||Chennai-based designer Chaitanya Rao is coming up with a virtual runway show featuring a bridal collection created for the digital wedding. “I had a little over a week to make seven new designs, working within the constraints of what the karigars could do,” he explains. The line includes organza saris and silk blouses with floral embroidery and organic cotton jacketlehengasfeaturing traditional motifs. For the rest, we will have to wait till the show debuts on his social media platforms on September 15 at 5.30 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fall-for-bridal-wear/article32586144.ece
