25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Pak. trade charges at SAARC, CICA meets||India and Pakistan crossed swords over terrorism and Jammu and Kashmir at the Foreign Minister’s meetings of the 8-nation South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the 27-nation Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA). However, unlike similar occasions in the past, neither side walked out during the events held via video-conference on Thursday. Speaking at the South Asian meeting, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar called on all SAARC members to “collectively resolve to defeat the scourge of terrorism, including the forces that nurture, support and encourage an environment of terror and conflict, which impede the objective of SAARC to realise its full potential for collective collaboration and prosperity across South Asia”, without a direct reference to Pakistan. Veiled reference to J&K Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi, who also attended the meet along with the Foreign Ministers of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka, used the SAARC platform to make a detailed statement on the resolution of “long-standing disputes”, a veiled reference to Jammu and Kashmir and New Delhi’s 2019 move to withdraw Article 370. ‘Unilateral moves’ “The Foreign Minister said we must condemn, oppose any unilateral and illegal measures to change the status of disputed territories in violation of UN Security Council Resolutions,” the official Pakistan news agencies reported. The reports said Mr. Qureshi also referred to “systematic human rights violations of the people suffering from long-running disputes”. A similar statement was made at the CICA Special Ministerial conference, that brings together Asian nations ranging from Russia and Central Asia to the Gulf and South-East Asia. India rebutted Mr. Qureshi in its right to reply, said the MEA. “We advise Pakistan to cease its sponsorship and overt and covert support to terrorism against India,” India said. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Pakistan’s statements at both events were “inconsistent” with the mandates of SAARC and CICA, where bilateral contentious issues are not raised. “What else can be expected of a country that indulges in cross-border terrorism as a part of its state policy,” Mr. Srivastava added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-pak-trade-charges-at-saarc-cica-meets/article32690709.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State witnesses biggest-ever spike in cases||The COVID-19 epidemic is plotting a path almost similar to the projections which spoke of a possible peak in the epidemic curve mid-September to the first week of October. The exponential rise in the case graph was evident with the State registering 6,324 cases on Thursday, quite a jump by over 1,000 cases registered the previous day. The State also hiked the number of samples tested in the past 24 hours from 51,200 on Wednesday to 54,989 samples on Thursday. However, it is not quite clear what proportion of these tests is done in the private sector. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 3,168. The cumulative case burden now stands at 1,54,456. With 1,07,850 recoveries reported so far, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals is 45,919. Of these, 371 patients are critically ill and in intensive care units, with 96 patients on ventilatory support. The State’s death toll is also surging steadily in proportion to the rise in the total number of cases and now stands at 613, with 21 more deaths being added to the official toll on Thursday. These are deaths which occurred between September 4 and 22. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 11 deaths, Alappuzha seven, while one death each was reported from Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kozhikode. Close to 96% of the new cases —6,054 out of the 6,324 new cases reported on Thursday — are locally acquired infections, including infections reported in 105 health-care workers. The sudden rise put Kozhikode with 883 new cases at the top of all districts. Thiruvananthapuram followed with 875 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-witnesses-biggest-ever-spike-in-cases/article32690933.ece
25 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Harley shuts India factory, sales||Harley-Davidson Inc. has announced that it will discontinue its sales and manufacturing operations in India and shed about 70 jobs in the country as part of a global strategic restructuring plan ‘The Rewire’. “Harley-Davidson plans to close its manufacturing facility in Bawal and significantly reduce the size of its sales office in Gurgaon,” the U.S. motorcycle major said in a statement. “The company is communicating with its customers in India and will keep them updated on future support. The Harley-Davidson dealer network will continue to serve customers through the contract term,” it said. Harley’s decision to exit one of the world’s largest markets for two-wheelers — domestic motorcycle and scooter sales in the 12 months ended March 2020 exceeded 17 million units — follows a struggle to find takers for its bikes, including the Street, which saw it register sale of less than 2,500 units in the last financial year. The U.S. company’s decision to exit manufacturing also undermines the government’s efforts to attract and retain global manufacturers as it aims to woo investment from firms looking to exit China. Observing that it was changing its business model in India and evaluating options to continue to serve its customers, the company said, “These actions are aligned with ‘The Rewire’... leading to ‘The Hardwire’, a new strategic plan for 2021-2025 aimed at building desirability for the Harley-Davidson brand and products.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harley-shuts-india-factory-sales/article32690700.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC orders second autopsy of three slain ‘Maoists’||Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to conduct re-postmortem examination of the bodies of three persons, allegedly Maoists, who were killed in an exchange of fire with the police in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Hearing a PIL petition which was moved as lunch motion, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said photographs and videographs of the second PME should be taken and presented before it. On completion of the second autopsy, the bodies should be handed over to their respective family members, the bench said. It said a team of forensic doctors from MGM hospital in Warangal should be constituted to conduct the autopsy of three bodies. The PIL plea was filed by Civil Liberties Committee Telangana State president professor Gaddam Laxman seeking to declare the ‘alleged encounter’ in Bhadrachalam Agency area, in which two women and a man were killed, as illegal. ‘Register murder case’ A murder case should have been registered against the police personnel responsible for the killing of three persons. Not registering the case under section 302 of Indian Penal Code should also be declared as illegal, the petitioner said. Lawyer V. Raghunath, appearing for the petitioner, said police killed the three persons and were trying to hastily hand over the bodies to the family members to wipe out crucial evidence in the case. He contended that identity of the ‘murdered persons’ was yet to be established. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the court that the three Maoists were already identified as Sodi Jogaiah, Madakam Mangi and Madakam Malli. PME of the bodies was already completed. The PME was video recorded and the bodies were handed over to the respective family members, the AG said. Mr. Raghunath contended that there was every possibility of police screening the evidence and insisted for second autopsy. The bench directed the government to recover the bodies from the families and preserve them in Bhadrachalam area hospital. The team of forensic doctors from MGM hospital would perform the second autopsy. The petition would be heard again on November 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-second-autopsy-of-three-slain-maoists/article32691209.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,||RTC buses to hit city roads today||Six months after lockdown was imposed and restrictions continued to combat the COVID -19 pandemic, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation’s (TSRTC) buses will hit the roads in Hyderabad from Friday. The move comes a day after the transport juggernaut resumed its suburban services outside the city. According to a statement issued to the media, while city bus services will resume, they will be limited given the fact that the Telangana government has approved only 25% of its fleet of around 3,200 city buses to ply the roads. Operations will resume in a phased manner. Precautionary measures  The decision was taken after Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao chaired a high-level meeting with Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. Deliberations included the number of buses which would be pressed into service, and on which routes. Apart from city buses, inter-State buses – to Maharashtra and Karnataka – will also resume operations. The Chief Minister has instructed that all COVID – 19 precautionary measures and rules be strictly followed. Once the announcement came later in the evening, executive directors, divisional managers, depot managers and other TSRTC officials and workers across city depots began to put plans into action. They took stock of the buses parked in various depots and decided which ones to be pressed into service. A day earlier, the corporation resumed its mofussil services, to areas such as Pochampally, Kanakamamidi near Moinabad, Choutuppal, Kothur, Rajendranagar, Shankarpally, and Jahangir Peer Dargah on Shadnagar Road, among other places. According to officials, as a part of the mofussil bus services, which is calculated as city limits plus 16 km, around 230 buses were pressed into service. “There are no bus passes such as student pass or any other kind of pass for mofussil services. While the occupancy on the first day was low, we are sure that this will increase as the days pass,” a TSRTC employee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rtc-buses-to-hit-city-roads-today/article32691213.ece
25 September 2020||Tirumala,||Jagan and Yediyurappa take part in ‘Sundarakanda parayanam’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday took part in the ‘Sundarakanda parayanam’ be organised by the TTD at the Nada Neerajana Mandapam located opposite the main temple complex here. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, accompanied by his Karnataka counterpart B.S. Yediyurappa, took part in the hour-long parayanam, where the pundits not only recited the verses from the sacred religious text but also gave an in-depth narration of their meaning. Spiritual programmes The parayanam is a part of the initiative of the TTD, which has been organising a series of such spiritual programmes for the past 168 days invoking the blessings of the Lord to save humanity from the clutches of COVID-19. Earlier, both the Chief Ministers offered their prayers at the hill temple. On their arrival at the main temple complex, they were traditionally received by the priests and top TTD officials with temple honours and led into the sanctum sanctorum , where they stood in front of the main deity and offered their prayers. They also visited the sub-temples while going round the temple complex. After the customary ‘Vedasirvachanams’, the authorities honoured both the Chief Ministers with silk ‘vastrams’ besides presented them a memento and ‘laddu prasadam’. Later, both the Chief Ministers drove to the Karnataka State Charities, where they formally laid the foundation stone for the construction of a massive choultry. The Karnataka government had entered into an agreement with the TTD for the construction of a choultry in the 7.05 acres of land already leased out to it. In a PowerPoint presentation, Karnataka Endowments Secretary Rohini Sindhuri not only explained the relations her government shared with the TTD but also dealt at length the design of the project taken up at a whopping cost of Rs. 200 crore. After spending some time with Mr. Yediyurappa and his family members at the Padmavati guest house, Mr. Jagan motored down to Tirupati and left for Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-yediyurappa-lay-foundation-stone-for-choultry-at-tirumala/article32690632.ece
25 September 2020||Kolkata,||Coal India’s new tender shuns indigenous firms||The terms laid down in a new global tender floated by Coal India for the empanelment of coal inspection companies has practically rendered nearly all indigenous inspection firms ineligible to participate. The tender closes on October 1. Inspection companies carry out lab tests of coal and other minerals to evaluate their quality. Several Indian companies are in this business for decades, a few even a century old, and they have had a presence in the market in spite of the volume of their business not matching that of multinationals that have set shop in India in the recent years. The tender was floated on August 17, shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon Indians to be atma nirbhar or self-reliant. As per the tender’s original requirements, only firms with a working capital of Rs. 20 crore, a turnover of Rs. 100 crore in the last three years, and who have executed jobs worth Rs. 50 crore in the coal sector in any of the last three financial years, were eligible to apply. The aggrieved companies then formed a group, the Association of Bharatiya Inspection Agencies, and wrote a letter to Coal India with copies to the Prime Minister and senior officials, saying relaxations in the eligibility would not only give a business opportunity to some of the oldest India-origin inspection companies but also be reflective of Mr. Modi’s atma nirbhar policy. Subsequently, according to sources, the Rs. 50-crore lower limit for coal-related jobs in any of the last three financial years was brought down to Rs. 30 crore and the turnover requirement was revised to Rs. 50 crore, but that still leaves most of the indigenous inspection companies out of the race. Traditionally, Coal India has always assigned the lab testing of samples to the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research, which in turn hired testing companies. But this year, it decided to float a global tender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coal-indias-new-tender-shuns-indigenous-firms/article32690902.ece
25 September 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata doubles Durga Puja dole||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that clubs organising Durga Puja in the State would get financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 each. “I know that Puja committees are in trouble this year. We offer a small help to them … Since the problems this year have increased, we have decided to give Rs. 50,000 to each club,” Ms. Banerjee said at an event at the Netaji Indoor Stadium. The announcement was applauded by representatives of clubs at the venue. There are nearly 37,000 community Durga Pujas organised by local clubs and the financial aid, up from last year’s Rs. 25,000, will cost the ex-chequer Rs. 185 crore. Besides the Rs. 50,000 as assistance, the Chief Minister announced that the Fire Department and civic bodies would not charge any fee from the Puja organisers. In addition, the Calcutta Electric Power Distribution Company ( CESC) and West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited will offer a rebate of 50% on the power consumed by the clubs during the festival. Thursday’s announcement drew criticism from the Opposition parties. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) State unit secretary Surjya Kant Mishra said at a time when the State government was unable to give even the promised rations or provide proper medical support for COVID-19 patients, this kind of expenditure was unthinkable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-doubles-durga-puja-dole/article32690903.ece
25 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam village bids adieu to Spanish ‘son’||Spanish tourist Manuel Arribas Rodriguez had intended to stay a week at Bokotial when he pedalled into the Assamese village on Valentine’s Day this year. He ended up spending more than seven months at the village in eastern Assam’s Sivasagar district, thanks to the series of lockdowns. And on September 22, almost everyone from Bokotial turned up at the Simaluguri railway station to bid an emotional farewell to Mr. Rodriguez who boarded the Rajdhani Express to New Delhi. He is scheduled to fly out to Madrid on Friday. “It was heartbreaking to let Manuel bopai (son) go. But I feel happy for his parents who will get to see their biological son after so many months,” said Dipeswar Chutia, the headman of the village of 10 Assamese households. The 41-year-old Spaniard, who worked at a hotel in Spain for 10 years, had planned to cover most Asian countries on his bicycle. He flew to Tokyo last year, cycled around Japan before reaching the India-Myanmar border on January 27 via South Korea and the Southeast Asian countries. “I met him at a youth festival in a college about 14 km from our village. We conversed in broken English and I invited him to our village as he was interested in local culture. He turned up on February 14 after touring other parts of the State,” recalled Biswajit Barbaruah. Learnt paddy farming During his extended and enforced holiday, Mr. Rodriguez stayed with the Barbaruahs, helped with the chores, learnt paddy farming and took part in community fishing and other village activities. He also taught the children of the village to play the guitar and speak Spanish apart from forming a bicycle club. “The lockdown happened as Manuel da (elder brother) was preparing to leave. We informed the local authorities, who tested his health and got in touch with the Spanish Embassy,” Mr. Barbaruah said. “We helped him in getting his visa extended. It was the least we could do for a foreigner who was stranded because of circumstances no one could have predicted,” said Sivasagar’s Assistant Tourist Information Officer Madhab Das. Mr. Rodriguez said his visit to Bokotial on Valentine’s Day could have been predestined. “I fell in love with the village. I can never forget the hospitality of the people, the kind I have never experienced anywhere else,” he said, hoping to return after the novel coronavirus no longer remains a threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-village-bids-emotional-adieu-to-spanish-son/article32691183.ece
25 September 2020||YADGIR,||Woman booked for fraudulently transferring Rs. 75.59 lakh from tahsildar’s account||The police have registered a case in connection with what is said to be a fraudulent transfer of Rs. 75.59 lakh from the Shorapur Tahsildar’s account. Shorapur Police have booked a woman for transferring the funds from the account of Shorapur Tahsildar to the account of Sri Mahalakshmi Enterprises, Talikoti in Vijayapura district, on June 1 this year. According to the police, who quoted Tahsildar of Shorapur Ninganna Biradar as saying in his complaint, accused Lakshmi, wife of Raju Kattimani and a native of Vajjal village in Hunsagi taluk, said to be the owner of Sri Mahalakshmi Enterprises, has fraudulently transferred a sum of Rs. 75,59,900 from the account of Shorapur Tahsildar through forgery of the tahsildar’s signature and using the official stamp on a cheque of the Tahsildar that had not been given to Sri Mahalakshmi Enterprises. Mr. Biradar has been handling an official account in the name of Tahsildar Shorapur with Axis Bank in Shorapur and the amount was in this account to be used for natural disaster relief and for expenses that would incur for tackling COVID-19. An FIR said that the issue came to light on September 22 when Mr. Biradar went to inspect the statement of the account provided by the bank. “The amount of Rs. 75.59 lakh was fraudulently transferred by the accused to an account in the name of Sri Mahalakshmi Enterprises when I was under long-term treatment in a hospital in Kalaburagi and later in Hyderabad for COVID-19 and pneumonia infection,” the Tahsildar has stated in the complaint. Based on the complaint, the police have registered a case under Sections 419, 420, 465, 468 and 472 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and launched an investigation, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-booked-for-fraudulently-transferring-rs-7559-lakh-from-tahsildars-account/article32690866.ece
25 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records 19,164 new cases, 459 deaths||Maharashtra reported 19,164 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday to take its total case tally to 12,82,963, of which 2,74,993 are active. With 459 deaths, the State’s toll has touched 34,345. The cumulative recoveries rose to 9,73,214, with 17,184 patients being discharged. “The State’s recovery rate has risen to 75.86%, while its case fatality rate is 2.68%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 4,000 cases to take its case load to 2,74,421, while 49 deaths saw its toll climb to 5,478. The Pune district administration said the number of active cases has risen to 42,200. Mumbai reported 2,163 cases to take its tally to 1,92,427, of which 27,741 are active. With 54 deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 8,658. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported seven deaths as its toll surged to 1,789 and nearly 700 new cases took its tally past the 63,000 mark. Navi Mumbai recorded 12 deaths and 313 cases, taking its toll to 850 and tally to 37,569. Nagpur reported 47 deaths, pushing its toll to 1,874, while over 1,500 new cases took its case load to 70,414, of which 18,762 are active. In western Maharashtra, Sangli reported more than 900 cases to take its total case tally to 34,500, of which 10,912 are active. With 21 deaths, the toll has risen to 1,041. Satara reported 35 fatalities to take its toll to 822. As many as 848 fresh cases saw its tally rise to 32,853, of which 8,813 are active. Kolhapur reported 23 deaths as its toll rose to 1,219. More than 600 cases took its tally to 40,686, of which 7,942 are active. Nashik district reported nearly 1,200 cases as its total tally reached 69,099, of which 14,748 are active. With 14 deaths, the district’s total death has climbed to 1,193.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-19164-new-cases-459-deaths/article32691334.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Students of Classes 10-12 permitted to go to school from October 1||The Tamil Nadu government has permitted students of Classes 10-12 to come to schools from October 1, on a voluntary basis, to seek guidance from their teachers. This is applicable to government, government-aided and private schools on the condition that the campuses are outside containment zones and students and teachers living in containment zones will not be allowed to visit the schools. Schools have been permitted to call 50% of their teachers at a time to provide guidance. Schools have remained shut since March, when the nationwide lockdown to curb COVID-19 was announced. Earlier this month, the Health Ministry issued guidelines for the partial reopening of schools. It had specified that schools could call students of Classes 9-12 in case they needed to meet their teachers for guidance. According to the standard operating procedures, the students of Classes 10-12 shall be divided in two batches. The first batch can come to school on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and the other batch on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Only 50% of the students in a class will be allowed on any given day so as to avoid crowding. Teachers will also be required to work in two batches and can work for two days at a stretch, alternatively. This arrangement is subject to a written consent from the parents or guardians of students, and education through online or distance mode will continue. Physical distancing of at least 6 feet should be followed while seating arrangements are made in classrooms, and schools are encouraged to use outdoor spaces for conducting teacher-student interactions if the weather permits. Before schools begin to call the students, they have been asked to disinfect their premises. School managements have been asked to take responsibility for the upkeep of their premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-of-classes-10-12-permitted-to-go-to-school-from-october-1/article32690773.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCB probe: Deepika arrives in Mumbai||Actors Deepika Padukone and Sara Ali Khan, who have been summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, arrived in the city from Goa on Thursday. Ms. Padukone, who was shooting for director Shakun Batra’s next film, was accompanied by actor and husband Ranveer Singh. The couple arrived at Mumbai airport around 9.15 p.m. after boarding a chartered flight from Goa at 8 p.m. Ms. Khan, who too was in Goa, reached Mumbai with her mother, actor Amrita Singh and brother, Ibrahim Ali Khan, around 5 p.m. and headed to their Juhu residence. Ms. Khan made her debut opposite Rajput in the 2018 filmKedarnath.  Ms. Khan is set to appear before the NCB on Saturday along with Ms. Padukone and Shraddha Kapoor. Actor Rakul Preet Singh and Ms. Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash have been summoned on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-probe-deepika-arrives-in-mumbai/article32691332.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi,||Narayan Rao, MLA, dies of COVID-19||Congress MLA for Basavakalyan B. Narayan Rao, 65, passed away in Bengaluru on Thursday. He was admitted to a private hospital on September 1 after testing positive for COVID-19. He is the third lawmaker from Karnataka to succumb to the infection, after Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti and Minister of State for Railways Suresh C. Angadi. In a statement, Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru said that he was critically ill with multi-organ failure and was on ventilator. A leader of the backward classes, Mr. Rao spent over 30 years organising the fragmented backward classes in Bidar district. He was elected MLA for Basavakalyan in 2018. Son of a boatman in Basantpur, he had come up the hard way, recall his contemporaries. After spending nearly two decades in the Janata Parivar, Mr. Rao joined the Congress in 1999. The S.M. Krishna government appointed him Chairman of the Karnataka State Literacy Mission Authority. He was among the founders of the All India Backward Classes and Adivasi Communities Federation. One of his last speeches in the Assembly was to demand the recreation of Anubhava Mantapa at Basavakalyan and the all-round development of the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/narayan-rao-mla-dies-of-covid-19/article32690729.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID tally crosses 6.5 lakh in State||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 6.5-lakh mark on Thursday with 7,855 new infections and 52 new deaths being reported in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. According to the State’s COVID bulletin, the infection tally climbed to 6,54,385 and the death toll rose to 5,558 with the death rate at 0.85%. Meanwhile, the tests per million ratio has crossed the one-lakh mark. With 76,000 samples being tested in the past day, the ratio increased to 1,00,718. East Godavari reported 1,095 new cases and four deaths. It was the only district to report over a 1,000 new cases and witnessing the same since weeks consistently. Recovery rate of all other districts was between 90% and 83% while that of Prakasam was at 75%, the lowest in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-tally-crosses-65-lakh-in-state/article32690702.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sudha Bharadwaj can seek bail on merits: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, who is languishing in jail for two years in the Bhima Koregaon case, why she was seeking bail on medical grounds when she has “such a good case on merits”. “Why is your client not applying for bail on merits”, Justice U.U. Lalit asked advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for Ms. Bharadwaj. “You have such a good case on merits, why are you seeking bail on medical grounds,” Justice Ajay Rastogi also asked Ms. Grover. Ms. Bharadwaj agreed to withdraw the current plea for bail on medical grounds. She had sought bail over concerns about her heart disease. Ms. Grover described the heart condition as a “ticking time bomb”. She submitted that her client’s co-morbidities made her prone to COVID-19 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sudha-bharadwaj-can-seek-bail-on-merits-sc/article32690705.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Building a human wall||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/building-a-human-wall/article32690905.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Never-say-die attitude||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/never-say-die-attitude/article32691215.ece
25 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers in Punjab begin rail blockades||Farmers in parts of Punjab on Thursday started a three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti (KMSS) against the Union government’s three farm Bills. The railways suspended several trains completely or partially till September 26 for the safety of passengers and protection of its property. Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) blocked railway tracks in Sangrur and Barnala, while members of the Samiti blocked railway lines in Amritsar and Ferozpur. “The ‘rail roko’ will continue till September 26 in the first phase... And if our demands are not met, we will intensify the agitation,” said Sarvan Singh Pandher, State president of KMSS. “We will also support the Bharat bandh call given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee,” said Mr. Pandher, adding that representatives of political parties will not be allowed to share the stage in their agitation”. Terming the farm Bills an “ill-conceived move”, Mr. Pandher said their implementation would ultimately lead to exploitation of farmers at the hands of big corporates. “It will lead to the end of the Minimum Support Price regime,” he said. As many as 31 farmers’ outfits based in Punjab have given a call for a total shutdown on September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-in-punjab-begin-rail-blockades/article32691184.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Eminent people call for Umar’s release||A group of eminent academics, writers, filmmakers and artistes from around the world, including Noam Chomsky, Salman Rushdie and Mira Nair, on Thursday called for the release of former JNU students’ leader and activist Umar Khalid, who was arrested in connection with the February riots in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eminent-people-call-for-umars-release/article32691185.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||Eknath Shinde tests positive for COVID-19||Maharashtra Urban Development Minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Mr. Shinde is the fourth Cabinet minister to contract the infection over the past week and the 12th minister overall from the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to test positive for the novel coronavirus. “During the course of my check-up today, I have tested positive for the coronavirus. I am at present doing well with the blessings and good wishes of all. I request everyone who has come in my contact to be careful and follow protocol. Stay safe. Take care,” he tweeted. The other Cabinet ministers who have tested positive are Jitendra Awhad, Dhananjay Munde, Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Patil, Aslam Sheikh, Nitin Raut, Hasan Mushreef, and Varsha Gaikwad. Ministers of State Abdul Sattar, Sanjay Bansode and Vishwajeet Kadam have tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eknath-shinde-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32691333.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Building a human wall||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/building-a-human-wall/article32691337.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Buggana seeks release of funds due to State||State Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur in New Delhi on Thursday and requested them to release funds that are due to the State, at the earliest. He also sought grant of Special Category Status to the State. Polavaram costs Speaking to the media later, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said he sought the expenditure incurred on the Polavaram project and R&R package to be reimbursed without further delay and GST compensation amounting to over Rs. 3,000 crore to be released to help the State in overcoming the crisis precipitated by COVID. He also requested Mr. Sitharaman to support the State government in the establishment of Kadapa steel plant and the construction of the Ramayapatnam port. Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said Ms. Sitharaman responded positively to the requests made by him and Home Minister Amit Shah promised to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to bail out the State, during their deliberations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buggana-seeks-release-of-funds-due-to-state/article32690704.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on road||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-on-road/article32690707.ece
25 September 2020||Kolkata,||3,196 cases take State tally past 2.37 lakh mark||West Bengal recorded 3,196 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its total case tally to 2,37,869. The State also recorded 62 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 4,606. Since Wednesday, 3,014 patients have been discharged, improving the recovery rate to 87.46%. Of the total cases, 25,221 are active. In the past 24 hours, 43,432 samples have been tested across the State. Veteran atomic scientist and former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission Dr. Sekhar Basu succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday at a private hospital in Kolkata. He breathed his last just three days after turning 68. “Dr. Basu was suffering from COVID-19 and other kidney ailments. He died at 4.50 a.m.,” a State official said. A mechanical engineer, Dr. Basu was awarded the Padma Shri in 2014. He had also pioneered the highly complex reactor for India’s first nuclear-powered submarine INS Arihant .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3196-cases-take-state-tally-past-237-lakh-mark/article32690906.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NIA arrests ‘key conspirator’||Shortly after taking over the probe into two cases related to the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli, where the city police invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted searches at 30 locations in Bengaluru and arrested a “key conspirator”. According to NIA officials, the accused [who has been identified as Sayed Saddiq Ali, 44] allegedly attacked the K.G. Halli police station on August 11. He works as a recovery agent in a bank and has been absconding since the night of the violence. This is the first arrest made by the investigation agency since it took over the probe. Officials also conducted searches at 30 locations in Bengaluru to “unearth the conspiracy behind the attacks on D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli police stations.” In a release, the NIA said, “During the searches, an air gun, pellets, sharp weapons, iron rods, digital devices, DVRs, and many incriminating documents and material related to the Social Democratic Party of India and the Popular Front of India have been seized.” Large-scale violence broke out in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli on August 11 over a derogatory social media post by Naveen Kumar, nephew of Akhanda Sreenivasa Murthy, MLA. The houses of both of them were attacked. The violence resulted in huge damage and destruction of public and government property, said the NIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengaluru-violence-nia-conducts-searches-at-30-locations-and-arrests-key-conspirator/article32690727.ece
25 September 2020||Chennai,||HC stays breach of privilege proceedings||The Madras High Court on Thursday stayed all further proceedings pursuant to fresh showcause notices issued to DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 other MLAs of his party on September 7 for having allegedly breached the privileges of the Legislative Assembly by displaying gutkha (chewing tobacco) sachets on July 19, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-breach-of-privilege-proceedings/article32690775.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Congress moves no-trust motion against BJP govt.||The Congress moved a no-confidence motion against the BJP government in Karnataka in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said he would allot time on Friday or Saturday for a discussion on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-moves-no-trust-motion-against-bjp-govt/article32690724.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Drug racket: ED to question actors||The Enforcement Directorate is the latest agency to turn its gaze on the actors and party organisers who have been arrested by the Central Crime Branch in connection with an alleged drug racket. But this time, it’s the financial activities of the accused that are under the scanner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drug-racket-ed-to-question-actors/article32690725.ece
25 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Udupi student sends masks to jawans||A class 8 student, Ishita Achar, is thrilled to have received a letter from Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for the 300 two-layered cotton masks she sent to Indian Army personnel a month ago by parcel. She prepared these masks as part of a drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udupi-student-sends-masks-to-jawans/article32690726.ece
25 September 2020||Guwahati,||More opposition against Tripura Bru resettlement||More local communities in Tripura are up in arms against the resettlement of the Brus, who have been displaced from adjoining Mizoram. Members of the Halam community, a Scheduled Tribe of Tripura, on Thursday prevented surveyors from assessing land in the Churaibari area of North Tripura district. People belonging to the Manipuri and Muslim communities too protested the proposed settlement of Bru refugees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-opposition-against-tripura-bru-resettlement/article32690908.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||3,834 new COVID-19 cases reported in Delhi||As many as 3,834 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,60,623, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 36 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 5,123. Of the total cases, 2,24,375 people have recovered so far. Over 55% of the total 15,810 beds available for COVID-19 treatment are vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3834-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-delhi/article32691187.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||FIR against 8 Tablighis from Myanmar quashed||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed an FIR and the charge sheet filed against eight Myanmar nationals booked for Tablighi activities and said “compelling the applicants to undergo the trial would cause grave injustice”. On September 21, a Division Bench of Justices V.M. Deshpande and Amit B. Borkar was hearing a plea filed by the eight. They landed on March 22 and from March 24 till March 31, they were sent to institutional quarantine despite testing negative for COVID-19. On April 5, they were booked under the Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, and Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-against-8-tablighis-from-myanmar-quashed/article32691338.ece
25 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Four deaths each in Dharwad, Davangere||On Thursday, Dharwad and Davangere districts reported four COVID-19 deaths each, while Haveri and Vijayapura reported two deaths each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-deaths-each-in-dharwad-davangere/article32690867.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||83% of virus deaths from 10 States/UTs||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday admitted that 10 States and Union Territories account for 83% of the new deaths due to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal leading the list. India has registered 1,129 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, as per data released by the Health Ministry. The other States/UTs on the list are Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi and Haryana. A senior Health Ministry official added that these were also the States where the Ministry has ramped up testing. Across India, 11,56,569 tests have been conducted in the past 24 hours, and the total number of tests crossed 6.74 crore on Thursday. “India has substantially ramped up its testing infrastructure across the country. Currently, there are 1,810 labs [testing for COVID-19], including 1,082 government and 728 private labs. In the past 24 hours, testing has been the highest in Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Odisha,” said the senior Health Ministry official. A release issued by the Health Ministry said that for the sixth consecutive day, the number of new confirmed cases has been lower than new recoveries. “A total of 86,508 new cases have been reported in the last 24 hours in the country,” it said. Meanwhile, 75% of the new confirmed cases are also concentrated in 10 States/UTs, said the Ministry, with Maharashtra continuing to top this list. “It [Maharashtra] has alone contributed more than 21,000 [cases], followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka with more than more than 7,000 and 6,000 cases respectively,” the release said. In its response to a Lok Sabha question earlier this week, the Health Ministry said that in the un-lockdown phase, a total of 13,76,090 persons have been brought back from various countries (as reported on September 20), and their return followed up. “A total of about 40 lakh persons have been kept under surveillance,” it added. Replying to a question on diseases that may have been neglected due to the pandemic, the Ministry said that the tuberculosis notification (in which TB is diagnosed in a patient, reported within the national surveillance system, and then on to the World Health Organization) for January 2020 to August 2020 was 11,76,164, whereas from the same time period in the previous year (January 2019 to August 2019) the notification was 16,49,310. “Currently, there is no evidence to suggest an increase in the incidence of TB cases as a result of the pandemic”. ‘Decline noticed’ The Ministry added that under the National AIDS Control Programme (NACP), a decline has been noticed in the number of individuals attending HIV counselling and testing/screening centres during the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is due to the lack of transport services and reduced mobility thereof. During March-July 2020, around 1.4 crore HIV testing has been reported under NACP facilities in comparison to 2.32 crore testing in March-July 2019. As a result of decrease in testing/screening, detection of new HIV cases has also reduced,” the Ministry admitted. “During March-July 2020, there has been around 41.40 thousand HIV positive results at NACP facilities, down from 82.20 thousand HIV positive results in corresponding months of 2019,” it said. “To mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the uptake of HIV/AIDS services, the NACP has issued guidance notes to all States/Union Territories’ AIDS Control Societies (SACS) to facilitate continuity of HIV prevention, testing and treatment services as much as possible,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/83-of-virus-deaths-from-10-statesuts/article32691189.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||In fresh jump, 6,324 test positive in Kerala||With a new high of 6,324 COVID-19 cases on Thursday in Kerala, the pandemic’s course appeared to match projections of a peak in mid-September to the first week of October. The steep rise was evident from the jump of over 1,000 cases in a day. The State also hiked testing in a 24-hour-period from 51,200 samples on Wednesday to 54,989 on Thursday. Cumulative cases stood at 1,54,456, and patients treated in hospitals at 45,919. Of these, 371 patients were critically ill and in ICUs, 96 of them on ventilator support. The State’s toll was also surging, at 613 fatalities, with 21 more deaths added to the toll on Thursday. These occurred between September 4 and 22. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for 11 deaths, Alapuzha seven, while one death each was reported from Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kozhikode. Nearly 96% of new cases were locally acquired infections. The sudden rise in cases put Kozhikode, with 883 new cases, at the top among districts, followed by Thiruvananthapuram with 875 cases, Malappuram 763, Ernakulam 590, Thrissur 474, Alapuzha 453, Kollam 440, Kannur 406, Palakkad 353, Kottayam 341, Kasaragod 300, Pathanamthitta 189, Idukki 151 and Wayanad 106. Thiruvananthapuram had the maximum active patients at 8,446. Kozhikode had 4,927 and Ernakulam, 4,691 patients. Except for Idukki and Wayanad, all other districts had active cases in four-digits. Andhra Pradesh’s tally exceeded 6.5 lakh on Thursday with 7,855 new infections and 52 fresh deaths. Daily testing level stood at 76,000 samples. East Godavari district reported 1,095 new cases and four deaths, followed by West Godavari (992 cases and 3 deaths), Prakasam (927 and 5), Chittoor (902 and 8), Guntur (551 and 6), Kadapa (545 and 3), Anantapur (497 and 6), Srikakulam (461 and 1), Visakhapatnam (425 and 5), Nellore (405 and 1), Vizianagaram (384 and 2), Krishna (346 and 5) and Kurnool (325 and 3). Telangana recorded 2,176 cases on Wednesday and eight more people died. Tests covered 55,318 samples. Greater Hyderabad was at the top again at 308. Sangareddy had 168 cases, Medchal Malkajgiri 151, Nalgonda 136, Karimnagar 120, Siddipet 95 and Warangal Urban 77 cases. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,692 new COVID-19 infections on Thursday, which took the tally of positive cases to 5,63,691. On the same day, as many as 5,470 persons were discharged from various health facilities after treatment. The number of those discharged so far is 5,08,210 persons. After 21 days, positive cases in Chennai crossed the 1,000 mark with 1,089 more people testing positive. A total of 1,005 persons were discharged.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-fresh-jump-6324-test-positive-in-kerala/article32690646.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Cong. promised same reforms’||A day after the monsoon session of Parliament ended amid a flurry of protests by the Opposition over three farm Bills, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday demanded that the Congress first disassociate itself from its own 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto that promised the same agricultural reforms that the Modi government had brought in. “If Rahul Gandhi agrees with the Congress manifesto of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, then he should join efforts in educating farmers,” Mr. Tomar said. At a press conference at the BJP headquarters here, Mr. Tomar reiterated the government’s commitment to farmers’ welfare, and said the new measures would bring them remunerative prices for their produce. He said the government was open to holding talks with farmers to assuage any doubts among them on the efficacy of the reforms. “If any farmer wants to speak to any government representative on these Bills even at midnight, we are ready,” he said. Responding to the demand by the Opposition that continuation of the minimum support price should be mentioned in the law, he said the MSP was always an administrative decision. “Why did the Congress not bring a law during its 50 years of rule if it thinks this was necessary,” he asked. He cited reports of various commissions and reported views of Sharad Pawar, who was Agriculture Minister in the UPA government, to assert that these Bills were in line with their recommendations. ‘Withdraw manifesto’ Asked about Mr. Gandhi’s charge that the Modi government had harmed farmers and was now doing “PR”, Mr. Tomar said the Congress leader should first withdraw his party’s manifesto. The new laws will allow farmers to get paid for their produce in advance, help them move produce which fetched them better prices and allow them to sell their produce outside the mandis without paying taxes, he said. “Farmers, so far, were forced to sell their produce in mandis . In Punjab, there is 8.5% tax in the mandis on several items. Now, through these Bills, the farmer will be able to sell his produce even outside the ambit of themandi, even outside his State at any price he chooses,” Mr. Tomar said. Parliament passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill in the session which concluded on Wednesday. They will become laws after getting the assent of the President and being notified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-promised-same-reforms/article32690652.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘If PLA comes close, Indian troops can fire’||Shots have been fired in the air on multiple occasions on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh recently, and the Chinese have been given a clear message that pushing back Indian soldiers physically will not work any more, a senior government official said on Thursday. Stating that once a melee happens, like the Galwan clash on June 15, opening fire was not possible, the official pointed out, “Now, we said, if you come close we will fire. Distance is dependent on the conditions like day or night, location and so on... If they are about to be overrun or in self-defence, troops are authorised to fire.” ‘Wait and watch’ At the sixth round of Corps Commander talks early this week, India and China had agreed not to send any more troops to the frontline. “It is a good start. We have to wait and watch till there is concrete action on the ground, we will not lower our guard on the ground. Our stand is you moved first, so you move back first. That will be a good confidence-building measure (CBM),” the official said. The sixth round of senior-level military-level talks also saw a joint statement being issued as well as the participation of an External Affairs Ministry official who deals with China, the official stated. Earlier, the Chinese side had tried to project that India did not have a “unified” stance on the continuing boundary stand-offs. At the talks since the developments on the south bank since August 29, the Chinese want to resolve the latest incidents first, but India favoured a package resolution of the entire eastern Ladakh situation. “When we say status quo, what we mean is status quo before May,” the official stated. Chinese deaths The official revealed that the Chinese had conveyed through diplomatic channels that they had suffered five deaths, including their commanding officer, in the June 15 Galwan Valley clash, which left 20 Indian Army soldiers dead. Asked why the Chinese had acted in the way they did, the official felt there was “no one overarching reason” but many reasons, including turning Jammu and Kashmir into a Union Territory in August 2019 and also to divert attention from China’s COVID-19 crisis. Pointing out that the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in other sectors remains stable, the official said that local commanders on both sides were in contact and even they (the Chinese) had said: “Let not what’s happening in eastern Ladakh happen here”. Interestingly, in the eastern sector, Indian and Chinese troops patrol contentious areas by weekly rotation, a formula that could be brought into play in eastern Ladakh as well. The official asserted that there was no intelligence failure in detecting the Chinese movements in early May as they made ingress into the Indian side of the LAC. “Whoever moves first has the initiative and the first mover advantage,” the official, said stating they had been monitoring the Chinese all along. Currently, troops are facing each other at Depsang, the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, and Patrolling Points 17A, Rezang La and Rechin La. On possible collusion between China and Pakistan against India in the ongoing stand-off, the official said there was no major troop movement on the Line of Control (LoC), and only regular battalion movement was taking place. ‘Terror activities’ “Nothing unusual on that front. We don’t see any build on the other side. But terror activities continue. We are quite strong on the ground, so we eliminate the threat on the LoC,” the official said. On the global support to India in the ongoing stand-off and the transgressions by China and engagement with Quad countries, the official said: “At the end of the day, you have to fight your own battles”. On the situation in the Depsang plains, where Chinese troops continue to block Indian patrols to the Patrolling Points 10-13, the official said there were one or two Chinese vehicles near the Y-junction, which kept going back and forth. Beyond the Y-junction, Indian patrols had to go on foot, which were being blocked by Chinese vehicles, the official stated, adding that patrol parties followed protocols and returned. “We have not given up our claims. It has only been temporarily halted due to the circumstances,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/if-pla-comes-close-indian-troops-can-fire/article32690671.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. claim on MSP is a half-truth, says Congress||The government’s claim that the protection of minimum support price (MSP) for farmers would continue in spite of the new farm laws is a ‘half-truth’, according to Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi. In the first of a series of nationwide press conferences that the party plans to hold over the next month, Mr. Singhvi said the farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, did not explicitly mention MSP anywhere. Centre’s claim was technically correct, that these laws did not explicitly say that the provision of MSP had been removed. But they gave the freedom to buy and sell the produce at any cost. “The government’s half-truth is far bigger than any lie,” he stated. Mr. Singhvi said they had liberalised the farm sector, allowing the corporate sector to purchase directly from farms and there was no dispute resolution mechanism in case the farmer felt short-changed. These laws, Mr. Singhvi said, infringed on the division of power set out by the Constitution between the State and the Centre.  Congress leader Jairam Ramesh cited a 2019 study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research on Bihar, where, in 2006, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act was abolished. He tweeted, “Bihar abolished the APMC Act in 2006. That is one argument made by the Government in defence of the 2 #FarmBills. But what exactly did that abolition achieve?” The main findings were: it led to a deterioration of public infrastructure, situation of small and marginal farmers remained unchanged as they continued to sell their produce to village-level intermediaries, left a regulatory vacuum in the State and poor public procurement, increased the number of intermediaries and did not attract large-scale private sector investment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-claim-on-msp-is-a-half-truth-says-congress/article32690655.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF bought uncertified UAV engines at inflated prices: CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) has recommended an investigation into the purchase of five Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) engines in 2010 by the Indian Air Force, noting that the same engines were purchased by a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratory at almost one-third the price two years later, resulting in an undue gain for the vendor of Rs. 3.16 crore. The CAG recommended “fixing of responsibility for wrongful supply and acceptance of mislabelled engines by the IAF”. “Israel Aircraft Industries [IAI] Ltd. gained an undue benefit of Rs. 3.16 crore as it supplied five UAV engines at more than three times the market price. The vendor supplied uncertified engines while the contract was concluded for certified engines,” the CAG said in a report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday. “There were many reported accidents involving these uncertified engines, including loss of one UAV in a flying accident,” the report said. Rotax engines In March 2010, Air headquarters concluded a contract with IAI of Israel for the supply of accessories and spares of Heron UAV, at a cost of $136.43 mn (Rs. 9.07 crore), which included supply of five Rotax 914 F3 engines to be fitted on the Herons. The Rotax engines used in Herons are manufactured by an Austrian company consisting of 914F, which is a certified engine, while 914UL is an uncertified engine. The average price of Rotax engines in the international market then was around Rs. 21 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. The audit noted that Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE), a DRDO lab, had procured the same variant of Rotax 914F in April 2012. The ADE had procured 914F engines at Rs. 24.3 lakh each from Verman Aviation, an authorised supplier of Rotax. ‘Three times the price’ However, IAI supplied the 914UL engine to IAF in 2010 for Rs. 87.45 lakh each — “more than three times the price paid by DRDO or the market price”. The contract stipulated that the engine to be supplied was of specifications 914F3 which is certified by the European Aviation Standard Agency. However, documents submitted to the CAG pertaining to the delivery of one of the five engines show that the vendor had supplied uncertified engine 914UL. A team of IAF and IAI representatives carried out the Joint Receipt Inspection (JRI) of the consignment and accepted the engines in January 2012, but they could not detect the fact that the delivery was not in accordance with the contract as they did not have a copy of the contract while carrying out the inspection. Further, according to the contract, the engines were to be delivered at an Equipment Depot (ED) of IAF “which was the ultimate consignee” but records showed that one of the engines was delivered at an Air Force Station and not the designated ED, the CAG noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-bought-uncertified-uav-engines-at-inflated-prices-cag/article32690666.ece
25 September 2020||Abdul Latheef Naha,||Jnanpith presented to Malayalam ‘Mahakavi’ Akkitham||Malayalam literature witnessed a golden moment on Thursday when the Jnanpith Award announced in November last year was handed over to poet Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri at a special function held at his house at Kumaranallur in the district. Minister for Cultural Affairs A.K. Balan presented the Jnanpith, the country’s highest literary award, to Akkitham. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the function through videoconferencing. Kerala and Malayalis across the world had celebrated it when Akkitham became the sixth writer to bring Jnanpith to Malayalam literature in November last year. The COVID-19 lockdown delayed the award ceremony. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister highlighted the virtuous character of Akkitham, who is widely considered the tallest among the living Malayalam poets. The man who introduced “meaningful modernism” several decades ago in Malayalam poetry, Akkitham is the only living poet being called Mahakavi (meaning great poet) in Malayalam. Seminal works Akkitham has contributed such seminal works as Pathalathinte Muzhakkam , Irupatham Noottandinte Ithihasam , and Balidarshanam . He has nearly four dozen works to his credit. Among them are anthologies of poems, stories, dramas, and essays. He worked for nearly three decades with All India Radio as script writer and editor. His work Balidarshanam won the State and Central Sahitya Akademi awards in 1972-73. He was the co-editor of the Mangalodayam and the Yogakshemam journals. He was awarded Padma Sri in 2017. Apart from the Ezhuthachan Award he won in 2008, Akkitham has been bestowed with Odakkuzhal Award, Asan Award, Sanjayan Award, Lalithambika Antharjanam Award, and several other honours. Critics praised Akkitham for his powerful imagery that ordinary people could easily associate with. The following lines of Akkitham have travelled deep down the minds of the Malayali: “Velicham dukhamanunnee, thamassallo sughapradam.” In spite of COVID-19 restrictions, a good crowd witnessed the award ceremony. Among them were V.T. Balram, MLA, and District Collector D. Balamurali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jnanpith-presented-to-malayalam-mahakavi-akkitham/article32690640.ece
25 September 2020||Srinagar,||TV analyst and lawyer shot dead at his Kashmir home||Television analyst and lawyer Babar Qadri, an Al-Badr militant and a CRPF jawan were killed in three separate incidents in Kashmir on Thursday. Two gunmen knocked the door of 39-year-old Qadri’s residence in Srinagar’s Hawal area around 6.30 p.m. and asked him to come out. “Mr. Qadri had just returned home from the court. He was shot in the head from a close range, immediately after he stepped outside his house. He was declared brought dead to the hospital,” a police official said. No outfit has claimed responsibility for the killing. In 2018, Qadri had claimed that he feared an assassination attempt “for his political views”. Mr. Qadri was a regular analyst on a national news channel. He was the son-in-law of separatist Ghulam Qadir, who was also assassinated by unknown gunmen in the 1990s. Mr. Qadri is survived by his wife and two young children. J&K’s political parties condemned the killing. “The assassination of Mr. Qadri is tragic and I unequivocally condemn it. The sense of tragedy is all the more because he warned of the threat. Sadly his warning was in his last tweet,” National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said. Peoples Conference (PC) chief said he “is yet another victim of conflict. My thoughts with the family.” A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spokesman said his party “vehemently condemns the assassination.” Apni Party vice-president Ghulam Hassan Mir termed the incident “highly inhuman and barbaric”. Earlier in the day, one Al-Badr militant was killed in a joint operation of the security forces. “He was offered an opportunity to surrender. Instead, he fired indiscriminately. The terrorist was identified as Irfan-ul-Haq Dar, a resident of Gadikhal Charsoo in Awantipora,” the police said. They said Dar was released in April 2020 and “was an important motivator and influenced young minds for joining the terror ranks in Awantipora and Tral areas”. The police decided to bury the body far away in the Handwara area. Jawan killed In another incident, militants attacked a CRPF checkpoint and killed a jawan in Budgam. “The militants first lobbed a grenade and subsequently opened indiscriminate fire on the Road Opening Party of 117 battalion CRPF. One jawan lost life in the terror attack,” an official said. He was identified as ASI N. Bodolay from Nagpur. The attackers managed to snatch his rifle and flee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tv-analyst-and-lawyer-shot-dead-at-his-kashmir-home/article32690660.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI slams Central agencies||The Communist Party of India (CPI) on Thursday accused Central law enforcement agencies of acting in a politically partisan manner against the State government by attempting to cast it under a permanent pall of doubt in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. Indicating that the Left Democratic Front would fight the move politically, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said overlapping investigations by multiple agencies appeared to hover over the Secretariat without making any headway. Customs was a Central subject. Gold smuggling was primarily a failure of the Central government. The investigations appeared politically primed to lay down a smokescreen of lies to destabilise the LDF government. Mani’s entry Mr. Rajendran said the possibility of admitting the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) into the LDF would hinge on whether the group would part ways with the UDF for good. The LDF is in no hurry. Nobody had walked into the LDF one fine day. Mr. Rajendran was dismissive about Mr. Mani purported political heft in central Travancore. “I am from Kottayam. The CPI knows the electoral field," he said. Mr. Rajendran said Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel should have publicly appeared for questioning in his official vehicle. The CPI was part of the LDF and not a corrective force as portrayed by a section of the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-slams-central-agencies/article32691263.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘China refused plea for help from northeast insurgents’||The Assam government has informed a UAPA tribunal that major extremist outfits of the northeast had contacted Chinese authorities for assistance in their “fight against India”, but the Chinese had refused to provide assistance directly or indirectly. The affidavit, filed by the government before the tribunal in May, said the United National Liberation Front of West of South East Asia (UNLFWSEA), a Myanmar-based conglomerate of banned outfits such as the NSCN-K, ULFA-I, NDFB-S and KLO, had taken a resolution “to take assistance from a third nation” to achieve their goal. The conglomerate was formed in 2015. The affidavit is not clear on when it approached the Chinese authorities. “Accordingly, UNLFW first preferred China to seek for assistance. Paresh Baruah and Yung Aung @ Thoiba contacted Chinese authority. However, the Chinese refused to provide assistance directly or indirectly,” the tribunal’s order quoting Assam government’s affidavit said. Baruah is the leader of the anti-talks faction of the United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA). He is wanted in India for a number of cases such as attacks on security personnel, kidnapping and extortion, and is said to shuttle between Taga in Myanmar and Yunnan province in west China. Yung Aung is a leader of National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang faction. The tribunal was constituted under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) after the Union Home Ministry extended the ban on the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) in November 2019 for five years. On September 22, the tribunal upheld the ban and declared NDFB an “unlawful association for a period of five years”. ISI steps in After the Chinese refused, “as an alternative, UNLFWSEA looked for establishing nexus with Pakistan at any cost at the earliest,” the affidavit said. “It was learnt that Pakistan (ISI) was providing all sorts of assistance to all outfit groups fighting against India ... Pakistan (ISI) desired such groups to destroy more and more Indian government‘s properties, railways, bridges, Army, Police and security forces, oil refineries and other government properties. However, the plan could not be executed due to two main reasons – i) impeachment of Khango Konyak from NSCN(K) and ii) Attack in Taga Camp by Indian and Myanmar Army jointly,” the affidavit read. The Union Home Ministry informed the tribunal that since 2015, NDFB was involved in killing of 19 civilians. On January 11, several NDFB leaders “crossed over to India from their base camps in Myanmar” to join peace talks. A tripartite suspension of operation agreement was signed between the Union Home Ministry, Government of Assam and factional head of NDFB. On January 27, a Memorandum of Settlement was arrived among the NDFB factions, All Bodo Students Union, the Assam government and the Home Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-refused-plea-for-help-from-northeast-insurgents/article32690657.ece
25 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Slain top Maoist in Telangana identified as Sodi Jogaiah||The CPI (Maoist) Charla Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS), which is active in the Chennapuram forest stretch that straddles along the restive inter-State border with Chhattisgarh, has lost its commander Sodi Jogaiah, 25, in Wednesday’s alleged exchange of fire between the police and the Maoist rebels in Chennapuram forest area of Charla mandal. The police on Thursday identified the bodies of the three Maoists, including two women cadres - those killed in the Chennapuram “exchange of fire” as Sodi Jogaiah of Kistarampadu, Madakam Malli, 22, Maoist dalam member, of Chennapuram, both from Charla mandal, and Madakam Mangi, 24, Charla LGS member, of a tribal hamlet in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh's Kukunoor mandal. Jogaiah was wanted in connection with four murder cases, including the kidnap and murder of former MPTC member N Srinivasa Rao, owing allegiance to the ruling TRS, of Besta Kothuru village in July last year, police sources said. Sodi Jogaiah, the Charla LGS commander of the outlawed outfit, was involved in as many as 26 cases of Maoist violence in Bhadrachalam Agency, said Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt. Jogaiah was the main accused in the murder of former MPTC member N Srinivasa Rao of Besta Kothur in 2019 and also wanted in connection with the murder of a villager in Peddamidisileru in 2017, a youth of Pusuguppa village and a farmer in Kurnapalli in Charla mandal in 2018, the SP said. The bodies of the three Maoists were handed over to their relatives on Thursday afternoon after postmortem at the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam, he said, adding that the police are trying to bring back their bodies and preserve them in freezers at the Government Area Hospital for re-postmortem as per the orders of the Telangana High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/killed-maoist-leader-identified-as-sodi-jogaiah/article32691256.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,||Infected accused pose challenge to police||A person accused of child sexual abuse escaped recently from the first-line treatment centre (FLTC) being run at the convention centre of the Kochi airport, throwing light on the challenge being faced by the police in guarding those who have tested positive for SARS-COV-2. The infected among those arrested by the police and excise are put up at the FLTC at Kochi airport along with other infected members of the public. Though police personnel are put on guard duty at the centre, the security remains far from foolproof. “We have taken up the matter with the District Disaster Management Authority, that it is really tough to keep a tab on the accused who mix with the civilians. A possible solution is a separate FLTC exclusively for the arrested. With those arrested increasingly testing positive since September, the task is getting progressively difficult,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief. While the centre has multiple entries and exit points, police are deployed only at the main entrance, which is more than 100 metres away from the facility. “The accused are not always in the sight of the police guards who have to largely depend on information from health and paramedical staff at the centre. We have already petitioned the District Police Chief and now plan to raise it with the District Collector as well,” said M.V. Sanil, district secretary (Ernakulam Rural) of Kerala Police Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infected-accused-pose-challenge-to-police/article32690641.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Sasikala objects to disclosure of info||V.K. Sasikala, serving sentence in a corruption case in the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison here, has written to the Chief Superintendent of the prison objecting to the prison authorities disclosing information about her release date and other information in response to Right to Information (RTI) application filed by third parties. A copy of the letter available with The Hindu quotes an earlier precedent where Tihar Jail authorities had turned down an RTI application regarding details of undertrials on the ground of privacy, that was later upheld by the Central Information Commission. Recently, prison authorities had revealed that the four-year sentence of Sasikala would come to an end by February 2021, and she would be released from prison on payment of Rs. 10 crore fine stipulated by the court. The date of her release has attained significance in the light of the coming Tamil Nadu Assembly polls. ACB probe Meanwhile, the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) is continuing its probe pertaining to allegations of corruption over providing special facilities to Sasikala and her relative in the prison. A copy of the letter ACB has written to the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms, the competent authority which has to permit the ACB to probe corruption allegations against an officer, on June 28, 2019, is available with The Hindu . IPS officer D. Roopa, who was DIG (Prisons) then, had in 2017 alleged that Sasikala had been given special facilities in the prison and also alleged Rs. 2 crore exchanging hands for the same, triggering a series of actions by the Karnataka government. A committee led by retired IAS officer Vinay Kumar probed alleged irregularities at the prison, submitted its findings and recommended ACB probe. Based on directions from the State government, the ACB registered a case against the officer and the probe is still under way.  There were allegations that CCTV footage showed Sasikala returning to jail from outside in civil clothes carrying shopping bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sasikala-objects-to-disclosure-of-info/article32690624.ece
25 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha man moves Lok Adalat after failing to get Aadhaar card||A daily wager in Odisha’s Kandhamal district has moved the Lok Adalat against Prime Minister Narendra Modi after he allegedly failed to get an Aadhaar card registered in his name despite 21 attempts. Jitendra Kumar Sethy, a resident of Khetapaju village in Khajuripada block, took the unusual step for redressal of his grievance as he ran out of patience after applying and getting photographed multiple times at different places for the elusive card. In a one-page petition filed before the permanent Lok Adalat in Phulbani, district headquarters of Kandhamal district, Mr. Sethy pointed out that he was not issued the card due to technical glitches in taking his fingerprint. At the adalat, the man submitted identity proofs such as his voter identity card, job card issued under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and bank pass book. “I am not able to access different government welfare schemes. I am being turned away by government offices as I don’t have an Aadhaar card,” said Mr. Sethy, who lives with three minor children, wife and ageing parents. No other family members of his faced any issue for getting an Aadhaar card registered in their names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-man-moves-lok-adalat-after-failing-to-get-aadhaar-card/article32691190.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Class 12 compartment exam results by Oct. 10’||The Central Bureau of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday stated in the Supreme Court that it would declare the compartment exam results for Class 12 on or before October 10. The University Grants Commission (UGC), in turn, informed a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjeev Khanna that its admission process would close by October 31, giving ample time for students to apply for varsity admissions amid the pandemic. The court closed the case, expressing gratitude to both the CBSE and the UGC. On September 22, the Supreme Court asked both the academic bodies to coordinate and time the declaration of the compartment exam results before the admission process begins in varsities. The last compartment exam is scheduled for September 30. “The last date for completing the university admissions process is October 31 and the last date for admissions to fill up remaining vacant seats shall be November 30, 2020. Further, the guidelines contemplate provisional admissions wherever necessary (with the relevant documents of the qualifying examinations being accepted up to 31.12.2020)”, the UGC said in an affidavit. The court was insistent during the case hearings that the academic future of nearly two lakh students taking the exams should not be blighted by the extraordinary circumstances created by the pandemic. It had made it clear that the academic boards like the CBSE and the UGC would have to make adjustments in their schedules under the extraordinary circumstances posed by the public health crisis. Two lakh students are taking the compartment exams and their future cannot be hampered with, Justice Khanwilkar said in a hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/class-12-compartment-exam-results-by-oct-10/article32690676.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Another Kerala initiative on GST compensation||Kerala will take the lead once more in bringing together other State governments and experts to deliberate on the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation and its implications. The move comes in the wake of the State rejecting the two options put forward at the GST council on August 27. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had last month chaired a meeting of Finance Ministers of Punjab, Delhi, Chattisgarh, West Bengal and Telangana and decided to reject the two options. Amidst reports that more States are towing the line of the Centre and that the GST compensation would be delayed for States not choosing either of the two options, the new initiative is to organise a webinar jointly by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT), Thiruvananthapuram, and the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) Chandigarh on September 28. Official sources said the aim was to provide a forum for deliberating on the implications of the Centre’s proposal on the already stressed State finances and articulate the responses of the States. The Finance Ministers of West Bengal, Delhi, Punjab, Jharkhand, Punjab and Puducherry have already agreed to attend. The sessions Amit Mitra, Finance Minister of West Bengal, and Chairman of the Empowered Committee of State Finance Ministers on GST, will chair the morning session. In the afternoon, eminent academicians and captains of the media will deliberate on the issue. Kerala wants the Centre to take loan and provide GST compensation due to the State and it has been communicated in writing. The GST compensation due to the State is Rs. 7,000 crore. The first option mooted by the Centre is to provide a special borrowing window to States in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India to provide Rs. 97,000 crore at a reasonable interest rate. The other option is to meet the entire GST compensation gap of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore this year itself after consulting the central bank.  Kerala wants the Centre to take loan and provide GST compensation due to the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-kerala-initiative-on-gst-compensation/article32690635.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Eminent people call for Umar Khalid’s release||A group of eminent academics, writers, filmmakers and artistes from around the world, including Noam Chomsky, Salman Rushdie and Mira Nair, on Thursday called for the release of former JNU students’ leader and activist Umar Khalid, who was arrested in connection with the February riots in Delhi. “As an international community of scholars, teachers, students, artists and film-makers, we have watched with alarm the events unfolding in India. We stand in solidarity and outrage, with the brave young scholar and activist Umar Khalid, arrested in New Delhi on September 14, 2020, under fabricated charges of engineering the Delhi riots in February 2020,” a statement said. Mr. Khalid had been charged with sedition, conspiracy to murder, and under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), the statement noted. “This process of criminalizing all dissent has been underway for a few years and even under a COVID-19 pandemic, relentless political arrests under fabricated charges are punishing the innocent long before they are brought to trial”, it stated. The statement raised the question: “What was Umar Khalid’s crime?” It said, “That he used the passion of his commitment to his country, marshalled his education and his voice to join the movement for equal citizenship, against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act [CAA]; this law introduced religion as a criterion for citizenship, and has no place in a secular nation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eminent-people-call-for-umar-khalids-release/article32691188.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gilgit-Baltistan polls have no legal basis, says India||India on Thursday said Pakistan’s proposed election in Gilgit-Baltistan had no legal ground. The official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, Anurag Srivastava, said India considered the entire region of Jammu and Kashmir to be its integral part. “Any action by Pakistan to alter the status of the militarily occupied so-called ‘Gilgit-Baltistan’ has no legal basis whatsoever and is totally void ab initio . Our position has always been clear and consistent,” Mr. Srivastava stated. “The entire territories of the Union Territories [UTs] of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been and are an integral part of India and would remain so,” the spokesperson added. India considers Gilgit and Baltistan as part of the undivided Jammu and Kashmir. Its new political map published in November 2019 depicts the UTs of J&K and Ladakh consist of Gilgit-Baltistan. Pakistan in recent weeks has moved to give full provincial status to the Gilgit-Baltistan region through an election slated for November. The region earlier was known as the “Northern Areas” and Pakistan dealt with it through a special administrative arrangement. Mr. Srivastava said, “Pakistan has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gilgit-baltistan-polls-have-no-legal-basis-says-india/article32690672.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||India, Pak. trade charges at SAARC, CICA meets||Last week, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval had walked off from a virtual meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) after his Pakistani counterpart appeared with a Pakistani version of its map that included Indian territories. Last year, at the SAARC Foreign Minister’s meeting held on the side-lines of the UN General Assembly in New York, Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Qureshi had boycotted each other’s speeches. PM Modi had also refused to attend the 19th edition of the SAARC summit, due to be held in Islamabad in 2016, over the issue of Pakistan’s continued support to terror groups. Speaking at the SAARC FM meet, however, Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali and Nepal’s Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi both said it is “imperative” to hold the SAARC summit. “The delay in convening the 19th SAARC Summit and the absence of formal meetings of the SAARC Charter bodies since 2016, has greatly impacted the functioning of our organisation,” said Mr. Gyawali, adding that this “has raised a serious question about the relevancy” of SAARC. However, sources said “most countries” agreed it is not the “opportune time” to convene the summit as proposed by Pakistan, given the COVID-19 situation, and the proposal “fell through”. Battling the pandemic All SAARC nations including India and Pakistan, however, built a common stand on the need to cooperate in battling the coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Jaishankar listed a number of measures taken by India in the past few months including the SAARC Leaders video-conference convened by Mr. Modi, a ‘COVID-19 Information Exchange Platform (COINEX), a SAARC Food Bank mechanism, as well as the SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund, to which India has contributed $10 million, making essential drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-pak-trade-charges-at-saarc-cica-meets/article32690647.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Petitioners surprised at deletion of case in SC||Lawyers for petitioners, including Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, seeking action against certain sections of the media for the “demonisation of a large section of Indians” following the Tablighi Jamaat issue, wrote to the Supreme Court Registry expressing their surprise at the deletion of their case scheduled for hearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Thursday. The case was listed as number 14 before the Bench. However, it was among several cases on the list which were shifted to “court number 31” for hearing on September 28. Advocate Ejaz Maqbool, who represents the Jamiat petition and is led by senior advocate Dushyant Dave in court, said in the letter that the case was deleted from the list in the morning. He said the remark about the transfer of the case to “court number 31” was “erroneous”. A list on the court website shows only 10 virtual courts functioning, including the Registrar court. The letter, addressed to the SC Registry, said the media coverage of the issue has affected lives and livelihoods. “It is relevant to note that this matter is of utmost urgency as there has been a demonisation of a large section of Indians due to the communal twist given to the Nizamuddin Markaz issue, which is affecting the life, livelihood and dignity of such persons so much so that their shops/businesses are being boycotted, they are being attacked, and in some cases even being refused treatment by doctors,” the letter read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petitioners-surprised-at-deletion-of-case-in-sc/article32690650.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Harley-Davidson shuts India factory, sales||In a filing with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission, Harley said, “the Company expects to incur restructuring expenses of approximately $75 million in 2020, of which approximately 80% are expected to be cash expenditures, including one-time termination benefits of approximately $3 million”. The company expects to complete restructuring within the next 12 months. Harley has been scrambling for years to grow sales beyond baby boomers in the U.S. and has not posted retail sales growth there in the past 14 quarters, Reuters reported. Chief Executive Officer Jochen Zeitz, who took the reins at the company in February, had unveiled a major shift in strategy to boost profits by reducing Harley’s product portfolio by 30% and investing in 50 markets with growth potential in North America, Europe and parts of Asia Pacific.  India, still far cheaper and poorer than many of the developing economies with which it competes for investment, has proven an inhospitable market for other auto industry players. Last year, Ford Motor Co pared back its interests and ceased independent operations in India by entering into a joint venture with Mahindra & Mahindra. General Motors, which stopped domestic sales in 2017, also plans to stop manufacturing and exports from India by the end of this year. ( With inputs from Reuters )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/harley-davidson-shuts-india-factory-sales/article32690626.ece
25 September 2020||Thrissur,||Thrissur man has three episodes of COVID-19||The repeated COVID-19 episodes reported in a man from Thrissur are posing a diagnostic challenge for health officials. Savio Joseph, 38, from Ponnukkara, who was working in Muscat, has contracted the infection three times. Though he does not have documents to prove the first bout while in Muscat, the second and third episodes happened in Thrissur. “I showed symptoms in Muscat during the end of February. I contracted an infection from a friend who had travel history to China. He was given treatment for pneumonia. After three weeks, I too developed similar symptoms. I had fever, cough, throat and chest pain, and breathlessness. However, the hospital did not identify it as COVID-19,” says Savio. Soon, the majority of workers in Savio’s company contracted the pandemic, five deaths were also reported. Savio returned to Kerala on June 28. While in quarantine, he appeared for COVID-19 test on July 18, which turned positive.  Viral shedding? He was discharged from Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital on August 1 after he tested negative in an antigen test. But when difficulty in breathing and chest pain persisted, he appeared for a test again on September 1, which turned positive. Discharged from hospital once again, Savio as well as health officials are clueless whether it is a case of relapse or prolonged viral shedding. Viral shedding occurs when a virus replicates in the body and is released into the environment. Though health officials insist that it is the first such case in the State, Savio says there was a patient next to him at the hospital who claimed he had tested positive for a second time. District Medical Officer K.J. Reena says it is the first such case reported here. “We cannot say whether it was a case of relapse or retained infection. Even a dead virus can be detected in an RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction test). But it is not infectious. We are yet to study post-COVID complications,” she says. “Remnants of the virus can exist in the body for more than 60 days,” says M.A. Andrews, Principal, Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital. “No test, whether antigen test or RT-PCR, is foolproof. There can be 30-70% error in tests,” he says. But people like Savio, who want to go back to their work, face another challenge. “What if we are cleared of COVID-19 here but test positive again in the county where we work?” More studies should be done to clear confusion in diagnosis, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thrissur-man-has-three-episodes-of-covid-19/article32690633.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Sudha Bharadwaj can seek bail on merits: SC||Ms. Bharadwaj agreed to withdraw the current plea for bail on medical grounds. She had sought bail over concerns about her heart disease. Ms. Grover described the heart condition as a “ticking time bomb”. She submitted that her client’s co-morbidities made her prone to COVID-19But Justice Lalit asked Ms. Grover to explain more about the case against her client. To this, Ms. Grover drew a detailed picture of how her client has been a noted lawyer, globally recognised for her work. She has taught at the National Law University, Delhi. “They [prosecution agencies] claimed there is a criminal conspiracy, but nothing has been recovered from me. Charges have not been framed. Two years are over. My father passed away in the meantime... I have never abused the process of law... I need bail to get myself diagnosed medically,” Ms. Grover explained her client's predicament. It was at this point both judges wondered why Ms. Bharadwaj had not applied for bail on the merits of her case alone. They, however, said they cannot grant bail on medical grounds. Withdrawing the bail plea, Ms. Grover said she was encouraged by the observations made by the apex court about her client’s chances to get bail on merits itself. The Bombay High Court had rejected bail to Ms. Bharadwaj on medical grounds in August. Earlier, the Special Court in Mumbai had denied her bail on the objection of the National Investigation Agency. Ms. Bharadwaj was arrested in 2018 and initially lodged at the Yerwada Jail. She has remained incarcerated in the Byculla jail on charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sudha-bharadwaj-can-seek-bail-on-merits-sc/article32690643.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,||‘SPB extremely critical’||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam’s health has deteriorated in the last 24 hours and he is “extremely critical”, according to a health bulletin issued on Thursday. ‘Deteriorating health’ Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was hospitalised in August after testing positive for COVID-19. MGM healthcare, where he has been hospitalised, said he remained on ECMO and other life support. “His condition in the last 24 hours has deteriorated further, warranting maximal life support, and he is extremely critical,” the bulletin said. A team of experts at the hospital are closely monitoring his health.  Kamal visits hospital Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan visited the hospital on Thursday evening and met Mr. Balasubrahmanyam’s family. Mr. Haasan enquired about the singer’s health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spb-extremely-critical-says-hospital/article32690815.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Man held for beating wife||A ticket conductor with State-run RTC was arrested by the Vikarabad town police on Thursday for allegedly thrashing and abusing his wife and two minor daughters. The accused, Azimuddin, a resident of Vikarabad, was booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 498-A (Domestic violence) and relevant sections of Juvenile Justice Act, following a complaint lodged by his wife. He works at Vikarabad RTC depot. A video clip of the act recorded by his wife which took place on Tuesday, went viral on the internet. Azimuddin, who is addicted to alcohol, married the victim in 2014. The couple are blessed with two girl children, aged 3 and four years, police said. "He used to beat his wife and children frequently. On Tuesday too, he came home in a drunken state and picked up an argument with his wife, following which he assaulted her and their elder daughter,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-held-for-beating-wife/article32691216.ece
25 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Daily trains to Mangaluru, Chennai from Sunday||The Southern Railways will reintroduce the Dr. MGR Chennai Central-Mangaluru-Dr. MGR Chennai Central Superfast Special (daily) on September 27. Train no. 02602 will leave Mangaluru Central at 1.30 p.m. on September 27 and reach Chennai Central at 5.35 a.m. the next day. Train no. 02601 will leave Chennai Central at 8.10 p.m. on September 28 and reach Mangaluru at 12.10 p.m. the next day. The train will have one AC 2-tier coach, four AC 3-tier coaches, 10 Sleeper Class coaches, four general second class coaches, and two luggage-cum-brake vans, a release said on Thursday. Railways advisory Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train. Only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway station. Passengers should reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station. All passengers are advised to download the Aarogya Setu app. No linen, blankets and curtains will be provided inside the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/daily-trains-to-mangaluru-chennai-from-sunday/article32690730.ece
25 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers in Punjab begin rail blockades||Farmers in parts of Punjab on Thursday started a three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti against the Centre’s three farm Bills. The railways suspended several trains completely or partially till September 26. Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), who had extended support to the agitation, blocked railway tracks in Sangrur and Barnala, while members of the Samiti blocked the track in Amritsar and Ferozpur. “The ‘rail roko’ will continue till September 26 in the first phase ... We have decided that representatives of political parties will not be allowed to share the stage,” said Sarvan Singh Pandher, State president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-in-punjab-begin-rail-blockades/article32690658.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC agrees to hear plea on UPSC exam||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine a plea by some UPSC aspirants to postpone the civil services preliminary exam scheduled for October 4 amid the pandemic. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar agreed to take up the case for hearing on September 28. The petition said the conduct of the exam in the midst of a dangerous public health crisis was a violation of the fundamental right to life of lakhs of aspirants. Six lakh candidates About six lakh candidates are expected to take the exams in 72 centres spread across the country. With the rate of infection peaking, the exam would be a cause for further spread of the virus, they apprehended. Many students may opt to not take the exam for fear of contracting the virus. The petition also accused the exam authorities of violating the right to equality as aspirants from lower middle classes may not be able to afford the cost of transport, accommodation and other facilities to take the exam during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-agrees-to-hear-plea-on-upsc-exam/article32690673.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||IFFI put off, to be held from January 16||The 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI), scheduled to be held in Goa from November 20 to 28, has been postponed to January 16 to 24, 2021. This decision comes less than a month after Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant’s assertion that the film festival would go on as usual. Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Minister Prakash Javadekar had spoken to Mr. Sawant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iffi-put-off-to-be-held-from-january-16/article32690677.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Act like Chanakya to root out drug menace: HC||It is high time that investigating agencies like the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) act like Chanakya to remove the menace of narcotics from the grassroots, the Karnataka High Court said while taking note of high-profile drug peddling cases in recent days. “There is a trend of inculcation of drugs, ganja and other such substances in society by various transactions. It has created a menace for society. Such things are to be dealt with an iron hand. They [drug peddlers] could not be spared even for a while,” the court observed. Justice B.A. Patil made these observations while quashing a seven-year-old case registered against a man for allegedly possessing dry leaves of cannabis (ganja). Observing that high-profile drug peddling is increasing, the court said that increasing circulation of drugs would seriously affect society, particularly harming the younger generation, college-going children, besides promoting other crime. The menace of drugs, which affects the future of youngsters, will have to be removed from the root like Chanakya “who removed the stump of grass from the root as it obstructed his movement,” the court observed. However, the court absolved accused Abdul Saleem, a resident of Lakkasandra, of the charge of possessing ganja as he had only been found possessing dried leaves dark brown in colour when the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, defines ganja as “flowering or fruiting tops of the cannabis plant (excluding the seeds and leaves when not accompanied by the tops).” Moreover, the court also found that there was no report of chemical analysis to indicate that the leaves contained 25% tetrahydrocannabinol to call it ganja as per the provision of the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/act-like-chanakya-to-root-out-drug-menace-hc/article32690625.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Eminent people call for Umar’s release||A group of eminent academics, writers, filmmakers and artistes from around the world, including Noam Chomsky, Salman Rushdie and Mira Nair, on Thursday called for the release of former JNU students’ leader and activist Umar Khalid, who was arrested in connection with the February riots in Delhi. “As an international community of scholars, teachers, students, artists and film-makers, we have watched with alarm the events unfolding in India. We stand in solidarity and outrage, with the brave young scholar and activist Umar Khalid, arrested in New Delhi on September 14, 2020, under fabricated charges of engineering the Delhi riots in February 2020,” a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eminent-people-call-for-umars-release/article32690649.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Two killed in accident||Two people were killed after the two-wheeler they were travelling in was run over by a ready mix concrete lorry near a private engineering college in Gandipet under Narsingi police station area on Thursday. The accident took place at around 8.30 p.m. and the victims, Vodsa Ramesh and his friend, both in their early 20s died on the spot. Bodies shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-killed-in-accident/article32691217.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Police trying to frame anyone critical of Modi govt, says CPI||Reacting to the recent chargesheet filed against several political leaders and activists in connection with anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests, the CPI on Thursday said the Delhi police were trying to frame anyone critical of the Narendra Modi government. In a statement, the party said, “The glaring absence in the chargesheets on the role of leaders associated with the BJP, who gave inflammatory speeches, is unmissable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-trying-to-frame-anyone-critical-of-modi-govt-says-cpi/article32690661.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gopalkrishna Gandhi appointed IIC life trustee||Former West Bengal Governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi has been appointed life trustee of the India International Centre (IIC) here, a statement from the centre said on Thursday. He fills the vacancy after the death of Kapila Vatsyayan. Mr. Gandhi, grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, is a retired diplomat. He was Governor from 2004 to 2009. “He has held various important positions in the State of Tamil Nadu and at the National Capital,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gopalkrishna-gandhi-appointed-iic-life-trustee/article32690663.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||GPay can share customer’s UPI data under law: Google||Google India Digital Services Limited on Thursday told the Delhi High Court that its GPay app, being a TPAPs (Third Party Application Providers), is allowed under the law to share customer’s UPI (Unified Payments Interface) transaction data with third parties. The submission came in response to a petition by advocate Abhishek Sharma. The High Court will hear the case on November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gpay-can-share-customers-upi-data-under-law-google/article32690664.ece
25 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Arrest warrant against Arun Shourie stayed||The Rajasthan High Court has stayed the arrest warrants issued against former Union Minister Arun Shourie and another accused in a case registered over the disinvestment of India Tourism Development Corporation-owned Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur in 2002. Last week, a special court asked the CBI to file cases against Mr. Shourie and four others in connection with the hotel’s sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrest-warrant-against-arun-shourie-stayed/article32690667.ece
25 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Series of blasts spark massive fire in ONGC’s gas processing plant in Surat Massive fire in ONGC’s Surat plant||A series of blasts set off a massive fire in ONGC’s gas processing plant at Hazira in Surat early on Thursday. The fire was doused after several hours. No casualties were reported. “The fire broke out in the inlet gas terminal of the plant following three massive blasts at 3.05 a.m.,” Surat Collector Dhaval Patel told presspersons. The fire was caused by a rupture in a pipeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/series-of-blasts-spark-massive-fire-in-ongcs-gas-processing-plant-in-surat-massive-fire-in-ongcs-surat-plant/article32690669.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘T.V. anchors peddle hate to further govt. narrative’||An application was filed jointly by Sangeeta Tyagi, the widow of Congress national spokesperson Rajeev Tyagi, and author Kota Neelima, in the Supreme Court on Thursday to intervene in a pending case against Sudarshan TV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tv-anchors-peddle-hate-to-further-govt-narrative/article32690674.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) MP questions Deputy Chairman’s motives in ignoring Opposition demands||CPI(M) MP K.K. Ragesh, in an open letter to Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, questioned the motive behind allegedly throwing off Parliamentary procedures aside to ignore the demands for a vote by him and others during the passage of the two farm Bills. He accused Mr. Harivansh of doing so to appease Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Ragesh, along with seven MPs, was suspended for the ruckus in the House on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-mp-questions-deputy-chairmans-motives-in-ignoring-opposition-demands/article32690653.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TIFR comes up with cheap rechargeable N 95 mask||The Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) Hyderabad has developed a low-cost rechargeable N 95 mask with an increased efficacy. This has been achieved by using graphene oxide-based paint on one of the layers of the mask. According to Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, regular N 95 masks filter particles which are 0.3 microns in size with an efficiency of 95%. “While the fibres of the mask pose as a mechanical barrier, an electrostatic charge on the surface of the mask traps particles. With usage, the electrostatic charge on the N95 masks erodes away, thus, decreasing the filtering efficiency of the mask. To address this bottleneck, researchers in TIFR Hyderabad have developed a low-cost rechargeable N95 mask,” a statement from TIFR reads. The mask is reusable after standard decontamination procedures without losing its efficiency. It can be recharged with small movements such as the movement of the jaw. The research was led by Dr. G. Rajalakshmi and Prof. T.N. Narayan along with graduate students Stelbin Peter Figerez and Sudeshna Patra. The researchers have also developed a device for testing masks for quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tifr-comes-up-with-cheap-rechargeable-n-95-mask/article32691226.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICJ says FCRA Bill incompatible with international law||The International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) on Thursday observed that the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020 passed by Parliament was incompatible with international law. “The legislation fails to comply with India’s international legal obligations and constitutional provisions to respect and protect the rights to freedom of association, expression, and freedom of assembly,” the ICJ said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icj-says-fcra-bill-incompatible-with-international-law/article32690648.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays breach of privilege proceedings||The Madras High Court on Thursday stayed all further proceedings pursuant to fresh show cause notices issued to DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 other MLAs of his party on September 7 for having allegedly breached the privileges of the Legislative Assembly by displaying gutkha (chewing tobacco) sachets there on July 19, 2017. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana held that the petitioners had made out a prima facie case for grant of interim relief and the balance of convenience was also in their favour. She further ordered notice to the Speaker on the petitioners’ main plea to quash the showcause notices on grounds of perversity, illegality, mala fides and lack of jurisdiction. The judge agreed with senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram, N.R. Elango and Amit Anand Tiwari that Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy had on August 25 given a specific finding that possession and display of gutkha sachets were neither prohibited under law nor amounted to breach of privilege. Disposing of an earlier batch of writ petitions filed by the MLAs challenging the previous show cause notices issued to them on August 28, 2017, for the same act, the first Division Bench had said that gutkha could not be equated to substances like narcotic drugs or liquor bottles, whose possession, per se, would be illegal and, therefore, might amount to breach of privilege. ‘Poor enforcement’ The Bench also pointed out that the intention of the MLAs in displaying the gutkha sachets in the Assembly was not to promote the substance whose manufacture, transportation, storage, distribution and sale was banned in the State. They only intended to exhibit the poor enforcement of the ban and the free availability of the substance in bunk shops. “The above judgment of the Division Bench is not challenged by the respondents [Speaker, Assembly Secretary, Committee of Privileges] herein; instead, they have thought it fit to issue fresh show cause notices based on liberty granted by the Bench to deliberate upon the issue if the committee was still of the opinion that any breach had been committed,” Justice Sathyanarayana said. In their challenge to the fresh notices through the present batch of cases, the MLAs contended that Rule 222 (1) of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Rules clearly stated that an issue of breach of privilege should be restricted to a specific matter of recent occurrence. Hence, fresh notices could not be issued in September for an event that occurred in July 2017, they argued. The petitioners also said Rule 228 prohibited a person from being a member of the Committee of Privileges if he/she had a personal or direct interest of such a character that it may prejudicially affect the proceedings. In the present case, they objected to the presence of Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam in the committee. They pointed out that the Deputy Speaker had filed a defamation suit against Mr. Stalin in the High Court, claiming compensation of over Rs. 1 crore, and that all DMK MLAs had been opposing the continuance of Mr. Panneerselvam in the Cabinet, despite having voted against a confidence motion moved by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on February 18, 2017. The presence of the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy Chief Minister in the present committee vitiated the entire proceedings, the petitioners said.  The Bench said the intention of the MLAs in displaying the gutkha sachets in the Assembly was to exhibit the poor enforcement of the ban||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-stays-breach-of-privilege-proceedings/article32690812.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. removes all containment zones||The Greater Chennai Corporation has removed all COVID-19 containment zones in its 15 zones, although there was a spike in the number of new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. City Health Officer Jagadeesan said the city did not have any street with more than three index cases. “So, we have not earmarked containment zones,” said Dr. Jagadeesan. A street is barricaded in the event of three index cases and if officials are unable to trace contacts that caused the infection. Index case percentage At least 30% of the COVID-19 cases in the city had been index cases in the past few months. During the initial stages of the pandemic, the civic body created containment zones covering hundreds of households and many streets. Restrictions were not relaxed during the initial days, affecting thousands of residents. After a few months, the area under containment zones was reduced, covering only one street. At one point of time, there were more than 1,000 containment zones in the city. The number fell to less than 10 last week. Rise in cases On Thursday, the city reported no containment zones. But the number of COVID-19 cases increased by 1,089. The number of new cases had been below the 1,000 mark in the last 21 days. “We are studying the reasons. We will find if this is because of the relaxation of transportation,” said Dr. Jagadeesan. The case fatality rate in the city was 1.95%, he added.  On Thursday, the number of COVID-19 cases increased by 1,089 in the city. It had been below the 1,000 mark in the last 21 days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-removes-all-containment-zones/article32690792.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,692 fresh cases take State’s tally to 5,63,691||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,692 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking its tally to 5,63,691. As many as 5,470 persons were discharged from various health facilities after treatment. The number of those discharged has gone up to 5,08,210. The State now has 46,405 active cases, health officials said. However, the State recorded 66 deaths (23 in private hospitals and 43 in government facilities). The toll has gone up to 9,076. Among those whose deaths were recorded on Thursday, eight had no co-morbidities. After 21 days, Chennai’s daily case count crossed the 1,000 mark, with 1,089 more people testing positive. A total of 1,005 persons were discharged in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases, including those under home treatment, is 9,938. The city also recorded 15 deaths, taking its toll to 3,111. The total number of positive cases in the city has climbed to 1,59,683 and 1,46,634 persons have been discharged. Among the districts, Coimbatore recorded the highest number of cases at 642. A total of 613 persons were discharged. The district reported six deaths. In Salem, 311 fresh cases and five deaths were reported, and 209 persons were discharged. In Chengalpattu, 299 fresh cases were reported and 514 persons were discharged. In Cuddalore, 250 fresh cases were identified and 309 persons were discharged. In Tiruvallur, 265 more persons were infected and 195 discharged, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. Among those whose deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours were two nonagenarians. A 92-year-old man from Karur, who was admitted to the Karur Medical College Hospital on September 22, tested positive for COVID-19 and died within 12 hours of admission owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. A 90-year-old, who was diabetic and hypertensive, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital on September 13. He tested positive the same day and died on Tuesday. Health officials recorded COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome as the reasons for his death. The State has authorised another private laboratory to conduct tests, taking the total number to 178 (66 in the government sector and 112 private facilities).  Coimbatore recorded the highest number of cases at 642. A total of 613 persons were discharged. The district reported six deaths||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5692-fresh-cases-take-states-tally-to-563691/article32690807.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI to provide solar lighting on its roads||In a step towards going solar along the national highways in the State, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is looking to install solar lighting that will be connected to the power grid. On a trial basis, it will be tried out on the Krishnagiri - Walajapet national highway. “Going solar will help the environment as it is clean energy. It will also cut down the heavy power bills of toll plaza operators. Also, since it is to be connected to the grid, they will get some relief on the investment. Some contractors pay power bills of up to Rs. 20 lakh a month for road lighting, which could be brought down,” explained a senior official of the NHAI. As a first step, the toll plaza will get solar lighting. “We have to study the system and see how it functions for a couple of months before we extend solar power to other places along the highway. The concessionaire has already provided lighting at places where there are human habitations,” explained another official. Low rate However, the only hitch in the proposal was the low rate of Rs. 2 per unit being offered by the Tangedco. “Now commercial connections are charged at Rs. 9 per unit. We are proposing to supply power to the grid. In such a case, a better rate is only fair. The State government should consider our request,” he said. Tangedco sources said they were only collecting the rates on the basis of what had been stipulated by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Authority. “It is not our decision to take,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-to-provide-solar-lighting-on-its-roads/article32690864.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court directs Centre to popularise kabasura kudineer across the country||Observing that the effectiveness of herbal concoction kabasura kudineer , a Siddha formulation for boosting immunity, had been recognised even on the floor of the Parliament, the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Centre to popularise it across the country. Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan also directed the Union Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) to come up with a roadmap on establishing at least one hospital per State for promoting all kinds of Indian systems of medicine. The directions were issued after they expressed displeasure over the Ministry giving more importance to the promotion of Ayurveda, and not Siddha and Unani. The judges wanted all forms of medicines to be promoted equally across the country, without restricting them to specific regions. They found that many posts in the cadre of adviser, joint adviser, deputy adviser, assistant adviser and medical officer had been sanctioned in the Ayurveda stream, and most of these posts had been filled up. Vacancies in the Ayurveda stream were relatively less. On the other hand, fewer posts had been sanctioned in the Siddha and Unani streams, and a majority of those posts were vacant, the senior judge on the Bench said, wondering why Ayurveda alone was being treated as the “blue-eyed boy” of the Centre. ‘Restricted to T.N.’ Assistant Solicitor General G. Karthikeyan responded to this by stating that Ayurveda was being practised in most parts of the country, whereas Siddha was restricted to Tamil Nadu and parts of border States such as Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. He added that proposals had been sent recently to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for filling all vacancies. Not convinced with the submission, the judges observed that it was the duty of the Centre to promote Siddha across the country, without any restrictions. The judges suo motu impleaded the UPSC as one of the respondents to a case before them and directed it to explain by November 1 as to when it would be commencing the recruitment process by calling for applications and conducting written examinations. The interim orders were passed on a habeas corpus petition filed against the detention of Chennai-based Siddha hospital administrator K. Thiruthanikachalam under the Goondas Act for releasing a video on social media accusing the government of ignoring his suggestions on treating COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-directs-centre-to-popularise-kabasura-kudineer-across-the-country/article32690814.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI books bank official, two others in cash-for-vote case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case against a senior bank official and two others, including a functionary of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, in connection with the seizure of Rs. 11.48 crore by the Income Tax Department in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha election in Vellore. Searches were conducted on the premises of the trio and investigators seized certain documents relating to the case, sources in the agency said on Thursday. A couple of days ago, the CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch registered a case against Dayanidhi, the then senior manager, Canara Bank, Vellore, DMK functionary ‘Poonjolai’ Srinivasan, his brother Damodaran and others in connection with the seizure of several wads of newly- printed currency of Rs. 200 denomination. The case was registered under Section 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 477(A) (falsification of accounts) and other provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. ‘Meant for voters’ The agency said reliable information had been received that the Income Tax Department conducted searches on the premises of Mr. Damodaran in Vellore on April 1, 2019, and seized Rs. 11.48 crore. During the course of investigation, Mr. Srinivasan claimed that the money belonged to him and was meant for distribution to voters in the Vellore Parliamentary constituency ahead of the election. Based on the seizure, the election was cancelled in the Vellore Lok Sabha constituency and a case was registered against D. Kathir Anand (the candidate and son of senior DMK leader Duraimurugan) under the provisions of the IPC and the Representation of the People Act, 1951, relating to distribution of cash to voters. The CBI said in the First Information Report that the cash in Rs. 200 denomination was obtained from the currency chest of Canara Bank, Vellore, by exchanging notes of other denominations. Mr. Dayanidhi had allegedly colluded with the accused persons by abusing his official position and hence committed the offence of criminal misconduct. “The currency was obtained for facilitating easy distribution of currency notes to the voters in the Vellore Parliamentary constituency during the Parliament election which was to be held on 18.04.2019,” the agency said and added that the activity promoted corruption. In a formal note to the CBI, the bank authorities confirmed that the senior manager had exchanged the currency notes in the chest without following due procedures. The searches come a couple of days after Mr. Anand, who later contested and won the election, complained that two persons posing as police officials barged into his room at Tamil Nadu House, New Delhi, and questioned him on the issues that the party was planning to raise in Parliament. Parrying questions on the nature of seizures made on the premises of the trio on Thursday, a CBI official said the agency would summon them soon for questioning. The investigator refused to comment on the role of the MP in the case and also whether he would be questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-books-bank-official-others-in-cash-for-vote-case/article32690821.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayakant tests positive for COVID-19; his condition is stable, says hospital||Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) founder Vijayakant tested positive for COVID-19 on September 22, MIOT International said in a statement on Thursday. “He is stable and admitted at MIOT International in Chennai. He is expected to make full recovery and should be ready for discharge soon,” the hospital said. ‘In good health’ Earlier, a statement issued by the party said Mr. Vijayakant had mild symptoms of COVID-19. During one of his regular check-ups at the hospital, he was seen to be showing mild symptoms, it added. The party release said he had recovered and was in good health. In a tweet, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said he had spoken to Premalatha Vijayakant over the phone and enquired about Mr. Vijayakant’s health. He wished him a speedy recovery. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Tamil Maanila Congress leader G.K. Vasan also wished Mr. Vijayakant a speedy recovery. Stalin’s wishes DMK president M.K. Stalin, in a Facebook post on Thursday, also wished the DMDK founder speedy recovery. He expressed the hope that Mr. Vijayakant would return to undertake public service with great enthusiasm.  Earlier in the day, parents of R. Subasri, who was killed in a road accident when a lorry ran over her after a banner erected by an AIADMK functionary collapsed on her, met Mr. Stalin and thanked him for his support in the court case, a DMK press release said.  In a tweet, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said he spoke to Premalatha Vijayakant over phone and enquired about Mr. Vijayakant’s health. He wished him a speedy recovery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayakant-tests-positive-for-covid-19-his-condition-is-stable-says-hospital/article32690804.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin questions Prime Minister’s praise for T.N. over COVID-19 management||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday questioned the basis for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to praise Tamil Nadu’s efforts at combating COVID-19 and said that perhaps a discrete assessment by the Intelligence Bureau would bring out the ground reality. In a statement issued here, he said Mr. Modi, who on Wednesday praised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for his handling of the pandemic, might get to know the truth about the State’s efforts and “the various scams in the procurement of medical equipment” if he conducted a discrete assessment by the Intelligence Bureau. People’s welfare “I hope the Prime Minister is really interested in the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. If that is the case, he should take a broad view of the issue, instead of looking at it through the prism of the BJP’s alliance with the AIADMK, and see the truth for what it is — the State government’s massive failure in handling the pandemic, the doldrums the State’s economy is in, the unemployment in the State, the dissatisfaction of the middle class with the AIADMK government, the State’s fiscal deficit and the maladministration in the government, among other issues,” Mr. Stalin said. The Leader of the Opposition said he wondered what the Chief Minister had done that warranted a certificate of appreciation from Mr. Modi. Listing statistics related to the pandemic and the deaths it had caused, Mr. Stalin said he wondered if the Chief Minister had given Mr. Modi the right information. “Just like how the BJP government at the Centre is a ‘no-data’ government, the Tamil Nadu government is either a ‘no-data’ government or a government that hides the real numbers. Afraid of disclosing the real number of COVID-19 deaths, the State government is providing false data and is hiding the truth from the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-questions-prime-ministers-praise-for-tn-over-covid-19-management/article32690809.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court orders grant of 30 days of leave to Perarivalan||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to grant 30 more days of ordinary leave to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convict A.G. Perarivalan, who was already granted 60 days of leave between November 5, 2019, and January 11 this year. Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan disposed of a habeas corpus petition (HCP) filed by his mother T. Arputham and ordered relaxation of the prison rules, which do not permit a convict to avail ordinary leave within two years from the date when the previous leave had expired. Medical complications The orders were passed considering several medical complications suffered by Perarivalan and the fact that he was under incarceration for the past 29 years. The judges also took note that the convict had been granted 60 days of leave in 2017 also, and his conduct was found to be satisfactory. The judges further ordered notice to the State government on a sub-application preferred by Ms. Arputham seeking a copy of the Raj Bhavan’s reply to the government on the status of a recommendation made by the Cabinet to release all seven life convicts in the case. During the hearing of the HCP, the public prosecutor had informed the court that though the State Cabinet had made the recommendation on September 9, 2018, the Governor was awaiting the report of the Multi Disciplinary Monitoring Authority (MDMA) before taking a call on the issue. The MDMA was constituted pursuant to the Jain Commission of Inquiry to probe into the larger conspiracy behind the assassination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-orders-grant-of-30-days-of-leave-to-perarivalan/article32690830.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents want Adambakkam lake to be desilted soon||The wait for the restoration of Adambakkam lake continues. With the waterbody remaining neglected for nearly a decade now, residents want it restored to prevent flooding in the surrounding localities. Residents of Adambakkam and Nanganallur complained that the waterbody was covered with vegetation. Spread over nearly 14 hectares, Adambakkam lake is one among a group of waterbodies that has surplus water draining into the Pallikaranai marshland. It is one of the three lakes, including Perumbakkam and Vengaivasal, chosen for the eco-restoration project at a cost of Rs. 12 crore with funds from the Environment Management Agency of Tamil Nadu. The Water Resources Department (WRD) planned to restore the original storage capacity, strengthen the bund and improve the lake with recreational facilities at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore. Progress stalled However, residents noted that the work carried out, including the walkers’ path, were stopped earlier this year. V. Rama Rao, chairman of Sabari Green Foundation, said the lake had already shrunk and any delay in the project could lead to further encroachments. Desilting would lead to an increase in groundwater level. Residents of Adambakkam charged that the process of removing encroachments from the lake had been dragging for over a decade now due to inaction of the Revenue Department and the WRD.  However, the Water Resources Department listed out various challenges, including plugging sewage outfalls, that delayed the project. There was also a delay in getting funds. Officials said work was in progress to provide a flood regulator. “We are waiting for revenue authorities to verify the documents of the encroached structures to proceed with eviction,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-adambakkam-lake-to-be-desilted-soon/article32690787.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judges recuse themselves from hearing Nadigar Sangam election case||Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha of the Madras High Court on Thursday recused themselves from hearing a batch of cases related to the conduct of elections to the South Indian Artistes Association (SIAA), popularly known as Nadigar Sangam. The judges directed the High Court Registry to list the case before some other Division Bench. The decision was taken after the warring groups refused to arrive at a consensus on either counting the votes of elections already held or to hold fresh elections. The administration of Nadigar Sangam had turned murky after complaints were made by some members to the Registrar of Societies in 2019 that actors Vishal, Nasser and Karthi had no right to continue as office-bearers after the completion of their three-year tenure. Immediately, the former office-bearers moved a writ petition in the High Court and obtained permission from Justice P.D. Audikesavalu to conduct the elections on June 23, 2019. However, the judge ordered that the votes should not be counted till the final disposal of the case. After taking it up for final hearing, Justice K. Kalyanasundaram set aside the election already held and ordered fresh elections. Aggrieved over such an order, the former office-bearers moved a writ appeal before the Division Bench. When the appeal, along with a few other civil suits, were listed before the Bench led by Justice Sundresh, it directed the parties to attempt a compromise whereby both could agree either for counting the votes already cast or to hold fresh elections. However, on Thursday, they reported back that no such compromise could be reached with the former office-bearers not agreeing for a fresh election and the other faction not willing to accept the counting of votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judges-recuse-themselves-from-hearing-nadigar-sangam-election-case/article32690829.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC questions DME’s handling of PG medical admission||The Madras High Court on Thursday came down heavily on the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) for having given away on a “platter” about 100 post-graduate medical seats, which were filled by private medical colleges under the management quota with less meritorious candidates this year. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh expressed anguish over the “attitude” of the DME and its Selection Committee in not having taken proper steps to conduct mop up counselling for management quota seats and instead having permitted the colleges to fill them up on their own. “This may perfectly suit the private colleges but then it is done at the cost of overlooking merit,” the judge said and pointed out that meritorious candidates had lost the chance of being accommodated in better courses because of the failure to conduct mop up counselling on time. The observations were made while passing interim orders on a writ petition filed by M. Keethanjali, who scored 524 marks in National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for PG admissions and was allotted M.D. (Microbiology) in regular counselling held in May. No mop up counselling She wanted to take up M.D. (Paediatrics) during the mop up counselling process but it was never conducted. Instead the seat was given to another student, who had scored just 298 marks in NEET, on the basis of permission given by the DME to private colleges to fill up the seats. “At some stage, this court has to ensure that similar instances do not occur in future. There must be a mechanism to ensure that the selection process takes place strictly in accordance with the Medical Council of India regulations and guidelines issued by the Supreme Court.” “The respondents cannot be allowed to create a situation and thereafter water down the selection process, which ultimately results in less meritorious students getting the seats and private colleges profiteering from the same,” the judge said. He sought an explanation from the DME by October 15 for not having filed a petition in the Supreme Court on its own for extension of the last date for medical admissions this year so that mop up counselling could be conducted and meritorious students could be admitted. Petition in SC The judge pointed out that the DME had filed such a petition in the Supreme Court only after he directed it to do so but that application ended up being dismissed. He pointed out that other States had filed such applications on time and obtained extension of time. He also wanted the DME to explain why it had permitted private colleges to fill up seats that were declared vacant after the regular counselling to be filled up with candidates other than those who had already been allotted seats in the regular counselling process. The judge also wanted to know all details, such as names of candidates who were allotted seats in management quota seats of private colleges after grant of such permission by the DME, their NEET scores, the branch of medicine allotted to them and the name of the institution. He wanted the details to be submitted on October 15 for passing further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-questions-dmes-handling-of-pg-medical-admission/article32690794.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Obstacle course competition helps firefighters keep in shape||A few days ago, fire personnel in Tambaram slid down a rope and rescued a 40-year-old man who fell into a well. Since firefighters have to remain physically and mentally fit to make such rescues, the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) have started an obstacle competition for its personnel. The first obstacle competition was conducted at the Othivakkam Commando Training Centre. Over 100 personnel took part in the event, and they had to tackle 19 obstacles spread over 1.3 km. The cut-off time was 12 minutes and the personnel had to overcome a variety of obstacles, such as ladders, spider nets, skyscrapers and w-walls. “The event disciplines their mind and body. Firemen have to be focused as the obstacles are slippery and they have to finish on time. This somewhat replicates a real life rescue scenario. It gives them a sense of confidence too. We will be holding such events regularly so that they can carry out rescues with ease,” said Priya Ravichandran, Joint Director, TNFRS, Northern Region. The TNFRS Chennai region has made 138 rescues in 2019 and this includes 125 animals. The number is 66 in 2020 till date and out of this, 60 were animals. “We have to be extremely fit as most often we carry cows and other animals out of wells. Till now, we are used to general fitness workouts but the obstacle courses build our endurance, concentration and sense of timing,” said TNFRS firefighter M. Muthukumar, who came first by completing the obstacles in 10.15 minutes. Firefighter K. Arun Kumar, who completed the course in 10.19 minutes, said the TNFRS should organise more such events. “We have been given training in swimming and even scuba diving. As firefighters we should be in the best shape ever,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/obstacle-course-competition-helps-firefighters-keep-in-shape/article32690797.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Husband, wife set to be elevated as HC judges||The Supreme Court collegium on Wednesday cleared the names of 10 judicial officers to be elevated as judges of the Madras High Court but what made the news sweeter for the legal fraternity in the State is that two among the 10 officers are a married couple. Tiruchi Principal District and Sessions Judge Murali Shankar Kuppuraju and the Registrar (Judicial) of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Thamilselvi T. Valayapalayam had tied the knot in 1996 and are now the proud parents of two college going children. Once the collegium recommendation passes through the Union Ministry of Law and Justice as well as the Prime Minister’s Office and culminates into issuance of a warrant by the President, the couple would be sworn in judges of the Madras High Court. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Kuppuraju, hailing from Coimbatore, said he had obtained his degree in law from the government law college in his native in 1990 and joined Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in the entry level as a District Munsif-cum-Judicial Magistrate in 1995. Ms. Valayapalayam, hailing from Perundurai in Erode district, had completed her law in Puducherry and joined judicial service in the same post along with him in 1995. They fell in love and tied the knot in 1996. Since then, they have sailed together both professionally and personally. The couple got promoted to the cadres of sub judge, district judge and then principal district judge at the same time though they ended up being posted in different stations. Their elder daughter too had completed law recently from Sastra University in Thanjavur.  Other eight names that had been cleared for elevation were Kannammal Shanmugasundaram, Sathikumar Sukumara Kurup, Manjula Ramaraju Nalliah, G. Chandrasekharan, A.A. Nakkiran, Sivagnanam Veerasamy, Ilangovan Ganesan and Ananthi Subramanian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/husband-wife-set-to-be-elevated-as-hc-judges/article32691328.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Aim is to bring down case fatality rate to less than 1%‘||The aim is to bring down the State’s case fatality rate to less than 1%, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. During a media interaction after the inspection of a COVID-19 control room, the Minister said that efforts taken in the State had borne results. Tracking, tracing and testing the infected had helped bring down the positivity rate to 6.4%, he said. According to him, the positivity rate had fallen to less than 10%. The Minister said that this was as per guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Our aim is to bring down the positivity rate to 5%. The case fatality rate was initially at 1.6%, on average. We have managed to reduce it gradually to 1.4%, and this week, it has further come down to 1.2%,” he said. “From an average of 129 persons losing their lives due to COVID-19 every day, we have reduced the number of people dying of the infection to less than 70. We want to bring down the case fatality rate to less than 1%,” he added. Dr. Vijayabaskar attributed the improvement in recovery rate, now at 90.2%, to the focus on building medical infrastructure, besides the use of life-saving medicines and treatment modalities adopted by the State. The State has, so far, spent Rs. 1,982.9 crore on COVID-19-related activities, including on treatment and the development of infrastructure, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aim-is-to-bring-down-case-fatality-rate-to-less-than-1/article32690818.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Every effort taken to solve cases quickly, says Police Commissioner||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday said police personnel had been successful in arresting suspects within 24 hours in 90% of the recent criminal cases. He rewarded the personnel involved in the arrest of 15 suspects for their alleged involvement in multiple robberies. These incidents were reported on Wednesday from Tondiarpet, Basin Bridge, Red Hills and Thiruverkadu. Talking to reporters, Mr. Aggarwal said special teams had been constituted to trace the suspects after the incidents were reported on Wednesday. “Using electronic gadgets and some smart legwork, we have nabbed the suspects within 24 hours,” he said. Asked whether any specific deadline was fixed for investigators to solve cases and arrest suspects, Mr. Aggarwal said, “There is no specific deadline since this affects the investigation. But we make every effort to solve cases at the earliest. Sometimes, if there is a clue, we crack the case quickly. Other times, it may take a day or two. Our analysis revealed that in 90% of recent cases, we have been successful in arresting the accused within 24 hours.” The police recently circulated the mobile phone numbers of several personnel over social media. Mr. Aggarwal said, “The initiative is for residents to know who are on night duty and to quickly report any suspicious activity in their locality.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/every-effort-taken-to-solve-cases-quickly-says-police-commissioner/article32690790.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged at Lady Willindgon College||Students pursuing the diploma course in elementary education staged a protest on Thursday, demanding that their exams be held online. Several students staged a sit-in at the Lady Willindgon College of Education in the morning. They said they wanted the government to hold online exams, similar to the B.Ed and M.Ed students. The protest was spearheaded by the Students Federation of India. S. Mirdhula, one of the protesters, said first year students and those writing their arrears would have to take the tests without a break for 14 days. The police later took them to the Directorate of Public Instruction, where the protesters submitted a representation. They demanded that all students who had taken the tests so far be declared passed as a large portion of the lessons had not been completed. They pointed out that public transport had not been fully restored. There were also discrepancies in the correction of answersheets, they alleged. Since there was no response, the protesters decided to continue the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-staged-at-lady-willindgon-college/article32690788.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for rape, abetting suicide||The police on Thursday arrested a 33-year-old man for allegedly raping a 13-year-old schoolgirl and later driving her to end her life by blackmailing her. When the Taramani police began investigating the suicide of the girl, they found a suspicious SMS on the phone of the victim’s mother from one Gunaseelan, 33, who had moved to Kallukuttai right after the girl’s death. The parents said Gunaseelan used to tutor the victim. The police screened his mobile phone and recovered incriminating photos and videos. Gunaseelan fled but was nabbed by a special team near Valparai. He confessed that he used the victim’s compromising pictures and asked her for sexual favours. He said she killed herself after he threatened to release the photos and videos on the internet. Gunaseelan was charged under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-rape-abetting-suicide/article32690781.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Cong. to work towards making Stalin CM’||The DMK, under the leadership of president M.K. Stalin, will come to power in the upcoming Assembly election in the State in 2021 and the Congress will fight the election to ensure that Mr. Stalin ascends the Chief Minister’s throne, newly-appointed AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Thursday. “The DMK-led alliance will sweep the election in Tamil Nadu. Our leader Rahul Gandhi had expressed his desire to see Mr. Stalin as the Chief Minister even during the campaign for the 2019 Lok Sabha election,” Mr. Rao said. Mr. Rao, who was on his first visit to the city after being appointed the party in-charge for the Tamil Nadu unit, slammed the BJP for passing the three Agriculture Bills in Parliament and the AIADMK government for supporting the anti-farmer legislations. “The AIADMK should oppose these legislation. Instead, it is supporting the BJP. Today, when the State’s interests are being harmed by the BJP, which is usurping more power every day and infringing on the State’s rights, the State’s powers are being diminished. Tomorrow, everything will be under the BJP’s control if this continues.” ‘Giving to corporates’ Mr. Rao said the three Bills were among the many attempts by the BJP to give away everything to corporates in the country. He said contrary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claims that Minimum Support Price for farmers would be ensured, MSP would in fact collapse. “The agriculture markets will collapse. States will lose their revenue and farmers will fall into a vicious cycle of having to accept the price paid by private individuals for their produce. The Bills will only lead to more and more contract farming in the country,” Mr. Rao warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-will-work-towards-making-stalin-cm-aicc-leader/article32690826.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AWBI secy. warned of being forced to pay costs||The Madras High Court on Thursday warned Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) secretary S.K. Dutta of being imposed with costs if he does not explain by October 5 as to why the board withdrew a circular issued on August 6 for closure of all slaughter houses across the country during the Jain festival ‘Paryushan Parva’. Justices Vineet Kothari and Krishnan Ramasamy recorded their displeasure over the counsel representing AWBI and Mr. Dutta seeking time repeatedly to comply with the order passed on August 19. Granting them a final opportunity, the judges said such repeated adjournments amount to delaying the court proceedings. It was while passing interim orders on a PIL petition filed by the Madurai North Indian Welfare Association, represented by its president J. Hukamsingh, that the court found that AWBI had issued a circular to all States on August 6 for closure of slaughter houses but withdrew the instructions on August 11. Surprised why the circular was withdrawn, the judgessuo motuincluded AWBI and Mr. Dutta as respondents to the case and directed them to file an affidavit explaining the reasons for withdrawing the circular. They were also ordered to produce records to show who approved the withdrawal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awbi-secy-warned-of-being-forced-to-pay-costs/article32690823.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI to provide solar lighting along roads||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is looking to install solar lights along its roads in the State. On a trial basis, the project will be carried out on the Krishnagiri-Walajapet National Highway. “Going solar would cut down the heavy power bills of toll operators. Also, since it is to be connected to the grid, they will get some relief on the investment. Some contractors pay power bills of up to Rs. 20 lakh a month for road lighting, which could be brought down,” explained a senior official of the NHAI. As a first step, the toll plazas will get solar lighting. “We have to study the system for a couple of months before we extend solar power to other places along the highway,” said another official. However, the only hitch in the proposal is the low rate of Rs. 2 per unit being offered by Tangedco. “Now, commercial connections are charged Rs. 9 per unit. We are proposing to supply power to the grid. In such a case, a better rate is only fair. The State government should consider our request,” he said. Tangedco sources said they were only collecting the rates on the basis of what had been stipulated by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-to-provide-solar-lighting-along-roads/article32690822.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks funds from Centre for animal husbandry infrastructure||Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan called on the Union Minister of Animal Husbandry in New Delhi on Thursday and sought financial assistance of Rs. 1,140 crore towards improving the infrastructural requirements of the Department of Animal Husbandry in the State. The State government sought the release of the Central share of Rs. 500 crore being the 60% cost for the establishment of three veterinary college and research institutes at Thalaivasal in Salem district, Veerapandi in Theni district and Udumalpet in Tiruppur district. It also sought Rs. 209.63 crore for various schemes under the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University. To meet the native poultry chicken meat demand in the State, the Minister requested a fund of Rs. 102.76 crore for establishing a Modern Native Poultry Breeding Farm along with feed mill, hatchery and slaughter house. The memorandum, covering all aspects, was submitted to the Union Minister of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-funds-from-centre-for-animal-husbandry-infrastructure/article32690819.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC calls for report on TNHB official threatening residents of Peters Colony||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Thursday called for reports from the Housing Secretary and the Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) over a complaint that alleged an engineer was threatening residents of Peters Colony to vacate the tenements. SHRC acting Chairperson D. Jayachandran called for a detailed report on the issue within five weeks. According to the complaint by T.S. Muthuselvan, secretary of the Peters Colony Residents’ Welfare Association, TNHB executive engineer (in-charge) Gandhi was threatening residents of the area to vacate so that parts of the tenements could be demolished for the construction of a commercial complex. Secretariat staff, government servants, frontline health workers and journalists, among others, involved in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic were residing in the colony, it said. Despite the occurrence of COVID-19 cases in the locality, the executive engineer was employing goondas to force them to evict, the complaint said. The executive engineer had threatened that he would disconnect the electricity and water connections of the tenements if the residents did not vacate soon, the letter said. It sought for a direction to the government to withdraw from attempts to evict them. As their children were studying in schools nearby, the residents pleaded not to force them to vacate until the end of the 2020-21 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-calls-for-report-on-tnhb-official-threatening-residents-of-peters-colony/article32690784.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC rules in favour of person taken into police custody illegally||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Thursday recommended compensation of Rs. 1.75 lakh to an individual who was taken into custody by women police in connection with a domestic dispute, despite him producing a certificate from the Chief Kazi who had granted him divorce from his wife. The Commission also recommended to the Home Secretary to initiate departmental action against the four police personnel involved in the case. Passing orders on a complaint by H. Abul Hassan of K.K. Nagar, SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss also recommended to the Home Secretary that the government recover the sum of Rs. 1.75 lakh to be paid as compensation with Lakshmi, then inspector, paying Rs. 1 lakh and Pasupathy, then sub-inspector, and Meerabai and Varalakshmi, then head constables, all attached to the R3 Ashok Nagar All-Women police station, paying Rs. 25,000 each. According to the complainant, he was illegally arrested by the respondents, despite producing proof that the Government Chief Kazi by his official order on January 27, 2013, had granted a divorce from his wife. His wife had an extramarital affair and this led to the divorce, he said. Both the Chief Kazi and the principal judge of the family court had ruled in his favour for the custody of their children. When he visited his ex-wife’s house, he was assaulted by her family. But his complaint was not accepted by the Ashok Nagar police, he alleged. After he moved a criminal original petition before the High Court, seeking to register a complaint against his former wife and her family, it gave an order in his favour. But the inspector summoned him for an enquiry on a complaint filed by his ex-wife, alleging that he had demanded dowry. Though he produced the divorce document, the police personnel did not check it, he said. After hearing arguments from both sides, the Commission passed the orders in favour of the complainant on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-rules-in-favour-of-person-taken-into-police-custody-illegally/article32690785.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM, Dy. CM and Stalin offer condolences||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his deputy O. Panneerselvam on Thursday condoled the death of Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi. “CM Tamilnadu was shocked to hear of the sad and untimely demise of Union Minister of State for Railways @SureshAngadi_ ji. He conveys his heartfelt condolences to the grieved family members,” Mr. Palaniswami tweeted. In his condolence message, Mr. Panneerselvam tweeted, “Saddened and shocked by the demise of Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Railways Shri.Suresh Angadi @SureshAngadi_ ji. I pray for his soul to rest in peace and may the Almighty give the strength to his family to overcome this irreplaceable loss.” Mr. Stalin also expressed his condolences to the family of Suresh Angadi, who died after contracting the COVID-19 infection. “Deeply saddened to hear about the demise of MoS Railways Thiru. Suresh Angadi. I convey my heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-dy-cm-and-stalin-offer-condolences/article32690824.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M develops indigenous microprocessor||Researchers of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, have booted up a microprocessor ‘Moushik’. A processor-cum-system on a chip that can cater to the rapidly-growing IoT devices, Moushik was conceptualised, designed and developed at Pratap Subrahmanyam Centre for Digital Intelligence and Secure Hardware Architecture (PS-CDISHA) of RISE group, Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the institute. The project was funded by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. V. Kamakoti, one of the members of the Reconfigurable Intelligent Systems Engineering (RISE) group at the CSE department, said the three steps in the making of a microprocessor, such as design, fabrication and post-silicon boot-up, were taken up in India. “The design of the microprocessor, motherboard printed circuit board design, assembly and post-silicon boot-up were done at IIT-Madras. The foundry-specific back-end design and fabrication was undertaken at the Semi-Conductor Laboratory of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in Chandigarh and manufacturing of this motherboard was done at Bengaluru. Shakthi Moushik SOC will constitute the heart of an indigenously-developed motherboard, called Ardonyx 1.0,” he said. The field application of Moushik includes smart cards, such as credit and debit cards; ID cards; travel cards for Metro Rail and driving licences; electronic voting machines; office management systems, including attendance, surveillance cameras and safe locks; personalised health management systems; and consumer electronics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-develops-indigenous-microprocessor/article32690782.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM requests PM to set up Siddha institute in T.N.||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to establish the proposed All-India Institute of Siddha in Tamil Nadu. In his letter, a copy of which was released to the media, Mr. Palaniswami said he had directed the officials concerned to provide all details sought by the Centre. The State government had already briefed the Union Secretary concerned but a reply was awaited, it added. Mr. Palaniswami said the land required for the institute, with good air, rail and road connectivity, had already been identified near Chennai. He requested Mr. Modi to establish the institute in Tamil Nadu, in the current financial year. “It will be apt to establish the pioneer institute in Tamil Nadu, which is where the Siddha system originated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-requests-pm-to-set-up-siddha-institute-in-tn/article32690816.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC relaxes restrictions in T.N. on functioning of trial courts||The Madras High Court on Thursday relaxed restrictions imposed on physical hearing of cases in all trial courts across the State due to the threat posed by COVID-19. It enhanced the number of cases that could be listed and heard by every trial court from 10 to “at least” 20 a day from Monday. The Administrative Committee, comprising top seven judges of the High Court, also permitted the entry of litigants as well as advocate clerks on the court campuses. The courts were allowed to let the accused surrender and entertain sureties by permitting them to enter the courts. The decision was taken after most of the principal district judges in the State informed the Administrative Committee of unsatisfactory response to physical hearing from the lawyers because of the prohibition on the entry of litigants on the court campuses. The committee, comprising Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justices Vineet Kothari, R. Subbiah, M. Sathyanarayanan, N. Kirubakaran, M.M. Sundresh and T.S. Sivagnanam, interacted with the principal district judges through video conferencing before taking the decision. Separate time slots It, however, ordered that separate time slots should be assigned for the appearance of litigants and sureties in order to avoid overcrowding and to maintain physical distancing norms. The restrictions were not relaxed for the taluk court in Thriuthiraipoondi alone due to certain concerns. Similarly, the Administrative Committee refused to relax the restrictions with respect to the courts in Puducherry and Karaikal, since the Chief Judge of the Union Territory reported that the death rate due to COVID-19 had increased. The committee further resolved that a decision on opening bar association rooms, lawyers’ chambers and canteens in the court complexes would be taken after assessing the functioning of the courts with relaxed restrictions. It further instructed the judicial officers across the State to ensure that service of summons and court notices were done by bailiffs and process servers using the NSTEP mobile app that had been provided in smartphones issued to them recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-relaxes-restrictions-in-tn-on-functioning-of-trial-courts/article32690827.ece
25 September 2020||Chennai/Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu police seize 74 idols in Puducherry||The Tamil Nadu Idol Wing-CID seized a huge cache of ancient panchaloha and stone idols, which were stocked on the premises of a Puducherry businessman, on Thursday. Armed with a search warrant from a court, R. Sakthivel, Superintendent of Police, Idol Wing, and 15 personnel began the search at 10 a.m. in the ancestral house of Jean Paul Rajarathinam on Roman Rolland Street, which is located opposite the Department of Art and Culture, Puducherry. Of the total 74 idols, 60 are of antique bronze and 14 of stone, which were suspected to be stolen from temples in Tamil Nadu. They could be worth several crores of rupees. Rajarathinam is the brother of Marie Therese Anandi Vanina, 37, a French woman of Indian origin, whose house on Frederic Ozanam Street, Colas Nagar, Puducherry, was raided in 2016 by the Idol Wing and 11 antique bronze idols, worth several crores of rupees, were seized. Her husband Prabakaran was cited as an accused in the case and she was arrested by the Idol Wing-CID in August 2019 in Chennai on the charge of illegally exporting stolen antique idols and artefacts for several years from Puducherry to France. A senior officer of the Idol Wing told The Hindu, “Following the dismissal of a case instituted by Rajarathinam in the Madras High Court claiming ownership of these idols, we formally obtained a warrant from a jurisdictional court and seized all these idols illegally stored here. These idols are meant only for worship in Hindu temples.” According to the police officer, Rajarathinam claimed that his grandfather Joseph De Condappa was interested in collecting antique idols of various deities, and he had acquired them from Sambasiva Sthapathi between 1956 and the 1970s. Rajarathinam and Vanina had a running dispute over the idols. His grandfather had obtained a registration certificate from the competent authority under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972. “There were no relevant records to justify that they were bought legally, and had genuine ownership. One could not obtain antiquity certificates in the 1970s for idols which were bought or made between 1956 and the 1970s. The son of Sambasiva Sthapathi told us his father did not make these kind of idols,” the senior officer said. Sources said all the recovered idols would be produced before a court in Kumbakonam. On the orders of the court, they would be restored to the temples to which they belong.  There were no relevant records to justify that they were bought legally, and had genuine ownership||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-police-seize-74-idols-in-puducherry/article32690838.ece
25 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lone tusker tramples man to death||A 31-year-old man from Palakkad district of Kerala was trampled to death by a wild elephant near Coimbatore late on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as R. Gnanaprakash, 31, a native of Mattathukad village near Mannarkad in Palakkad. Forest Department officials said that Gnanaprakash, a tractor driver, and his friend Arun Kumar had come to Moonukuttai village near Gopanari within the limits of Periyanaickenpalayam forest range for ploughing the land of a farmer on Wednesday. After finishing the work for the day, Gnanaprakash and Arunkumar headed for Kerala in a two-wheeler through a jungle of Gopanari forest beat. However, on the way, they had an encounter with a lone male elephant that stepped on to the road from bushes. Officials said that the elephant trampled Gnanaprakash while Mr. Kumar managed to escape. Gnanaprakash died on the spot. The elephant attack took place at a place which is around 1.5 km away from the Kerala border at Mattathukad. The forest officials here informed the Karamadai police about the incident and shifted the body to a Government hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lone-tusker-tramples-man-to-death/article32690842.ece
25 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 7,000 samples collected for tests per day in Coimbatore district, says Minister||Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani said on Thursday that an average of 7,000 swab samples were being collected from people for COVID-19 tests in Coimbatore district per day. According to him, 7,249 samples were collected for tests on Wednesday. The current sample size is almost twice the size of samples that were being collected by the Health Department in the district two weeks ago, said Health Department sources. Mr. Velumani said that COVID-19 test was conducted for 3,39,089 people in the district as of Wednesday. The number of fever camps conducted so far stood at 11,097, said the Minister after reviewing the COVID-19 management works in a meeting held at the Collectorate here on Thursday. District Collector K. Rajamani, Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah, Deputy Inspector General of Coimbatore range K. S. Narenthiran Nair, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, District Revenue Officer D. Ramaduraimurugan, Deans of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and Government Medical College and ESI Hospital namely P. Kalidas and A. Nirmala and senior officials from various departments attended the meeting. Before the meeting, the Minister distributed battery-operated wheelchair, hearing aid and air bed worth Rs. 2.36 lakh to beneficiaries at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-7000-samples-collected-for-tests-per-day-in-coimbatore-district-says-minister/article32690860.ece
25 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Waste processing company’s notice worries Vellalore residents||Residents in and around Vellalore and activists are worried about the notice that waste management company had sent to the Coimbatore Corporation. The company, Coimbatore Integrated Waste Management Company Pvt. Ltd. (CIWMCPL), that processes about 50% of the city’s waste in Vellalore had sent the notice a few days ago asking the civic body to pay at least Rs. 15 crore by the end of this month or treat the notice as a preliminary intimation for termination of contract. The Corporation, the company, said owed it Rs. 56.93 crore. The company’s letter has the Vellalore residents worried, who say their situation could turn worse if waste processing is stopped. CIWMCPL stopping waste processing would result in Corporation dumping an additional 500 tonne mixed waste in the Vellalore yard. Or, in other words, the Corporation would be dumping the entire city’s waste, 1,000-odd tonnes a day, in the yard, says J. Daniel of Vellalore Kuppaikidangu Ethirpu Kuzhu (a residents’ collective opposing the mismanagement at the dump yard). More unsegregated waste means more pollution, more odour, more flies, and more people turning sick, what with the North East monsoon season only a couple of weeks away. This clearly shows that the Corporation has not prioritised the welfare of the Vellalore residents and reflected the civic body’s poor financial health, which is a result of mismanagement. V. Eswaran of MDMK, who took the Corporation to the National Green Tribunal, says the failure to pay the company its dues only showed the failure of Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. The Corporation that spends hundreds of crores of rupees in Smart Cities Mission projects is unable to find money to pay the waste processing contractor is surprising, Mr. Eswaran says and points out that waste accumulation in Vellalore will not only pose a threat to the residents’ health but also impact the integrated bus stand project. He says the MDMK will not hesitate to mobilise the residents to stage a protest to draw the State government’s attention. DMK MLA and former Coimbatore Deputy Mayor N. Karthik says the Corporation mismanaging solid waste management and its poor financial health squarely reflected Mr. Velumani’s failure as Municipal Administration Minister. When the Corporation started the solid waste management project for around Rs. 100 crore in 2010 when the DMK was in power, the civic body created awareness among residents, distributed bins and paved the way for a successful waste management project. That the Corporation has almost derailed the project in the last nine years only shows the AIADMK government’s failure. In a related development, the Corporation has paid Rs. 50 lakh to CIWMCPL, sources say and add that this was no way close to the Rs. 10 crore that the company had demanded by September 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waste-processing-companys-notice-worries-vellalore-residents/article32690846.ece
25 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident near Palladam||A man and a woman were killed when the van in which they were travelling collided with a tanker truck at Perumpali near Palladam on Coimbatore – Tiruchi Road on Thursday evening. The police said that a third man, who suffered serious injuries in the accident, was admitted to a private hospital. The identities of the deceased and the injured were yet to be confirmed by the police. Further investigation is on into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident-near-palladam/article32690862.ece
25 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kidnappers of Minister’s aide remain at large||The Tiruppur District (Rural) Police on Thursday said they were yet to trace a five-member gang that kidnapped a personal assistant of Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan from the MLA office at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district on Wednesday. Tiruppur District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal said investigation was under way. Ms. Mittal is directly overseeing the investigation. After being kidnapped from the MLA office around 11.30 a.m., the Minister’s aide Karnan was released by the gang near Dhali, Udumalpet. He took a walk to a known person's house and then informed others that he was released by the kidnappers. The police collected the statement of Karnan and other staff in the MLA office as part of the investigation. As per the complaint lodged by D. Karpagam, a typist at the MLA office, unknown men barged into the office and forcibly took Karnan to the car in which they came. She was locked inside the office and a woman from a nearby house opened the door after she shouted for help, she said in her complaint lodged at the Udumalpet police station. Her complaint said that two other colleagues, namely Kalidas and Subramani, had come to office in the morning but left some time before the incident took place. Surveillance camera visuals from the office showed four men wearing masks coming to the office and leaving with Karnan. A fifth man remained at the wheel. Based on Ms. Karpagam’s complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 447 (punishment for criminal trespass), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kidnappers-still-at-large/article32690831.ece
25 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation seals swab collection centre of private lab||Coimbatore Corporation on Thursday sealed a swab collection centre of a private laboratory chain approved for conducting COVID-19 testing, following allegations of variation in test results. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian told The Hindu that the centre at Vadavalli was closed on Wednesday and officials sealed it on Thursday, pending inquiry. On Wednesday, a native of Kovilmedu in Coimbatore had complained to the Vadavalli police accusing the laboratory of having issued a wrong positive result for a COVID-19 test. The man had alleged he tested negative for COVID-19 when his swab sample was tested at another laboratory in the city. A source at the laboratory said that reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method used for COVID-19 diagnosis has test variability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-seals-swab-collection-centre-of-private-lab/article32690854.ece
25 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corrugated box manufacturers seek price stability||Manufacturers of corrugated boxes are facing steep increase in cost of raw materials and other inputs and are thus staring at huge losses, according to the Indian Corrugated Case Manufacturers’ Association. The Indian corrugated box industry, with over 350 automatic corrugators and more than 10,000 semi-automatic units, has seen kraft paper mills increase prices steeply and other conversion input costs spiralling. Overall, there is 18 % to 20 % hike in input costs. The kraft paper mills say that price of domestic and imported waste paper has increased in the last two months. Since China proposes to ban waste paper imports with effect from January 1, 2021, it is consuming the supplies available now in the global market and this has pushed the prices up. Further, with lockdowns all over the globe due to COVID-19, generation of water paper has fallen. The Indian paper mills could not import adequate volumes during lockdown periods resulting in lower inventory of required grades and shortage in some lower grades. Sandeep Wadhwa, president of the Indian Corrugated Case Manufacturers Association, appealed to the kraft paper mills to stabilise the prices and to ensure that supply chain in not hampered during the recovery phase. Harish Madan, vice-president of the Association, said that unless the box users, including large FMCG brand owners, support the industry, its survival will be difficult.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corrugated-box-manufacturers-seek-price-stability/article32690863.ece
25 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Seminar for medical aspirants held||Limra Overseas Education recently organised a one-day free seminar for medical aspirants regarding the opportunities available in the Philippines. For details, contact 99529-22333; 94457-83333.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seminar-for-medical-aspirants-held/article32690844.ece
25 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Inflow drops at Bhavani Sagar dam||The inflow at Bhavani Sagar dam that was over 3,000 cusecs on Wednesday dropped to less than 900 cusecs on Thursday evening. At 3 p.m., the water level stood at 101.85 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet while the storage was 30.196 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. Discharge was 2,300 cusecs in Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and 800 in Arakankottai and Thadapalli Canals. Public Works Department officials said that rain has stopped in the catchment areas leading to drop in the inflow in the past two days. They said that due to drop in the inflow, the water level is increasing slowly. Mettur inflow The inflow to Mettur dam reduced to 49,000 cusecs on Thursday. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 990 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 63,551 mcft and the inflow to the dam reduced from 61,000 cusecs on Wednesday to 35,000 cusecs. The discharge from the dam to Cauvery river was increased from 18,000 cusecs to 20,000 cusecs on Thursday. The discharge through East-West Canal was increased to 850 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-drops-at-bhavani-sagar-dam/article32690848.ece
25 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco online bill payment||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) have asked Low Tension consumers to utilise online services for payment of electricity bills. A press release said that consumers can pay their bills at the offices. For further details, visitwww.tangedco.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-online-bill-payment/article32690843.ece
25 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works in the Market electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on September 25 on Krishnan Street, A.B.T. Road, K.A.A.S. Nagar, Park Road and Sadayappa Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32690849.ece
25 September 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Uzhavar Sandhai to function from temporary locations’||The Uzhavar Sandhai that was shuttered here as part of COVID-19 containment measures will be reopened in the same location only after number of cases returned to zero. The farmers’ market has since been relocated to two different locations, with the breakup of stalls. The Uzhavar Sandhai that was a huge draw among Hosur residents was shuttered pre-emptively to avoid an outbreak, especially due to its location. The old farmers’ market was sited on a location with a narrow approach road causing heavy congestion. In its wake, the market was closed to avoid build-up of clusters taking cue from the experience of Koyambedu cluster. The market was bifurcated with number of stalls divided to be set up on the road abutting Ramanayakkan Lake and at the MGR market for another group. Amid queries of the relocation of market back to its original spot, the corporation has no plans of moving the market back to its erstwhile location as the number of cases in Hosur was steadily spiking on a daily basis. According to Hosur Corporation Commissioner Balasubramaniam, for now, the Uzhavar Sandhai will continue to operate from its two temporary locations. “The market will not be moved back, until the number of cases came down to zero.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uzhavar-sandhai-to-function-from-temporary-locations/article32690851.ece
25 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||This bridge is broken||New caution boards have come up on either side of Mayor Muthu Road Overbridge (ROB) warning heavy vehicles with more than 10 tonnes of weight to avoid the structure connecting Periyar bus stand with southern parts of Madurai city. Reason: the bridge has lost its designed stability due to lack of proper maintenance. The bridge is a vital connectivity on the all-important Tirupparankundram Road providing the shortest link for southern districts to Madurai railway junction and Meenakshi temple. In a bid to safeguard the “weak structure”, the Highways Department has put up another caution board restricting the speed limit on the bridge to 30 kmph. A cursory glance shows that the sub-structure of the bridge is in bad shape what with the outer plastering worn out in every pillar. The iron rods have remained exposed to open air in too many spots for very long and are rusted. Even as the plastering has peeled off in many spots for more than half-a-foot, fresh cracks on the pillars reveal the stress the substructure is undergoing. Every hour, hundreds of heavy vehicles, including buses, light vehicles and two-wheelers use the bridge under which Madurai-Manamadurai railway track runs. “The bridge is more than 45 years old and needs urgent attention to retore it to its normal health,” says former Chief Engineer, State Highways Department, A.K. Rajaduraivelpandian. It is not an isolated case of Mayor Muthu Bridge alone, but many structures of its age in the State are facing the same problem, he points out. “These are vey old bridges and routine maintenance like plastering and colour washing will not serve the purpose.” The bridges should get special attention. “Advanced scientific solutions are available and concrete mix should be injected with advanced machineries to restore their stability,” Mr. Pandian says. The State Highways should create a separate wing for maintenance of bridges on the lines of railways, he adds. A senior Highways official says a proposal for major maintenance work at a cost of Rs. 5 crore is pending with the State government. “The work will be taken up as per the advice of IIT-Madras. Once the reinforcement is done, it will gain its old stability.” Traffic police have been advised to divert heavy vehicles through Ellis Nagar ROB, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-bridge-is-broken/article32690956.ece
25 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Anti-rabies vaccination camp on September 28||A free anti-rabies vaccination camp for dogs and cats will be held at Government veterinary polyclinic at Tallakulam on September 28 from 8 a.m. to 12 noon. All dogs and cats aged more than 100 days are eligible and will also receive a certificate after the vaccination. All COVID-19 related safety precautions will be completely followed, said a press release from the polyclinic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-rabies-vaccination-camp-on-september-28/article32690957.ece
25 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Nagercoil sexual harassment case: CB-CID officials appear before HC||After two accused in the Nagercoil sexual harassment case were granted bail, as the CB-CID had failed to file a final report within the mandatory time period, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday observed that the final reports in such sensitive cases should be filed on time. Justice V. Bharathidasan took into account the fact that nearly six criminal cases were pending against Kasi, key accused in the case, and at least 120 women had been affected. No final report was filed by the CB-CID in any of the cases. Both his associates, Desan Jino and Dinesh, were granted bail. The court, which had summoned the DSP, CB-CID, Kanniyakumari district, and the Investigating Officer, said this was unfortunate. The officials were present during the hearing. Kasi was detained under the Goondas Act on the ground that he was a habitual offender and had indulged in activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public health and public order. It was said that he had befriended women from affluent families, sexually harassed them and extorted money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagercoil-sexual-harassment-case-cb-cid-officials-appear-before-hc/article32690958.ece
25 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Saptur youth’s family members demand re-postmortem||The family members of K. Ramesh, who was found dead near Vazhaithoppu under Saptur police station limits, moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday seeking a re-postmortem by medical experts. The family members alleged that police torture led to the death of the youth. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the State to file their counter affidavit in the case. In a petition filed before the court, the family members alleged that the youth was picked up for inquiry on the evening of September 16. He was found hanging from a tree the next day. They alleged that it was a case of police torture. They said they were sure that Ramesh was not taken to the police station and suspected that he was taken to an undisclosed spot and brutally tortured. It is said that Ramesh’s elder brother, Idhayakani, eloped with a girl, who was their relative, and the police had been questioning the youth in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saptur-youths-family-members-demand-re-postmortem/article32691324.ece
25 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Life-saving procedure performed on woman||Doctors of Government District Headquarters Hospital of Dindigul successfully performed a life-saving procedure on a 29-year-old woman from Kodaikanal to remove her non-functioning left kidney, amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Dean K.K. Vijayakumar said it was performed by a team led by T. Suresh Babu, Head, Department of Surgery. “It is significant to note that this procedure was performed even during the testing times like the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Dr. Babu said the woman had severe pain in her left loin. “After it was found that her left kidney was not functioning, we initiated nephrectomy (surgery to remove a kidney) after she tested negative for COVID-19. Also, the left kidney was filled with pus. Hence, it was all the more important to perform the surgery,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-saving-procedure-performed-on-woman/article32691312.ece
25 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stop illegal sand mining near archaeological sites: PIL plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the government to restrain illegal sand mining near archaeological sites in Sivaganga district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State on the petition filed by K. Mahesh Raja of Thirupuvanam, who complained of illegal sand mining activities close to Keeladi, Manalur, Konthagai and Agaram villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-illegal-sand-mining-near-archaeological-sites-pil-plea/article32691325.ece
25 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mother, daughter booked for cheating||Jaihindpuram police have booked R. Sangeetha, 38, and her daughter Kowsalya, 22, on charges of cheating a finance company of Rs. 21.86 lakh. Police said t Kowsalya was employed with the finance company functioning at Thevar Nagar in the city. Based on a complaint from V. Muthuraja, 61, police booked the duo for cheating and criminal breach of trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mother-daughter-booked-for-cheating/article32691329.ece
25 September 2020||P. SudhakarTIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Renovation of two tanks leads to jump in yield||The rejuvenation of waterbodies, taken up by the district administration exactly a year ago by involving government departments, non-governmental organisations and the public, has yielded good results as agriculture production has gone up substantially in all these areas. This significant achievement has increased the area of cultivation under these waterbodies, thanks to the additional water stored in the renovated irrigation tanks. The most important feature is that these exercises did not cause any expense to the government as the public shared the entire cost. The district administration, in association with Anna University, Chennai, designed a methodology in 2018 to restore the hitherto uncared for waterbodies with the active involvement of the locals for coordinated execution. The prime objective was to renovate the waterbodies with locals’ participation to ensure increased agriculture productivity. The methodology was formulated by demarcating the river region and the responsibility was allocated to all the stakeholders. Based on the processed data, the district administration organised a discussion on the methods to be adopted for the rejuvenation work with the participation of different government departments, institutions, NGOs’ and the public. This methodology was meticulously adopted.  Major works Two major works are the renovation of irrigation tanks at Manur and Pallamadai and their supply channels. “In these two major works, Anna University and ‘Nam Tamirabharani Iyakkam’ played laudable roles that significantly increased the storage of the tanks, especially the Manur Periyakulam. The data itself will speak for the work we’ve completed,” says Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. After the completion of the renovation a year ago, crops were raised on hitherto unused 130 hectares of land under Manur Periyakulam to give additional yield of 1,076 tonnes of paddy in 2019-20. Similarly, the renovation of nearby Pallamadai tank boosted the farmers’ morale and the productivity. “We never imagined of carrying out such a work in this neglected region where the Collector had to neutralise man-made and nature’s hurdles. Ultimately, we have been immensely benefited,” says Mohamed Ibrahim of Manur Farmers’ Association, who mobilised men, material and resources for the completion of these two works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovation-of-two-tanks-leads-to-jump-in-yield/article32691317.ece
25 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||10% of population tested in U.T.||Puducherry reached a COVID-19 milestone on Thursday when it became the country’s first Union Territory to test 10% of its population. The Union Territory, which scaled up testing from about 1,500 samples a day a month ago to over 5,000 now, has in all tested 1,55,025 samples as on Thursday, with 1,25,215 of them returning negative. The number of persons tested constitutes 10% of the 15 lakh population in the Union Territory. The sustained increase in testing and a qualitative shift in surveillance has been central to the Union Territory’s success in lowering the test positivity rate to less than 10% now from 35% to 45% three weeks ago. On Thursday, it logged 668 new cases from 5,945 tests at a positivity rate of about 11%. “Among the key factors are strengthening of health manpower and the calibration of containment and active surveillance strategy that enabled detection and isolation of new cases to break the transmission chain,” T. Arun, Health Secretary and District Collector, told The Hindu . While the expert advice, from WHO to ICMR, had been to scale up testing (trace-test-isolate-treat) to flatten the COVID-19 curve, the gradual uptick in the number of tests started in the second week of this month. Teams of field staff have been going door-to-door to screen for ILI/SARI symptoms and undertake RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests, which are more or less in equal ratio. RNA machine Meanwhile, the Collector told a press conference that the procurement of an RNA extraction machine at the IGMCRI had resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of tests from about 30 a day initially to about 465 on Wednesday. The Vector Control Research Institute has been doing a similar number of tests. The Union Territory recorded six more deaths, taking the toll to 487. The patients, including four women, were in the 50-75 age group. With this, the toll is 487 and the tally is 24,895 cases with 5,097 active ones and 19,311 discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-of-population-tested-in-ut/article32690834.ece
25 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One in five in U.T. has COVID-19 antibodies: sero-survey||One in every five persons in Puducherry district was infected with COVID-19 by August-end, the results of a Jipmer sero-survey have found. The findings of the sero-survey, launched in two rounds in August and September, showed that between July-end and August, the antibody sero-prevalence showed a 4.2-fold increase. This is in keeping with the 4.1-fold rise in the number of confirmed cases over the same period in Puducherry (from 2987 to 12,331), Jipmer said in a press note. The first sero-survey had indicated that one in 20 persons in the district showed evidence of COVID-19 infection. The second round data indicates that Puducherry had a high rate of transmission in August. Also, the prevalence of serological evidence with antibodies in the population is much higher than detected by RT-PCR as found at two time points; 19.6 (4.9/0.25) and 20.1 (20.7/1.03) fold respectively on July 30 and on August 30. “Thus, by the end of August, nearly one-fifth of population in Puducherry had been infected with the Covid-19 infection,” the Jipmer release said. According to the press note, two community-based serological surveys were conducted at intervals of four weeks in an attempt to find information on the extent of spread and trend of infection. Blood samples were collected from randomly selected adults from 30 clusters in a ratio of 21 urban and 9 rural areas to replicate the population distribution in Puducherry. The two surveys were conducted during August 11-16 and September 10-16. In the first round in August, 869 adults were tested and 43 (4.9%) had antibodies against SARS CoV-2 with a higher positivity in urban areas (5.7% versus 3.1%) and among women (6.3% versus 3.6%). The first round data reflects the cumulative proportion of Puducherry population infected as on July 30. In the second round, of the 898 adults tested, 186 (20.7%) had antibodies against the SARS CoV-2 infection. In the second round, the positivity rate was similar in urban and rural population (20.7% versus 20.8%) and among men and women (21.4% versus 20%). The second-round data reflects the cumulative proportion of Puducherry population which had been infected with COVID-19 as on August 30. The number of cases recorded in the district population on July 30 and August 30 respectively were 2,987 and 12,331 with incidence rates (population estimate for year 2020 is 12,00,000) of 0.25% and 1.03% respectively, the press note said.  Two community based serological surveys were conducted at intervals of four weeks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-in-five-in-ut-has-covid-19-antibodies-sero-survey/article32690832.ece
25 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi backs plea against CM’s call for agitation||Justifying the assertion made by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam that the protest planned by the Congress against the farm bills in the Union Territory would be counter-productive in containing COVID-19, Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Thursday said, “The MLA is right. This is clear undermining of the joint hard work being put in to contain the COVID spread.” Responding to the letterby AIADMK floor leader A. Anbalagan, seeking action against Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy for calling an agitation against the Centre on September 28, the Lieutenant Governor, in a WhatsApp message, said: “Disturbing the recovery by doing agitations will be highly detrimental and ill- timed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedi-backs-plea-against-cms-call-for-agitation/article32690835.ece
25 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Move afoot to contain vector-borne diseases||With the northeast monsoon ahead and the pandemic around, the district administration has drawn up an action plan to contain any outbreak of vector-borne diseases, particularly dengue and chikungunya. Though the figures available for the last nine months for both the vector-borne diseases show that cases during the period were less than those recorded during the corresponding months last year, the administration does not want to take a chance as a spike in dengue cases happens during the October-December period. District Collector-cum-Secretary (Health) T. Arun, who convened a meeting to review preparedness to deal with dengue on Wednesday, told The Hindu that the administration had decided to observe Friday as “dry day”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-afoot-to-contain-vector-borne-diseases/article32690836.ece
25 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Negative result can be downloaded||Persons testing negative for COVID-19 can download the results, even by using their mobile phones, instead of queuing up at the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory in Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital where they have given their swab samples. The hospital recently launched an online portal to declare the results of the tests done at the laboratory. Persons who had given their samples will receive an SRIF ID number by SMS on their mobile phone. A web link will be sent to their phone only if they test negative. The results can be downloaded and a print taken. However, if they test positive, health officials will be informed. Dean of the hospital R. Balajinathan said the system was introduced to reduce hardship to people and to prevent crowding at the laboratory. Dr. Balajinathan said the laboratory tested about 6,024 samples on Wednesday, the highest since the testing began at the hospital. Over 2.5 lakh samples had been tested at the laboratory till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/negative-result-can-be-downloaded/article32690856.ece
25 September 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||95.1% of COVID-19 patients cured in Sivaganga so far||Sivaganga district has successfully cured 95.1% of the patients who had tested positive to COVID-19, said Deputy Director of Health Yasodamani here on Thursday. Between April and August, 4,576 pregnant women were screened and 298 among them tested positive. They were all treated for the infection and the babies were delivered safely. During the pandemic, 4,810 deliveries were performed in the district, Dr. Yasodamani told The Hindu . For the benefit of senior citizens who could not move out of home due to the pandemic, government doctors were available on mobile phone 93454 67903 for consultation, she said and added that downloading the eSanjeevani App had been beneficial to the needy. About 1,600 patients had used the the App so far, she said. Another official said that so far 77,133 people were screened in the district and 4,878 among them tested positive, which was 6.3 % of the total tests. Collector J Jayakanthan said that among the 10 districts in south Tamil Nadu, Sivaganga had been maintaining the 10th position till date with 297 active cases in hospitals till Wednesday. With swift test results made possible in the district's three testing machines, they had increased the testing from 700 to 1,500 persons in a day, Dr. Yasodamani said and added that in July, 19,605 people were tested and 1,830 of them were found positive. In August, 21,192 tests were taken and 1,035 tested positive and in September, 22,303 tests were taken and 479 turned out to be positive. Hence, the infection was on the decline. However, people must continue to take caution and stay indoors and use face masks while going out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/951-of-covid-19-patients-cured-in-sivaganga-so-far/article32691314.ece
25 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Body of COVID-19 victim exhumed||Acting on apprehension about theft of body organs raised by family members of COVID victims, authorities exhumed a body in Pattukottai on Thursday. The body of Saleem (42), a jewellery shop owner of Nehru Nagar, was exhumed from the precincts of a mosque where he was buried, and the re-post mortem was conducted on the spot by a medical team in the presence of senior Revenue Department officials and family members. Sharmila, wife of the victim, and her two children had urged the district administration seeking a re-post mortem as her husband’s name did not figure in the list of victims published by the government. The district administration issued an order for re-post mortem in response to her petition. The body was buried again after re-post mortem. The results of re-post mortem will be made known after they are submitted to the district administration, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-covid-19-victim-exhumed/article32691357.ece
25 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Minister launches new facilities in hospital||Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju launched on Thursday an SMS facility under which COVID-19 test results could be sent immediately to patients in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. During a chat with reporters, he said over 1.55 lakh patients had been screened for COVID-19 in the hospital where 700 of the 1,212 beds had been kept ready for treating patients. Of this, 171 were in the intensive care unit and 82 had ventilator facility. Thanks to these measures taken by the State government, fatality rate in Thoothukudi district due to COVID-19 was only 0.67%. “Hence, the State government has won the Union government’s appreciation in handling the pandemic. Still, Opposition leader M.K. Stalin is always criticising the government,” said Mr. Raju. He said the Chief Minister would visit the district on either October 1 or 3 for reviewing anti-COVID-19 operations and inaugurating development works. Ambulances flagged off Earlier, the Minister flagged off two ‘108’ ambulances for Ottanaththam and Idaiseval primary health centre areas. He also inaugurated a steam laundry facility in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Collector Sandeep Nanduri, MLAs S.P. Shanmuganathan and Chinnappan, Dean Revathi Balan and Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-launches-new-facilities-in-hospital/article32691327.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||727 new cases in central region||The central region on Thursday recorded 727 new COVID-19 cases, reflecting a sharp increase from Wednesday’s 598. Thanjavur, Turuvarur and Tiruchi recorded a spike in cases. Five deaths - two in Thanjavur and one each in Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Karur were recorded, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 77-year-old man and an 84-year-old woman died in Thanjavur while in Tiruvarur, a 22-year-old woman, with a history of diabetes, succumbed to the infection. In Nagapattinam, a 62-year-old woman, with a history of diabetes, and in Karur, a 92-year-old man, with no pre-existing conditions, died of COVID-19. Meanwhile, Thanjavur recorded more number of cases with 190 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Among them were two employees including a paediatrician at the Government Raja Mirasudhar Hospital, a policeman at the Ayyampettai police station, a bill collector with the Thanjavur municipal corporation and six employees of a private hospital. A total of 143 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur, while 112 patients tested positive in Pudukottai. Patients in both districts were local contacts and patients with a history of influenza-like illnesses. In Tiruchi, 126 patients reported positive for COVID-19, an increase over the last few days. No new containment zones have been created over the last week while the patients testing positive are those with symptoms of influenza-like illnesses and local index cases. Karur too recorded an increase with 61 fresh cases. Patients hailed from Gandhigramam, Amman Nagar, Thanthonimalai among other locations. Inter-district travellers from Tiruchi and Dindigul tested positive. A total of 46 patients reported positive in Nagapattinam, many of whom were primary contacts of those who had tested positive earlier, and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Ariyalur, 28 patients tested positive for COVID-19. Two more containment zones were added in the district, increasing the total number of such zones in the district to 40. Meanwhile, In Perambalur, 21 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among the 21 were seven from the Perambalur block, five from Veppanthattai, six from Veppur and three from Alathur blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/727-new-cases-in-central-region/article32691353.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal sale of pan masala and gutkha surfaces in Tiruchi||Illegal sale of pan masala and gutkha seems to have resurfaced in different parts of the city. As per the State government order that came into effect in 2013, sale or possession of pan masala and gutkha is a punishable offence and no one should stock the substance. The police conducted a raid in January and seized 700 kg of gutkha and other banned chewable tobacco products from a godown and a person was arrested for stocking it at Palpannai. The Tiruchi Corporation and the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department conducted a few raids recently to detect sale and possession of the banned items. Yet, they are sold in select shops discreetly, regular customers say. Unlike in the past, no shop keeper displays packets containing the banned items. The sellers conceal the product and sell them only to known and regular customers. Unknown customers asking for the product are turned away. Since the customers, who have been addicted to chew the gutkha items, were desperate to buy them, the petty shop owners cash on the demand and sell them at the price fixed by them. Lack of enforcement mechanism and absence of sustained action are understood to be factors that have prompted the traders to sell them. “We will not be able to get the banned items for a short period after a raid or arrest of sellers. In general, they are available in most of petty shops. Of course they are sold secretly,” says a customer, who bought a sachet of gutkha at a petty shop in Cantonment. When contacted, R. Chithra, Designated Officer, Food Safety Department, said that there had been no let up in action against those illegal sellers. More than 350 cases were registered during the last two years in Tiruchi district. About 10 tonnes of gutkha and pan masala substance were seized in 2 years from different traders. Of this, seven tonnes of gutkha packets was destroyed a few months ago. This month alone, 700 kg of banned items were seized from various traders. “The traders and petty shop owners follow innovative ideas to store and sell the chewable items. Raids will be intensified,” Dr. Chithra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-sale-of-pan-masala-and-gutkha-surfaces-in-tiruchi/article32691362.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw farm bills: farmers||Members of the Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee and other outfits staged protests in various places in the central region on Thursday opposing the farm bills brought in by the Central Government and demanded their immediate withdrawal. They burnt copies of the bills to display their opposition. The protests were held in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur districts. In Tiruchi, a group of 55 members of the Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee staged a protest near the central bus stand. They were led by the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam president M.P. Chinnadurai. The police arrested them. The protests by the Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee members in Thanjavur district were held in Thanjavur, Sengipatti, Budalur and Melaulur. The stir held near the Thanjavur railway junction was led by the Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam town secretary L. Ramasamy. About 40 members of the Viduthalai Tamizh Puligal Katchi led by its founder Kudanthai Arasan staged a road roko against the bills leading to their arrest. A group of farmers affiliated to the Cauvery Vivasayigal Paadhugaapu Sangam led by its district secretary Sundara Vimalanathan staged a demonstration near the Kumbakonam Head Post Office in Thanjavur district. A group of members of the Vivasaya Paadhukaapur Sangam affiliated to the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi staged a protest at Orathanadu in Thanjavur district. The Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee members burnt copies of the bills at Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district. The protesters were led by the outfit’s chief advisor Bharathiselvan. The functionaries of the Social Democratic Party of India resorted to protests on the same issue in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and in Tiruvarur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-farm-bills-farmers/article32691364.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poll rolls being revised||Collector cum District Election Officer S. Sivarasu said on Thursday that genuine demands to establish polling booths would be considered. Speaking at an all party meeting held here on Thursday he said that the political parties and the public forums could send representations to him to establish new polling booths. By taking into account of distance, terrain and other inconveniences, a decision will be taken. Necessary steps would be taken after inspecting the areas. The list of polling booths, along with final electoral rolls, would be released on January 20. The process of summary revision of electoral rolls was on. The draft rolls would be released on November 16. A special drive would be carried out for deletion and inclusion of voters in the list. Political parties could appoint booth-level agents to liaise with election officials for deletion and inclusion of names in voters list. They could apprise officials of details of voters who had died or shifted to other areas for deletion of names from the rolls. They could create awareness among new voters or those left out in the draft electoral rolls to apply for inclusion. Later, the strong room, where Electronic Voting Machines were kept, was opened in the presence of representatives of all parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-rolls-being-revised/article32691360.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farm women learn inter-cropping techniques||Methods of inter-cropping techniques and crop rotation were explained to participants during a training programme on nutritional gardening for farm women at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani, on Wednesday. The programme envisaged empowerment of women through establishment of nutri-gardens. The communities will have greater access to a more diversified diet of fruits and vegetables for family meals. Household income increases when yields are increased and surplus fruits and vegetables are sold. This additional income leads to an improvement in children’s nutritional intake and general health, N.TamilSelvan, Programme Coordinator, KVK, Sirugamani, said while inaugurating programme. Good health is a requirement of women but anaemia is a major problem for women in India. More than half of women in India suffer from anaemia, which is one of the reasons for high rate of low-birth weight babies, he said. An unbalanced diet and lack of food is directly linked to high rate of stunting, excessive weight and death in babies under five years of age. To overcome these problems, daily diet of the women should be nutritious. In this regard, community and nutrition gardens can play an important role in enhancing national food security and dietary diversity to combat malnutrition, he said. T. Bhuvaneswari, project director, ICDS, Trichy, drove home the importance of macro and micro nutrition for women. Experts explained the nutritional benefits of locally available fruits and vegetables, the layout for setting up the nuutri garden, selection of seeds and methods to raise seedlings, the importance of suitable soil to grow vegetable crops, the significance of coirpith and the impact of Integrated pest and disease management for vegetable crops. The programme included a field level demonstration of the nutri-garden concept to 24 farm women of Kavalkaranpalayam .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-women-learn-inter-cropping-techniques/article32691368.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two stabbed to death||Kalaiselvi aged around 55 years and her daughter Pavithra (26) were found stabbed to death in their house at Periyamilaguparai here on Thursday. The police suspect the role of Pavithra’s husband Ulaganathan as the latter had left the house along with his one-and-half-year-old daughter on Wednesday night after bolting it from outside. Ulaganathan’s mother who resides at Perambalur kept calling her daughter-in-law on the mobile phone and her son. As there was no response from them, the woman is said to have contacted a neighbour following which the crime came to light. Whereabouts of Ulaganathan and his daughter are not known immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-stabbed-to-death/article32691356.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Couple found dead in forest||A couple was found dead in a forest near Nanguneri on Thursday. Police said the decomposed bodies of Mookkan, 70, of Ilanthoppu near Nanguneri and his wife Selvamani, 61, were found in a forest on Thursday when the passers-by happened to notice it lying in a secluded place. After they alerted the police, the bodies were sent for post-mortem. During investigation, Nanguneri police found that the couple had gone out of their house on last Sunday and did not return home. The police also found that the poverty-stricken couple had property dispute which might have driven them to take the extreme decision of committing suicide. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline ‘104’ or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-found-dead-in-forest/article32691315.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against Bill||Social Democratic Party of India cadre staged a demonstration in front of Passport Seva Kendra on South Bypass Road here on Thursday in protest against the recently passed Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020. Tearing copies of the Bill, they raised slogans against the Centre, saying agriculture, already hit hard by the ‘pro-rich economic policies’ of the Union government, would be wiped out. So the Bill should be withdrawn forthwith. SDPI’s Tirunelveli district Farmers’ wing president Maanur Shaikh Abdullah said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government had cleared three Bills with an eye on helping the corporate firms instead of reviving the farming sector despite stiff opposition by the Opposition parties. The Bills would be a boon to the rich, who could hoard essential commodities such as food grains, oil, onion, potato, oil seeds, dhal etc., though Food Corporation of India could not procure them from the producers by offering minimum support price. Mr. Abdullah also criticised the the ruling AIADMK in the State for supporting the Bill. In Thoothukudi Similar demonstration was organised in Thoothukudi while Congress cadre protested at Chidambara Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-staged-against-bill/article32691318.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli’s daily count moves past 100-mark||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Tirunelveli rose to 12,196 with the addition of 115 cases on Thursday. The number of active cases stands at 947 after 92 patients were discharged from hospitals. The district recorded one more fatality to have a death toll of 196. Sixty-nine new cases were recorded in Madurai, which marked a tally of 16,175. After 81 people were discharged, the district has 754 active cases. One death was recorded at a private hospital, taking the district’s toll to 381. After reporting 65 new cases, Theni registered a tally of 14,473. Seventy-three people were discharged from hospitals. Kanniyakumari recorded 61 fresh cases, which took its case count to 12,138, with 819 active cases. Four people were discharged. After losing one more patient to COVID-19, the district has marked a death toll of 217. Tenkasi’s tally moved up to 7,016 with the addition of 55 cases. After 71 people were discharged, the district has 541 active cases. The district’s toll increased to 131 with the death of one more patient. Sivaganga’s tally went up to 4,964 with 42 fresh cases. There were 41 discharges. Thoothukudi reported 38 cases, which raised its tally to 13,110, with 819 active cases. Sixty people were discharged. The district’s toll remains at 120. Dindigul recorded 32 new cases, which pushed its case count up to 8,577. Hospitals marked discharge of 54 people. Virudhunagar too registered 32 fresh cases to have a tally of 14,176. After the discharge of 51 people, the district has 322 active cases. The overall toll in the district rose to 209 with the death of a 80-year-old man at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on Wednesday. Ramanathapuram had 16 fresh cases, which raised its tally to 5,427. Twenty-seven people were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelvelis-daily-count-moves-past-100-mark/article32691320.ece
25 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Focus needed on hypertension’||With hypertension being one of the co-morbidities in COVID-19 patients, more focus and research is required on the lockdown-induced hypertension, said A. Muruganathan, Governor of American College of Physicians – India Chapter and former President of Hypertension Society of India. Extensive data was required in this area, he told The Hindu recently. Dr. Muruganathan, who is the Chairman of a private hospital in Tiruppur, said he observed many patients develop high blood pressure during the lockdown. He said that there were three probable causes for the high blood pressure amid the COVID-19 lockdown: not venturing out of the house to buy medicines for hypertension, lack of adequate exercise and anxiety caused by the uncertainty in their profession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-needed-on-hypertension/article32690839.ece
25 September 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||7.67 lakh tonnes paddy procured||A total of 7,67,482 tonnes of paddy has been procured so far through 160 Direct Purchase Centres in Thiruvarur, Collector T. Anand informed on Thursday. Kuruvai crop has been harvested on 15,770 hectares. The highest produce of 7,740 kg per acre could be attained, and the lowest was 5,756 kg per hectare. The average yield per hectare was 6,398 kg, the Collector said while chairing the Farmers' Grievance Day meeting. Seeds distributed The Agriculture Department has distributed 1,792 tonnes of certified seeds to farmers including 124 tonnes of certified seeds of long-time crops and 269 tonnes of shorter term crops. Agri Extension Centres have adequate stock of seeds. Likewise, there was adequate stock of manure and fertilizers. Paddy cultivation has been undertaken on a total area of 84,122 hectares this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/767-lakh-tonnes-paddy-procured/article32691370.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 20 police officers targeted in cyber fraud||Online fraudsters have not spared even top police officers in the State and have tried to cheat people in their friends’ list. More than 20 police officers have reported to the cyber crime units across the State about being the target of online fraud. Conmen created fictitious Facebook accounts in the names of City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Additional Commissioner of Police R. Dhinakaran, a handful of police officers in the rank of Additional Director General of Police and Assistant Commissioners. The fraudsters then sought money from the people in their friends list, citing emergencies. A senior police officer in the Central Crime Branch told The Hindu , “Following complaints from eight police officers with the cyber crime police in the city, we have taken up investigation. We have zeroed in on the gang operating from Bharatpur district in Rajasthan. We will arrest and bring them here very soon.” Explaining the modus operandi of the fraudsters, a police officer said they copied photos from the original Facebook accounts and then created fake ones. They then contacted the acquaintances of the original account holder through private messaging and requested money. They targeted police officers and others too, said the officer. ‘No victims so far’ The police officer said nobody had fallen victim to the scam. As soon as they received calls from those who had received the messages, the police personnel reported them to the cyber crime cells. The fake accounts were then deactivated. “Once the account is reported to Facebook, deactivation happens immediately,” a senior police officer said.  We have zeroed in on the gang operating from Bharatpur district in Rajasthan. We will arrest and bring them here soon Central Crime Branch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-20-police-officers-targeted-in-cyber-fraud/article32690780.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Toll crosses 400 in Coimbatore with 6 more deaths||Coimbatore district crossed the 400 mark in terms of the number of people who died of COVID-19, with six deaths reported by the Health Department on Thursday. The toll now is 402. While 642 persons tested positive for the disease, 613 people returned home from various treatment centres after recovering from the disease on Thursday. As many as 4,655 persons were undergoing treatment for the disease in Coimbatore district as of Thursday. The Health Department on Thursday said that nine more COVID-19 patients from Tiruppur district died at different treatment centres. With these, the toll in the district increased to 110. Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruppur, K. Jegadeesh Kumar said that the district had a positivity rate of 5% and a death rate of 1.4% as of Wednesday. Dr. Kumar said that the public in Tiruppur district must exercise more caution and follow the COVID-19 precautionary measures as the cases are rising in the nearby districts of Coimbatore and Erode. The district reported 118 positive cases on Thursday and 169 persons got discharged from treatment centres after recovering from the disease. Erode Erode reported 138 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 6,029. While 123 persons were discharged on Thursday, 1,129 persons are under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 78. Seven persons died in Salem. They were aged between 50 and 80. Salem district reported 311 fresh positive cases. Health officials said 300 of these were indigenous, including 168 in Salem Corporation limits. Eleven patients returned from Vellore, Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Kalakuruchi, Chennai and Dharmapuri. Namakkal Namakkal reported 132 cases, including 23 who returned from Chennai, Erode, Salem, Madurai, Coimbatore, Karur and Dindigul. In the Nilgiris, 97 new cases were reported on Thursday, taking the district’s tally so far to 3,364. Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts reported 86 and 129 positive cases repectively on Thursday. Fine collected for not wearing mask In Erode, collecting of fines for not wearing mask and spitting in public places has been stepped up by the police and the revenue department. In the corporation limits, an average of 50 to 70 individuals a day were fined for not wearing a mask and 25 persons for spitting in public places so far. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that awareness level among the people on the need to wear mask had improved in the past three weeks. Containment measures reviewed Namakkal District Collector K. Megraj, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan and other senior officials reviewed the COVID-19 containment measures in Rasipuram in the district. He advised the public to avoid venturing out of their houses unnecessarily, asked them to wear masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain physical distance in public places. Those violating the prevention norms would be fined according to the new regulations under Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, he said. The Collector asked the Rasipuram Municipality workers to intensify awareness campaigns. He cautioned the public against self-medication, and urged them to visit the nearest Primary Health Centre or a government hospital if they had even one of the symptoms of COVID-19. He also advised field workers to undergo COVID-19 test once in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-crosses-400-in-coimbatore-with-6-more-deaths/article32690853.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Forest Division starts profiling of elephants||In order to understand the diversity of behaviour among elephants and use the knowledge to reduce human-elephant interactions, the Forest Department has started profiling of individual elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division. In the initial stage, male elephants will be profiled using images of individual animals obtained using camera traps and cameras operated by the filed staff. “Each elephant is different in terms of diversity of behaviour. The profiling helps to identify those elephants that are habituated to human habitats and engage in negative interactions. Such elephants account to a very minuscule population and targeted strategies can be applied to reduce their interaction with humans,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle. Mr. Anwardeen had implemented profiling of elephants in collaboration with Shola Trust in Gudalur where around 150 elephants were photographed and profiles for 90 individuals were created in three years from 2015. The exercise had categorised elephants in four categories: transient ones that stay for a very short time during migration season, residents that are shy and never come to human habitation, brash youngsters that engage in crop raiding or attack people in conflict situation, and highly habituated old animals that stay close to humans but barely attack. Multiple photographs and observation notes of an individual elephant help to create a profile based on its height, age, shape of tusks, shape of tail, pattern of ears and other unique features. As part of the exercise in Coimbatore Forest Division, where 11 people were killed in elephant attacks and 20 elephants died of various reasons, camera traps have already been placed in 20 key locations in different forest ranges. “Training for the profiling have been given to all the staff in the forest division ranging from anti-poaching watcher to foresters. Apart from the camera traps fixed in forests, the department has plans to buy cameras for the field staff for the purpose,” said D. Boominathan, landscape coordinator of WWF India, Coimbatore, which is assisting the Department in the log-term exercise. Places where camera traps have been fixed include Thadagam valley which witnesses movement of elephant to and fro Kerala. Cameras have also been fixed in Sirumugai, Periyanaickenpalayam and Karamadai forest ranges. Forest officials said moving population of elephant is high in Coimbatore division which is located in the southernmost part of a larger landscape called south Nilgiri Elephant Range - 8 under Project Elephant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-forest-division-starts-profiling-of-elephants/article32690841.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Need for special legislation to protect domestic workers’||The National Domestic Workers Movement on Thursday called for special legislation to protect the welfare and livelihoods of the workforce across the country. Addressing mediapersons, along with a group of domestic workers, P. Clara, State coordinator, emphasised their plight in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and said the movement held protests across the country on Thursday. Many workers lost their livelihoods since the outbreak of the pandemic, as they were falsely perceived to be carriers of the viral infection, said Ms. Clara. “Many of the domestic workers are sole breadwinners of their families. With the loss of livelihood, many are unable to pay their rent or make ends meet. Only a few have resumed work.” Hence, the government must provide a financial aid of Rs. 7,500 for each month from April to December to withstand the financial crisis caused by the pandemic. Condemning the passage of three key labour bills in Parliament, she said they would undermine the security and livelihood of unorganised workers. “The government must ensure that social security schemes can be availed by domestic workers too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-for-special-legislation-to-protect-domestic-workers/article32691322.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Students of Classes 10-12 permitted to go to school from October 1||Only 50% of the students in a class will be allowed on any given day so as to avoid crowding. Teachers will also be required to work in two batches and can work for two days at a stretch, alternatively. This arrangement is subject to a written consent from the parents or guardians of students, and education through online or distance mode will continue. Physical distancing of at least 6 feet should be followed while seating arrangements are made in classrooms, and schools are encouraged to use outdoor spaces for conducting teacher-student interactions if the weather permits. Safety measures Before schools begin to call the students, they have been asked to disinfect their premises. School managements have been asked to take responsibility for the upkeep of their premises, and principals should ensure that all persons on campus wear face masks. Thermal screening will have to be done compulsorily for anyone entering the campus and a back-up of items, such as masks and sanitisers, should be kept available at all times. K.R. Nandhakumar, State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation, Higher Secondary Schools Association, said the association welcomed the government’s decision. “We will strictly follow the SOPs and ensure that physical distancing norms are followed. As the first step, we will be speaking to the parents and assuring them of the arrangements schools will put in place. Consent forms will also be sent to them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-of-classes-10-12-permitted-to-go-to-school-from-october-1/article32690810.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited from nurses||The district administration and the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital have invited applications from qualified nurses to work in COVID-19 block at the hospital on contract basis. District Collector S.A. Raman said in a release that those candidates with required qualifications could walk-in to the hospital with required documents and apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-from-nurses/article32690855.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||385 kg of gutka seized, 3 held||A special team of Madurai city police on Thursday arrested three persons with 385 kg of gutka under Thilagar Thidal police station limits. Police said P. Kannan, 52, of Keezhavalavu, S. Syed Meeran, 40, and N. Mathar Maideen, 39, of Melur were caught for suspicious behaviour. They were found in possession of 25 bags of gutka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/385-kg-of-gutka-seized-3-held/article32691323.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kanirowther Lake survey on October 1||Following complaints of encroachments in Kanirowther Lake, the district administration has decided to survey the water body on October 1. Members of Kanirowther Lake Retrieval Movement were claiming that the 40-acre lake was reduced to 14.40 acre due to construction of a four-storeyed commercial building while the inlet waterway was closed by encroachers. They said that the Collector and the District Revenue Officer had many years ago ordered demolition of the unauthorised structure. But the corporation, instead of demolishing the structure, is constructing a pathway and a boundary wall to protect the encroachers. Recently, they staged a protest in the lake and decided to begin indefinite protest from September 24. On Wednesday, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer C. Saibudeen held talks with the members who put forth their demands. After discussions, it was decided to survey the lake at 10 a.m. on October 1 until which no protest should be held. It was also decided that the civic body should not carry out any construction activities in the lake till survey is done. The meeting was attended by senior police officials and corporation officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanirowther-lake-survey-on-october-1/article32690861.ece
25 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||He left for Delhi saying he will bring funds for the development of Belagavi, says Angadi’s mother||The residence of the former Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi was a deserted place on Thursday. The house on Sampige Road in Sadashiv Nagar in Belagavi, that was otherwise full of visitors, was empty except for some family members and police personnel on guard. The family matriarch, Somavva, was in a state of shock and disbelief at the passing of her son. She kept saying that her son had told her that he will return from New Delhi after the Parliamentary session. “He told me he was going to Delhi to bring money for the development of Belagavi,” she said. She broke down while watching the final rites of Angadi on a relative’s mobile phone. God’s will KLE Chairman and Angadi’s friend Prabhakar Kore came to visit and console the grieving relatives. He told Somavva that it was God’s will and everyone had to accept it. Mr. Kore told journalists that doctors in Delhi had told him that Angadi’s health had deteriorated after he developed a block in his heart on Tuesday. He was shifted to the intensive care unit. “I had expected him to be back in a few days. But sadly,that did not happen,” he said. He said that he had advised Angadi to reduce travelling and use masks during public meetings. But he kept telling me that he was healthy and that nothing would happen to him, Mr. Kore said. C.C. Angadi, Angadi’s elder brother, regretted that most of the family members were unable to travel to Delhi due to COVID-19 restrictions. “We wanted to conduct the burial in the Somavva Angadi college in our native village of KK Koppa. But it was not possible due to the SOPs in place. We are watching the telecast of the burial,” he said. Veeranagouda Inamati, a family friend, told journalists that Bruno, Angadi’s pet dog, had sensed his absence and had stopped eating since Wednesday. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and around 20 other relatives and party leaders were present at the Lingayat burial ground in Delhi where Angadi’s final rites were conducted, said BJP leader Raju Chikkanagoudar, who attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/he-left-for-delhi-saying-he-will-bring-funds-for-the-development-of-belagavi-says-angadis-mother/article32690874.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress moves no-trust motion against BJP govt.||The principal Opposition Congress moved a no-confidence motion against the BJP government in Karnataka in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri admitted the notice on the no-confidence motion given by the Congress and said he would allot time on Friday or Saturday for a discussion on it. The notice was signed by 23 Congress members. As soon as the House met after paying tributes to Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, who succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah raised the issue of notice on non-confidence motion. “When the House has no confidence in the government, how will you continue?” Mr. Siddaramaiah asked and demanded the Speaker to take up the motion for discussion before taking any other issues. Countering the claims made by Mr. Siddaramaiah, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said the Congress had no mandate in the State as well as in the country. “The notice on non-trust motion is nothing but a political gimmick,” he said. The government has a majority and it was ready to prove a majority in the House. But many members of the Congress had already quit the party and many would quit soon, he said. “We don’t know how many will remain in the Congress,” Mr. Ashok said. When Mr. Askok stood up to table Bills, H.K. Patil (Congress) said the government should not be allowed to table Bills after the Speaker admitted the notice on non-trust motion. Mr. Kageri termed Mr. Patil’s suggestion as his personal view and allowed Mr. Ashok to table two Bills in the House. CLP meeting Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah chaired a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) and decided to move the no-confidence motion against the government. He said the government had lost people’s confidence and alleged that family members of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa were indulging in corruption. Speaking to mediapersons, the Congress leader alleged that corruption was also rampant in the purchase of equipment related to COVID-19 and purchase of laptops. There was no transparency in the administration. While financial condition of the State had deteriorated, the development works had come to a standstill in the State, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged. D.K. Shivakumar, who is also the KPCC president, spoke about corruption in the government and said the party was serious in moving the no-trust vote against the government. It is stated that AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala suggested the State party leaders to move the no-confidence motion against the government.  The notice on non-trust motion is nothing but a political gimmick. R. Ashok, Revenue Minister   The government has lost people’s confidence. Siddaramaiah, at CLP meeting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-moves-no-trust-motion-against-bjp-govt/article32690761.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court rejects petitions by trade unions on amendment to labour law||In a setback to trade unions, the Karnataka High Court on Thursday rejected their petitions challenging the legality of amendment made to the labour law extending flexible hiring facility under the ‘fixed-term workmen’ (FTW) policy to all industries. The court held that there was nothing wrong in the process followed by the State government in amending the Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961, nor is creation of new category of employment under FTW contrary to the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while rejecting the petition filed by Karnataka Industrial and Other Establishments’ Employees Federation. The petitioner had questioned the legality of the notification issued by the government in June making changes to rules to expand the facility of FTW to all industries as it was available only for the apparel manufacturing sector earlier. After perusing the records maintained by the government, the Bench declined to accept the contention of the petitioner that no consultation was held with the trade unions before amending the rules. The Bench said the process followed by the government adheres to the manner of holding consultation prescribed by the apex court while noticing that the objections filed by the trade unions to the draft rules were put up by the Commissioner of Labour before the government, which at three levels, Additional Chief Secretary (Labour), Minister for Labour and the Chief Minister had considered the common objections raised by the unions before approving the FTW rule. Also, the Bench said that the facility of FTW does not violate the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act as it creates a separate employment category on contract basis having pay and other facilities payable equal to permanent employees except that period of employment would not get extended. The Bench also found no merit in the contention of the petitioner that new law violates constitutional provisions. Employment under the FTW category allows flexibility for industries to hire and fire employees easily. It is seen as more flexible than the contract system, as it enables industries to hire people when a necessary arises and terminate their services when the necessity ceases to exist.  There is nothing wrong in the process followed by the State government in amending the Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961, nor is creation of new category of employment under FTW contrary to the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.Karnataka High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-rejects-petitions-by-trade-unions-on-amendment-to-labour-law/article32690763.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for medical oxygen goes up||With a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the demand for medical oxygen has shot up by over 150 metric tonnes in the last one month. The current availability for medical purposes is 375 metric tonnes per day. While it had increased from 120 metric tonnes per day on an average during the pre-COVID-19 period to nearly 450 metric tonnes per day till August, the current demand is nearly 600 metric tonnes per day. Doctors handling critical COVID-19 patients said the consumption per patient per day has increased from six litres in the pre-COVID-19 days to nearly 30 litres now. Gaurav Gupta, Principal Secretary, Commerce and Industries, who is monitoring the oxygen supply chain in the State, told The Hindu on Thursday that there has been a substantial rise in oxygen consumption over the last one month. “Although the cases have surged, there have been an equal number of recoveries. However, more hospitals, especially in the districts, have converted normal beds to oxygen-equipped beds. They increased the number of high-flow devices, like ventilators and high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) equipment, in the ICUs,” he said. “We have progressively curtailed industrial consumption to make more oxygen available for medical purposes. On an average, we are diverting nearly 200 metric tonnes of industrial oxygen per day for medical use. We are carefully monitoring the production and supply on a daily basis. The focus is on ensuring uninterrupted supply of oxygen so that no patient suffers because of lack of oxygen availability,” said Mr. Gupta, who is also the BBMP Administrator. Raising the issue during the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had said it was important to “incentivise” industries to set up new oxygen generation units. “While the current availability is sufficient for the time being, the peak demand of medical oxygen is calculated to be about 870 metric tonnes per day as Karnataka will have some 31,000 oxygenated beds in government hospitals alone,” the Chief Minister told the Prime Minister urging the Centre to rope in more industries to meet the demand. “When the pandemic began, the State had nearly 7,000 oxygenated beds in government hospitals. This has been increased to about 18,000. More than 10,000 of these beds have been reserved for COVID-19 patients. Apart from this, another 4,250 oxygenated beds have been reserved for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals,” the Chief Minister apprised the Prime Minister. Sources in the State Drugs Control Department told The Hindu that there is a need to increase the production of hospital-level oxygen generation units. “While there is adequate availability as of now, there are issues with transportation and storage at the hospitals. We have seven manufacturing plants and 47 refilling units. We are initiating measures to increase production in the coming days,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-medical-oxygen-goes-up/article32690737.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bill tabled to regularise ‘B’ kharab land||The Karnataka Land Revenue (Amendment) Bill, 2020, for regularisation of unauthorised use of ‘B’ kharab land in Bengaluru and outskirts of the city, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. Revenue Minister R. Ashok tabled the Bill in the House which aims to amend Section 68 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act of 1964. The amendment is to reduce the stipulated time from 90 days to one month for calling objections from the public before extinguishment of public right after making declaration on public road, street, passage or land classified as ‘B’ kharab land. The Bill aims at disposal of pending applications for regularisation of unauthorised cultivation land — 10,572 applications in form 50 and 1,40,781 applications in form 53. The Bill extends the time limit from April 27, 2020, to another two years. Contingency fund The Karnataka Contingency Fund (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in the Lower House for increasing the amount to be paid out of the consolidated fund of the State to the Karnataka Contingency Fund. The Bill aims at increasing the Contingency Fund from Rs. 80 crore to Rs. 500 crore. The amount was used during the pandemic for providing financial support for various sections of the unorganised sector. Similarly, the Karnataka Appropriation Bill, 2020, was also adopted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-tabled-to-regularise-b-kharab-land/article32690751.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. alleges ‘mega scam’ in BDA||The Congress on Thursday urged the government to set up a commission under a Supreme Court judge or special investigation team under the Chief Justice of the High Court to probe what it termed a “mega corruption scandal in BDA that has shocked the State”. Moving an adjournment motion in the Legislative Council, Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil alleged that the party had evidence in terms of bank transactions, WhatsApp chat, and telephonic conversations to show that bribe had changed hands in the Rs. 666.22- crore housing complex work being executed by the BDA. “We believe the staff at the Chief Minister’s office and home office are involved in the case. So, we are demanding a high-level inquiry,” he added. Further, Mr. Patil alleged that a former BDA Commissioner had received Rs. 12 crore as bribe following which, he was transferred while Rs. 7 crore came as bribe through RTGS transfers from Kolkata-based shell companies to an individual named Shashidhar. “The State government should initiate action against the former BDA Commissioner under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” he urged. While Mr. Patil was making submission to move the motion, the BJP led by Ayanur Manjunath and others took objection, and urged Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty to reject the motion. Raising technical points, they said an adjournment motion cannot be moved without completing Question Hour and Zero Hour. A war of words ensued between the ruling and the Opposition benches before the Chairman intervened and allowed Mr. Patil to speak. Eventually, the Chairman ruled that the issue would not be taken up as adjournment motion but converted as discussion under the Rule 330 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Karnataka Legislative Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-alleges-mega-scam-in-bda/article32690757.ece
25 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Obituary reference taken up twice||The mood was sombre in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday as it had to take up obituary reference twice on the same day. While the House paid tributes to Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi in the morning, it took up obituary reference again in the evening as MLA for Basavakalyan B. Narayan Rao died. Both the leaders succumbed to COVID-19. Just a few days ago, Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti died of COVID-19. Elected representatives succumbing to COVID-19 has caused concern, and senior Congress member K.R. Ramesh Kumar appealed to Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to direct the government to prevent large-scale weddings. “Though there is a restriction on the number of people who can attend weddings, in reality several of them are seeing attendance of more than 500 people. Even beegara oota (feasts organised a day after wedding) is being attended by more than 500 people. This has to be curbed,” Mr. Kumar said. He pointed out that there is often compulsions on local legislators to attend such events. He urged the government to direct the Deputy Commissioners and the Superintendents of Police to ensure that there is a thin attendance at weddings. Meanwhile, members, cutting across party affiliations, paid rich tributes to Mr. Rao. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said Mr. Rao, who hailed from the oppressed community of Koli Samaj, had come up the ladder through hard work. He remembered how Mr. Rao had travelled all the way from Bidar to Bengaluru on a bicycle as part of a jatha. Bandeppa Kashempur of the JD(S) recalled that it was Mr. Rao’s dream to become an MLA once to raise the issue related to problems of his community who were still unable to find a firm financial footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/obituary-reference-taken-up-twice/article32690753.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Swiftly sort out issue of poll fund release with SEC: HC||Pointing out that the State government is duty bound to provide sufficient funds to the State Election Commission (SEC) for discharging constitutional duty of holding elections to panchayats, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday asked the government to immediately sort out the issue of funds with the SEC for holding the elections to 5,800 gram panchayats. The court also asked the SEC to decide on announcing the schedule for the polls as the process of reservation of seats and publication of final electoral rolls concluded on August 31. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while hearing a PIL petition filed by K.C. Kondaiah, Congress leader and member of the Legislative Council, and others. The petitioners had questioned the May 28 decision of the SEC to postpone elections but subsequently the SEC told the court that it was only a temporary halt owing to COVID-19. During the hearing, it was pointed out by the SEC counsel that the government had agreed to release only Rs. 125 crore to hold the elections as against Rs. 210 crore sought by the SEC by reducing the earlier requisition made for releasing Rs. 250 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swiftly-sort-out-issue-of-poll-fund-release-with-sec-hc/article32690749.ece
25 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Relief: ‘Ready to give one more chance to drivers’||Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told the Legislative Assembly on Thursday that the government was ready to provide one more opportunity for eligible autorickshaw and taxi drivers to apply for the one-time payment under the COVID relief package. The Minister made this statement during the discussion on supplementary estimates when Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah expressed concern that a large number of drivers were yet to apply for getting the relief as the government had imposed a condition that they should possess driving badge. He urged the government to be flexible. The Minister said the government had received applications from 2,45,844 drivers so far for relief. Taking exception to this, Mr. Siddaramaiah pointed out that the government had estimated that 7.5 lakh drivers would be benefited by the package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-ready-to-give-one-more-chance-to-drivers/article32690754.ece
25 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wakf properties: Tabling of report kicks up dust||A political slugfest appears to be on the cards as the Bharatiya Janata Party government in the State has tabled an eight-and-a-half-year-old report on the “misuse and encroachment” of wakf properties before the State legislature. The report, readied on March 23, 2012, by the then chairman of the Karnataka State Minorities Commission Anwar Manippady, has kicked up political dust afresh as it names several prominent politicians, particularly those in the Congress, including M. Mallikarjun Kharge, Dharam Singh, K. Rahman Khan, MLAs Khaneer Fathima Qamur-ul Islam and N.A. Haris, and Mr. Haris’ wife Tahera Haris and mother Suraiah Mohammed, as among those responsible for “misuse and encroachment” of wakf properties. Others who have been named in the report include MLA Roshan Baig, former Union Minister C. Ibrahim, former Ministers Qamur-ul Islam and Hindasgeri, former MP Narasingrao Suryavamshi, and former MLAs Iqbal Ansari and Syed Yasin. Timing  The tabling coincides with the Opposition mounting its attack on the government over several issues, including charges of corruption and improper handling of the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wakf-properties-tabling-of-report-kicks-up-dust/article32690755.ece
25 September 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Price on the rise||Following an increase in demand, the price of oxygen being supplied to hospitals has also shot up. R. Ravindra, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said bigger hospitals that have a long-term contract with suppliers are not facing any issues. However, smaller hospitals with short-term contracts or those who want new contracts are forced to pay double the price, he said. Although the Centre has capped the price at Rs. 17.49 per cubic metre plus GST, hospitals are forced to pay around Rs. 40 per cubic metre, he claimed. “We are unable to manage with the Rs. 7,000 package fixed by the State government for an oxygenated bed for government-referred patients. We will meet soon to discuss this and seek an enhancement in the rate,” Dr. Ravindra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-on-the-rise/article32690741.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labour laws set for change||The Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday to change existing labour laws and increase the total number of hours of overtime work up to 125 hours in a quarter (three months) in public interest. The Bill was considered necessary for amending the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947, the Factories Act, 1948, Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, (all Central acts) in their application to Karnataka. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar introduced the Bill, replacing the Ordinance, aimed at promoting ease of doing business in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labour-laws-set-for-change/article32690750.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labour unions stage protest||Thousands of workers and labour unions held a protest march “Vidhana Soudha Chalo” on Thursday against the recent amendments to labour law by the State and Union governments. They were stopped at Freedom Park. They also announced support to the Karnataka Bandh called on September 28 over the recent agriculture reform bills. Later in the day, the ongoing Alternative People’s Assembly organised by Aikya Horata at Freedom Park discussed the recent changes brought in to labour laws. Michael B. Fernandes, all-India president, Hind Mazdoor Kisan Panchayat, alleged while Congress exploited working class during its rule, the BJP was taking the country back by a century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labour-unions-stage-protest/article32690768.ece
25 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be disruption in power supply on September 25 and 26 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in the areas coming under 220/66/11 KV HSR MUSS of F-9 and F13 feeders in view of work of conversion of 11 KV overhead line to underground cable and laying of optical fibre cables. According to a Bescom release, the areas that will be affected on September 25 are HSR Layout, 28th Main Road, 8th Cross to 12th Cross and surrounding areas. The areas that will be affected on September 26 are HSR Layout, 11th Cross Road, 17th Main Road, 18th Main Road, 12th Cross Road and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article32690735.ece
25 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Accused tests positive||An accused arrested by the CCB has tested positive for COVID-19. According to the police, he is one of the party organisers who is close to several celebrities. Meanwhile, the Special NDPS court has postponed the bail plea of Sanjjanaa and Ragini to Friday while the plea of the other accused, Prateek and Ravishankar, will be heard on September 28 and 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-tests-positive/article32690733.ece
25 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BU exams postponed||Bangalore University (BU) under-graduate examinations scheduled on Friday (September 25) and on Monday (September 28) have been postponed. BU, in a release, said that the new dates will be notified at a later date. However, there is no change in the examination scheduled on Saturday (September 26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bu-exams-postponed/article32690734.ece
25 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||13 die of COVID-19||As many as 13 people died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Thursday, taking the toll to 289. Among them, six were from Hassan taluk, four from Arsikere and one each from Arkalgud, Holenarasipur and Belur taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-die-of-covid-19/article32690882.ece
25 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five arrested||The police on Wednesday evening arrested five people on the charge of being involved in cricket betting. Acting on a tip-off, a police team raided a building at Satyamangala Extension in Hassan and arrested Akash (20), Kumaraswamy (20), Purnachandra Tejasvi (20), Avinash (21) and Niranjan (24). They are all residents of Hassan taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-arrested/article32690883.ece
25 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Various organisations in North Karnataka mourn Minister||While the funeral of the Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi was carried out in New Delhi, various organisations spread across North Karnataka held condolence meetings on Thursday mourning the death of the BJP leader and recalled his contribution to the development of railway facilities in the State. Angadi had a special bonding with Hubballi which had further become stronger with his daughter Shraddha getting married to Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar’s son Sankalp. At the condolence meeting at Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in Hubballi on Thursday, the former president of KCCI Shankaranna Munavalli termed Angadi’s death as shocking. He said that because of Angadi several long-pending demands pertaining to railway infrastructure and train facilities in the region were fulfilled. KCCI president Mahendra Ladhad, said that at a time when Angadi was taking several measures for development of railway infrastructure in the State, particularly in North Karnataka, it was shocking that he had breathed his last due to COVID-19. Several speakers said that Angadi would be remembered for long for his contribution to the development of railway infrastructure in the region. Mourning the demise of Angadi, president of South Western Railway Contractors Association V.S.V. Prasad said in a release that his sudden demise had created a void for Indian Railways in general and South Western Railway in particular. He had initiated a sort of revolution in South Western Railway by getting sanctions for several projects for the State and had dreamt of executing several more in the future, he said. Mourning the demise of Angadi, Sri Tontada Siddarama Swami of Gadag Tontadarya Mutt recalled the late leader’s association with Naganuru Rudrakshi Mutt. The swami, who earlier headed the Rudrakshi Mutt, said that Angadi had dreamt of ensuring the overall development of the region and also of railway infrastructure. Within a short period he had initiated several projects and it was difficult to believe that he was no more. At the condolence meeting held outside the Bagalkot Railway Station premises, members of the Karnataka Rajya Railway Abhivruddhi Samiti paid tributes to the late leader. Samiti president Qutubuddin Kaji termed Angadi’s demise as a great loss to the State, particularly North Karnataka. Listing out various railway projects and new trains sanctioned by Angadi, Mr. Kaji said that apart from initiating railway projects, the late leader had also ensured that farmers who lost their land to railway projects received adequate compensation. The participants observed silence in memory of the late leader. In Hubballi, the Karnataka Uttar Pranta unit of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) held a condolence meeting. Pranta Sangha Chalak Khageshan Pattanashetty said that Angadi was known for his simplicity and humbleness and had great concern for the poor. Akhila Bharat Veerashaiva Mahasabha, which held an agitation in Dharwad seeking fulfilment of its demand, observed a two-minute silence in memory of Angadi. The speakers, including the former chairperson of Legislative Council Veeranna Mattikatti, Congress leaders Sharanappa Kotagi, Sadanand Danganavar and others, recalled his contribution. Meanwhile, the BJP district units in the region held condolence meetings to mourn the demise of Angadi. Political leaders cutting across party lines mourned his demise. Dharwad district AAP president Santosh Naragund has termed his demise as shocking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/various-organisations-in-north-karnataka-mourn-minister/article32690877.ece
25 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Koo is now the largest micro blog in Kannada||Koo App, a micro blogging platform in a vernacular that won Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atma Nirbhar App Challenge, has become the largest Kannada micro blog in the world now. Addressing a press conference through a video link, CEO and co-founder of Koo Aprameya Radhakrishna said that Koo, which helped Kannadigas express themselves in their mother tongue, had the highest number of thoughts and opinions being shared compared to any other micro blog in Kannada. Briefing about how Koo functioned, he said that through Koo, Kannadigas could now follow eminent personalities and express their thoughts in Kannada.  Koo co-founder Mayank Bidawatka was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/koo-is-now-the-largest-micro-blog-in-kannada/article32690871.ece
25 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Suresh Angadi was a simple man with the heart of a child: Kateel||State president of the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Thursday that Minister of State for Railways Suresh Channabasappa Angadi who passed away in Delhi on Wednesday was a simple man with the heart of a child. Speaking at a condolence meeting in the party’s district office here, Mr. Kateel, also a Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada, said that Mr. Angadi had built educational institutions in North Karnataka. He did not compromise with the principles and discipline of the BJP and worked in a Lok Sabha constituency which posed many a challenge. He took both Marathi and Kannada-speaking people into confidence and had convinced both the groups of the need for peace whenever there was trouble over language and other such issues. Hence, he could win from Belagavi constituency four times. As a Minister of State for Railways he made significant contribution to the State by sanctioning various trains and projects. He used to work hard and was instrumental in building the BJP in North Karnataka. The late Minister never lost his temper in any situation and was a kind-hearted man. His death was a great loss to the BJP and the country, particularly the State, Mr. Kateel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suresh-angadi-was-a-simple-man-with-the-heart-of-a-child-kateel/article32690879.ece
25 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi student sends masks to Army jawans||A Class 8 student, Ishita Achar, is thrilled to have received a letter from Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for the 300 two-layered cotton masks she sent to Indian Army personnel a month ago by parcel. “Initially, there was no acknowledgement from the Ministry. I thought that they were among the hundreds they receive. But, today, we received a personal letter from the Defence Minister appreciating my work,” said an excited Ishita, a student of Madhava Kripa School of Udupi. Rajnath Singh’s letter In the letter of September 16 addressed to Ishita’s mother Nandita Achar, Mr. Singh has said, “Thank you for preparing face masks for our Army personnel. I appreciate the sentiments of your daughter Ishita Achar towards our Jawans and her awareness of the safety measures during the COVID-19. I wish your daughter all the best for her future endeavours.” Ishita prepared these masks as part of a drive initiated by State Commissioner for Bharat Scouts and Guides and former Minister P.G.R. Sindhia asking Scouts and Guides to prepare masks for Class 10 students writing the SSLC examination. “As there was enough stock of masks for Class 10 students, a family friend suggested sending the masks to the jawans,” Ishita said. As it was the first time that Ishita was trying her hand at sewing, her mother helped her initially. “After mastering the skill, Ishita stitched the masks for the Army personnel on her own,” Ms. Nandita said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-student-sends-masks-to-army-jawans/article32690765.ece
25 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fine for non-payment of property tax||Mangaluru City Corporation will begin imposing fine for non-payment of property tax for 2020-21 financial year from next month, according to Mayor Diwakar. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, the Mayor said that the deadline extended in July for paying tax without 2 % as fine gets over by this month-end. The deadline had been extended by the government in view of the COVID-19 situation. The Mayor said that of the total property tax demand under the self-assessment scheme (SAS), only 23 % has been collected so far. Hence, the civic body is requesting property owners to pay tax at the earliest. He said that the issue of anomalies in water bills issued to consumers will be addressed in the monthly Water Adalats which will resume next month. Based on consumer complaints, the corporation has learnt that 30 % of the water bills issued had abnormal bill amount charged. Hence, no fine will be imposed for non-payment of water bills for the time being. The Mayor said that the civic body will begin the process of constituting ward committees in the city from October as the council of the corporation ratified the decision to form such committees in its meeting on Tuesday. Complaint box Mr. Diwakar said that the corporation will put up a complaint box at its head office at Lalbagh within two days to enable people to give complaints, if any, against any service, department and officials of the corporation. The complainants will have to mention their phone number in their complaints to enable the corporation to let them know about action taken on their complaints. The civic body will, however, not reveal the identity of the complainant. The Mayor said that the corporation will launch a campaign in the city next month to persuade people to wear masks in public places. He said that the civic body can no longer allow street vendors to occupy footpaths as economic activities have picked up. They will have to vacate within a week. Or, the corporation will evict them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fine-for-non-payment-of-property-tax/article32690880.ece
25 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Khazi passes away||Khazi of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Shivamogga and Islamic scholar P.M. Ibrahim Musliyar Bekal passed away in a private hospital here on Thursday. He was 71. He is survived by his wife, three sons and two daughters. He was born in Naringala village, Bantwal taluk, Dakshina Kannada. The last rites were performed at Marikkala masjid, near Montepadavu in Bantwal taluk. K.S. Mohammed Masood, former MLC and president of the Muslim Central Committee, Mangaluru, has expressed his condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khazi-passes-away/article32690881.ece
25 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dasara jumbos to arrive in Mysuru on October 1||The Forest Department has decided to keep the training of Dasara elephants within the premises of Mysuru palace upon their arrival here ahead of the scaled-down annual festivities. With the Jamboo Savari confined to the palace premises instead of the usual 4-km-long route till Bannimantap in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the elephants would undergo training within the palace fortress and would not be taken out as a precautionary measure. The five elephants chosen for the Jamboo Savari would arrive here from their respective jungle camps a day before their grand welcome into the palace. The elephants — Abhimanyu, Gopi, Vikrama, Cauvery, and Vijaya — would be brought to Mysuru on October 1 and they would be accorded a traditional welcome at the palace on October 2 after their overnight stay at the Aranya Bhavan. Abhimanyu has taken over the mantle from howdah elephant Arjuna and the 54-year-old tusker would be carrying the 750-kg golden ambari for the first time in the Vijayadashami procession. Deputy Conservator of Forests Alexander told The Hindu that all arrangements were being made for bringing the elephants to Mysuru and the list of elephants besides the names of mahouts and kavadis had been sent to the district administration for arranging their insurance cover. Usually, people come close to watch Dasara elephants out of curiosity and also take their pictures when they are out on the streets for routine training. “To avoid crowding around the jumbos in viwe of the pandemic scare, we have decided to restrict all training within the palace premises,” he said. Mr. Alexander said the mahouts and kavadis accompanying the jumbos would be subjected to COVID-19 testing. Also, unlike the past when family members of the mahouts and kavadis ussed to accompany them to Mysuru and remain on the palace premises until the festivities got over, only mahouts and kavadis would come this year and stay in temporary shelters put up on the premises. This measure is also being attributed to the pandemic scare. Sub-committees Meanwhile, the six Dasara sub-committees have been constituted. They are sub-committees for illumination; hygiene and arrangements; tableaux; procession; cultural events, and welcome and invitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dasara-jumbos-to-arrive-in-mysuru-on-october-1/article32690748.ece
25 September 2020||Tumari (Shivamogga District),KARNATAKA||Economy of villages affected after closure of Sigandur temple in Shivamogga dist.||The economy of Tumari and its surrounding villages — approachable only by a barge — is dependent on the Chowdeshwari temple in Sigandur, which used to attract thousands of devotees from different parts of the State. But the temple’s closure for six months and it now being opened only for darshan, sans special pujas, have meant a blow to the economy of several villages. When this reporter visited Tumari, there were hardly any hotels open. The owner of one hotel was preparing to wind up his business for the day as early as 9 a.m. “There are hardly any visitors. I prepared only dosa and sambar for the day. Our business depends on devotees visiting Sigandur temple,” said Krishna, owner of the hotel. A majority of the people on the island on the backwaters of Sharavathi are farmers. They have to cross the backwater with the help of barges to reach the mainland. For decades after the construction of Linganamakki dam in1960s, they hardly saw any development. However, in the last two decades, Sigandur temple became popular, attracting devotees from different parts of the State. It brought in many changes to the lives of people there. “Around 20,000 people are dependent on the temple. Besides hotels, lodges, petty shops, there are around 30 jeep drivers, who carry visitors to the temple soon after they get down the barge. They have no source of income for months. Petty shops at Holebagilu and Kalasavahalli are closed,” said G.T. Satyanarayana, former president of Tumari Gram Panchayat. Meanwhile, the differences within the administration of the temple have prompted many people to urge the State government to take over the temple, which is right now handled by a private trust. Shivamogga district administration had submitted a proposal to the government for bringing the temple under the Muzrai Department in 2005 itself, but it has not happened since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/economy-of-villages-affected-after-closure-of-sigandur-temple-in-shivamogga-dist/article32690767.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Workers’ protest partially hits COVID-19 reporting||The indefinite strike by Karnataka State Health and Medical Education Department Contractual Employees’ Forum and Karnataka AIDS Prevention Society Contract Workers’ Association has partially hit COVID-19 surveillance, testing and reporting in the State. Over 30,000 employees affiliated to these associations abstained from work starting Thursday demanding pay parity and COVID-19 incentives. While the government has announced COVID-19 incentives for doctors and paramedical staff working under the National Health Mission, it has excluded a majority of staffers on COVID-19 duty. Protesting this disparity, NHM staffers deployed at Primary Health Centres, taluk and district hospitals apart from COVID-19 Care Centres did not report for work on Thursday. The protest’s impact was also visible in the COVID-19 health bulletin issued by the Health Department on Thursday. The State reported 7,710 new cases and 65 deaths. Although this is marginally higher than that reported on Wednesday, the numbers are lower than average, which is attributed to the protest. The total cases went up to 5,48,557 and the toll rose to 8,331. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. With 6,748 discharges, the total recoveries rose to 4,44,658.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-protest-partially-hits-covid-19-reporting/article32690738.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP to file FIRs against four private hospitals||The BBMP is all set to file FIRs against four private hospitals for allegedly failing to comply with the directions of the State government and reserve 50% of their beds for COVID-19 patients. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, on Thursday, announced that he has written to the jurisdictional police to file cases under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. “Many hospitals gave us details of the bed count, including those reserved for dialysis, neonatal care and emergency. However, we were not satisfied with the explanation of these four hospitals,” Mr. Prasad said. He added that during a video conference on Wednesday, attended by the Chief Minister and other senior senior officials, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, directions had been issued to reduce the COVID-19 positivity rate and mortality rate. “Bengaluru was directed to bring down the positivity rate to 5% and mortality rate to less than 1%. Currently, the positivity rate is 13.48% and mortality rate is around 1.4%,” he added. Increasing the number of tests was the only solution to reducing both positivity and mortality rates. “The BBMP is conducting around 20,000 tests a day while private laboratories and hospitals are conducting around 5,000 tests a day. Both these numbers should double,” he pointed out. The BBMP plans to have stricter monitoring protocols for COVID-19 patients in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-file-firs-against-four-private-hospitals/article32690740.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police open fire at rowdy||The Electronics City police on Thursday opened fire and arrested a 26-year-old habitual offender. “The accused, Krishna, is wanted for over 12 criminal cases at various police stations, and was on the run,” said a senior police officer. After tracking him down to Begur Koppa, where he was hiding, a team went to the spot to arrest Krishna. However, instead of surrendering, he allegedly attacked PSI Ayappa with a dagger. “Inspector Kishore Kumar warned him before opening fire. “Krishna sustained injuries on his right leg and was admitted to a private hospital along with Ayappa,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-open-fire-at-rowdy/article32690743.ece
25 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Case tally remains high in Alappuzha||As many as 453 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. The district also reported seven COVID-19 deaths. The deceased were identified as a 68-year-old man from Kayamkulam, a 72-year-old man from Cherthala South and a 21-year-old woman from Alappuzha — all three died on September 4. A 66-year-old woman from Alappuzha and an 82-year-old woman from Mavelikara died on September 11. Another woman, a 64-year-old from Kareelakulangara, and a 74-year-old man from Alappuzha died on September 10 and September 12 respectively. According to the Health Department, the district so far logged 11,368 COVID-19 cases. While 7,896 people recovered, 26 succumbed to the disease. The active COVID-19 cases in the district stand at 3,443. 406 through contact Of the 453 fresh cases, 406 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Thirty-eight people who came from other States, six from abroad, two health staff and an Eramallikkara native whose source of infection is unknown tested positive. Localities The locally transmitted cases include 48 from Alappuzha, 32 from Punnapra South, 29 from Ambalappuzha, 28 from Kayamkulam, 26 from Aroor and 23 from Punnapra North. Rest of the contact cases are from Kadakkarappally (17), Neelamperoor (13), Haripad (12), Cheriyanad (11), Chettikkad (10), Thycattusserry (9), Aryad (8), Nedumudi (8), Panavally (8), Eramallikkara (7), Muthukulam (7), Cherthala (6), Mavelikara (6), Budhanoor (5), Cheppad (5), Kanjikuzhy (5), Kavalam (5), Thanneermukkom (5), Thazhakara (5), Vayalar (5), Arattuppuzha (4), Chengannur (4), Kumarapuram (4), Krishnapuram (4), Kandalloor (4), Bharanikavu (4), Mulakuzha (4), Pattanakkad (4), Chunakara (3), Veliyanad (3), Champakulam (2), Mannar (2), Muhamma (2), Pathiyoor (2), Venmony (2) and one each from Arookutty, Cheruthana, Devikulangara, Ezhupunna, Kuthiathode, Kodamthuruth, Nooranad, Purakkad, Pallippuram, Pulinkunnu, Palamel, Pandanad, Thekkekara and Thakazhi. 183 cured On Thursday, 183 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-tally-remains-high-in-alappuzha/article32691340.ece
25 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki water level nearing blue alert level||With the water level in the Idukki reservoir nearing the blue alert level on Thursday, a control room has been opened and arrangements have ben made to monitor the situation. Though the rain has subsided, the inflow to the reservoir remained high with the water level in the dam reaching 2,387.04 ft. The blue alert level is 2,387.79 ft. Though the present water level was below the rule curve level (2,395.79 ft) fixed by the Central Water Commission, the rise in the water level was attributed to the heavy rainfall two days ago and low generation at the Moolamattom power house. Usually, the generation level is lowered during monsoon.   Generation level According to the Dam Monitoring and Research Station at Vazhathoppe, the generation level was nearly 4.5 million units (mu) for the past three days. Though the water level is nearly 7 ft short of the red alert level, an official at the research station said the chances of opening the shutters of the reservoir were remote. The situation would change in the event of a heavy rainfall and power generation had to be raised to control the water level. Supriya S., Kerala State Electricity Board chief engineer (Dam Safety and DRIP), on Thursday said the blue alert was marked as an internal alert system. Though the water level in the Pampa was flowing above the blue alert level, the inflow has come down on Thursday. At Kakki, the water level was much below the rule curve level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-water-level-nearing-blue-alert-level/article32691301.ece
25 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||151 in Idukki||The district saw the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 151 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Of the new cases, 102 contracted the disease through contact. The source of infection in 23 cases could not be traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/151-in-idukki/article32691341.ece
25 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Allegations won’t deter govt. from executing projects: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that allegations against development projects cannot deter the government from executing such projects. Speaking after inaugurating the construction work of a flat complex, built under the LIFE Mission project at Cherukunnu near Poothadi in the district through videoconferencing on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan said the government was trying to provide houses to all homeless families and improve their standard of living. As many as 1,35,796 beneficiaries were identified for the third phase of the project, the Chief Minister said, adding that 2,26,518 houses had been constructed so far. The four-storey flat complex at Cherukunnu, to be constructed on a 43.19 acres at a cost of Rs. 662 lakh, will have 42 apartments with modern facilities. In Kannur The Chief Minister inuagurated the construction of four LIFE Mission housing complexes in the district through videoconferencing on Thursday. Prefab technology flats are being constructed in Payyanur and Anthoor municipalities and Chirakkal and Kannapuram grama panchayats. Housing complexes consisting of 44 houses in Anthoor and Payyanur municipalities, 36 houses in Chirakkal panchayat and 32 houses in Kannapuram are being constructed. To be completed in a year The flats are being constructed at a cost of Rs. 6.03 crore on 200 cents in Anthoor, Rs. 6.07 crore on 80 cents in Payyanur, Rs. 5.12 crore on 45 cents in Chirakkal, and Rs. 4.83 crore on 70 cents in Kannapuram. Mr. Vijayan said the construction of flats would be completed within a year. Under the LIFE Mission, as many as 2,26,518 families have been relocated to new homes. The construction of houses for 1.5 lakh people is in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allegations-wont-deter-govt-from-executing-projects-cm/article32691271.ece
25 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Audit report finds Mayor liable for rule violation in RAY project||A report prepared by the State Performance Audit Officer on the delay in constructing a 12-storey housing tower at Thuruthy in West Kochi for landless beneficiaries, holds the Mayor, Additional Secretary, and the Superintending Engineer of the Kochi Corporation accountable for having violated rules and returned the security deposit to the contractor before completion of work. The Additional Secretary had then been holding the Secretary’s charge and had approved the return of the deposit after the Mayor had given her assent, according to the report. The corporation must take time-bound action to retrieve the deposit from the contractor, and till then, it remains the joint liability of the Mayor, Additional Secretary, and the Superintending Engineer, the report says. The construction of two such towers for 398 families initiated under the previous UPA government’s Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) has remained stalled for nearly three years now. The report says that 29 councillors had submitted a complaint on the matter before the Minister for Local Self-Governments, after which the audit officer had investigated it in October last year. A few Opposition councillors in the corporation had recently procured a copy of the report. After the security deposit of Rs. 91.22 lakh was returned to the contractor in June last year with the Mayor’s anticipatory approval, Opposition councillors have, since then, consistently disputed the return of the deposit without the council’s approval. When the issue was brought up again before the council at a meeting last month, it was put to vote and passed with the UDF’s majority, Mayor Soumini Jain said. “Anticipatory approval can be granted by the Mayor in emergency situations, according to rules. The contractor wrote to us, saying he had no more money to spend and required the security deposit to prevent the work from coming to a halt. This letter was sent to the finance standing committee, where it was not opposed,” Ms. Jain said. While she has not seen a copy of the report, in this matter of social importance, she is willing to be held liable, she added. While payment worth around Rs. 10 crore had been made to the contractor, a site inspection revealed that only the ground floor and parts of the first floor were constructed, the report says. The cost of work done has not yet been precisely assessed, but preliminary estimates suggest that the expense could be disproportionate to the structure on ground, the report notes. Further, the shortcomings in the DPR that was sanctioned in 2014 are to blame for the long delay in implementing the project, the report says. After several estimates were found missing from the DPR, a revised estimate had to be prepared, taking the cost of the tower up by around Rs. 21 crore, an amount that will now be funded by Cochin Smart Mission Limited, Ms. Jain said. The work can resume only after the matter is presented before the council at the next meeting, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/audit-report-finds-mayor-liable-for-rule-violation-in-ray-project/article32691274.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Agency to recover cost of flyover reconstruction from RDS Projects||Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala Limited (RBDCK) would shortly initiate proceedings against RDS Projects to recover the Rs. 18 crore that has been estimated to reconstruct the girders of Palarivattom flyover which developed cracks within two years of commissioning. “We may also take steps to blacklist the firm to prevent it from participating in any tenders floated by us,” a senior official of the agency said. RBDCK, a subsidiary of the Public Works Department (PWD), had received considerable flak following the flyover fiasco. “The reconstruction expense can be levied from RDS, since the cracks developed within three years (the defect liability period) of the flyover being commissioned. The cost can be recovered any time since we have not issued completion certificate for the project. Already, the government has invoked Rs. 4.12 crore that the firm gave as bank guarantee. The estimated reconstruction cost could have been recovered earlier but for the firm approaching the court, following which an order was issued stating that no further action could be taken against it until the case pending before the High Court was disposed off. This also hampered efforts to blacklist the firm and to realise the cost from other projects undertaken by RDS. The Supreme Court has now directed the High Court to dispose all pending appeals within six months,” he added. “There is no doubt that the cost of reconstruction must be realised from the builder firm. We would issue a notice in this regard after discussions, including with legal experts. While the government must decide on blacklisting the firm from all works in Kerala, RBDCK’s board can take a call on this with regard to our projects,” sources in the agency said. RBDCK had also kept in abeyance payment of two bills submitted by the firm, citing the damage that the new flyover sustained within two years of commissioning, it is learnt. Former Mayor Tony Chammany, who is now KPCC general secretary, demanded that the government speed up steps to recover flyover reconstruction cost from RDS Projects. “The firm may escape paying the amount if Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (DMRC) reconstructs the flyover using the money it saved while constructing overbridges in the city. The money with DMRC must be used to build an overbridge at either Vaduthala, Vathuruthy or Atlantis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agency-to-recover-cost-of-flyover-reconstruction-from-rds-projects/article32691276.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam reports 576 new local transmission cases||A total of 590 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Of them, 576 people contracted the disease through local contact, and 14 had arrived from outside the State. As many as six police persons have tested positive. A total of seven health workers, including two ASHA workers, have tested positive. Positive cases of the infection were reported from areas including Elamkunnapuzha, Cheranalloor, Ayavana, Chellanam, Fort Kochi, Kadunagalloor, Karumaloor, Kumbalangi, Muvattupuzha, Njarakkal, Nellikuzhi, Palluruthy, Thrikkakara, Vyttila and Thripunithura. A total of 248 people have tested negative while 4,692 people are being treated for it. About 20,372 people remain in quarantine. For testing, 2,059 samples were collected from government facilities and 2,697 samples from private ones. Treatment centres In an online briefing, District Collector S. Suhas said that 1,294 category A patients, who do not have facilities to remain quarantined at home, are being monitored at 16 FLTCs in the district. Two second-line treatment centres with 137 category B patients are also functioning – one operated by the administration and the other by a private hospital. A total of 239 category C patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital and PVS Hospital. A total of 1,186 people remain in isolation at home and their health is regularly monitored, he said. A few select hospitals are providing care to about 386 patients who can afford and prefer treatment at private hospitals, he said. Category A, B and C patients are differentiated based on the severity of their symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-reports-576-new-local-transmission-cases/article32691284.ece
25 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Quarry blast: owner’s licence cancelled||The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) has cancelled the licence of the quarry at Illithodu, where two migrant workers were killed in a blast at an unauthorised storage of detonators on Monday. The licence for possession, sale, and use, which is issued by PESO, was cancelled under the provisions of the Explosives Rules, 2008. Two migrant workers from Salem in Tamil Nadu and Chamarajanagar in Karnataka were killed in the explosion. A preliminary report filed by the Controller of Explosives, PESO, Kochi, had said that the detonators were stored in an unauthorised building. The ‘magazine’ (building or structure intended for storage of explosives) as per the Explosives Rules approved by PESO was located 3 km away from the quarry. The explosives were found stacked in a building used to accommodate quarry workers. Senior PESO officials pointed out that it was a common practice among quarry managements to store explosives in temporary spaces close to the sites. “Explosives are often stored in such unauthorised spaces for convenience. Those entrusted with the job may act on their own or under directions from above to keep the detonators in unauthorised buildings,” they said. The rules make it clear that no person should receive from or transfer explosives to anyone for temporary storage or safe custody on licensed premises without prior approval from the Controller of Explosives or the licensing authority concerned. The magazine used for storage of explosives has to maintain a safety distance of 45 metres from nearby buildings. The building approved for storage should have walls built of rock, stone, or concrete conforming to the Indian Standards (IS). The building near the quarry site had a total carpet area of around 1,200 sq.ft. It was meant to house workers and store their personal belongings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarry-blast-owners-licence-cancelled/article32691281.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Two more accused held in Nettoor murder case||A week after the arrest of 14 persons in connection with the murder of a youngster in an alleged gang war of sorts at Nettoor, the city police on Thursday arrested two more accused in the case. The arrested were identified as Athul A.S, 29, of Panangad, and Anila Mathew, 25, of Vadakara. They have been charged in connection with the death of Fahadh Hussain, 19, of Nettoor, who was grievously injured in the fight and later succumbed to his injuries. The murder happened amidst a fight allegedly in connection with a drug deal in which a woman was arrested with over three kg of ganja on July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-accused-held-in-nettoor-murder-case/article32691282.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||100% attendance made mandatory at HC offices||The Kerala High Court has made applicable the government order on100% staff attendance to the High Court offices as well. The High Court Registry withdrew its earlier order permitting its staff to work on turn basis and from home, and ordered that all the High Court staff shall attend the office on all working days adhering to COVID protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-attendance-made-mandatory-at-hc-offices/article32691277.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Police to act tough on illegal quarries||The police are planning to tighten the noose around illegal quarries in the district in the wake of the death of two workers in an explosion of gelatine sticks stocked in a building near a stone quarry at Ellithodu near Malayattoor on Monday. A high-level meeting of the police department was held at the Kalady police station on Thursday to take stock of the situation. It was decided to verify the licences of all quarries functioning in the district. Those found stocking explosives beyond the permissible limits will be strictly dealt with, and they will be slapped with criminal charges. Those guilty of violating licence conditions will be arrested, Meanwhile, Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar, DIG, Kochi Range, and District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik visited the accident site on Thursday as part of the probe. The police are continuing their inspection of quarries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-act-tough-on-illegal-quarries/article32691280.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||School agrees to demand for reduction in fees||The demand for reduction in fees raised by the collective of parents at Toc H Public School, Vyttila, was accepted by the management following talks held on Wednesday. The Toc H Parents United Forum had demanded 50% reduction in fees in view of the crisis induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the management agreed to reduce the fees by 27.5% for all the classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-agrees-to-demand-for-reduction-in-fees/article32691283.ece
25 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Accused who fled from detention centre nabbed||The Ernakulam Rural police were spared blushes after they managed to rearrest an accused in a spate of thefts and robberies within hours after he escaped their custody in the late night hours on Tuesday. Suresh aka Dracula Suresh, 30, nicknamed for his ability to pull off thefts and robberies in the cover of night, had fled the police detention centre at Karukutty. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), immediately formed a special team to track down the accused and a district-wide manhunt was launched at the end of which he was nabbed from a house at Vengola in Perumbavoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-who-fled-from-detention-centre-nabbed/article32691279.ece
25 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CITU to hold 1,000 PSU protection meets today||The CITU Ernakulam district committee will hold public sector protection meets at 1,000 centres between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. on September 25 (Friday). The Centre is going ahead with its move to sell stake in BPCL.Those opposing privatisation of the company argue that the company will cease to have any social responsibility once privatised, the protesters maintained. CITU national secretary K. Chandran Pillai will inaugurate the meet at High Court Junction here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/citu-to-hold-1000-psu-protection-meets-today/article32691278.ece
25 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||BevQ running smooth, firm tells HC||The virtual queue management app for liquor sale, BevQ, is running smooth with more than 1,47,00,000 users and is very effective in crowd management, according to an affidavit filed by the developer of the app, Faircode Technologies Private Limited, before the High Court. The affidavit was filed in response to a writ petition by Teebus Marketing Private Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bevq-running-smooth-firm-tells-hc/article32691287.ece
25 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bail granted to fifth accused||A.M. Jalal, the fifth accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case booked by the Customs, was granted statutory bail by the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, on Thursday. The accused was arrested on July 14 and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bail-granted-to-fifth-accused/article32691288.ece
25 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NIA court verdict in Subhani case today||National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court judge P. Krishnakumar will pronounce on Friday the judgment in the case of Subhani Haja joining the IS. The NIA argued that members of the IS hatched a criminal conspiracy to spread the activities of the organisation and to wage a war against India and Iraq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-court-verdict-in-subhani-case-today/article32691289.ece
25 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||440 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 440 new cases of COVID-19 and 195 recoveries on Thursday. The patients include 436 contact cases, one health worker and three others who had arrived from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The health worker who tested positive is a 51-year-old Thrikkadavur resident and an employee of District Homoeo Hospital. The district had reported the highest single- day surge in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with 503 persons testing positive. 3,641 active cases The number of new patients had crossed 500 for the first time and at present the number of active cases in Kollam is 3,641. Kollam Corporation has the highest number of patients with a total of 102 persons testing positive on Thursday. While Kavanad has 16 new cases, Ayathil 10, Maruthadi 7, and Eravipuram 5 are among the places that reported new contact cases. While 36 persons contracted the virus through contact in Thrikkovilvattam, Kulasekharapuram and Alappad reported 22 and 21 cases respectively. Thrikkaruva, Soorandu, Sasthamcotta and Karungapally are the other places that reported over 10 cases. The district currently has 21,629 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,82,684. While 2,023 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 38,367 primary and 6,538 secondary contacts of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/440-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article32691344.ece
25 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ecstasy seized, one held||Excise sleuths on Thursday arrested a 26-year-old peddler with 10.56 gm of methylenedioxymethamphetamine, a synthetic drug commonly known as ecstasy. “Deepu of Puthankandathil Veedu, Kavadipuram Nagar, has been operating out of Asramam, Uliyakovil and Kavadippuram, supplying the drug to youngsters and criminal gangs. It is the highest quantity of the synthetic drug seized in the district,” said Excise Circle Inspector I. Naushad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ecstasy-seized-one-held/article32691342.ece
25 September 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Dam shutters to be raised||The shutters of the Thenmala (Parappar) dam will be raised by 5 cm on September 25 to control the water level. Those residing on the banks of the Kallada river have been instructed to be on alert. The District Collector has also issued an alert for those engaged in various activities in the river and river mouth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dam-shutters-to-be-raised/article32691343.ece
25 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Single-day high of 343 in Kottayam||Kottayam recorded its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases on Thursday with 343 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 Of the new cases, 338 people, including 29 workers of an industrial unit at Mallikassery in Elikkulam panchayat, contracted the virus through local transmission. As many as 15% of the total cases are aged above 60. Elikkulam panchayat recorded the highest number of cases with 32 testing positive, followed by Kottayam with 31 cases. Cases were also reported from Kumarakom 18, Erattupetta 16, Thiruvarppu 11, Bharanganam and Pampady 10 each. Changanassery, Aymanom, and Chembu reported 14 cases each. With 130 recoveries during the day, the district has 3,008 active cases. In view of the surge in cases, the Health Department has revised its treatment strategy by commencing COVID second-line treatment centres (SLTCs) and promoting home care for asymptomatic patients. At the same time, the rising caseload is stretching the treatment network as medium risk and high-risk patients are increasing proportionately. SLTCs were opened at Pala, Uzhavoor, and Changanassery by converting the First Line Treatment Centres there. The SLTCs are equipped to provide treatment for medium risk patients, while high-risk patients are being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital and the District General Hospital, which are designated as COVID specialty hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/single-day-high-of-343-in-kottayam/article32691346.ece
25 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Puthussery quits Mani group||Amidst strong indications about the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani set to align with the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the faction has suffered a major blow with senior party leader and three-time legislator Joseph M. Puthussery quitting the party to join the rival faction led by P.J. Joseph. Announcing the decision here on Thursday, Mr. Puthussery told mediapersons that he wanted to follow the political probity of K.M. Mani and those who followed in the footsteps of the KC(M) patriarch could never align with the LDF. “Even though Mr. Mani had severed ties with the UDF in 2016, he then chose to come back soon,” he said. Move to LDF flayed He criticised the Mani group's decision to forge ties with the LDF, which had made K.M. Mani a target of political witch hunt during the bar bribery case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/puthussery-quits-mani-group/article32691345.ece
25 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records highest number of cases at 883||The highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State on Thursday was reported in Kozhikode district when 883 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Kozhikode Corporation accounted for a major chunk of the cases. The District Medical Officer (DMO) said in a release that 811 of the fresh cases on Thursday were due to local transmission of the infection. Twenty-eight persons had returned from other States and four from abroad. The source of infection in 40 patients is not known. The newly infected include 19 health workers. With 308 people recovering from the infection, the number of active cases in the district stands at 4,721. Meanwhile, R.S. Gopakumar, health officer, Kozhikode Corporation, urged those who had visited the Palayam Market on or after September 16 to go into self-isolation. Those who develop symptoms such as fever, cold, and headache should contact the nearest primary health centre or the corporation health wing for COVID-19 test, he added. The district administration is also planning to set up special first-line treatment centres for asymptomatic infected persons who cannot opt for home isolation. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said the market would remain closed for a week till September 30. A quick response team has been stationed on its premises. Vehicles transporting fruits and vegetables from other States now need to unload them at the market at Thadampattuthazham. The Palayam Market will be disinfected before its opening, and only those who test negative for the virus after a week will be allowed to open stalls. All traders and staff should register with the COVID Jagrata Portal. Tests will now be held every week there, Mr. Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-records-highest-number-of-cases-at-883/article32691267.ece
25 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Post-COVID syndrome emerging in the State?||Initial symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease happening due to the damaging of tissues that can lead to shortening of breath, have been noticed in two persons who recovered from COVID-19 here recently. This was revealed by M. Shamsudeen, consultant physician attached to a Post-COVID Care Clinic at IQRAA Hospital here. The clinic has been set up jointly by the National Health Mission, Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and the State government. The outpatient section here is open from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m on all days except Sunday. “The symptoms were found in two persons who came here for post-COVID check-up. One was in his 40s and the other, in his 50s. Without losing time, they were given treatment. If they were late, it would have been difficult,” Dr. Shamsudeen said. Fatigue, headache, body pain, breathlessness, and cough are some of the common after-effects found among those who have approached the clinic.  In 20% of people According to experts, almost 20% of the people who got cured of the infection may develop future health problems. They include asymptomatic people who were tested positive for the virus. It has been termed post-COVID syndrome or long COVID. Paralysis, cardiac arrest, and epilepsy could be some of the consequences. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences had earlier said that a majority of these patients might have conditions caused by other diseases. Developed countries such as the U.K. have already begun ‘post-hospitalisation COVID-19 study’. It is a consortium of researches and clinicians from across that country “to understand and improve long-term health outcomes for patients who have been in hospital with confirmed or suspected COVID-19.” The Delhi government is reported to have launched similar efforts. Dr. Shamsudeen, however, noted that not many are aware of the importance of post-COVID care. “Those who have cough or breathing problems need to immediately seek medical treatment. Any negligence can be fatal,” he said. The clinic has three physicians and one pulmonologist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-covid-syndrome-emerging-in-the-state/article32691286.ece
25 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Flaws’ in classification of buffer zones trigger protest||The alleged flaws in the classification of buffer zones by including huge swathes of agricultural land around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary have triggered widespread protest among farmers in 13 villages in Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. An indefinite stir is likely to be launched soon under a new action committee formed by farmers’ organisations under the Kozhikode-based Karshaka Raksha Samiti. To begin with, farmers will take out a rally on September 28 seeking the withdrawal of the latest notification on buffer zones. With the objective of mobilising public support for the cause, the march will cover all the 13 affected villages. It will conclude at Adivaram on September 29. Farmers from Wayanad too will join the rally. Meanwhile, the committee will ensure mass participation by youth in the rally and subsequent agitations. Besides, religious and political leaders will address protesters. According to the committee, life of rural farmers will turn miserable with the “unscientific delineation” of buffer zones. In the Malabar region, it will mainly affect farmers at Chembanoda, Chakkittappara, Changaroth, Perambra, Koorachundu, Kanthalad, Puthuppadi, Kedavoor, Kattippara, Thariyod, Pozhuthana, Achooranam and Kunnathinadu villages, it claimed. Baby Perumalil, a leader of the committee, said any expansion of the buffer zones by grabbing farmers’ land would be opposed through united protests. “If implemented, the new buffer zone regulations will send out thousands of underprivileged farmers from their own land. Many of them are already facing wild animal attacks, fall in prices of agricultural produce, and loan burdens,” he argued. Committee leaders claimed that the conservation of the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary could be ensured by scientifically marking the existing boundary of the forest land. Instead, there is a deliberate attempt to capture farm lands and evacuate farmers, they complained. According to them, the Revenue authorities are also working in favour of the Forest Department’s action plan. As part of suspicious attempts to convert farm land into forest land, even land tax is not being accepted from some landholders in Vilangad and Puthuppadi villages, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flaws-in-classification-of-buffer-zones-trigger-protest/article32691269.ece
25 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Conventional cremation suspended||Traditional cremation will not be performed at the crematorium operated by the Kozhikode Corporation on Mavoor Road until further notice. According to corporation sources, electric cremation as well as furnaces will continue to function. The civic body has prepared a Rs. 2.5-crore plan to renovate the crematorium, and Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society has been given the task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conventional-cremation-suspended/article32691264.ece
25 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||National workshop||The Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR), Kozhikode, will host the 31st annual workshop of the All India Coordinated Research Project on Spices from September 29. The two-day national workshop will review all major research projects related to production of spices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/national-workshop/article32691268.ece
25 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Forest Dept. indifferent to farmers’ concerns’||A section of farmer organisation activists on Thursday staged a protest against Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) M. Rajeevan at Thamarassery, alleging that the Forest Department was cold-shouldering farmers’ concerns over the classification of buffer zones around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. The DFO who had planned to visit a few project areas dropped it in the course of the protest. “I withdrew from the move, as any public protest on this issue would end up in the violation of the COVID-19 protocol,” he told reporters on Thursday. The DFO also clarified that the proposed buffer zones would in no way affect the inhabited areas of Kattippara and Puthuppadi villages as propagated by a section of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-indifferent-to-farmers-concerns/article32691270.ece
25 September 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram registers its biggest spike in infections||Malappuram district saw the biggest spike ever in COVID-19 cases since the virus began showing up in March when 763 people tested positive on Thursday. “It’s alarming,” said District Medical Officer K. Sakeena. As many as 707 of them were found to have been infected through local contact. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said laxity among people in maintaining the pandemic guidelines had led to the spurt in cases. He warned of stringent action against those violating norms. Among those who tested positive on Thursday were nine health workers. The source of infection could not be traced in 34 cases. While five came from other States, eight came from abroad. However, there were 513 recoveries in the district. In Thrissur Thrissur district registered 474 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. With this, the total number of patients in the district went up to 10,191. According to an official release, 469 people contracted the infection through local contact. The source of infection in nine persons is not known. In Kannur In Kannur, a total of 406 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Of the total cases reported, 351 contracted the infection through local contact, while six came from abroad, and 29 arrived from other States. Twenty of the infected persons are health workers. This brings the total number of cases in the district to 9,036. Of them, 426 recovered on Thursday. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries reached 5,721. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 300 people tested positive for SARS-COV-2. Of them, 283 contracted the virus through local contact, while eight are from other States and nine from abroad. In Palakkad As many as 353 people tested positive for SARS-COV-2 in Palakkad on Thursday. While 206 of them were found to have been infected through local contact, nine came from other States and three from abroad. The source of infection could not be traced in 135 cases. District officials said 114 persons had recovered on Thursday. In Wayanad The number of cases shot up again in Wayanad when 106 people tested positive on Thursday. District Medical Officer R. Renuka said 98 of them contracted the infection through local contact. There were four health workers and a woman police officer among the new cases. Dr. Renuka said 105 persons had recovered on Thursday.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-registers-its-biggest-spike-in-infections/article32691273.ece
25 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||318 kg of ganja seized in Malappuram; five arrested||In one of the largest drug seizures in recent memory, the police seized 318 kg of ganja and arrested five persons at Chappanangadi near Kottakkal on Thursday. The contraband was being transported from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh in a mini lorry and a car. The police said there were eight members in the gang, and three of them had escaped. The arrested are Shaul Hameed, 25, from Areekode; Akbar Ali, 32, from Manjeri; Abdurahman, 34, from Indianoor; Najeeb, 34, from Irumbuzhi, and Mohammed Irshad, 26, from Karipur. The police waylaid the gang at Chapanangadi following a tip-off. The contraband was brought in eight sacks. While seven of them were hidden under sackfuls of onion in the mini lorry, one was recovered from the car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/318-kg-of-ganja-seized-in-malappuram-five-arrested/article32691272.ece
25 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||189 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 189 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Of the new cases, 149 contracted the virus through local transmission. The fresh cases included a 50-year-old woman at Ilamannoor, who died of cancer three days ago. The woman, who had been undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, tested positive on September 15. With 119 recoveries during the day, the district has 1,468 active cases now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/189-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32691347.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital posts 875 new cases||The district recorded 875 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the number of active cases to over 8,000. The death toll also jumped to 194 with 11 more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. While 700 cases have been attributed to local transmission, the source of infection in 142 cases remained unknown. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, during his daily briefing, flagged the worrying number of such cases that posed immense concern for health workers who were founding it difficult to trace the contacts of the patients. The district has reported 1,013 such cases since September 18. The deceased included natives of Naruvamoodu (20 year old), Mannoorkkonam (70), Poonthura (60), Attingal (75), Vembayam (62), Anayara (74), Koduvazhannoor (60), Manchavilakom (67) and two Vallakadavu natives (aged 72and 56 years). The death of a 72-year-old doctor from Kallattumukku, who ran a private clinic at Attakulangara, has also been confirmed to be due to COVID-19. 28 health staff Twenty-eight health workers were also diagnosed with COVID-19 on the day. Four of those infected had come from other States. Among the vulnerable sections, 118 people aged above 60 years and 102 children aged below 15 have been infected. Eight police personnel attached to the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp at Peroorkada too tested positive. 8,446 under treatment Currently, 8,446 persons are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the district. These included 26 pregnant women and 20 children. As many as 296 people recovered from the illness on Thursday. The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered cases against 22 people under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 for violating the COVID-19 protocol. While 185 people were penalised for failing to wear masks, another 17 were charged for violating physical distancing norms. Legal action was also initiated against three shops for failing to adhere to the guidelines. Containment zones Meanwhile, the district administration declared containment zones at Pattakulam in Pulimath grama panchayat, Kattumpuram and Vellorkonam in Kizhuvilam grama panchayat and Office ward in Kottukal grama panchayat. The existing micro-containment zone in Ponnumangalam ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has been extended to the entire ward. Containment zones in Office ward at Balaramapuram grama panchayat and Thoppil area in the Thampanoor ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-posts-875-new-cases/article32690946.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More candidates qualify for BTech admission||Pandemic-induced challenges failed to deter engineering aspirants in the State with more students qualifying for the BTech admission this year. The results of the KEAM 2020 entrance examinations, declared by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel on Thursday, saw 53,236 candidates securing eligibility for admission, marking a significant increase of 7,639 compared with last year. Boys outshone girls this year too by securing the top nine ranks in the engineering entrance test. In the pharmacy entrance, boys bagged seven out of the top 10 ranks. The toppers Varun K.S. of Kottayam bagged the top position in the engineering entrance by securing a score of 593.6776. Gokul Govind T.K. of Kannur and Niyaz Mon P. of Malappuram came second and third respectively.  Akshay K. Muraleedharan of Thrissur, Joyal James of Kasaragod and Aditya Byju of Kollam occupied the top three positions in the pharmacy entrance. Jagan M.J. of Kollam and Neema P. Manikandan of Kannur topped the rankings in the Scheduled Caste and Schedule Tribe categories respectively in the engineering entrance.  Sixty-six students among the top 100 appeared for the engineering entrance test for the first time. Better quality The increasing number of those clearing the test in their first attempt bore testament to the quality of general education in the State, Dr. Jaleel said. The allotment process for the engineering and pharmacy courses would begin on September 29. The entrance test was held on July 16 amid widespread concern and travel difficulties caused by COVID-19. Toppers’ goals Despite having topped the State entrance test, the trio of Varun, Gokul, and Niyaz have set their sights on attempting the JEE (Advanced) 2020 examination on September 27 for admissions to IITs and other prestigious institutions. While all of them had dedicated a year for entrance coaching, this year’s examination is Niyaz’s first attempt while the others managed to improve on their 2019 performances. While being flexible on their choice of engineering streams, the toppers gave priority for the reputation and academic standards of colleges they hoped to gain admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-candidates-qualify-for-btech-admission/article32691304.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Domestic workers stage dharna||Domestic workers staged a dharna in front of the AG’s Office here on Thursday demanding a comprehensive law for better working conditions, compensation to domestic workers who have lost jobs, and implementation of the urban employment scheme. The protest organised under the umbrella of the SEWA-Union was part of a national agitation against the changes brought by the Union government to labour laws. Inaugurating the protest, Sonia George, general secretary of the SEWA-Union, said the dharna was the first of protests by domestic workers. In a statement here, the SEWA-Union said domestic workers were among the section of workers who had lost their jobs the most. Though they provided an essential service, they were being kept away from the workplace on the grounds of being virus carriers. The labour bills passed by Parliament did not cover domestic workers. Ms. George said the Code on Social Security did not define private homes as an establishment or define an employer. Till then, workspaces of domestic workers would not get any recognition and they would not be able to highlight any violation of labour rights in that space. There were apprehensions that the domestic workers would not get any entitlements if they could not prove they were a worker, though the Union government’s argument was that they were universalising social security benefits, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/domestic-workers-stage-dharna/article32691349.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LIFE: 8 lakh more apply||Over eight lakh people have newly applied for inclusion in the LIFE Mission housing project, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the construction of 29 housing complexes under the LIFE Mission via videoconference on Thursday. “The government has decided to give another opportunity for those who have not been covered in the three phases. More than eight lakh applications have been received. The government will prepare a list of beneficiaries in a transparent manner and provide housing to the deserving applicants,” he said. The government will not abandon development projects that are beneficial to the people fearing allegations. Certain people have unleashed large-scale propaganda against the LIFE project, he said. 1,285 families to benefit The 29 apartment complexes will benefit 1,285 families. The Rs. 181.22-crore project is expected to be completed in one year. Four of the complexes are coming up in Kannur district and three each in Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Kollam. Other districts have one or two each. The LIFE Mission has drawn good response from the people, the Chief Minister said. The project has so far provided homes to 2,26,518 families. Construction of houses for 1.5 lakh families is in progress, he said. A total of 1,35,769 beneficiaries have been identified as eligible in the third phase of the LIFE project, which aims at rehabilitating people who are landless and homeless. Of these, houses for 1,765 families have been completed. In Adimaly, a housing complex with 217 apartments has been constructed on a pilot basis and handed over to the grama panchayat. Construction of 101 similar units in different districts is expected to be completed by next year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-8-lakh-more-apply/article32690948.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Tourism bags PATA award||Kerala Tourism’s internationally acclaimed ‘Human by Nature’ campaign has bagged the prestigious PATA Grand Award 2020 for marketing. The award, one of the three PATA grand awards, will give a stimulus to the tourism industry in the State that has been in a crisis for over six months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The awards were announced at a virtual presentation ceremony in Beijing on Thursday. The event was attended by Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran; Secretary, Tourism, Rani George; Tourism Director P. Bala Kiran; PATA Chief Executive Officer Mario Hardy; and Macao Government Tourism Office Director Maria Helena de Senna Fernandes. ‘Human by Nature’ was a marketing strategy to revive tourism that was hit by the 2018 floods and the Nipah outbreak. Showcasing culture and daily life of the people, it was conceptualised and scripted by Stark Communications. Growth in arrivals The campaign had helped Kerala Tourism achieve record growth of 17.2% in tourism arrivals in 2019, the highest in 24 years. The PATA Gold Awards 2020 attracted 121 entries from 62 organisations and individuals worldwide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tourism-bags-pata-award/article32690939.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID test in false name: KSU president booked||The Pothencode police on Thursday booked Kerala Students Union (KSU) State president K.M. Abhijith on charge of impersonation for allegedly providing false identification and contact details after he was diagnosed with COVID-19. Shortly after he tested positive on Wednesday, Mr. Abhijith was accused by the Pothencode grama panchayat authorities of impersonation with an intention to mislead officials and health workers. The police, which registered the case based on a complaint by grama panchayat president K. Venugopalan Nair, booked the KSU leader under various charges, including Section 419 (cheating by personation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, that pertain to involvement in gatherings that pose risk of transmitting infection. Wrong name, address While the patient’s name was stated as Abhi M.K. in the COVID-19 register, Mr. Abhijith had furnished the address and contact number of KSU State secretary Bahul Krishna who accompanied him for the test. While Mr. Krishna had tested negative for the infection, Mr. Abhijith is currently in isolation in a house. Maintaining that the flaw was unintentional and a clerical error, the KSU alleged that the controversy was politically motivated. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala also came to Mr. Abhijith’s defence, claiming that the KSU president had no reason to conceal his identity. However, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran viewed the issue as a serious one and added that stringent action would be initiated against any health worker found to have colluded with the KSU workers. During his daily briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also came down heavily on the KSU leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-test-in-false-name-ksu-president-booked/article32690944.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to promote biotech industry: CM||The State government aims at creating an industrial ecosystem in the State which will attract huge investments in the biotechnology sector, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking, via videoconference, after laying the foundation stone for the Medical Devices Park (MedSpark) at the Life Science Park at Thonnakkal in the district on Thursday. MedSpark would leverage the country’s strengths in the manufacture of high-risk medical devices and transform Kerala into a hub for this industry, Mr. Vijayan said. The government would ensure opportunities for entrepreneurship alongside research in biotechnology. Special encouragement would be given to startups, he said. Job opportunities MedSpark is expected to provide 1,200 direct jobs and 5,000 indirect ones. Mr. Vijayan also urged companies and startups to cooperate with this project which, he said, would prove to be a turning point in industrial growth in Kerala. The facility aims at bringing services related to research and development and evaluation of medical devices under one umbrella. The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) is collaborating with the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) to establish the medical devices manufacturing facility at Rs. 230 crore. Funds The State government’s share is Rs. 150 crore, while the Centre is contributing Rs. 80 crore. The Chief Minister said 155 acres had been acquired for the Life Science Park in two phases. The allocation of land for the Phase I projects, which include the Institute of Advanced Virology, was in progress, he said. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan presided. Deputy Speaker V. Sasi, district panchayat president V.K. Madhu, Pothencode panchayat president Shaniba Beegum, Mangalapuram panchayat president D. Madhusoodanan Pillai and Principal Secretary (Industries) K. Elangovan also took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-promote-biotech-industry-cm/article32690947.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pay cut: KGMOA stir on Oct. 2||Government doctors in the State are on the warpath against the government’s decision to continue the salary cut. They demanded on Thursday that the government immediately resolve the issue of shortage of human resources so that those working on the front line of COVID-19 management are not taxed further. Members of the State executive of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) will stage a fast in front of the Secretariat on October 2. COVID-19 cases have been surging in the State and there is increased pressure on the health system staff, doctors and ancillary staff at all COVID hospitals, first-line treatment centres and for following up patients in home isolation. More human resource is a crucial requirement, KGMOA said. Exemption sought They reiterated their demand that health workers and doctors be exempted from salary cut and that the government release the salary of health workers which is being held back for the past six months. The KGMOA also demanded that the 20% risk allowance that was declared for health workers recruited by the National Health Mission be given to all health-care workers involved in COVID treatment and other containment activities  The hunger strike is being organised as a token protest, in strict adherence to all COVID protocols. However, the doctors would be forced to turn their agitation into a non-cooperation mode if the government did not heed their requirements favourably, the KGMOA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pay-cut-kgmoa-stir-on-oct-2/article32691290.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farmers’ protests outside 250 offices today||Protests will be held outside 250 Central government offices in the State on Friday as part of the nationwide stir against the farm Bills passed by Parliament recently. In Thiruvananthapuram, senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and All India Kisan Sabha vice president S. Ramachandran Pillai will inaugurate the protest outside Raj Bhavan, the Karshaka Samyuktha Samithi, which is spearheading the agitation in the State, said on Thursday. Samithi leaders Sathyan Mokeri and K.N. Balagopal urged farmer organisations and farmers to support the agitations. The All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee has called the nationwide stir opposing the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill introduced by the Centre. Meanwhile, the All India Unorganised Workers Congress and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) OBC (Other Backward Classes) department continued their protest against the Bills in several parts of the State. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the laws would sound the death knell for farmers in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-protests-outside-250-offices-today/article32691294.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prizes given away||Mayor K. Sreekumar distributed prizes to winners of various competitions organised by the Energy Management Centre (EMC) for students during the lockdown. Painting (Lower Primary): Varsha S. of Amrita Vidyalayam and Jyotika G., U.P. School, Poojappura; Devanand C., Kendriya Vidyalaya, Peroorkada (U.P.); Sneha S. and Aleena A.P., Carmel GHSS. Cartoon (HS): Arathi Gopan, AMHSS, Thirumala. Collage (HSS): Gayatri Nandana V.A., Holy Angels HSS. Poster (College): Nithin Bahuleyan, Mohandas College, Nedumangad; and Dheeraj Panicker, TKM College, Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prizes-given-away/article32690949.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New-gen engg. courses from this year onwards||Admissions to the newly sanctioned new-generation courses in engineering colleges will commence this academic year. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel said here on Thursday that nearly 45,000 BTech seats are on offer in 139 engineering colleges in the State. This is bound to increase by around 1,000 seats with the new-generation courses being introduced in 15 self-financing colleges. Similar programmes will be launched in government and aided colleges prior to the academic year. Proposed schools Dr. Jaleel added that admissions to the proposed schools of the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) would also commence this year.  Finding place in the university’s first statute that was issued last month are the School of Mechanical Sciences and Technology, School of Building Sciences and Technology, School of Electrical Sciences and Technology, School of Communication Sciences and Technology, School of Computer Sciences and Technology, School of Interdisciplinary Studies and Research, and School of Basic Sciences and Humanities. The government has sanctioned 40 teaching posts for these study departments that will offer research-oriented PG programmes, he added. As part of establishing KTU’s permanent campus at Vilappilsala, near here, the government will launch the construction of its administration block in November, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-gen-engg-courses-from-this-year-onwards/article32691305.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Project for preschools||Forty pre-primary schools attached to schools in the district are becoming more child-friendly. First, the classrooms will be made more attractive. They will also have various corners dedicated to fostering students’ talents. Training for select preschool teachers in the 12 educational sub-districts in the district has been completed by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala. The schools selected have been sanctioned Rs. 25,000 each too. Parent-teacher association too will provide financial assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-for-preschools/article32690943.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Surendran slams CM||Bharatiya Janata party State president K. Surendran on Thursday slammed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for attempting to muzzle media. Mr. Vijayan reacted in an intolerant manner to questions posed by journalists, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surendran-slams-cm/article32691291.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||One more phone number for women’s panel||Enquiries related to complaints to the State Women’s Commission can be made on a new number, 9188380783, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The existing numbers 0471-2307589 and 2302590 are also available. Complaints can be sent tokeralawomens commission@yahoo.co.inand the website keralawomens commission.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-phone-number-for-womens-panel/article32691292.ece
25 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ensure adherence to protocol, banks told||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) has advised member banks to function at full strength by ensuring strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. It will ensure proper functioning of banks and accelerate credit dispensation, SLBC said in an advisory on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-adherence-to-protocol-banks-told/article32691295.ece
25 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar tomorrow||The Kerala Startup Mission is organising an online panel discussion on ‘Opportunities in media sector in the State’s start-up ecosystem’ on September 26. Those interested can join the programme by registering onwww.bit.ly/ksumpd26sep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-tomorrow/article32691296.ece
25 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Govt. drops disciplinary action against former police officer||The government has exonerated Jacob Job, former Thrissur City Police Commissioner, from all charges levelled against him in connection with the Chandrabose murder case. An order issued by the General Administration (AIS-C) Department on Thursday said all disciplinary actions against the officer were dropped on the basis of an inquiry report. Mr. Job who had been placed under suspension on the charge of needlessly interfering with the investigation in the crime case was later reinstated in service and posted as Superintendent of Police, Women's Cell, before his retirement. No proof The order mentioned that no corroborative evidence was found in the inquiry against him to substantiate the charges levelled against him that he attempted to scuttle the investigation in favour of Mohammed Nisham, accused in the Chandrabose murder case, registered at the Peramangalam police station in Thrissur. The government has also regularised his period of suspension from February 28, 2015 to March 18, 2016 as duty for all purposes, including pay and allowance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-drops-disciplinary-action-against-former-police-officer/article32691302.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fresh from field||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-from-field/article32691308.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Edged out by the sea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/edged-out-by-the-sea/article32691300.ece
25 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Varsities should introduce multi-disciplinary courses’||The universities should introduce new multi-disciplainary courses in sync with the needs of the job industry, experts observed during the ongoing webinars being organised by the Central University of Andhra Pradesh (CUAP) on the National Education Policy-2020. The webinars will conclude on Friday. CUAP Vice-Chancellor S.A. Kori participated in the webinars while Dean in-charge Anjaneya Swamy conducted sessions with guest speaker D.V.L.N. Somayajulu, Director of IIITDM, Kurnool.  ‘Creativity and innovation’ “There is an urgent need for encouraging creativity and new innovations among the students to strengthen the higher education,” said Mr. Somayajulu. HRDC Director, University of Hyderabad, Y. Narasimhulu threw light on digital technology and underlined the need for the upcoming universities to adopt multi-disciplinary approach. Osmania University CDET Joint Director Balaswamy Bandi termed the new education policy as a way to improve the quality of education. He said that the new policy aims at achieving sustainable goals in higher education. “There must be coordination and collaboration between the Centre and alll State governments fior effective implementation of the NEP-2020 in letter and spirit . Professor M. Sangeeta Rao coordinated the webinar in which faculty members and students of CUAP participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varsities-should-introduce-multi-disciplinary-courses/article32691373.ece
25 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl trampled to death by wild elephants in Kuppam||A 17-year-old girl was trampled to death by a pair of wild elephants at Parthichenu village of Kuppam mandal, a few metres away from the Tamil Nadu border, in the early hours of Thursday. The girl’s parents who were on night vigil at their field, escaped by hiding in the thickets. According to information, the couple along with their daughter, Sonia, was guarding their harvested groundnut produce at a patch of field. Around 2 a.m. on Thursday, they heard the screams of their daughter behind a thicket, a couple of minutes after she went to answer nature’s call. The father rushed there only to see the girl lifeless on the ground, and an elephant standing near the body, while another elephant charged at him. Alerting his wife, the man ran for life and hid in the bushes. His wife too ran to safety on a mound. After an hour, the screams of the couple attracted the attention of elephant trackers at a distance, who came to their rescue. The girl’s skull was crushed, resulting in her instantaneous death. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar rushed to the spot and spoke to the grieving couple. The girl’s body was shifted to the area hospital for autopsy.     Meanwhile, a large number of farmers of surrounding hamlets met the DFO and urged him to post watchers to prevent crop raiding elephants from entering their fields with standing crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-trampled-to-death-by-wild-elephants-in-kuppam/article32690627.ece
25 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID panel warns people against self-medication||The members of the COVID-19 coordination committee in Chittoor district have appealed to the people with symptoms of fever to avoid self-medication and undergo tests for coronavirus without delay. It has come to the notice of the coordination committee that many people with symptoms of fever, cold and cough had resorted to self-medication before they were tested positive for the virus. “We found that self-medication delayed the detection of the infection in many patients by a week or more and it led to serious health complications. This is one of the major reasons for the spread of the virus,” Indian Medical Association president (Tirupati region) P. Ravi Raju, who is a member of the COVID-19 coordination committee, told the media here on Thursday. The committee members are meeting regularly to discuss the spread of the virus and functioning of the COVID-19 facilities in the district. The panel members, after a meeting in Tirupati, said people taking self-medication was predominantly witnessed in the rural areas. “Cases of people put under home isolation violating the norms have also come to our notice,” said Dr. Ravi Raju said. High recovery rate “At present, the district has around 10,000 active cases, of which 6,000 are under home isolation. Even as more than 56,000 cases have been reported from the district till date, the recovery rate of more than 85% is quite a relief. However, we should not be complacent and lay focus on checking the spread of the virus,” said Dr. Ravi Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-panel-warns-people-against-self-medication/article32691396.ece
25 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surge in cases continues in rural areas||The spread of COVID-19 continues unabated in the rural areas in the district even as the number of confirmed cases crossed 50,000 mark. On Thursday, the number of confirmed cases stood at 53,752, while the number of active cases were 6,469. However, the spread of infection in the rural areas, where the medical facilities are poor, is worrying the district administration. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, who took stock of the situation, said that surge in cases in the rural areas was alarming. In fresh guidelines, the Collector said that if more than four confirmed cases were recorded in an area, it should be declared a containment zone. He also said that an aggressive containment strategy should be enforced where the number of confirmed cases were more. Employees of village secretariats should be used to conduct survey of primary and secondary contacts of the affected persons and home isolation marks should be put on their homes, he said. Those who have been infected should be treated at community health centres and area hospitals before being shifted to hospitals. The work related to setting up of oxygen lines should be completed immediately at Community Health Centres.  Recruitment Mr. Samuel also asked the Superintendent, GGH, to complete the process of recruitment of personnel in vacant posts. Taking serious view of some hospitals refusing patients under the Arogyasri, the Collector said that notices would be issued to those hospitals which refuse treatment and training should be provided to field-level staff on contact tracing and home isolation. Joint Collectors A.S. Dinesh Kumar, P. Prasanthi and officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surge-in-cases-continues-in-rural-areas/article32690712.ece
25 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppn. creating ruckus to defame govt.: Sajjala||The Opposition is politicising the visit of Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy to Tirumala and has stooped to a new low by playing the religious card for its selfish goals, says Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affairs). Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the opposition parties were trying to defame the government by creating unnecessary disputes. ‘CM followed traditions’ “The Chief Minister went to Tirumala and took part in all the rituals duly following the traditions. He offered ‘silk vastrams’ to the Lord and a look at his countenance indicated that he was full of religious fervour. But it is ironic that the TDP leaders, with the support of the media favourable to them, are creating a ruckus and misleading the people,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. Stating that an administrator would not be confined to a particular caste or religion, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was a people’s leader. While alleging that the recent spate of attacks on temples could have been orchestrated by some evil forces, he said that the needle of suspicion pointed to the TDP leaders. He stated that the TDP leaders were creating controversies not with faith in Hinduism but with the grievance that they were not in power. He asserted that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was adept at politicising “minor issues” to get political mileage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-creating-ruckus-to-defame-govt-sajjala/article32691382.ece
25 September 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID puts brakes on drivers’ earnings||With most of the public being dependent on their own vehicles due to fear of possible spread of the COVID-19 and many activities yet to resume, taxi drivers, auto-rickshaw drivers in the city are facing bad days, as very few are opting for their service. The drivers say that they are yet to recover from the financial hurdles caused by the lockdown. “On Tuesday, I was at work from 6.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. I had only one passenger and earned just Rs. 134. Earlier a cab driver used to earn a minimum Rs. 1,500 per day if he worked from 9 a.m to 9 p.m., but now, earning Rs. 500 is like a dream come true,” said S. Murali, who works for a ride sharing company. Mr. Murali said that the car is being sanitised neatly and he has been taking all precautions. “Public are using their own vehicles or they are asking their friends, relatives in case of any need for transportation. Many fear that they might be infected. It would take time for us to gain public trust that we are following safety protocol without fail,” he said. Similarly, J. Raju, an auto-rickshaw driver from Arilova, said that he is allowing not more than three passengers in his vehicle. Besides, he has arranged a transparent plastic sheet in between driver cabin and passengers. However, he is not having enough number of passengers. According to the drivers, lack of tourists, adequate trains, buses, cinemas, multiplexes, educational institutions and a few others is having an impact on their income. “Our main passengers are students, people going to theatres and then travellers. They count more than half of our passengers. This is where we are being hit. The money earned these days is not at all sufficient to run my family. House rents, vehicle EMIs, fuel bills, daily essentials, cannot be managed with this income,” said Lovaraju, another auto-rickshaw driver from Hanumanthuwaka. Cab drivers also say that people going to cinemas and shopping are their majority of customers. They are hopeful of a good tourist season for their revival.  30% occupancy Not just the auto-rickshaws or cabs, even APSRTC is facing the same problem. Resuming services after nearly six months, in the first three days after hitting the roads, the city buses service saw just 30% occupancy. According to Regional Manager, APSRTC, Visakhapatnam, M.Y. Danam, on the first day the occupancy was just 25 % and in the next two days, it is around 30%. On the first day, we have run 100 buses (both ordinary and metro services) only and from Sunday, keeping in view various examinations, we have increased to 200 on various routes, he said. “Due to the COVID-19 situation, the occupancy is less as of now. We hope gradually it will increase. Moreover, we have been sanitising the buses frequently and not allowing passengers without masks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-puts-brakes-on-drivers-earnings/article32691403.ece
25 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bullion traders in trouble as plans go haywire||Booking of cases against two city-based jewellery shop owners by the Central Bureau of Investigation brings to the fore the fact of bullion traders taking loans several times more than the value of the yellow metal with a view to make a killing. All is fine as long as the bullion merchants, who speculate on the future price of the yellow metal in the commodities market, service the debts secured from commercial banks without any problem. They land in a serious trouble when the business plans go haywire. Their accounts turn non-performing when they are not in a position even to pay interest on loans as the price of the yellow metal turns volatile due to developments at the global level, police sources here say referring to the cases filed against Shantilal and Son Jewellers and Shanti Kalash Jewellers on a complaint from a public sector bank for alleged misappropriation of Rs. 70.13 crore. Banks prefer to sanction term loan as also overdraft facility to gold merchants in view of the reputation enjoyed by them in the society without fully understanding their business dealings which take turn for the worse in the wake of the fluctuation in the price of the precious metal, the sources say. Involvement of the loan sanctioning authorities in the banks could not also be ruled out, they add referring to the two cases wherein the owners had secured loan on the pretext of renovating their shops on the Achari street from the Canara Bank branch(then Syndicate Bank branch) at Dargamitta here. ''We will extend all assistance to the CBI if sought to unravel the conspiracy in full,'' they add referring to the cases filed on complaints from the Stressed Management Branch of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bullion-traders-in-trouble-as-plans-go-haywire/article32691397.ece
25 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, JSP seek removal of Kodali from Cabinet||The activists Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jana Sena Party (JSP) staged a demonstration in-front of the Prakasam Bhavan on Thursday, demanding that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagn Mohan Reddy remove Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) from the Cabinet. Led by BJP Prakasam district president S.Srinivas, the activists of the two parties raised slogans against Mr. Venkateswara Rao accusing him of hurting the sentiments of the Hindus and making irresponsible comments in his bid to cover up the failure of the State government. “Instead of taking corrective steps by nabbing those responsible for the increasing attacks on temples, the YSRCP chose to question the customs and traditions of the Tirumala temple,” said JSP district president Sk. Riaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-seek-removal-of-kodali-from-cabinet/article32691260.ece
25 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,332 new cases push tally to 95,773 in Nellore, Prakasam||The toll due to COVID-19 rose to 870 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh with six more patients succumbing to the virus in Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. Five patients died in Prakasam district, taking the toll to 437, while the Nellore district reported one death, taking the count to 433, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday night. Infections outnumber recoveries However, the new infections outnumbered the number of patients discharged from various COVID-19 facilities in the two districts during the last 24 hours by 185 for the first time during this week. The recovery count had been more than the single-day spike earlier this week. As many as 1,332 persons tested positive for the virus, while 1,147 patients recovered in the two districts in the last 24 hours. With this, the tally has gone up to 95,773, including 51,134 in Nellore district. Prakasam district reported a single-day spike of 927 cases in the last 24 hours when compared to 425 recorded on the previous day. It was the third highest incidence of new infections on a single day in the State. With the daily recovery count of 765, the number of active cases stood at 10,639. Till date, 33,561 patients have recovered from the infection. The Nellore district reported 405 new cases while 382 patients recovered from the infection during the period, taking the active cases to less than 4,000. Till date, 47,142 patients have been recovered of the infection. Virtual Lok Adalat Meanwhile, the Prakasam District Legal Services Authority has decided to organise the Lok Adalat on Saturday through video link, in view of the spread of coronavirus. DLSA Chairperson and Principal District Judge P.Venkata Jyothirmayi held a virtual meeting with lawyers, police and insurance firms to identify the cases with scope for settlement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1332-new-cases-push-tally-to-95773-in-nellore-prakasam/article32691376.ece
25 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Curbs in containment zones will stay’||Srikakulam Municipal Commissioner P. Nallanayya has asked the officials and staff to monitor the situation in the containment zones. “Many COVID-19 positive cases are being reported from the district headquarters daily. The restrictions on the movement of the people will continue in containment zones,” he said. The Municipal commissioner, along with the senior officials, inspected containment zones at Balaga, Arasavilli, PN Colony and other places on Thursday. Meanwhile, 461 new infections were identified in the district, taking the cumulative cases to 37,649. At present, the district headquarters has 4,597 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-in-containment-zones-will-stay/article32691380.ece
25 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Malayappa mounts Hanumantha vahanam||As part of the ongoing festivities at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here, Lord Malayappa on the sixth day on Thursday blessed the devout on Hanumantha vahanam as Venkatadri Ramudu. Immense significance is attached to Hanumantha vahanam as he symbolises saranagati prapatti and altruistic devotion. Special rituals dominated the proceedings in the evening in connection with Sarva Bhoopala vahana seva that was observed as an alternative to the customary procession of golden chariot in tune with the TTD’s decision to carry out the celebrations within the main temple complex in adherence to COVID-19 protocols. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, EO A.K. Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, CVSO Gopinath Jatti, member trustees D.P. Ananth, Siva Kumar, Govind Hari and Sekhar Reddy were among others who took part in the celebrations. The festivities came to an end with Gaja vahana seva in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/malayappa-mounts-hanumantha-vahanam/article32691393.ece
25 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to gift a cow to temples||The TTD has resolved to provide a cow to each temple under its newly conceived ‘Gudi Ko Go Matha’ project. On a pilot basis, it will be implemented in the 13 districts of the State, 10 erstwhile districts in Telangana and five prominent temples in Karnataka. Under the programme aimed at protecting and promoting indigenous cows, the TTD also intends to provide cows to various peetams, mutts and Veda patasalas. A decision to this effect was taken at the executive meet of the Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad (HDPP) on Thursday chaired by TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-gift-a-cow-to-temples/article32691394.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally crosses 6.5 lakh in State||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 6.5-lakh mark on Thursday with 7,855 new infections and 52 new deaths being reported in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. According to the State’s COVID bulletin, the infection tally climbed to 6,54,385 and the death toll rose to 5,558 with the death rate at 0.85%. As many as 8,807 patients recovered from the disease taking the overall recovery rate to 88.55%. So far, 5,79,474 patients have recovered and as of Thursday, 69,353 are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, the tests per million ratio has crossed the one-lakh mark. With 76,000 samples being tested in the past day, the ratio increased to 1,00,718. In other words, 10 persons in every 100 in the State were tested for COVID so far. So far, 53.78 lakh samples were tested. Showing no sign of slowdown, East Godavari reported 1,095 new cases and four deaths. It was the only district to report over a 1,000 new cases and witnessing the same since weeks consistently. It is followed by West Godavari (992 cases and 3 deaths), Prakasam (927 and 5), Chittoor (902 and 8), Guntur (551 and 6), Kadapa (545 and 3), Anantapur (497 and 6), Srikakulam (461 and 1), Visakhapatnam (425 and 5), Nellore (405 and 1), Vizianagaram (384 and 2), Krishna (346 and 5) and Kurnool (325 and 3). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (91,142),West Godavari (61,651), Chittoor (57,555), Kurnool (55,045), Anantapur (54,760), Guntur (51,783), Nellore (49,568), Visakhapatnam (48,249), Prakasam (44,637), Kadapa (41,484), Srikakulam (37,354), Vizianagaram (32,981) and Krishna (25,281).  Recovery rate Recovery rate of all other districts was between 90% and 83% while that of Prakasam was at 75%, the lowest in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-crosses-65-lakh-in-state/article32691385.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High drama as police foil BJP’s protest plan||The police on Thursday foiled the attempts made by the BJP cadres to lay a siege to the Sub-Collector’s office here in protest against the derogatory comments allegedly made by Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. No sooner than the party activists set out from their city office at Suryaraopet did the police swoop on them to prevent any untoward incident. But BJP State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, treasurer Vamaraju Satya Murthy, and leaders such as Pathuri Nagabhushanam, A. Sriram, Vangaveeti Narendra, and N. Bala managed to wriggle out and reach the Sub-Collector’s office, only to be picked up from there. Mr. Venkateswara Rao’s remarks evoked angry outbursts from the BJP leaders, who insisted that the Minister be dismissed from the Cabinet for commenting on the personal matters of Mr. Modi and Mr. Adityanath. Dig at CM Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the silence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy proved that Mr. Venkateswara Rao, MLA R.K. Roja and other YSRCP leaders were acting at his behest. He alleged that innocent Hindus, who were agitating against the burning down of the chariot of the Antarvedi temple, were falsely implicated in cases. On the other hand, attacks on temples and desecration of idols continued as the Chief Minister turned a blind eye to the incidents. The BJP would not keep quite if forces inimical to Hinduism tried to further malign the Gods and Goddesses and destroy temples and capture their properties, Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-drama-as-police-foil-bjps-protest-plan/article32691389.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Steps initiated to address Seema water woes’||Minister for Municipal Administration and in-charge of Anantapur district Botcha Satyanarayana on Thursday said the government had initiated measures to solve the water problem in the Rayalaseema districts. The Minister reviewed the available water resources in the district with the elected representatives and discussed with them the measures needed to address the water problem. Pointing to the fact that the district had recorded 72% excess rainfall this year, he said, “The rain God has been generous to Anantapur district after Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy assumed power in the State.” He said the people’s representatives and officials should work in tandem to ensure that not a drop of water was wasted. He invited views and suggestions to further strengthen the action plan designed by the officials to mitigate water problem. The Minister said focus should be on developing gravity-based water storage mechanism to ensure irrigation supply to the tail-end areas. He sought feedback from the local representatives on the situation in Tungabhadra canal and Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi project, besides water availability in other small and medium irrigation projects. He directed the officials to work on proposals based on them. Mr. Satyanarayana said many irrigation projects started during the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s term were now being completed. Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar said provision of drinking water to the people of the district was the government’s top priority, followed by supply of adequate water to irrigate crops. Sixty of the 63 mandals in the drought-prone district had recorded adequate rainfall, he pointed out, and underscored the need to control wastage and pilferage of water. Principal Secretary, Irrigation, Adityanath Das, Minister for Roads and Buildings M. Sankar Narayana, and Adviser to the government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-initiated-to-address-seema-water-woes/article32691387.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL to helm task force committee on chilli||To effectively tap full commercial prospects of chilli in the domestic and the international markets, the Spices Board has constituted a Chilli Task Force Committee with BJP MP and member of the Spices Board G.V.L. Narasimha Rao as its chairman. The Director (Development) of the Spices Board is the Vice-Chairman and the Deputy Director of the board’s regional office in Guntur the convener. It also comprises 12 members representing institutions and stakeholders of the sector. Andhra Pradesh is the largest producer of chilli and contributes about 26% of the total area under chilli cultivation in the country. Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh are other major chilli producing States. The newly-constituted panel will analyse the problems faced by chilli farmers and recommend suitable measures to address the issues affecting the sector. Identifying gaps in production, productivity, constraints in infrastructure for primary processing, post-harvest improvement and value addition, and finding ways and means to increase the exportable supply of select chilli varieties entail the committee’s role. The committee will also work to ensure remunerative returns to the chilli farmers and will facilitate aggregation, promotion of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPO) and farmers’ clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-to-helm-task-force-committee-on-chilli/article32690731.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fish markets to be closed on Sunday||In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 infections in the city, the civic body has announced the closure of fish markets and prohibited sale of any seafood across the city on Sunday, September 27. Chicken and mutton shops can do business between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m, according to a VMC press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fish-markets-to-be-closed-on-sunday/article32690710.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Media point opened at CM camp office||Information & Public Relations Commissioner T. Vijay Kumar Reddy inaugurated a media point on the premises of the CM’s camp office at Tadepalli on Thursday. Information & Public Relations additional director D. Srinivas, joint directors P. Kiran Kumar and T. Kasturi, were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/media-point-opened-at-cm-camp-office/article32690713.ece
25 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yanamala questions Jagan’s ‘silence’ on major issues||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy spell out the outcome of his visit to Delhi. “Mr. Jagan has made many visits to Delhi since he assumed office, and it is his bounden duty to tell people about the new projects he brought to the State,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said in a statement on Thursday. Mr. Ramakrishnudu sought to know why the Chief Minister was maintaining silence on all major issues, including his visits to Delhi. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s meetings with the Union Ministers were aimed at saving his skin and coming clean out of the cases filed against him. “It has become a routine for the CM to commit atrocities in the State and go to Delhi to get reprimanded for his omissions,” he said. Accusing the YSRCP of perpetrating a “loot and hoard” regime on the people, he deplored that the Chief Minister was not pursing the promises made in the Reorganisation Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yanamala-questions-jagans-silence-on-major-issues/article32691390.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders demand Kodali Nani’s ouster||BJP leaders staged a dharna here on Thursday demanding the sacking of Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) from the Cabinet. BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav, party vice-president and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju participated in the dharna. Mr. Madhav alleged that the government has not reacted in a satisfactory manner to the attacks on temples in the State. “The comments made by Mr. Nani on Hindu gods and idols has hurt the sentiments of people,” Mr. Madhav said. Mr. Vishnu Kumar Raju criticised the Minister for his remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and demanded his removal from the Cabinet. BJP city president M. Ravindra Reddy, party State executive member Prakash Reddy, and other leaders participated in the dharna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-demand-kodali-nanis-ouster/article32691404.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC tells officials to file counter plea by Nov. 6||The High Court has directed the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB), the A.P. State Biodiversity Board and the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Commissioner (GVMC) to file their counter by November 6 in the writ petition filed by environmentalist Rajendra Singh, popularly known as the Waterman of India, and Jal Biradari national convener Bolisetty Satyanarayana seeking a halt to discharge of untreated industrial effluents and toxic sewage wastes into the sea and adjacent water bodies. The petitioners alleged that negligence in monitoring by the APPCB and the district authorities was endangering flora and fauna besides affecting the health of fishermen. The court also directed authorities to take steps to control pollution of seawater as alleged in the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-tells-officials-to-file-counter-plea-by-nov-6/article32691398.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15,755 candidates to appear for Polycet||A total of 15,755 candidates are expected to appear for the Polytechnic Common Entrance Test (Polycet)-2020 to be held at 56 centres across the district on September 27. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy on Thursday asked officials to take all necessary measures for the smooth conduct of the examination and put in place special arrangements in view of the pandemic. He directed officials to impose Section 144 at centres, provide police escort for transport of exam material to the centres, arrange medical teams, sanitise exam centres, provide drinking water and ensure uninterrupted power supply. APSRTC officials were asked to arrange special buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15755-candidates-to-appear-for-polycet/article32691399.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Granite shifting in Agency opposed||The All India Agriculture and Rural Workers Sangam has condemned the attempts being made to shift the granite seized at Somalammakonda of Cheemalapadu forest block in Ravikamatam mandal in the district. In a statement, the outfit’s national secretary P.S. Ajay Kumar said that a private company was illegally mining on the hill, located in the Kalyanalova reservoir area. The tribal people and farmers were agitating since long demanding an end to the mining in the area. The Forest and Revenue Departments conducted a survey in March this year and identified that the place where mining was being done was in a forest block. They ordered stoppage of mining and seized the mining equipment and granite on May 1, this year. He alleged that a man named V. Srinu came on behalf of the private company at around 1 a.m. on the intervening night of Wednesday/Thursday and tried to shift the granite but was prevented from doing so by tribal women who squatted on the road. The sangam demanded cancellation of ‘way bills’, issued by the Assistant Director of Mines in Anakapalle, for lifting of the granite and registration of cases against Srinu under the Forest Rights Act. He appealed to the Collector to conduct an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/granite-shifting-in-agency-opposed/article32691401.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID recovery rate crosses 90% in district||The district reported 425 new COVID -19 cases and five deaths in the last 24 hours, according to a COVID-19 bulletin issued by the district administration on Thursday. With the new cases, the total tally rose to 48,761 and the death toll has gone up to 380 in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic. As many as 475 persons who were undergoing treatment in various hospitals, COVID-19 care centres, and under home isolation have recovered in the last 24 hours. The the recovery rate in the district have crossed 90%. As per the bulletin, the total number of discharges as of Thursday is 44,151, which is 90.5 % of the total cases. Similarly, the active cases in the district came down to 4,230, which is just 8.67 %. The death rate is also less than 1%. There are now 54 very active clusters, 24 active clusters and 640 dormant clusters in the city, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-recovery-rate-crosses-90-in-district/article32691405.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC’s Odisha services from Sept. 25||The Visakhapatnam region of APSRTC will operate inter-State buses to Nabarangpur, Onakadilli, Parlakhemundi, Damanjodi and Jeypore in Odisha with effect from September 25. Passengers can book their tickets online for these services, according to Regional Manager M.Y. Danam. Tickets can be booked atwww.apsrtconline.in. More services will be introduced depending on the demand, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtcs-odisha-services-from-sept-25/article32691400.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven held for alleged social boycott of Dalit families||The district police on Thursday arrested seven persons in connection with the alleged social boycott of 22 families of the Dalit community after a boy from an upper caste community married a Dalit girl at Gummalapadu village in Ravikamatham mandal of Visakhapatnam district. The arrests were made based on the complaint lodged by the victims on September 22. The police have registered an FIR and booked cases against 32 persons, including the father and the brother of the boy, for their alleged involvement in the case. However, the two were among the arrested seven persons. According to Inspector of Kothakota police station Lakshmana Murthy, the situation is now under control. The police have formed peace committees with elderly people from both the communities. As a precautionary measure, the police posted pickets in the village. Peace rally Meanwhile, members of Visakha Zilla Dalit Sanghala Ikya Vedika along with the locals conducted a peace rally in the village on Thursday. Vedika convenor B. Venkat Rao said that this should be treated as an atrocity case against Dalits and the culprits should be brought to book so that such incidents would not recur. Earlier, vedika members gave a representation to District Collector V. Vinay Chand seeking action against the culprits, he said. It may be recalled that after the boy and the girl got married, the 22 families of the Dalit community were allegedly not being provided milk, vegetables and other essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-held-for-alleged-social-boycott-of-dalit-families/article32690732.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five nabbed for crimes||Police arrested five persons and took a juvenile into their custody for their alleged involvement in various offences, in the city on Thursday. In one case, police arrested three persons and took a juvenile into custody for allegedly stealing an auto-rickshaw and later robbing passengers. The accused were identified as M. Ganesh (30), N. Yallaji (31) and T. Kumar (20). Police said on the night of September 22, the accused picked up two women passengers in the stolen vehicle at Duvvada and robbed Rs. 4,000 cash and ATM cards from them. In another case, police arrested K. Raju (32) at Peda Gantyada, for allegedly stealing an auto-rickshaw on September 23. In the third case, police arrested N. Yellaji (31) of Railway New Colony for allegedly pickpocketing locals near the city railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-nabbed-for-crimes/article32691406.ece
25 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna complains to ACB against Minister||Senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Thursday lodged a complaint with the ACB against Labour Minister G. Jayaram. Speaking to the media later, Mr. Patrudu said he submitted all evidence against the Minister, showcasing how one of the accused in the ESI scam, Kartik, presented a luxury car to the Minister’s son Eswar as a gift. He said the Minister should tell why such an expensive car was given as a gift to his son. He said the Chief Minister who speaks much against corruption should now take action against the Minister. He pointed out that though he had earlier lodged a complaint through the call centre numbers, no action was initiated. Mr. Patrudu said that instead of taking action against the accused, the Chief Minister was trying to shield the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-complains-to-acb-against-minister/article32691391.ece
25 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procurement of paddy in Vizianagaram from Nov.||Vizianagaram Joint Collector G.C. Kishore Kumar on Thursday asked the officials of the agriculture and marketing departments to make arrangements for the procurement of paddy, which is scheduled to begin from in November. During a meeting with the rice millers and the officials, the Joint Collector discussed the possible hurdles in the procurement process. “The Velugu teams and the representatives of Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACSes) will operate the procurement centers. As many as 105 centers will be set up for the procurement of maize, which will begin operations in all mandals from October 20,” the Joint Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/procurement-of-paddy-in-vizianagaram-from-nov/article32691379.ece
25 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. raking up religious sentiments in State, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists and leaders on Thursday staged protests at the Vizianagaram and Srikakulam Collectorates, demanding that Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) be removed from the Sate Cabinet immediately for his ‘derogatory comments against the Hindu Gods’ during a TV debate recently. Party’s Vizianagaram district president Reddi Pavani accused the YSRCP government of raking up religious sentiments to consolidate its vote bank among the minorities. BJP leaders K. Subbarao, Baggam Rajesh Kumar, Bhavireddy Shivaprasad Reddy, Teegala Haranath and others raised slogans against Mr. Venkateswara Rao. Party’s Srikakulam district president Attada Ravi Babji and senior leaders Pudi Tirupati Rao, Duppala Ravindra Babu tried to enter the Collector’s office to register their protest. “The government is trying to suppress the voice of the BJP cadres by misusing its power,” alleged BJP Etcherla constituency in-charge Nadukuditi Eswara Rao. BJP Tekkali convener H. Udaybhaskar also took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-raking-up-religious-sentiments-in-state-says-bjp/article32691378.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur district bags three NSS awards||Anantapur district has bagged three of the total 42 National Service Scheme (NSS) awards for 2018-19 which were presented in virtual mode by President Ramnath Kovind in New Delhi on Thursday. Chinna Pullaiah of Srinivasa Ramanujan Institute of Technology (SRIT) received the award in NSS programme officer category. Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) Anantapur Engineering College student Nagari Naveen Kumar received the award in the volunteer category for his excellent service rendered during the 2018-19 academic year. JNTU(A) Vice-Chancellor S. Srinivasa Kumar congratulated the SRIT programme officer and the student. C. Bharat Kumar, a student of Sri Krishnadevaraya University (SKU) College of Pharmaceutical Sciences also received the award in the volunteer category. The SKU organised the NSS Day on the campus by planting saplings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-district-bags-three-nss-awards/article32691372.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File report on reasons behind less COVID tests: HC to govt.||The Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to file a report on the reasons behind conducting lesser number of coronavirus confirmation tests in the State. Hearing a batch of PIL petitions relating to the COVID pandemic, a High Court Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed the authorities to explain the steps being taken to enhance beds with oxygen facilities in different hospitals in the State. The government was unable to adhere to the assurances and statements given by it on COVID diagnostic tests, the Bench said. It noted that there were media reports galore on scarcity of beds with oxygen facility and lesser number of tests. Maharashtra was conducting 1.5 lakh tests on an average every day. Though the situation is not that severe in Telangana, the need to enhance tests in the State cannot be ignored. Not even 40,000 tests were being conducted in the State. The Bench suggested to the State government to ensure that at least three hospital beds were available for every 1,000 persons. It said that five hospital beds should be available for every 1,000 persons as per World Health Organisation (WHO) norms. But in Telangana State, not even a single bed is available on an average for 1,000 population, the Bench observed. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the court that detailed reports on the points raised by the Bench could not be furnished as Public Health director in-charge Srinivasa Rao’s father passed away recently. He sought some time to furnish all details pertaining to availability of beds and oxygen facilities in hospitals. The Bench posted the pleas to October 8 for the next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-report-on-reasons-behind-less-covid-tests-hc-to-govt/article32691218.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State government has no intention to fill its coffers: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked public representatives and officials to work round-the-clock for the strict implementation of the recent legislations enacted by the State government as they were people-centric and aimed at their welfare. At a meeting with public representatives of municipalities and Mayors of various other municipal corporations, Mr. Rao said the objective of the legislations is to see that the poor do not suffer in the deliverables of the government. The fruits of the legislations should go up to the last mile, he said. He asked the participants at the meeting to involve themselves at the grassroots level in the online registration of non-agriculture properties like plots, flats and houses. As part of revolutionary administrative reforms in the State, the government had enacted several legislations for effective use of people for decades. However, the poor should not be adversely affected in the implementation of the Acts, he said. Mr. Rao said the government has no intention of filling its purse with money collected from poor through regularisation of lands. He asked officials to prepare solutions for problems faced by people in regard to lands and properties before the Dharani portal becomes fully operational. The government would solve all problems linked to residential premises and construction sites which piled up for several decades, Mr. Rao said. Apprehensions In the initial days of formation of Telangana, people expressed severe apprehensions that land rates will drop. But, the steps taken by government saw to it that the rates of both agricultural and non-agriculture lands peaked. Good governance led to decline in land disputes, land grabbing, harassment and other related anti-social activities, he said. He expressed confidence that the government's aim to put the poor high in the priority list would be fulfilled when Dharani portal becomes operational. There will be total protection and security to the properties of the poor. Hutments in urban slums will be replaced by buildings and dwelling houses, he said. In the interaction that followed with the participants, some of them praised Mr.Rao for his insight into problems of rural and urban areas. The meeting was attended by Ministers and MLAs, including those from Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and others senior officials were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-government-has-no-intention-to-fill-its-coffers-kcr/article32691250.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS farmers cold to nationwide protest||Farmers in Telangana are unlikely to join the nationwide strike called by All India Coordination Committee of Farmers Movements on September 25. Farmers across the country are protesting the passage of three bills in Parliament that seek to reorganise marketing of farm produce. However, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee is planning to stage a protest near Aayakar Bhavan in Basheerbagh area at 11.30 a.m. on Friday. “I sell my sona masoori rice directly to customers. When I grow marigold flowers in winter, I sell them at the Gudimalkapur market where I have to pay 10% margin to the seth (trader),” says Srinivas Reddy, a farmer. “The market yard has a very limited use to us. Only farmers who borrow from traders and sell the produce through them will be affected,” says Mr. Reddy. While the commission to be paid at the market is fixed at 4%, multiple farmers said they had to pay 10% commission in addition to transporting the produce and scouting for buyers. The nearest market yards from Pudur are Vikarabad and Chevella. Food Corporation of India procurement and production data over the past five years (2015-2020) shows that nearly a quarter of farmers in Telangana did not access the marketplace for the MSP fixed by the central government. While rice procurement by FCI averaged between 95% to 79% in Punjab, it averaged between 77% and 51.8% in Telangana. Nationally, FCI procured between 37.5% and 32.7% of the rice produced in five years. “We prefer to sell it directly to retailers. Rice mills procure from farmers and give an incentive per vehicle,” says Kadavati Ramcharan who takes land on cowl (lease) and cultivates rice, vegetables and flowers in Pudur. While protests broke out in many parts of the country after the passage of the three bills, it has hardly caused a ripple among the farmer community in Telangana. Farmers who produce fruits and other perishables are however worried how the changes in the marketplace will impact them. “No business is possible without dalals (middlemen). Some farmers have contracts with corporates but they buy only the A-Grade produce. What about the rest? How do we sell that?” asks Prabhakar Reddy who cultivates carrots, tomatoes and other vegetables on three-acres. Among the new players in the market is an agri-tech startup which says is ‘revolutionising fresh produce supply chain’. It has a procurement centre near Ibrahimpalle on Chevella-Vikarabad Rd. “A day before the procurement our field officer visits the farm and informs the farmer about the quantity we need. We check quality while procuring and send the produce to our Kompally warehouse,” says Raju who manages the centre. The market yards are controlled by ruling party leaders. The first change in state government inevitably leads to change in the power structure of the market committee. “The ruling party nominates the chairperson who ensures fair trade,” says Madhav Reddy who works at the Chevella market yard.  The market yard has a limited use to us. Only farmers who borrow from traders and sell the produce through them will be affected. Srinivas Reddy,Farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-farmers-cold-to-nationwide-protest/article32691259.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. degree colleges regaining their glory||Government degree colleges in Telangana seem to be regaining their glory what with their share increasing by an impressive 4% in the recently released Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST) figures that reveal the student share increased to 27% of the total admitted students from 23% last year. DOST first list, released three days ago, revealed that out of the 69,300 seats in government colleges, 37,938 were filled up (54.75%) while in private colleges 1,41,340 seats were filled up out of 4,07,390 available seats, according to general secretary, Telangana Government Colleges Gazetted Teachers’ Association (TGCGTA) Kadaru Surender Reddy. This is in the first phase of admissions and teachers are confident that by the closure of admissions, the numbers would further improve. Some government colleges that saw 100% seats being filled up in the first phase itself include City College, Hyderabad; Nagarjuna Government Degree College, Nalgonda; Kakatiya Government Degree College, Warangal; Nizamabad Government Degree College; SRR Government Degree College, Karimnagar; Siddipet Government Degree College, and BJR Government Degree College Hyderabad, among others. According to State president, TGCGTA, Sanjeevayya, several students who opted for seats in government colleges could not get allotment due to heavy competition. Interestingly, competition was high for women’s colleges and many of them saw seats filled up in all the courses. Some of these are NTR Government Women’s Degree College, Mahabubnagar; Government Women’s Degree Colleges in Nalgonda, Karimnagar, Begumpet, Gajwel, Khammam, Nampally and Warangal. Many reasons could be attributed to this spurt such as free education, adoption of Information Communication Technology (ICT) methods and facilities for all round development of students. “Opportunity to join NCC and NSS as well as spacious playgrounds, libraries and laboratories and youth talent programmes like Jignasa are attracting students,” Mr. Surender Reddy said appreciating the role of Commissioner of Collegiate Education Navin Mittal in motivating teachers. “Mr. Mittal played a key role in creating the ICT facilities including digital classrooms. He ensured that teachers reached out to students and classes were conducted to complete syllabus using technology,” he said. “Online classes for 3rd and 5th semester students are continuing,” said office-bearer of TGCGTA Pavani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-degree-colleges-regaining-their-glory/article32691221.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Orphanage children affirm sexual assault||Deposition by children from the orphanage could become crucial evidence in the case pertaining to sexual assault in a protection home at Ameenpur, registered over a month and a half ago. The victim of sexual assault, a 14-year-old girl, died last month, while undergoing treatment at Niloufer Hospital. While the forensic science laboratory report is awaited to ascertain the exact cause of the girl’s death, it is reliably learnt that a few children rescued from the ‘Maruthi Orphanage’ deposed before the Judicial Magistrate of Sangareddy, confirming sexual assault on the girl. Officials hope that the statements could be a key evidence against the accused — a donor who frequented the home — and two caretakers. Besides, the committee constituted by the Commissioner, Women Development and Child Welfare for probing the case is learnt to have recorded corroborative evidence that confirms sexual assault. The committee, with members drawn from the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, WD &CW, and the Police department, has submitted its preliminary report to the commissioner. Final report will be prepared once the forensic test report arrives. Commissioner, WD & CD, D. Divya has reportedly written to the government, seeking appointment of a special public prosecutor to argue the case. The girl’s statement had already been recorded twice, once by the Child Welfare Committee of Rangareddy district, and then by the SCPCR in the government home at Nimboli Adda where the girl was given shelter after a police complaint was filed. In her statement, the girl pointed finger at primary accused Venugopal Reddy, who visited the home often as “donor”, and caretaker of the home Ch.Vijaya. The girl said she would be given cool drink and sexually assaulted after she lost consciousness. She would be woken up by other girls in the orphanage, to find herself naked in bed on fifth floor of the building housing the home. She was abruptly sent away from the home in April this year, on the pretext of pandemic spread. However, family members who took her home found that she was extremely sick, and, upon repeated entreaties, the girl confided in them. After a police complaint was registered, the girl was referred to the government-run protection home and when the situation worsened, she was taken to Niloufer Hospital, where she breathed her last. The orphanage was seized, and all other children there were rescued and shifted first to various private homes functioning under the WD&CW department, and later to the State Home premises in Yousufguda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/orphanage-children-affirm-sexual-assault/article32691236.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ginning mill owners hope to get good CCI orders||With the cotton season round the corner, small and medium ginning and pressing enterprisers in Adilabad town hope to get sufficient orders from the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to process cotton ‘kapas’ into bales. There are 28 ginning mills, including 14 small units, operating in this industry. The CCI procures cotton kapas directly from the producers and sends it to the millers to separate cotton fibre from the seed bolls and dust particles. The cotton lint is further compressed into bales. Poor orders last year “Last year, we did not get sufficient orders for processing, and mostly remained idle. We fervently hope that the CCI would equitably distribute job orders among all the existing units,” a ginning mill owner said. He alleged that last year more than four lakh bales were processed in the town alone of which over a lakh bales were processed in four or five units. “The small units got cotton too short of their processing capacity,” he alleged. However, CCI General Manager of Adilabad district, Sanjay Kumar, said that based on their requirement, the process orders would be placed in the coming season as well. “We do not discriminate between small and big millers. But, based on our delivery schedule we assign work,” he said. “This year due to late rainfalls, the season is expected to start a few days before or after Dasara, for which we are preparing at a brisk pace. We have already identified warehouses for storing the bales,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ginning-mill-owners-hope-to-get-good-cci-orders/article32691247.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 2,176 COVID cases; total goes up to 1,79,246||The State recorded 2,176 cases on Wednesday (September 23), taking the total number of cases to 1,79,246. Eight persons died of COVID on Wednesday, spiking the total number of fatalities to 1,070. While as many as 55,318 persons were tested, the reports of 1,257 were awaited. Of those who were tested, 24,340 were primary contacts and 6,638 secondary contacts. A total of 26,84,215 persons in the State were tested till Wednesday. The trend of areas under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recording the highest number of cases in Telangana continued with as many as 308 persons testing positive. This is a marginal dip from the 321 as recorded a day before. Meanwhile, Sangareddy district recorded 168 cases, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri with 151, Nalgonda with 136, Karimnagar with 120, Siddipet with 95 and Warangal Urban with 77 cases. The medical bulletin stated that those between the age group of 21-30 tested positive the most (24.24%) compared to other age groups. As many as 15.33% men and 8.91% women tested positive. This was followed by the 31-40 age group (23.51%) of which 15.54% men and 7.97% women tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-2176-covid-cases-total-goes-up-to-179246/article32691225.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Expedite procurement of custom milled rice’||The State government has directed the district Collectors to take steps to ensure procurement of custom milling rice from rice millers soon. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the procurement of CMR of Vaanakalam season should be completed before this month-end. October 20 would be the deadline for procurement of CMR for yasangi season, he said. The Chief Secretary held tele-conference with district Collectors on CMR procurement on Thursday. He said the delay in procurement of CMR is imposing additional financial burden on the State. The district Collectors should, therefore, expedite procurement to avoid scope for such things, he said. The district administration should be geared up to commence procurement of food grain for the Vaanakalam season 2020-21 from farmers, he said. Steps should be taken to make arrangements at procurement centres to enable farmers to sell their produce at minimum support price, he said. Mr. Somesh Kumar later interacted with officials of the Civil Supplies Department and Food Corporation of India on the problems faced while procuring CMR. Steps should be taken to ensure that there is no storage space constraint in government godowns and officials concerned should ensure that there are no delays in settlement of CMR claims, informed a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-procurement-of-custom-milled-rice/article32691243.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. cannot exploit workers: HC||Issues relating to services of outsourced workers of sanitation department in GHMC, who had been working for long, can be resolved through One-Time Settlement, Telangana High Court on said. Hearing a writ appeal filed by the GHMC challenging a single judge order to regularise services of 98 sanitation workers, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy sought to know what was wrong with the order. If the posts of sanitation workers were temporary, why were they being make to work for several years, the bench questioned. Recently, a single judge directed GHMC to regularise services of 98 outsourced sanitation workers and pay minimum time scale salaries to them. All the arrears should be paid by September 15, the order said. Challenging this direction, the GHMC filed an appeal. Senior counsel S. Niranjan Reddy, appearing for GHMC, contended that petitioners were not GHMC regular employees. They were not appointed by the civic body and were hired by an outsourcing agency, he said. GHMC was paying wages to nearly 30,000 persons. If outsourced workers were to be paid on the lines of regular scale, it would be a huge financial burden on the civic body, the lawyer said. However, the bench observed that government wings were not expected to exploit workers in the guise of outsourcing. If the posts were temporary, why the services of the workers were being availed for years together, the bench remarked. The counsel appearing for GHMC sought time to file a detailed counter affidavit in the matter. The matter was posted to September 29 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-cannot-exploit-workers-hc/article32691258.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Include COVID-19 treatment under Aarogyasri scheme: Congress||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should keep his promise of including COVID-19 treatment in Aarogyasri scheme as promised in the Legislative Assembly, demanded the Telangana Congress. The Chief Minister had given an assurance on the floor of the House on September 9 that he would consider including COVID-19 treatment under Aarogyasri scheme. “It has been 15 days and nothing has been done,” Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said. He said that Covid-19 cases in Telangana have touched 1.80 lakh mark today and so far 1,070 people lost their lives. “When will KCR react,” he asked stating that there is no sign of the cases decreasing, and people are increasingly getting worried about the unaffordable treatment. Mr. Reddy claimed that many middle-class and poor people were not coming forwards to test themselves with the fear of how they would manage treatment if found positive. “This behaviour will change if the State government offers free treatment for COVID-19 by including it under Aarogyasri scheme,” he said. Going by the official figures of the positive cases in Telangana and the treatment cost would run into hundred of crores. Hundreds of families have lost all their savings, sold properties and jewellery and fell into huge debts for COVID-19 treatment. “The State government could have saved these families from financial trouble if treatment was included in Aarogyasri,” he said. While the State government boasts of having a high recovery rate of 82.64%, it should also give a thought to the fact that most of the patients paid a heavy price in getting cured from the deadly disease, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/include-covid-19-treatment-under-aarogyasri-scheme-congress/article32691251.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fall in rail passengers to 35,420 a day!||The South Central Railway (SCR) has been carrying 35,420 passengers daily through 12 special trains to various destinations and also through 16 more pairs of trains passing through the zone. Before the pandemic, the passenger count had been to the tune of 10.5 lakh a day! While the a crash in earnings from passenger fares is now accepted, what is interesting is that the number of reserved passengers, even when the 750 trains were running, has to be to the extent of 1.5 lakh only, claim senior officials. If about 1.5 lakh passengers travelled on MMTS suburban trains, the other seven lakh passengers a day used to travel in unreserved compartments. And, since special trains were started, only reserved pre-booked passengers have been allowed to enter the stations and trains after adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols. The fixed number of trains and only reserved coaches showed that whatever earnings are obtained through fares are pretty consistent. For instance,it was Rs. 21.41 crore in June, Rs. 21.80 crore in July, Rs. 24.39 crore in August and 8 crore so far in September. Senior officials do not expect substantial change in the pattern in passenger transport unless the pandemic eases and more States permit the services. But, hope is on the freight and even if the last year's Rs. 9,000 crore revenue looks unlikely as of now, officials are confident of decent revenue by the end of the financial year as was indicated by general manager Gajajan Mallya during his virtual media interaction. About 158 special freight trains were run from April, carrying 38,902 tonnes of material, third highest till August.Hitherto-neglected good sheds were being modernised, said Mr. Mallya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fall-in-rail-passengers-to-35420-a-day/article32691228.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||7 IPS officials test positive||Seven Indian Police Service officers from various States undergoing Mid-Career Training Programme (MCTP) Phase-III at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) tested positive for coronavirus. As they were asymptomatic, the administration isolated them in special facilities on the campus. The primary contact of the victims were also identified and they too were isolated. Confirming this to The Hindu , NPA Director Atul Karwal said 79 IPS officials from across the country, with seven to nine years of service, came to their alma mater in the second week of September, to prepare themselves for the next level of competency and honing up skills with a global perspective. “They were quarantined for 10 days after coming to the campus from their cadre. However, online training started on September 14, as per schedule, which they were attending from their accommodations,” he said. Last weekend, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and antibody tests were conducted on the quarantined officials, and results were out on Tuesday. Of them, seven tested positive. “Today, we have started regular training for those who tested negative. Classes are being conducted outdoors as a precautionary measure,” the official said. “We are facing the pandemic and police officers are the frontline force. All of them have worked as COVID warriors in their States, and for them the chance of infection was obviously high,” Mr. Karwal said, adding that some might have contracted the virus during their journey to Hyderabad. The infected officials were allowed to attend classes online. He said the NPA could not suspend the training programmes as its alumni were battling from the front. “We are here to set an example,” he said. Earlier this month, over 80 staff members at the academy tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/7-ips-officials-test-positive/article32691230.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cancel SCCL exam, say candidates||Candidates who appeared for the Electrical and Mechanical Management Training exam of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) have objected to the release of results “secretly” when the investigation into the exam scam was still on. The aspirants who gathered at the Arts College, Osmania University, said the results were declared without notice on September 19 when the police inquiry against people arrested during the exam was still on. Manavata Roy, Chairman of the OU Students and Unemployed JAC Chairman, said they would take up the fight and asked the government to cancel the examination and conduct a CBI inquiry. The exam was conducted on March 1 and 11 persons were arrested on the charge of malpractice. Later, the police arrested five persons involved in helping job job aspirants and they were taken into judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cancel-sccl-exam-say-candidates/article32691234.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protection homes in State under scrutiny||Several orphanages and children’s protection homes in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts could face closure in a month’s time, owing to irregularities in functioning. Teams constituted by the Women Development & Child Welfare department have inspected all privately run protection homes in the three districts — 125 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 65 in Hyderabad and 38 in Rangareddy. The process to issue notices is presently on. Almost 70% of the homes have been found with deficiencies, sources said. However, several of these shortcomings could be rectified, hence an opportunity would be given to the homes to improve. Where the conditions do not have any scope for improvement, and where irregularities are found, all such homes would be shut down, officials said. It is learnt that some homes were so bad that the teams had to immediately shift the children out, while caretakers of some others claimed that they were running hostels and would not come under the purview of the Women Development & Child Welfare department. The inspections have been taken up after a case of sexual assault surfaced at an orphanage in Ameenpur, where the victim, a minor girl, later died of various complications. Show-cause notices were issued to the staff of the District Child Protection Unit, for failing to inspect the home regularly. If their replies were found unsatisfactory, their services would be terminated, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protection-homes-in-state-under-scrutiny/article32691237.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ambulance gifted to KTR||An ambulance with COVID testing unit was gifted to IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao by TRS leader and Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency in-charge Marri Rajashekar Reddy. The ambulance was gifted in response to the call of “Gift a Smile” given by Mr. KTR, said Mr. Reddy, adding that he was happy to be part of the humanitarian service. Mr. KTR officially launched it to be used for public service. Cantonment Board members and senior leaders were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ambulance-gifted-to-ktr/article32691222.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rare liver transplant surgery on toddler||A two-and-half-year-old boy with genetic liver disorder got a new lease of life with doctors of Pratima Hospitals doing a rare 18-hour operation on him and that too free of cost. Liver ducts affected Tejanshu, son of Lakshman and Rajitha from Jannaram mandal, Cherlapalli, was brought to the hospital with a rare disease called Congenital Biliary Atresia (CBA). In this disorder, liver ducts do not develop, and that leads to jaundice and liver failure. The team of doctors at Pratima Hospitals, Kacheguda, led by senior surgical gastroenterologist Ch. Madhusudan, and gastroenterologist and hepatologist B. Ramesh Kumar, successfully performed the live donor liver transplantation surgery. Donor father A portion of the liver was taken from the child’s father and transplanted on him, doctors said. In a statement here, the doctors said that doing a liver transplant in children is very difficult and needs high skills and expertise because children’s blood vessels are very tiny and lead to liver failure or surgery failure. The most important thing is the need to perform the surgery with minimal blood loss in children, and so we did it meticulously under a magnifying loop and we did it successfully, said Dr. Madhusudan assuring that in future too, they would do free surgical procedures for the needy. The little boy is active but needs regular follow-ups and immuno suppression drugs, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rare-liver-transplant-surgery-on-toddler/article32691223.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH entrance exams begin||The entrance examinations for admission to the various courses for the academic year 2020-21 at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) commenced on Thursday. On the first day, more than 66% students wrote the examinations all over India. In Hyderabad, close to 7,077 students appeared for the examination at the College for Integrated Studies building of the university. Two COVID infected students also gave the exam in the separate isolated exam hall arranged by the university, taking all precautions laid down. More than 34 differently abled students with disability also wrote the entrance examination on the first day with the help of scribes at the various centres. A statement from UoH said that this year it received the highest number of 62,853 applications for admission to 2,456 seats in 132 post-graduate and research programmes at the university. Students are taking the entrance examination in 37 centres all over India with three centres in Hyderabad. The exams will conclude on September 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-entrance-exams-begin/article32691252.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Meeting faults govt’s 2BHK approach||An all-party round table meeting organised by the CPI(M) on Thursday has severely criticised the delay in handing over the double bedroom housing units as promised to the urban poor, and demanded speedy delivery of the homes to the eligible poor. Reminding Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s avowal in March, 2017 in the State Legislative Assembly that he would not seek votes if he fails to finish one lakh double bedroom houses in city and one lakh more throughout the State by 2019 elections, a note from the round table said all the present challenges about the project are only aimed to divert people’s attention ahead of GHMC polls. While a total of seven lakh people applied for the double bedroom houses, the government has so far delivered only 630. Even scrutiny of applications has not yet been initiated, let alone identification of beneficiaries, it said. Thousands of units constructed during Congress regime under JNNURM and Rajiv Gruha Kalpa projects are still lying vacant, and it reflects the government’s apathy. Several slums had been vacated with promise of double bedroom flats within a year, but three years have passed without allocation. All those evicted from the slums are going through difficulties unable to bear high rents, the note, said. Political parties including CPI, TDP, TJS, CPI(ML) New Democracy, RSP, SUCI (C) participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/meeting-faults-govts-2bhk-approach/article32691253.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ACP remanded||Malkajgiri Assistant Commissioner of Police Y. Narasimha Reddy, against whom Anti-Corruption Bureau officials registered a corruption case, was lodged in the Chanchalguda central prison on Thursday. The police officer was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by a judge of Special Court for ACB cases. The previous day, ACB sleuths conducted searches at nearly 24 places in different parts of the State and in Anantapur of Andhra Pradesh, including the office and residence of the ACP. ACB officials said he acquired properties having market value of Rs. 70 crore. Further probe on Thursday revealed that he secured 4.13 acres of land in Elavarthy village of Shankarpally mandal in Vikarabad district. The property was in the name of a benami, the ACB officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acp-remanded/article32691227.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chit organiser arrested||A businessman, who had gone absconding, after allegedly duping several people through chit fund business, was arrested by the Hyderabad police in Bengaluru on Tuesday. He was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. The accused, Kacham Kiran Kumar (41), ran the chit business without permission and collected more than Rs. 5 crore. Subsequently he failed to repay the amounts to their depositors, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. “Instead of returning the deposits, he sold his house and went absconding,” he said. Based on the complaint lodged by victims, a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chit-organiser-arrested/article32691232.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Atul Karwal to address runners||Hyderabad Runners is organising its 23rd webinar from 7.30 p.m. on Saturday. The weekly series, labelled, Beyond the Track, will be addressed by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy director Atul Karwal. An ultra-marathoner and triathlete, he will speak on the topic, fitness, valor, service: lead by example.Earlier, the organisation hosted Varun Sawat, who became first Indian autistic runner to finish a full marathon and cricketer Gary Kirsten. Join the Facebook page of Hyderabad Runners to follow the webinar, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atul-karwal-to-address-runners/article32691233.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dhamasalapuram ROB to be completed by Oct end||SCR GM Gajanan Mallya on Thursday informed TRS Khammam MP N. Nageswara Rao that the long-pending road-over-bridge (ROB) at Dhamasalapuram on the Kazipet-Vijayawada section will be completed by next month, as the work got delayed due to the pandemic and later due to heavy rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dhamasalapuram-rob-to-be-completed-by-oct-end/article32691219.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman found dead||A woman was found dead in a water-filled quarry pit at Mahadevpura in Jagadgirigutta on Thursday. Latha (33) from Balaiah Basti allegdly ended her life by jumping into the water, following frequent alterations with her husband. The couple had son and a daughter. Jagadgirigutta police said that the victim was living separately from her husband.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: : +914066202000 or 6666 1117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-dead/article32691231.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Donation||The American Tower Foundation, the global philanthropic arm of American Tower Corporation (ATC), has donated to Akshaya Patra Foundation to distribute grocery kits comprising of wheat flour, sugar, pulses, cooking oil and salt and also provide 19 lakh meals across 31 locations to families adversely impacted owing to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The distribution drive in Telangana will be carried out over a period of five days, providing around 42,000 meals, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/donation/article32691245.ece
25 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills father||A 22-year-old youngster from Gundala village in Ranga Reddy district, on Thursday admitted to killing his father 50-days ago and later buried his body in their agriculture field. His mother Lalitha allegedly helped him. Shamshabad Deputy Commissioner of Police N Prakash Reddy said that the offence took place on the night of July 30 over petty disputes. The accused, Rakesh, told police that his father S. Kistaiah alias Krishna, a farmer, was physically abusing Lalitha, and him after consuming liquor. On the fateful night too, Kistaiah picked up a heated argument with them, following which the mother-son duo throttled him to death, police said. “While Rakesh was throttling, Lalitha held Kistaiah's legs. After 10 p.m., they took the body to their field on a bike, about two kilometres from the house, where they dug a pit and buried it,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-father/article32691248.ece
25 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Kondapochamma oustee makes suicide attempt||Sabbani Janakiramulu, an oustee of Mamidyala village in Mulugu mandal attempted suicide by dousing himself with kerosene before the Revenue Divisional Office (RDO) at Gajwel on Thursday. Mr. Janakiramulu alleged that for the past few years he has been denied Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) benefits and repeated appeals to officials failed to yield results. Mr. Janakiramulu came to RDO office with kerosene bottle. However, those present at the spot threw away the kerosene bottle and informed the police. Police immediately shifted him to a station, where they registered a case and are investigating. According to sources, S. Narasmihulu, S. Janakiramulu and Harikrishna are brothers and had a house spread on 350 yards and three acres of land. The land and house were acquired by the government for Kodapochammasagar reservoir and they were given compensation. However, they were not offered R&R package. “We gave away our land and house for the construction of Kondapochamma reservoir. In the first list, houses were allotted to about 400 plus oustees of the village. In the second list, names of as many as 181 persons were identified but allotment was made to only 137 persons, while the remaining are still waiting. Our names are in second list which means we are eligible for houses. But, despite moving around Revenue offices, we are not being allotted houses and officials are not responding properly. Myself and my brother Harikirshna have migrated to Kukatpally about a decade back to make a living. But those who migrated well before us from the village got the R&R package and why cannot we is our question,” Mr. Janakiramulu told The Hindu . “Janakiramulu is not eligible for R&R package as he is not staying in the village for the past one-and-a-half decade. The other compensations were already paid to him. A case was registered against him for creating nuisance at Gajwel police station,” said RDO D. Vijayender Reddy. (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kondapochamma-oustee-makes-suicide-attempt/article32691255.ece
25 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram groundwater level saw steady fall over past two years: RTI||All the four blocks of Gurugram district have recorded a steady fall in groundwater level over the past two years, revealed a reply to a Right to Information Act (RTI) application. While the Gurugram city has been the worst hit with a maximum decline of around 3 metres, Farrukh Nagar has seen a minimum fall of less than a metre. In reply to an RTI filed by Aseem Takyar, Gurugram’s groundwater cell revealed that the groundwater level for Gurugram block had fallen from 33.23 m to 36.21 m, though the fall for 2019-20 is only 0.36 m. Similarly, Pataudi and Sohna have witnessed a fall of 2.3 m and 2.55 m. The groundwater level in the two blocks has depleted to 37.79 m and 26.11 m respectively. Though Farrukh Nagar has witnessed a paltry increase of 0.43 m over the past one year, the level has gone down by 0.29 m since 2018. Gurugram has been notified by the Central Ground Water Authority since 2011 to prevent sharp depletion of groundwater. Water recharge Former hydrologist M.S. Lamba blamed the situation on excessive extraction of groundwater for agriculture, construction and drinking purposes compared to the water recharged. “Contrary to the popular perception, 90% of the groundwater extracted in Haryana is used for irrigation purposes. The State has around 8 lakh agriculture tubewells, but only around 50,000 tubewell connections for drinking water. Though the use of groundwater for irrigation could be little less in Gurugram, at least 50 water harvesting pits are required to compensate for the groundwater extracted by a tubewell in a year,” said Mr. Lamba. He said that promoting crops that can be grown with less water, use of treated water for construction activities and making water harvesting mandatory for all upcoming buildings could help contain the situation. Neelam Ahluwalia, Aravalli Bachao Campaigner, said that high levels of cracks and fissures in the Aravali hills made it a superior zone for recharging groundwater, but dilution of protective laws and illegal felling of trees and encroachments were eating away the mountain range.  Contrary to the popular perception, 90% of the groundwater extracted in Haryana is used for irrigation purposes M.S. Lamba Former hydrologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurugram-groundwater-level-saw-steady-fall-over-past-two-years-rti/article32691201.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Look into role of woman in honey-trapping case’||Following an alleged case of a woman honey trapping a man, which came to the fore after the latter approached the Delhi High Court for protection, the court has asked the Delhi Police Commissioner to look into the role the woman’s involvement in similar cases, if any. A month ago, the woman had lodged a complaint alleging rape by the man following which the latter has sought bail from the court. The man, in his plea, said the woman had contacted him on WhatsApp, seeking job of a “personal assistant”. When he answered the question in the affirmative, instead of sending pictures in professional attire, she sent him objectionable pictures”. The man said all the pictures were sent by the woman within three minutes of their conversation. On the same day, they had a telephonic conversation in which she allegedly invited him to her flat in Saket. After he went to her place, she allegedly asked him to get “some wine”. “Soon all the inhibitions were shed and hitherto normal text messages got mixed with flirtatious...and all the advances by the petitioner [man] in said direction were overly welcomed by the complainant [woman] and there was not an iota of any demur and/ or any protest,” the man’s plea said. The man alleged that the woman called him at her home and when her demand for Rs. 5,00,000 was not met, she registered a false case of rape against him. Claims of prosecution On the other hand, the case of the prosecution states that the woman had texted him for a job to which he had sent “offensive” replies. She had said they could discuss the issue. The woman claimed that the man asked her for a relationship to which she replied that “she did not feel comfortable with anyone in the first meeting”. The prosecution said the man called her and asked if he could buy her wine. “She replied in the affirmative and sent him her location. At her place, they normally spoke about their professions. Following this, the petitioner gave her two drinks and raped her,” the prosecution said. The prosecution added that the man had no business to attend her call and visit a stranger’s place. It called for the dismissal of the bail plea moved by the man in pursuant to the FIR registered against him by the woman. “I have gone through the pictures and chats, which are annexed with the present petition and seems to be the allurement on the part of the complainant and petitioner got trapped,” Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said. However, without commenting on the merits of the prosecution case, the court said the man deserves protection. Personal bond of Rs. 25K It said in the event of arrest, the man shall be released on furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 25,000. “Though acceptance allurement is not justified but at the same time, allurement advanced for extortion of money is also not acceptable,” Justice Kait remarked. It asked the top officer to take action if needed. “In addition to above, the Commissioner shall call reports from all the police stations of such cases as the present one and file a report to this effect within four weeks from today,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/look-into-role-of-woman-in-honey-trapping-case/article32691200.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Five held for killing man, thrashing teen||Five people have been arrested for allegedly killing a man and attacking an 18-year-old youth in north-west Delhi’s Kanjhawala area, the police said on Thursday. They added that the incident took place on Tuesday night in Sawada village and the injured has been identified as Reehan, a student of IGNOU, and the deceased asShaukat (23), a photographer. The accused have been identified as Ankit, Vikas, Vishal, Harish and Ajay. The police said Ankit found out about his former girlfriend’s relationship with Saider — Reehan’s friend — and decided to “teach him a lesson”. On Tuesday night, Ankit and his friends reached Block-O in J J Colony in Sawada village where Reehan and Saider live. They first went to Reehan’s house and asked him to come out, but he did not, a senior officer said. The accused then pelted stones at his house, dragged him out and started beating him. When Shaukat, who was in the neighbourhood, tried to stop the accused, he was allegedly attacked with bricks. He sustained serious head injuries, the officer said. ‘Throwing stones’ “We got a PCR call that some people were fighting and throwing stones in the area. We found two persons lying injured at the spot. They were immediately shifted to hospital,” the officer said. He added, “Reehan was discharged after treatment. Shaukat succumbed to head injuries at Safdarjung Hospital on Wednesday morning,” the officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said “Based on the statement of the injured, we registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections of rioting and attempt to murder. A Section 302 (murder) of the IPC was also added to the FIR,” he said. Villagers protest After Shaukat’s body arrived in his village, more than 200 people, including his family members and villagers, staged a protest against the police. They refused to bury his body, an officer said. He said the police managed to persuade the villagers to conduct the burial later. Policemen have been deployed in the area and the situation under control, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-held-for-killing-man-thrashing-teen/article32691204.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||52-year-old man shot at for resisting robbery||A 52-year-old man was shot at allegedly by two unidentified bike-borne men when he resisted a robbery attempt at Shahdara flyover, the police said on Thursday. A senior officer said the victim — Manish — who suffered a bullet injury in his stomach, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Patparganj. He is said to be out of danger. The identity of the accused duo is yet to be established and teams have been formed to trace them, the officer said. The incident took place at 7.30 p.m. on Wednesday when Manish and his brother Arun were returning home from Chawri Bazar, where they own a hardware shop. They stay with their family in Ghaziabad’s Ramprastha. When the brothers reached Shahdara flyover, the accused intercepted them and tried to snatch their bag. When the victims resisted, one of the accused shot at Manish and sped away. The miscreants thought that victim was carrying cash in the bag but it only had documents, an officer said. The victim was rushed to Swami Dayanand hospital but he was later shifted to a private hospital. A case has been registered, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/52-year-old-man-shot-at-for-resisting-robbery/article32691203.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for cheating company of Rs. 3 crore||A resident of Sainik Farms has been arrested for allegedly cheating a company to the tune of Rs. 3crore on the pretext of sale and purchase of agriculture land, the police said on Thursday. JCP (Economic Offences Wing) O.P. Mishra said the accused — Pankaj Dayal — was nabbed from his office in Greater Kailash. The accused had told the owners of the company that he was in process of purchasing 5.06 acre agriculture land in Kapashera for which his firm had already paid Rs. 3 crore in advance to the landowner. He also assured them that he will find a suitable third-party buyer. The complainant was induced on hefty profit sharing by further sale of the property, the police said adding that on this pretext, he obtained Rs. 3 crore from the victim. The police said the accused is found to be involved in several cheating cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-cheating-company-of-rs-3-crore/article32691205.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Umar Khalid sent to judicial custody till October 22||Former JNU student Umar Khalid, who was arrested on September 13, has been sent to judicial custody till October 22 by a Delhi court. His family met him before he was sent to jail. Mr. Khalid was in police custody for 10 days after which he was produced before the court through videoconferencing where the Additional Sessions Judgesent him to custody till October 22. Mr. Khalid also told the court that he has not signed any documents during his police custody. His father Syed Qasim Rasool Ilyas said he along with his wife and daughter met him. “Umar’s mother, youngest sister, Sarah and I met him at Special Cell today for around 40 minutes before his judicial custody. Umar was cheerful...He conveyed his regards and greetings to all his well-wishers,” Mr. Ilyas tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/umar-khalid-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-october-22/article32691206.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT dismisses plea on RMC plant in Rajokri forest area||The National Green Tribunal has dismissed a plea that alleged that a ready-mix concrete (RMC) plant was operating within Rajokri Protected Forest area. This came after the government’s Forest Department informed the tribunal that the RMC was operating on a private land, in compliance with the norms. Taking note of a report furnished by the principal chief conservator of forest, a NGT Bench said: “After removal of illegal encroachment, pits were dug for plantation to protect the area, which has also been protected by construction of barbed wire fencing.” The observations came when the green panel was hearing a review application moved by the Mall Road, Vasant Kunj residents’ welfare association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-dismisses-plea-on-rmc-plant-in-rajokri-forest-area/article32691202.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||Is NCB now called NaMo Controlled Bureau?: Cong.||The Maharashtra Congress on Thursday asked whether the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had now been renamed as the NaMo Controlled Bureau as it was neglecting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) angle in its investigations into the Bollywood-drug connection. The Congress also wanted to know to why the NCB was avoiding a probe against actor Kangana Ranaut on her video in which she has reprortedly confessed to consuming drugs. “While the NCB made such a huge ado over a 59 gram cannabis case, at the same time, BJP activist Chandrakant Chauhan was arrested in Karnataka with 1,200 kg of cannabis and the NCB didn’t even bother to look into the case,” State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said. He said actor Ragini Dwivedi, a star campaigner of Karnataka BJP, was arrested in a drug case. “Aditya Alva too has been arrested. Mr. Alva is the brother-in-law of Gujarat BJP’s star campaigner, actor Vivek Oberoi, and Mr. Oberoi is the co-producer of the Modi biopic with Sandeep Ssingh,” Mr. Sawant said. The Congress leader pointed out that the alleged BJP-Bollywood-sandalwood-Goa drug connection was not being probed. Mr. Sawant said that the poster release of the Modi biopic was done in the presence of the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. “It is yet to be revealed whom Mr. Ssingh had called 53 times in the BJP office and who had helped him in a case in Mauritius. All these things are linked. The Maharashtra government has told the CBI about this. But to this day, this angle has not been investigated which is surprising,” Mr. Sawant said. “Even Ms. Ranaut is missing from the NCB’s drug connection probe. She has confessed that she was taking drugs. While her video is evidence of drug use, why isn’t she being questioned?” asked Mr. Sawant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/is-ncb-now-called-namo-controlled-bureau-cong/article32690925.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||Tablighi activities: FIR against 8 Myanmar nationals quashed||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed an FIR and the chargesheet filed against eight Myanmar nationals booked for Tablighi activities  and said “compelling the applicants to undergo the trial would cause grave injustice”. On September 21, a Division Bench of Justices V.M. Deshpande and Amit B. Borkar was hearing a plea filed by the eight. They landed on March 22 and from March 24 till March 31, they were sent to institutional quarantine despite testing negative for COVID-19. On April 5, they were booked under the Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, and Disaster Management Act. They were also booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They moved the HC for quashing the FIR and the chargesheet. The State government argued that after the tourists arrived in India they started preaching and participated in religious activities violating conditions of the visa manual. On July 21, a chargesheet was filed based on statements of witnesses and other evidence collected by the investigating agency claiming that there was ample material on record to prosecute the applicants. The advocate appearing for the applicants said all of them were not conversant with the local language and they studied Quaran and Hadis in their mother tongue. “There is no material produced by the prosecution to prove that they were engaged in Tablighi work and they were involved in preaching religious ideology or making speeches in religious places. There is no material produced by the prosecution in the chargesheet which even prima facie proves contravention of visa manual,” the advocate said. The court said, “We are of the opinion that the investigating authorities acted without jurisdiction in registering the FIR under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC based on a complaint of the police. The investigation conducted by the police was also without jurisdiction.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tablighi-activities-fir-against-8-myanmar-nationals-quashed/article32690928.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||Bhiwandi collapse: HC issues notices||The Bombay High Court on Thursday took suo moto cognisance of the building collapse in Bhiwandi in Thane and said that it was a very serious incident where 41 people were declared dead and 25 people had been rescued by the NDRF. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a matter related to a construction in Kalyan Dombivali. The court said, “A building has collapsed in Bhiwandi; several lives have been lost. We are told the situation is quite serious in Mumbai too.” The court made the State of Maharashtra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, and the civic bodies of Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Kalyan-Dombivali, Thane, and Navi Mumbai as respondents in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhiwandi-collapse-hc-issues-notices/article32690923.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCB seeks time to reply to bail pleas of Rhea, Showik||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday sought time before the Bombay High Court to reply to the bail pleas filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in connection with a drug case after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh representing the NCB told a single judge Bench of Justice S.V. Kotwal that he had not received a copy of the bail applications and that he needed time to file a reply. Advocate Satish Maneshinde appearing for the Chakrabortys said that he had served a copy twice to the NCB and that he could also serve it to the ASG directly. He also questioned the jurisdiction of the agency to probe the matter as the Supreme Court had ruled on August 19 that all investigation in Sushant’s death case had to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Meanwhile, the NDPS court on Thursday allowed the NCB to visit Mr. Chakraborty and Mr. Sawant at Taloja Central Jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncb-seeks-time-to-reply-to-bail-pleas-of-rhea-showik/article32690927.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC gives Raut, BMC time to file replies to Kangana’s plea||The Bombay High Court on Thursday allowed Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut and BMC officer Bhagyavant Late to file their replies to a plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut after the civic body demolished her bungalow in Bandra. Advocate Pradeep Thorat representing Mr. Raut and senior advocate Anil Sakhare appearing for Mr. Late sought time before a Division Bench of Justice S.J. Kathawalla and Justice R.I. Chagla to file their replies. Mr. Thorat said that he needed time to file an affidavit as Mr. Raut being an MP was in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-gives-raut-bmc-time-to-file-replies-to-kanganas-plea/article32690924.ece
25 September 2020||Pune,||‘Missing’ patient from Pune’s jumbo facility sparks protest||The mystery of a ‘missing’ 33-year-old female patient from the newly-operational jumbo COVID-19 facility in the city’s College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) grounds has sparked outrage among social outfits and activists. The patient, who had first tested positive on August 28 and had been admitted to the jumbo facility in the early morning of August 30, has not returned home since. Neither the staff at the facility nor the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration have the slightest clue of her ‘disappearance’. On Thursday, the Republican Yuva Morcha (RYM), an Amedkarite outfit, staged a protest outside the CoEP facility along with the woman’s kin, demanding a probe against errant officials. “A patient has been missing for 25 days and the hospital staff have no record. The administration has been cheating the woman’s mother by falsely claiming that the girl was admitted to the CoEP facility and was undergoing treatment. Now, the PMC is conveniently shifting blame on Lifeline — the former contractor that was tasked with the management of the facility,” Rahul Dambale, president, RYM, said. The woman had first gone to the COVID-19 facility in the city’s Balewadi but was referred to the Sassoon General Hospital as the former was full. As the latter hospital, too, was full to capacity, she was admitted to the CoEP facility on August 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/missing-patient-from-punes-jumbo-facility-sparks-protest/article32690926.ece
25 September 2020||Sydney,||380 ‘detention camps’ in Xinjiang: report||China is running hundreds of detention centres in northwest Xinjiang across a network that is much bigger than previously thought, according to research presented on Thursday by an Australian think tank. The Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI) said it had identified more than 380 “suspected detention facilities” in the region, where China is believed to have held more than one million Uighurs and other mostly Muslim Turkic-speaking residents. The number of facilities is around 40% greater than previous estimates, the research said, and has been growing despite China's claims that many Uighurs have been released. Using satellite imagery, eyewitness accounts, media reports and official construction tender documents, the institute said “at least 61 detention sites have seen new construction and expansion work between July 2019 and July 2020”. Fourteen more facilities were under construction in 2020 and around 70 have had fencing or perimeter walls removed, indicating their use has changed or they have been closed. Beijing on Thursday again denied the existence of detention sites. The government says they are vocational training centres used to counter extremism. Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin called ASPI “the vanguard of anti-China forces, whose academic credibility is seriously questionable”. U.S. lawmakers recently voted to ban imports from Xinjiang, citing the alleged use of systematic forced labour. Beijing recently published a white paper defending its policies in Xinjiang, where it says training programmes, work schemes and better education mean life has improved. ‘Training camps’ It claims to have given “training sessions” to an average of 1.29 million workers each year between 2014 and 2019. Following the publication of the ASPI report, the Chinese government-controlled nationalist tabloid Global Times cited “sources” as saying contributors Clive Hamilton and Alex Joske were banned from entering China. Mr. Wang did not confirm if the two academics had been banned on Thursday, but said the matter was “totally within the scope of China's sovereignty”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/380-detention-camps-in-xinjiang-report/article32690613.ece
25 September 2020||Washington,||Trump won’t commit to peaceful transfer of power||U.S. President Donald Trump failed to commit to the peaceful transfer of power when asked a question on the subject on Tuesday, adding to concerns that the post-election scenario in November might be chaotic. “Well, we’re going to have to see what happens. You know that I’ve been complaining very strongly about the ballots and the ballots are a disaster,” Mr. Trump said in response to the question. The President, in a bid to question the legitimacy of postal ballots, has been complaining for months about vote by mail, including by making unsubstantiated claims about the incidence of voter fraud (orchestrated by Democrats). All States use some amount of mail in voting but the COVID-19 pandemic has meant an expansion of the process across the country. Vote by mail has already started for the elections, and at least 75% of Americans will be eligible for a postal ballot as per a New York Times study. “Get rid of the ballots and you’ll have a very peaceful... there won’t be a transfer frankly, there’ll be a continuation,” Mr Trump said when the reporter further pressed him on whether he’d commit to a peaceful transfer of power in light of the fact that “people are rioting.” In an interview to Chris Wallace of Fox News, Mr. Trump had in July said he would “have to see” when asked if he would accept the November election results. In 2016, running against Hilary Clinton, Mr. Trump had given a similar answer to the question. Supreme Court pick Mr. Trump also stated on Wednesday that he wanted to replace liberal justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg before the November 3 election as he expected a dispute over the results . Mr. Trump is expected to announce his pick on Saturday, a pick that is likely to further solidify the conservative majority of the court. Former (2012) Republican presidential nominee and U.S. Senator from Utah Mitt Romney, who had voted to convict Mr. Trump on impeachment charges earlier this year but has also said he will consider a Trump nominee for the Supreme Court, reacted strongly to Mr. Trump’s comments on Wednesday. “Fundamental to democracy is the peaceful transition of power; without that, there is Belarus. Any suggestion that a President might not respect this Constitutional guarantee is both unthinkable and unacceptable,” Mr. Romney wrote on Twitter. ‘Not surprised’ Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden reacted to Mr. Trump’s comments and said he was not surprised, while implying a challenge to the peaceful transfer of power was not something that happened in the U.S. “What country are we in? “Mr. Biden told reporters in Delaware. “He [Mr. Trump] says the most irrational things. I don’t know what to say... but it doesn’t surprise me.” “The American people will decide this election. And the U.S. government is perfectly capable of escorting trespassers out of the White House,” the Biden campaign said in a statement issued on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-wont-commit-to-peaceful-transfer-of-power/article32690622.ece
25 September 2020||LOUISVILLE,||2 police officers shot during Louisville protests||Hours after a Kentucky grand jury brought no charges against Louisville police for Breonna Taylor’s death and protesters took to the streets, authorities said two officers were shot and wounded on Wednesday night during the demonstrations expressing anger over the killings of Black people at the hands of police. Interim Louisville police chief Robert Schroeder said a suspect was in custody but did not offer details about whether that person was participating in the demonstrations. He said both officers are expected to recover, and one is undergoing surgery. Several shots rang out as protesters in downtown Louisville tried to avoid police blockades, moving down an alleyway as officers lobbed pepper balls, according to an Associated Press journalist. People covered their ears, ran away and frantically looked for places to hide. Police with long guns swarmed the area, then officers in riot gear and military-style vehicles blocked off roadways. The violence comes after prosecutors said two officers, who fired their weapons at Taylor, a Black woman, were justified in using force to protect themselves after they faced gunfire from her boyfriend. The only charges were three counts of wanton endangerment against fired Officer Brett Hankison for shooting into a home next to Taylor’s with people inside. No justice, no peace The FBI is still investigating potential violations of federal law in connection with the raid at Taylor’s home on March 13. Ben Crump, a lawyer for Taylor’s family, denounced the decision as “outrageous and offensive,” and protesters shouting, “No justice, no peace!” immediately marched through the streets. Scuffles broke out between police and protesters, and some of them were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/2-police-officers-shot-during-louisville-protests/article32690611.ece
25 September 2020||Seoul,||N. Korea shot dead defector from South: Seoul||North Korean soldiers shot dead a suspected South Korean defector at sea and burned his body as a precaution against COVID-19 after he was interrogated in the water over several hours, Seoul military officials said on Thursday. It is the first killing of a Southern citizen by North Korean forces for a decade. The fisheries official disappeared from a patrol vessel near the western island of Yeonpyeong on Monday, a South Korean military official said. More than 24 hours later, North Korean forces located him in their waters and questioned him from a patrol boat, he said, with his interrogator wearing protective equipment. He was killed around six hours after being found, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-shot-dead-defector-from-south-seoul/article32690616.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||China cautious on G4 push for UNSC reforms||China on Thursday said there were “enormous divisions” and a lack of consensus on taking forward the stalled reforms of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), a day after the G4 countries — India, Brazil, Japan and Germany — called for an early push for text-based negotiations. The Foreign Ministers of the four countries that are seeking UNSC reforms and permanent membership of the body met virtually on Wednesday, expressing their frustration at the repeated attempts to stall and derail the reforms process. Text-based negotiations External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said the meeting had “called for a decisive push” and was unanimous in backing “text-based negotiations in a fixed time frame”. India begins a two-year term as one of the 10 non-permanent UNSC members in January, and has said it will continue pushing for reforms that have failed to materialise over many years. The G4 group “expressed disappointment at attempts to derail this process and committed to addressing the issue in a meaningful way and with increased urgency at this 75th anniversary of the UN,” a statement said, adding that “without substantive text based negotiations actually taking place in an intergovernmental setting” this process could not go forward. Chinese analysts have long been dismissive of the G4, and have in the past indicated that China would not favour the inclusion of at least three of its members for differing reasons — India and Japan considering their historically difficult relations with China, and Germany because it is not a developing country. ‘Enormous divisions’ On Thursday, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin suggested that China’s long-held stance that the reforms process cannot go ahead quickly is unlikely to change. “We believe the reforms should increase the representation and voice of developing countries and allow more small and medium size countries to enter the Security Council and participate in the decision making,” Mr. Wang said in response to a question on the G4 statement. “We believe the reform of the Security Council is an important issue which concerns the long term development and all the immediate interests of its members. There have been enormous divisions on this issue and there lacks a widespread consensus on the arrangement for reform,” he said. “China is willing to work with other UN members to seek a package solution that can accommodate all parties’ interests and concerns, through dialogue and negotiation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-cautious-on-g4-push-for-unsc-reforms/article32690619.ece
25 September 2020||Colombo,||Lanka scraps Japan-funded rail project||Sri Lanka’s President has ordered the termination of a $1.5-billion Japanese-funded light rail project, saying it is not a “cost-effective solution” for the congested capital Colombo, officials said on Thursday. The deal signed under the previous government is the largest single foreign-funded infrastructure project in Sri Lanka, and was seen as a sign of the island nation reducing its dependence on China. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, elected last year, told the Transport Ministry to “terminate this project and close the project office with immediate effect”, top aide P.B. Jayasundara said in a letter to the ministry. There was no immediate comment from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which in March last year loaned 30 billion yen ($285 million) to finance the first phase of the Light Rail Transit (LRT). Japanese technology including rolling stock was to be used on the rail system, which included 16 stations over 15.7 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lanka-scraps-japan-funded-rail-project/article32690617.ece
25 September 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, Sept 24, 2020 (AFP) -||Prominent Hong Kong activist Joshua Wong was arrested on Thursday for taking part in a protest last year, but he vowed to continue resisting China’s crackdown on dissent. The arrest of the territory’s most high-profile dissident is the latest in a string of arrests of government critics. He was arrested for “unlawful assembly” over a 2019 demonstration against a government ban on face masks that was imposed before the pandemic.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-sept-24-2020-afp/article32690615.ece
25 September 2020||San Francisco,||TikTok urges court to block Trump's ban on app in US||TikTok is urging a federal court to block U.S. President Donald Trump from banning the video app, arguing the move is motivated by election politics rather than legitimate national security concerns. A deal to restructure ownership of the app was thrown into doubt on Monday when Mr. Trump vowed to block a deal that allows its Chinese parent firm ByteDance to retain any control. TikTok has some 100 million users in the U.S.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tiktok-urges-court-to-block-trumps-ban-on-app-in-us/article32690620.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Will the farm bills benefit farmers?||Three farm bills — the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill (commonly referred to as the APMC Bypass Bill), and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill — were cleared by Parliament amid protests from the Opposition. Sudha Narayanan and Arindam Banerjee discuss the implications of the controversial Bills in a conversation moderated by Vikas Dhoot . Edited excerpts: What are the concerns about these Bills? Do they hold up? Sudha Narayanan:Sometimes we say, ‘Be careful what you wish for, you may actually get it’. These Bills represent fairly important changes in marketing regulation and are what many were asking for because of the flaws in the APMC [Agricultural Produce Market Committee] system. But at the same time, they are worrying for two reasons. The first is in what they say. The Bills have lacunae: lack of regulation, regulatory oversight and reporting. They’re somewhat non-transparent. The second is what they do not say. You can’t have marketing Bills that are devoid of the larger context of State intervention in agriculture, and agricultural policy. Could you give us examples of a couple of those? SN:The APMC bypass Bill is the most controversial. This Bill actually assumes that private players don’t exist today and the APMC is a monopoly. That is a flawed assumption. Private players actually look to the APMC for a reference price to conduct their own transactions. Now you’re trying to create an alternative that’s outside the APMC, which is on advantageous terms where you don’t have to pay mandi fees or taxes. This could result in two perverse consequences. One is that the APMC continues to set the reference price. That makes no sense because if your private players are still looking to the APMC for a reference price, then your idea of getting rid of the inefficient APMC doesn’t hold. Large-scale trade outside the mandi is bound to happen because new players will prefer to trade outside the mandi because they don’t have to pay charges. APMC traders too might now prefer to operate outside the mandi for the same reason. So, if the APMC system collapses, then this Bill hasn’t envisioned any alternative for a large market that can actually set price signals. So, instead of unifying the national market, you could actually have little bargaining islands where people are just setting prices. This might undermine farmer interests. And in that new trade area, there is no regulation, no data, transactions are invisible. In the current APMC system, even with its flaws, at least there is some recording and grievance redressal. The current Bill leaves too much to the benevolence of private players to give fair terms to the farmers. Arindam Banerjee:Private trade in agricultural commodities is not something new in India. At the same time, the justification for these Bills at this point of time is primarily, I think, to facilitate bigger private players into the farm sector. There are several reasons for that. The government’s justification is hinged on farmers getting better prices for their produce because they are going to get greater choices. Now, the farmers, at least the big farmers, and net surplus producers don’t seem convinced. The reason is that market prices or farmers’ incomes are not simply dependent on the market structure. Farmers’ organisations are concerned that other demands are being ignored, particularly during this difficult economic situation. Market prices are sluggish because demand is sluggish. Farmers’ incomes are actually seeing a period of stagnation. The other concern for farmers has been growing input costs. Farmers have been squeezed between rising costs of cultivation and sluggish prices. These concerns need interventions from the government in the form of subsidies or procurement. There is MSP [Minimum Support Price] and procurement but one major concern is that certain policy documents were presented before the government earlier, which talked about replacing the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and PDS with cash transfers. What might happen as a result of the facilitation of big players into the farm sector is that some farmers will get better choices and big farmers will actually start selling to the private players. There is a possibility that the importance of the APMC and the procurement system will actually wither away over time. And that concerns everybody. There is concern that big retail players and corporates could end up monopolising farm trade and vitiate farmers’ interests. What are the global precedents and can we learn something from there? SN:Internationally, we’ve seen cartels. The French dairy producers and the dairy farmers’ co-operatives in the U.S. have become huge players. A lot of buyer cartels fix the price, and that’s one of the reasons the EU and the U.S. are taking a hard look at their own supply chains to reduce the power of consolidation. In India, it’s going to be less predictable, because big players themselves want to minimise costs. The traditional marketing channels are very resilient… if the farmer goes to a trader, it is for multiple reasons, not just the sale of crop. The trader extends credit, has a deeper relationship of trust and he will take all kinds of quality. The farmer runs a lot of risks dealing with the big players. It’s not a given that the big players will come in, set up shop and crowd out other players. But if they manage to get a place, there are two ways in which I have seen them operate. One is to try to crowd out competition and the other is to co-opt them. Big businesses are well positioned to interact with a lot of farmers because they have the field staff. But eventually, many of them end up co-opting farmer cooperatives or anybody who’s able to aggregate produce for them. So, though we keep saying that these Bills will facilitate direct transactions with farmers, what we are seeing is not dis-intermediation, but re-intermediation. Companies will find that it’s too expensive to work with a large number of farmers and look for intermediaries who will aggregate produce for them. AB:If you look at the global experience, corporate food markets are all about monopolies or duopolies. So, we can expect that to happen. But what I’m more concerned about is this: private trade in agricultural commodities has existed for several years in India, so what is the new usefulness from the perspective of big capital? Pepsi has been in the potato value chain and there are several other examples of contract farming. I think the new thrust area is the grain trade in India and that is where procurement by the government happens. I think global corporates are eyeing the grain market. With more than 90 million tonnes of foodgrain in our stocks, it is clear that there is a massive market to play around with, only if there is a relative shift of weight from government regulation to private players. Even with the pandemic measures, the stocks have not reduced. The pandemic has caused massive disruption of jobs globally. Consequently, it has caused a massive disruption for capital and profits as well. Agricultural goods have suffered less because these are necessary items in consumption baskets. There is less chance of revival of demand of industrial goods and services to pre-pandemic levels in the near future. This is why big capital is trying to move into the agricultural commodity trade on a bigger scale, so that it can recover some of its lost profits. While the Bills are said to give farmers more choices, shouldn’t they also have more predictable trade policies to work with? Every time prices rise, exports are curbed as we see with onions now.  SN:What you said is important. Look at what happened after these ordinances were passed. We had the ban on export of onions. So the farmers are not getting a signal that these Bills are, in fact, farmer-centric. There’s nothing in the Bills that says what the procurement policy is going to be. In general, when you want to protect the interests of the consumers, while not undermining the interests of the farmers, you have an array of policies that work together. You can’t say, I’m not going to use the Essential Commodities Act and then try to influence consumer prices by a policy that hurts farmers. The Opposition and some farmer groups want the MSP to be added to the legal framework so that they have a floor price of sorts. Is that some kind of a solution for now?  AB:The FCI was formed in 1965 as a response to a significant food shortage in the country. From that point, we have made progress in food production. In the early 1990s, we were not facing food shortages. That did not mean that the problem of hunger was addressed. It continues to persist because there is mal-distribution of foodgrain. And that is happening in spite of the PDS. One has to recognise that we have a different political-economic regime than the time the FCI was set up. Post-liberalisation, private players and capital have a much greater role to play in the economy, which is fine. But then you also need regulations for those players. So, if today there is a perceived concern about the government public procurement system, then it’s a valid demand to include a clause regarding procurement, or maybe just bring in another law that would quell a lot of fears. SN:Given that these Bills are quite problematic, I wouldn’t want an MSP clause to be introduced into them. If these Bills are flawed, we have to think of ways of fixing them. And I think the MSP question is larger, more complex, and deserves a very serious consultative process, and its own dedicated Act. Now the two may not be compatible. Because you can’t say I want to get private players but insist what price they deal with. That’s going to be self-defeating both for the MSP as well as for private participation. The reason MSP has to be a separate question is because farmers from Punjab may disagree with farmers from Bihar. So, how are you going to enforce the MSP? There have been interesting suggestions there. One suggestion was, if the APMCs were functioning as they would under the old regime, then you would ensure that all bidding starts at the MSP, which ensures that the MSP starts as a floor price. We’ve lost that opportunity now because now if you say APMC has a MSP, but outside it, you can do whatever you want, then it makes no sense any more. If we keep an MSP that actually forces the government to procure way more than it needs (like China did a decade ago and could not distribute it within the country or export it), then unless you have a very well-planned distribution system, does it make economic sense for the government? Who is going to take responsibility, and how is it going to be geographically distributed and across crops? So, even if you were to go for an MSP legislation, there needs to be serious discussion on all these different aspects. Is there any scope for course corrections in these Bills?  AB:There cannot be minor tweaks; major corrections need to be done. The consultative process that was missing within our federal democratic structure... at least some amount of that needs to be done. I may sound like an alarmist, but on the face of it, if these Bills undermine the grain procurement system, there could be Balkanisation of the country. It’s not simply a matter of farmers anymore, it’s a much deeper concern.  It’s a valid demand to include a clause regarding procurement in the Bills. Arindam Banerjee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/will-the-farm-bills-benefit-farmers/article32690608.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Shadow force apart, India needs a China plan||The mystic, celestial snow lion, ‘ Gang Seng Ge ’ in local lore, derives its name from the Sanskrit Simha . It is the emblem of Tibet showcasing its eternally snow-covered mountains and glaciers, even as it symbolises power, strength, fearlessness and the joy of living. It is also the symbol and the flag of the intrepid, fearless warriors of the ‘Special Frontier Force’, or the SFF, which has figured so prominently in the recent clashes in eastern Ladakh. Stand-off in the heights Towards the end of April this year, 4 Motorised and 6 Mechanised Divisions of the Chinese Western Theatre Command, having completed their exercises on the edge of the Gobi Desert, took to the Xinjiang highway. In a well-planned and rehearsed move, they branched off onto a series of feeder roads on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Once the troops were in position, they initiated multiple incursions across the LAC into what had been “No Man’s Land” patrolled by both sides (India and China). This included areas in the Depsang plains threatening the forward airstrip of Daulat Beg Oldie as also the north and the south of the expansive Pangong Tso salt water lake. The world watched in horror, as soldiers of two nuclear armed Asian giants engaged each other in a slug fest on the snowy summits of the Himalayas. In the melee that followed, they went at each other with clubs studded with barbed wire, machetes and rocks, resulting in serious injuries. Not a shot was fired, but the Indian Army which was initially surprised, reacted swiftly and with bravery and courage inflicted casualties to the Chinese side. The inevitable fallout of these actions was both sides jostling for heights, leading to a stalemate. Suddenly, on the night of August 29-30, in a surprise move, the Indian Army turned the tables on China by occupying heights that were not only of great tactical importance north and south of the Pangong Tso lake as also dominating the Spangur Gap. It was now looking into the innards of the Chinese depth localities at Moldo including China’s armour, guns and reserves. This amazing feat was accomplished primarily by a Ghost Army, the Special Frontier Force. Who are these super human troops? What are their antecedents? They are the dreaded shadow warriors of the SFF. Working in the shadows During the era of the “Great Game”, the British employed natives to patrol their own lands, which included Tibetans. It was the Mustang Base in the Northern Border Range that escorted the 14th Dalai Lama to safety to India during the 1959 rebellion. As a consequence of the 1962 war, the Jawaharlal Nehru government ordered the raising of an elite Commando Force called the Special Frontier Force comprising among others, Tibetans who had sought refuge in India along with the Dalai Lama. My father, Major General Sujan Singh Uban, was a natural choice for this based on sheer merit and his being a legendary war veteran of the British Army famous for his daring exploits with the Long Range Desert Group in the Middle East, and the Guerrilla Wars in Burma during World War II. He was tasked with raising, training and commanding this nascent Force; as also moulding them into a well-oiled fighting machine. To enhance their inherent fighting capabilities its members were given airborne training in addition to acquiring expertise in mountain and jungle warfare. Initially aided and equipped by the United States, they quickly indigenised and were soon on their own feet. The opportunity to display their mettle as also to repay their host country came during the India-Pakistan war of 1971. As the Indian Army moved in with its major thrust into East Pakistan, the SFF, while supporting the flank of the Indian Army, in a blitzkrieg cleared the Chittagong hill tracts, as also the Kaptai dam, and encircled and prevented the escape of the Pakistani 97 (Indep) Brigade and No 2 Commando Battalion, all of whom were taken prisoners. The SFF was poised for the capture of Chittagong port when a ceasefire was declared; a daring move which paid handsome dividends. This earned them the nom de guerre , the ‘Phantoms of Chittagong’. The importance of Tibet It soon became my turn to serve the SFF, enabling me to fulfil a family commitment. Having performed exceedingly well in the Indian Army (including being awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM) and based on my record of service) I was promoted as Inspector General to command the SFF and was privileged to command it during the Kargil war in battles fought at heights of 14,000 feet and above in subzero temperatures; actions which were lauded in the Ladakh and Kargil sectors. That year, the security for the Amarnath Yatra was provided by the SFF. The strategic importance of Tibet cannot be overemphasised. It is the roof of the world, with vast mineral and natural resources. The mighty rivers that emanate from its expansive glaciers — such as the Brahmaputra, the Yangtse, the Yellow river, the Mekong, the Salween and the Indus — together with thousands of their tributaries have nurtured civilisations in peripheral countries for centuries. The Kailash Mansarovar, which is centered in this region and with its spiritual overtones, tugs at the heart strings of every Indian. In an act of naked aggression, China occupied Tibet in 1959. A buffer was eliminated, and the de facto boundary of China became contiguous to that of India, a boundary deliberately left undemarcated to enable further expansion. Mao Zedong declared, “Tibet is the palm that we shall occupy and then go after the five fingers, Ladakh, Nepal, Bhutan, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.” Consequently, in 1959, China committed the naked act of aggression, to which India acquiesced, and our dream of “Hindi Chini Bhai Bhai ” was rudely shaken in 1962. Understanding China’s stand India is dealing with a bellicose neighbour, with its obsession for asserting its rights over land which its predecessors may have acquired through conquest or guile. China has land borders with 14 neighbours covering an estimated 22,100 kilometres. Post independence, and as its economic status burgeoned, so did its military muscle. China embarked on claims based on perceived imbalances of treaties forced on countries when they were weak. Some of these have since been resolved after bloody clashes such as with Russia and Vietnam, while others have been resolved using a combination of lucrative offers of money, trade and guile. In most cases, the end result has been such that victory can be claimed by both sides. Russia accepted half of China’s claim, Kazakhstan was given lucrative economic deals, Kyrgyzstan retained 70% of the land, ceding just 30%, and so on. It would be fallacious to surmise that there will be any resolution to the on-going stand-off between India and China in the near future. Let us assume that both countries wish to avoid a full-scale war considering the nuclear backdrop, the COVID-19 pandemic and also the economic downturn. The road ahead will have to be evolved and based on a study of the manner in which China has negotiated its boundary disputes with 12 of its neighbours and the results achieved. What must be done There can be little doubt that the actions by the People’s Liberation Army, or the PLA, in Ladakh were pre-meditated, planned and executed with precision. The Chinese were fully aware that they were transgressing into “No Man’s Land”. With a pre-determined aim in mind they proceeded to secure tactical heights and gained access to the areas which would forestall a counter-offensive by the Indian Army. To expect them to vacate these areas at this juncture would be naive. At the same time, the PLA, in its present configuration and posture, has immense weaknesses which they would be aware of, and which should make them uneasy. Under the prevailing circumstances, it has become imperative to form a group of experts from among retired professionals, who have a proven track record with the Indian Army, the Indian Navy, the Indian Air Force, diplomats, the intelligence services, cyber technology and cartographic services, who will plan and prepare, short-, medium- and long-term goals to achieve them within a suggested time frame. Let us play down the rhetoric and adopt a pragmatic approach. It can no longer be a part-time issue to be addressed only when a crisis occurs. The crisis is upon us now. Gurdip Singh Uban is former Inspector General, Special Frontier Force||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/shadow-force-apart-india-needs-a-china-plan/article32690595.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Health worker safety deserves a second look||Health facilities are a place of healing and restoration. But can they be places of harm as well? The world over, one in 10 patients experiences or is subject to harm in health-care settings. These range from operations done on the wrong patient, to injections being administered in an unsafe manner. Studies in India have shown that more than two-thirds of injections are given in an unsafe manner; equally worrying is the fact that over two-thirds of injections in primary care are unnecessary in the first place. Global focus To highlight this important issue, the World Health Organization observes World Patient Safety Day (https://bit.ly/3mOqOTG) every year (September 17). The theme for 2020 was ‘Health Worker Safety: A Priority for Patient Safety’ with a call to action to ‘Speak up for health worker safety!’ But one may wonder, why, on a day dedicated for patient safety, we should speak up for health worker safety? So, why is health worker safety important for patient safety? Much harm done to patients in health-care settings is because of unsafe health-care practice and unsafe health-care communication. Unsafe health-care practice refers to unsafe or unnecessary procedures, wrong medications, medications given in a wrong dosage, etc. Unsafe health-care communication refers to mistakes made in health-care settings due to miscommunication between health professionals, for example, during patient handover in between staff shifts. The quality of both practice and communication is dependent on the safety and well-being of health workers. For example, numerous studies have shown that health workers, such as residents, who have been on duty for more than 24 hours at a stretch, have a higher risk of making mistakes, increasing the likelihood of a direct impact on patient safety. COVID-19 and reporting cases During the current COVID-19 crisis, health workers are not only putting in longer hours but also working under increasingly difficult circumstances, which affect both their physical and mental health. The mental health of health workers is linked to the workplace culture. Some organisations have a culture of supporting staff, responding to their needs and encouraging learning from mistakes; while others have a culture of fault-finding, blame, guilt and abuse. When instances of patient harm occur, whether people feel encouraged to report them, depends on the organisation’s culture and leadership. Without reporting, it is difficult for organisations to learn from mistakes and create systems, such as check lists in order to prevent similar future occurrences. In addition, in India, it is not uncommon to find health-care organisations observe strict hierarchies between specialties, between designations, and between doctors and other health professionals, such as nurses. Such power differences can further prevent reporting and cooperative organisational learning and may, in fact, increase chances of abuse: verbal, physical, emotional and sexual, putting the safety of health workers and patients at risk. Looking at the organisation Organisational learning is more important than individual learning. This is because instances of patient harm, even when they occur at the individual level, are often an end result of a chain of organisational failures. For example, systemic under staffing, lack of reporting mechanisms, lack of dedicated time for hand overs, audits, training and team building, poorly maintained equipment and corruption in purchases, are all organisational failures that could result in a cascade leading to avoidable harm to the patient. Moreover, good systems can mitigate the effects of individual mistakes. Thus, it is pertinent to look beyond the individual to look at the organisation as the sum of multiple elements that interact with each other. This involves taking a systems approach. What does that involve? Let us take the example of overcrowding. In many hospitals, quality of care is often compromised because of overcrowding, such as in the emergency department. To take a systems approach in this situation would mean looking at it holistically — for example, from at least three angles using the input-throughput-output conceptual model described by Asplin et al in the Annals of Emergency Medicine in 2003 (https://bit.ly/2Hua3Nh). One, the input: looking at whether patients who come to the emergency department need to be there in the first place or could be managed somewhere else such as in the community itself. Two, the throughput: looking at whether there are inefficiencies such as shortage of doctors, nurses, equipment or space that is increasing the time taken for patients to be treated. And three, the output: looking at whether the patients are staying longer in the emergency department than required because of lack of non-emergency department inpatient beds, delays at the pharmacy or delays in transportation of patients out of the emergency department. The conversation on health during COVID-19 has often centred on individuals, with certain individuals, such as health-care workers, seen as heroes, and others (including those referred to as ‘super spreaders’ in a stigmatising way), seen as villains. Many health workers have demonstrated excellence despite the limitations in the Indian health system. This is laudable but may not be sustainable. Creating sustainability would involve taking a systems approach to make sure all parts of the system, both of health care and of supportive social care are well functioning. Many health workers are overworked not by choice, but rather the lack of it since understaffing and shortages are a common feature of the Indian public health-care system. In addition, India simply does not have enough health facilities to cater to all its population, even without a pandemic. Further, the lack of adequate social care, such as care homes, community health services and community-based rehabilitative and palliative services, unduly increase the burden on health-care facilities. Stakeholder involvement Finally, a systems approach involves all stakeholders. Patients themselves need to be aware of patient safety as well as be empowered to demand safe health care and resist unnecessary medications and procedures. Hospital managers must understand the need for and be empowered to create systems of reporting, monitoring and organisational learning. Policy makers must prioritise staffing, co-designing functional and safe workplaces, and ethics in health care. Numerous persons find healing and restoration in health care. But some are harmed as well. In crises such as COVID-19, quality of care can be compromised further. We can help improve patient safety by taking a systems approach and promoting a culture of health worker safety and well-being. Dr. Harikeerthan Raghuram is a public health researcher and consultant. Dr. Anant Bhan is a researcher in global health, bioethics and health policy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/health-worker-safety-deserves-a-second-look/article32690598.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Environmentalism at the core||The United Nations Millennium Development Goals and the World Bank Group’s global practices have recognised sustainability as an essential issue of global importance. Economic, social and other forms of sustainability have evolved over the years, but it is environmental sustainability that has gained significant popularity. Environmental sustainability is understood as buying greener products, avoiding hazardous materials, energy optimisation, and waste reduction. While some firms are still reluctant to engage in environmentally beneficial activities as they are afraid to compromise on the economic benefits, some others have positioned environmental practices at the forefront due to legislation, and industry and government commitments. In several firms, high importance has been given to environmentalism due to compelling regulatory norms, and a potential to manage costs, risks and optimise eco-friendly practices. However, in this process, organisations, especially in the manufacturing sector, get so serious about the low-hanging fruits of waste reduction and energy efficiency improvements that they fail to recognise the need for restructuring their learning imperatives and see the big picture of environmentalism. While government norms, organisational policies and corporate environmental responsibility projects drive environment-friendly practices, these are merely short-term actions towards environmental sustainability. Long-lasting benefits Only through organisational learning can people be urged to work towards long-lasting benefits. In this context, green supply chain practices are useful. These include green procurement, green manufacturing, green distribution, and reverse logistics. With practices starting from acquisition of eco-friendly raw material to disposal/ reuse/ recycle of used products,employees, suppliers, distributors, retailers and customers will be able to integrate environmental concerns in the daily operations of a firm. Thus, green supply chain practices enable organisational learning in environmental sustainability. Our research, based on a survey of 220 respondents across 21 manufacturing units in India, points to the inter-linkages between green supply chain practices, organisational performance and learning. We found that these inter-linkages not only lead to a long-lasting natural drive towards environmental performance, but also to higher economic performance . Research shows that the positive impacts of environmentalism can only be felt in the long term when they get embedded into organisational learning systems through green supply chain practices. The resultant learning system smoothens the knowledge flow in the organisation and help firms to strategise for better performance, bearing in mind the environmental aspects. This further promotes environmentalism across all players in manufacturing supply chains. Thus, environmental sustainability is ensured from the source (willingness) and not through force (regulations). Understanding links Drawing linkages between green supply chain practices, corporate environmental performance, corporate economic performance and the dimensions of learning organisations in firms is necessary for an organisation’s progress and environmental protection in society. Understanding these inevitable links will enable managers and experts to shape their organisational values, work practices, and performances for the greater good of society. We infer that when the different players of a manufacturing supply chain realise the inherent benefits associated with organisational learning dimensions, their drive towards environmentalism increases. Policymakers should support this thinking by not merely imposing environmental practices as regulatory norms but by emphasising on the creation of green supply chain-based learning systems in manufacturing. Vijaya Sunder M. is Assistant Professor of Practice in Operations Management at the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/environmentalism-at-the-core/article32690609.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Terms of disengagement||That India and China have agreed to stop sending more troops to the frontline is a welcome step towards hitting pause on the rising tensions along the LAC. Indeed, the genesis of the tensions lies in China’s large-scale deployment of troops to forward areas in May, and subsequent multiple transgressions in the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake, Gogra, Hot Springs, and Depsang plains that have violated almost every core tenet of the four border agreements that have helped keep the peace since 1993. This has forced India to match the Chinese deployment, leading to an extraordinary build-up on a scale not seen since 1962. The new agreement of September 21, at the sixth round of Corps Commander talks since June, will put a stop to this build-up, that is, if it is implemented sincerely. The joint press release said the sides had agreed to strengthen communication on the ground, avoid misjudgments, and to refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, besides holding a next round at an early date, underlining that many issues remain unresolved. If this agreement can potentially help stem the bleeding as it were, it does not address most of India’s fundamental concerns on the LAC. Prior to the talks, Indian officials had highlighted the key points of their agenda as having China withdraw from all friction points including Depsang and Pangong Tso and granting unhindered access to all patrolling points (PPs) — China has blocked access to 10 PPs since May. The joint press release makes no mention of restoration of the status quo ante of April, only referring to no unilateral changes to the ground situation, which refers to the current status quo . It is true that one or two rounds of talks cannot be expected realistically to resolve a situation that is, in many ways, even more complex than the 1986 Sumdorong Chu stand-off — and that took six years before the status quo was restored. At the same time, a second joint public statement in as many weeks is a positive development in itself, showing both have the intent to stabilise the situation, even if their motivations may be different. For the Indian government, such a statement in the midst of a Parliament session where it has faced questions over its handling of the LAC situation sends the message that the China crisis is under control. For China, the motivations could be two-fold — either a tactical pause that gives it time to prepare for further military manoeuvres, as was the case in end-August south of Pangong Lake, or a signal that Beijing wants to dial down tensions, albeit on its own terms and most likely without giving up the territorial gains it has made since May. Whichever may be the case, the reality for Delhi is that the challenge along the LAC may be far from over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/terms-of-disengagement/article32690590.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The foreign hand||Amendments to the FCRA, drafted without consultation with stakeholders and passed with limited discussion in Parliament, further clip the wings of India’s battered civil society. New regulations put onerous conditions on civil society organisations, and educational and research institutions that have partnerships, including of a financial nature, with foreign entities. Passions overwhelm rationality in conversations on foreign influences, and it could well be true that a portion of such foreign assistance may be reaching the wrong hands. In Parliament, the BJP alleged that foreign money was being used for religious conversions. In 2017, the government barred American Christian charity, Compassion International, accusing it of supporting conversions. The debate on religious propagation and conversions must be delinked from the question of foreign funding. There are adequate laws against conversion by inducement, and the right or wrong of it cannot be decided against the touchstone of the source of funds, native or foreign. Some of the restrictions appear well meaning, but could impact NGOs besides showing up India to be overregulated. The International Commission of Jurists has said the new law was incompatible with international obligations and India’s own constitutional provisions on rights. Seamless sharing of ideas and resources across national boundaries is essential to the functioning of a global community, and should not be discouraged unless there is reason to believe the funds are being used to aid illegal activities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often cited the ancient Indian ethos of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam as the framework for its global engagement. The pandemic has only underscored the importance of this approach. As a growing economy, India under Mr. Modi has been proactive in seeking global capital and technology. The aversion appears to be towards select categories of global ideas and ideals — environmentalism, human rights and civil liberties. Organisations working in these fields have often had their patriotism being called into question. To be fair, this approach predates the current government, and it was during the UPA that an official report even quantified the GDP losses allegedly caused by environmental NGOs, insinuating a foreign conspiracy against India. Such paranoia does not go well with India’s legitimate ambitions to be a global player. The BJP and the Congress are well aware of the limits of the national-foreign binary. In 2017, both joined hands to legislate an escape route after receiving funds from foreign entities in violation of FCRA provisions. Thousands of NGOs serve extremely disadvantaged sections, at times filling in for the state, at others, supplementing it. A presumption of guilt against them all, followed by control, amounts to throwing the baby out with the bathwater. The world is poorer when new barriers are raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-foreign-hand/article32690591.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The slow and frustrating journey of recovering from COVID-19||Following the COVID-19 outbreak, I stocked up on sanitisers, N95 masks, and stayed at home during the lockdown. Yet, I somehow managed to contract the virus. Thanks to my paranoia, I visited the hospital the minute I developed a cough and a temperature. But not even when I was advised to take the dreaded RT-PCR test did I fear the worst; after all, I had followed all the precautions to a tee. Unfortunately, when the results came, I suddenly found myself in a hospital bed, which was to be my home for the next 15 days. The only contact I had with the outside world was with healthcare workers in personal protective equipment who attached an IV drip to my left hand and communicated with me in sign language. I was riddled with anxiety about my family who now had to get checked. I heaved a huge sigh of relief when I received the news of their negative results a couple of days later. The symptoms of COVID-19 hit me hard. I experienced intense fatigue; it felt like a freight train had hit me. I had frequent headaches that were like “thunderclaps inside the brain”, as The New York Times aptly described them. I had lung inflammation despite not being a smoker, and a persistent cough. It is important to understand that unlike most diseases, recovering from COVID-19 is not a linear process. There were days when I woke up feeling perfectly normal, but within a few hours, I would be overcome by breathlessness and in need of an oxygen mask. I took 30 tablets a day, multiple blood tests, X-rays, CT scans, and lots of intravenous fluids. However, it isn’t so much the physical symptoms as the the isolation which gets to you. With nobody allowed to visit and with no one to talk to (even doctors communicated only via video calls), the experience of being stuck in a room all alone was overwhelming. After two weeks, the doctors felt I was stable enough to leave (though I still hadn’t tested negative). Since then, I have been in home quarantine, picking up plates of food that my parents leave outside my bedroom door, and checking my blood oxygen levels on the pulse oximeter. A few days earlier, despite my symptoms reducing drastically, I still tested positive, which only shows that recovery can be a slow and frustrating journey. However, I have to say I am privileged and lucky: I got tested and got access to a hospital bed immediately after exhibiting symptoms, I have a comfortable room at home with family to help, and a job that allows me to work from home. Since I am a film correspondent, I get paid to review and keep track of all the movies and shows online. Watching episodes of Friends and The Office on Netflix as well as Vadivelu comedy scenes on YouTube was a great distraction for me during my time in hospital. I also recited lists of my favourite movies and football clubs every time the anxiety got too severe. Meanwhile, thousands of fellow journalists continue to brave the pandemic on a daily basis, reporting and going to office. Every case of COVID-19 is unique. I read about a teenager who tested positive four times in a row, and a 90-year-old who have fought the virus in just a week. The virus doesn’t always follow a pattern. I still don’t know how I got infected, but my only advice would be this: stay at home as much as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-slow-and-frustrating-journey-of-recovering-from-covid-19/article32690601.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Educational reconstruction (From an editorial)||The importance of universities for national progress can not be too often emphasised. In all advanced countries they form the focus-centre of national life where the best men of the nation are engaged in preparing the flower of its youth for the future work of the country. Hence the supreme necessity for the expansion of the sphere of University education and the popularisation of the University idea among the people. Mr. H.A.L. Fisher, Minister of Education, recently delivered an informing lecture on the “Place of Universities in national life” wherein he deals with new opportunities opening before Universities. He speaks of the cardinal requirement of modern civilisation that a career should be open to talent and says that this could be achieved only if our Universities are made to play a much larger part in the life of the people than historical accidents had hitherto assigned to them. The expanding curricula of the Universities and the increased demand for the University education in Britain, from all classes of people is, according to him, but a sign of the new life opening for the Universities there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/educational-reconstruction-from-an-editorial/article32690599.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. coalition breaks up||The six-month-old Uttar Pradesh Coalition of the Bharatiya Kranti Dal and Ruling Congress broke down to-night [September 24] after a day long political drama in which the Chief Minister Mr. Charan Singh took the first offensive by demanding the resignation of 14 of his ministers (13 of Congress (R) and one of B.K.D.) from his Cabinet. He later advised the Governor, Mr. Gopala Reddi to dismiss the ministers if they failed to tender resignations. Swiftly reacting to the Chief Minister’s action, the State leadership of the Congress (R) with the approval of the Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gandhi, who flew in on an unscheduled visit to Lucknow, withdrew support to the Government. Political circles here [Lucknow] fear a grave legal and constitutional crisis following the day’s developments. The break-up of the coalition was not unexpected as events last night had portended so, but what took the State by surprise was the Chief Minister asking in the first instance resignation of all 26 Congress Ministers and then picking up only 13 of them and one from his own party whose loyalty he had doubted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/up-coalition-breaks-up/article32690600.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. extends IBC pause by 3 months||Corporate India has got three more months of relief from invocation of insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings by lenders, with the government extending the suspension of relevant provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) against firms defaulting on their loans since March 25 this year. The IBC’s invocation was first suspended for a period of six months in view of the emergent stress on balance sheets due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the national lockdown announced in March. The Corporate Affairs Ministry notified a further three-month extension on Thursday evening, when that six-month period was due to end. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the extension of the suspension of sections 7, 9 and 10 of the IBC reinforces the government’s commitment to protecting businesses. “It also gives companies breathing time to recover from financial stress,” she said in a tweet. The government had issued an ordinance to amend the IBC in June to enable the suspension of the Code’s provisions for firms committing defaults after March 25. The ordinance permits the government to extend the suspension of insolvency invocation for up to one year, and was passed as a legislation by Parliament this week. ‘Result still elusive’ “The notification was expected but the desired result is still elusive,” said Anoop Rawat, partner, insolvency and bankruptcy at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. “The rate of stress resolution outside IBC is abysmal and the stress is only accumulating,” he added. Mr. Rawat hoped the three months could be used to build stakeholder consensus on resolving the stress created on account of COVID-19 to avoid further build-up of stress at the end of the period. While the economy contracted more than 23% in the first quarter, when the harshest lockdown restrictions were in place, the industry is yet to see a significant revival in revenues as consumers remain cautious and hold on to cash amid a surge in novel coronavirus infections and dwindling jobs and incomes. The suspension of the corporate insolvency resolution process for another three months will help companies stay afloat, said Uttara Kolhatkar, partner at J. Sagar Associates. “The current COVID-19 situation has had a debilitating effect on the Indian economic situation and the passing of the Bill will give such stressed companies the much–needed cushioning effect,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-extends-ibc-pause-by-3-months/article32690575.ece
25 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex tanks 1,115 points on global sell-off||Benchmark stock indices slumped on Thursday taking a cue from the sell-off witnessed in the U.S. and European markets. The diversion of funds from secondary market to the primary market by investors seeking to bid in multiple Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) also added to the meltdown, analysts said, adding that the market would remain weak in the days ahead. The S&P BSE Sensex slid 1,115 points, or 2.96%, to settle at 36,553.60 points. Barring HUL, all the remaining 29 stocks in the 30-share Sensex ended with losses. Major losers included IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, M&M, TCS, Tech Mahindra and Tata Steel. The NSE Nifty also plunged 326 points, or 2.93%, to 10,805.50. Top losers included IndusInd Bank, Tata Motors, Bajaj Finance, Grasim, and TCS. “Indian markets are following the global trend of sharp overnight sell-off in the U.S., EU,” Arjun Yash Mahajan, head — Institutional Business at Reliance Securities, said. “Asia opened weak and India followed the trend,” he added. “Additionally, if we see, foreign portfolio investors have been sellers for most of this week,” he added. IPOs sucking liquidity “Finally, the list of IPOs that have hit the market is also sucking out liquidity from the secondary market. Elections and other political events in the U.S. will continue to have an impact and act as an overhang. It may not come as a surprise if we see continued weakness in India for some more time,” Mr. Mahajan said. The selling pressure was widespread wherein IT, banking and auto were the top losers, Ajit Mishra, VP, Research, Religare Broking Ltd., said. He said the looming uncertainty over the stimulus package in the U.S., combined with the issue of rising COVID-19 cases worldwide, had raised concerns over the economic recovery. “And, it may deteriorate further if the virus situation results in partial lockdown,” he added. He said since Nifty had been down by nearly 6% this week so far that it would be prudent for traders to wait for clarity before jumping into a trade, while investors should continue to accumulate fundamental sound stocks on dips. According to Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Service, as volatility is expected to be high, traders should remain cautious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-tanks-1115-points-on-global-sell-off/article32690574.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Auto dealers mulling infra, manpower rationalisation’||Auto dealer body FADA on Thursday said dealers were looking for rationalisation of their assets as well as manpower, especially in bigger cities, to tide over challenging business environment. FADA said the stress was more on dealerships in bigger cities due to the prevailing situation, compared with outlets in smaller towns and rural areas. “Dealers are looking at moving to smaller places with relatively low rent and also looking at rationalisation of manpower... to carry forward in these challenges times,” FADA President Vinkesh Gulati told reporters. To keep the sector alive, FADA is also talking to auto companies to keep inventory in check during the festive season this year in order to avoid overstocking at dealer-end as witnessed in the last two years, he added. “We are speaking to SIAM and auto companies to keep inventory in check during this festive season as we don’t want to [face the] same situation of overstocking as we did in the last two years,” Mr. Gulati said. Kia Motors and Toyota Kirloskar Motor had met expectations of dealers better than others in the passenger vehicle segment during the lockdown, FADA said. In the July-August period, FADA had conducted a survey in association with PremonAsia, on support given by original equipment manufacturers to their dealers for COVID-19. “Even before the pandemic hit us... we were already de-growing for 15-odd months. Against this backdrop, the COVID-19 outbreak has been a significant blow to... auto dealers,” Mr. Gulati said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-dealers-mulling-infra-manpower-rationalisation/article32690584.ece
25 September 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI releases document on UCBs’ cybersecurity||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has come out with a document to enhance cybersecurity of urban co-operative banks (UCBs). The ‘Technology Vision for Cyber Security for Urban Co-operatve Banks (UCBs) 2020-2023’ has been formalised based on inputs from various stakeholders. It plans to achieve its objective through a five-pillared strategic approach GUARD, viz. Governance Oversight, Utile Technology Investment, Appropriate Regulation and Supervision, Robust Collaboration and Developing necessary IT, cybersecurity skill sets. With concerted efforts and involvement of all stake holders, the vision document, with its 12 specific action points, aspires to involve more board oversight over cybersecurity; enable UCBs to better manage and secure IT assets; implement an offsite supervisory mechanism framework for UCBs on cybersecurity-related controls; develop a forum for UCBs so that they can share best practices and discuss practical issues and challenges; and implement a framework for providing awareness/training for all UCBs, the RBI said. “The cybersecurity landscape will continue to evolve with wider adoption of digital banking channels, thus necessitating the UCBs to manage the associated risks effectively. Active collaboration within UCBs and stakeholders would be necessary for sharing and co-ordinating various measures taken on cyber security aspects,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-releases-document-on-ucbs-cybersecurity/article32690578.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Relax current account curbs for borrowers: CII||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has written to the RBI seeking changes to the central bank’s recent circular on current accounts. The RBI in its August 6 circular mandated that no bank should open new current accounts for customers who had availed of cash credit (CC) or overdraft (OD) from the banking system. The RBI also said that for borrowers for whom the exposure was Rs. 50 crore or more, banks would be required to put in place an escrow mechanism, among other restrictions. The CII has pitched that the thresholds limits be increased from Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 100 crore, given the impact on MSMEs and to ensure minimal impact on the banking sector. “Similarly, decrease the banking exposure limit from 10% to 5% for clients availing CC/OD, or make limits consistent with Tier 1 Capital base to 15% of the bank’s capital to provide for a wider lender consortium,” the industry body urged. Further, it said certain categories of borrowers such as MFs, insurance companies, exchange brokers and NBFCs should be excluded from credit worthiness in terms of external ratings, given their high level of risk management and governance standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/relax-current-account-curbs-for-borrowers-cii/article32690580.ece
25 September 2020||New delhi,||VIL, Airtel lose 59 lakh mobile users in June||Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL) and Bharti Airtel lost about 48.2 lakh and 11.3 lakh users, respectively, in June, even as rival Reliance Jio added nearly 45 lakh customers, strengthening its hold in the mobile telephony market, TRAI’s subscriber tally for the month showed. India’s overall wireless subscriber base shrunk by 0.28% to 114 crore at the end of June 2020, recording declines in both urban and rural areas, according to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India’s (TRAI) monthly subscription data. Monthly decline rates of urban and rural mobile subscription were 0.18% and 0.4%, respectively, data showed. The share of urban and rural mobile subscribers in total wireless user base was pegged at 54.3% and 45.7%, respectively, at the end of June. With the exception of Reliance Jio, India’s largest telco, all other operators lost mobile subscribers in June. During the month, Jio gained 44.9 lakh subscribers, propping up its wireless customer base to 39.7 crore. Bharti Airtel lost almost 11.3 lakh users in the mobile category, and its subscriber base stood at 31.6 crore in June. The subscriber base of Bharti Airtel included Tata Teleservices’. VIL’s subscriber base fell by 48.2 lakh in the month to 30.5 crore. The broadband subscriber base rose about 2% from 68.4 crore at the end of May to 69.8 crore at end-June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vil-airtel-lose-59-lakh-mobile-users-in-june/article32690581.ece
25 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders unveils IPO||Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd., a defence PSU, has announced opening of its initial public offering for subscription on September 29, with a price band of Rs. 135 – Rs. 145 per equity share. Minimum bid lot is 103 equity shares and in multiples thereof. The IPO will close on October 1. The offer is being made through book-building process. The object is to carry out the disinvestment of 30,599,017 equity shares by the Government of India, which will be diluting 15.17% of its stake in the company. On the lower price band the issue will fetch Rs. 413 crore and at the upper band Rs. 444 crore. “While many of the sectors saw limited impact, COVID-19 has hit the airlines and hospitality sector really hard. So some of our timelines and targets will have to be recalibrated,” Dr. Alok Pande, Joint Secretary, DIPAM, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mazagon-dock-shipbuilders-unveils-ipo/article32690572.ece
25 September 2020||new delhi,||‘Investment advisers must split advisory, distribution’||Markets regulator SEBI has come out with detailed guidelines for investment advisers (IA) asking them to ensure segregation of advisory and distribution activities at the client level. Besides, SEBI has fixed a cap on fee that IA can charge from clients. Under the rules, an individual IA will apply for registration as non-individual investment adviser on onboarding 150 clients and IA will have to enter into an investment advisory agreement with its clients. In a circular on Wednesday, the regulator said investment advisers will have to ensure compliance with regard to client-level segregation of advisory and distribution activities.  With regard to fee, SEBI said IAs will charge fee from the clients in either of the two modes — assets under advice (AUA) and fixed fee. Under AUA, the maximum fee that may be charged will not exceed 2.5% of AUA per annum per client across all services offered by the IA. In the case of fixed fee, the maximum fee that may be charged will not exceed Rs. 1.25 lakh per annum per client across all services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/investment-advisers-must-split-advisory-distribution/article32690586.ece
25 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ShareChat nets $40 mn for Moj platform||Indian content sharing platform ShareChat on Thursday said it has raised $40 million from various investors, including Twitter, Lightspeed Ventures, SAIF Partners, India Quotient, Pawan Munjal and DCM Shriram Promoters Family Office. The funding will be utilised towards driving growth for Moj, the newly-unveiled short video platform, the company said. “Large parts of the fund have been earmarked for doubling down on investments made in product development, growing creator ecosystem and establishing partnerships with music labels,” the company added.   With the new round, ShareChat’s total funding now stands at $264 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sharechat-nets-40-mn-for-moj-platform/article32690577.ece
25 September 2020||MUMBAI,||UTI AMC’s IPO to open on September 29||UTI Asset Management Company Ltd., the second-largest asset management company in terms of total AUM, said its Rs. 2,160 crore initial public offering of equity shares would open on September 29. The offer will close on October 1. The price band is Rs. 552-Rs. 554 per equity share. The initial public offering consists of up to 38,987,081 equity shares of shareholders for sale, including by State Bank of India, Life Insurance Corporation of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank and T. Rowe Price International Ltd.  Bids can be made for a minimum of 27 equity shares, and in multiples of 27 shares thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uti-amcs-ipo-to-open-on-september-29/article32690579.ece
25 September 2020||new delhi,||Adani-GVK airport deal gets CCI nod||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has approved Adani Group’s proposed acquisition of controlling stake in Mumbai airport from GVK Airport Developers under the green channel route. The green channel route provides for automatic approval of certain deals. “Commission received Green Channel combination pertaining to acquisition of GVK Airport Developers by Adani Airport Holdings,” CCI tweeted. In August, it was announced the Adani Group will buy GVK Airport Developers’ 50.5% stake as well as buy out the 23.5% stake of Airports Company of South Africa and the Bidvest Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-gvk-airport-deal-gets-cci-nod/article32690582.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Five States can borrow more on reform||The Centre on Thursday permitted five States to borrow an additional Rs. 9,913 crore through open market borrowings to meet expenditure requirements amid falling revenues due to the COVID-19 crisis. These States are A.P., Telangana, Goa, Karnataka and Tripura. The permission was accorded after these States met the reform condition of implementation of ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ system.  The Centre had, in May, allowed additional borrowing limit of up to 2% of Gross State Domestic Product to States for FY21 with certain conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/five-states-can-borrow-more-on-reform/article32690587.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Rahul leads Kings XI Punjab to a majestic win||Bengaluru lad K.L. Rahul showed little concern for allegiance to home, dismantling Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) with a sparkling unbeaten century for Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) at the Dubai International Stadium on Thursday. Rahul’s 69-ball 132, laced with 14 fours and seven sixes, propelled KXIP to a comfortable 97-run victory. KXIP amassed 206 for three in 20 overs before skittling out RCB for 109 in 17 overs. In full flow Rahul, a former RCB player, was in full flow while recording his second IPL century. He got going with two crisp square-cuts off Dale Steyn, which pierced the tight off-side field. Umesh Yadav was not spared either, with Rahul launching into the fast bowler in the 10th over. Yuzvendra Chahal was the pick of the bowlers once again, but when the leg-spinner strayed on the pads, Rahul unleashed the sweep to good effect. The 28-year-old cut loose in the last three overs, smashing five sixes and three fours. Quite uncharacteristically, RCB skipper Virat Kohli dropped two sitters in the deep. Rahul, the beneficiary on both occasions, could hardly believe his luck. The KXIP skipper ended up scoring more than half of his team’s total. The RCB pacers, meanwhile, made life easy for KXIP. Umesh sprayed it down the leg much too often, while Steyn bowled too short and wide. Even Navdeep Saini, the team’s standout pacer, could not maintain a good length and was punished. RCB’s troubles continued in a poor chase. The side lost three wickets in the first three overs, including that of key man Kohli. Falling early Opener Devdutt Padikkal, who had shown much promise in the previous match, was cramped for room by left-arm seamer Sheldon Cottrell. The lefthander’s awkward pull sliced to Ravi Bishnoi at mid-on. Young Australian wicketkeeper-batsman Josh Philippe was trapped on the pads by Mohammed Shami for a duck. The wicket of Kohli (1, 5b), who was dismissed in similar fashion to Padikkal, spelt big trouble for RCB. Not enough Aaron Finch (20, 21b) and A.B. de Villiers (28, 18b) tried to repair the damage, but their 49-run stand was grossly inadequate. The rest of the contest drudged along without much purpose, as RCB was well and truly out of it. Leggies Bishnoi and M. Ashwin picked up three wickets each for KXIP. The Punjab side notched up its first win in two matches, while the Bengaluru outfit was humbled after a sparkling start to its campaign a few days earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-leads-kings-xi-punjab-to-a-majestic-win/article32690695.ece
25 September 2020||Mumbai,||Dean Jones passes away||Dean Jones, the former Australian batsman, passed away in Mumbai on Thursday. Jones, 59, suffered a massive heart attack at the hotel where he was staying as part of the IPL’s commentary panel. Jones, who was part of the Star Sports Select Dugout, is understood to have attended a crew meeting after breakfast and then collapsed. “We express our deep condolences to his family and stand ready to support them in this difficult time. We are in touch with the Australian High Commission to make the necessary arrangements,” said Star India through a statement. Besides being part of Australia’s resurgence under Allan Border, Jones carved a niche for himself in the 50-over game. He was part of Australia’s 1987 World Cup-winning unit, and his international career spanned from 1984 to 1994. After retiring from First Class cricket in 1998, Jones became a commentator. Besides big-ticket events, he travelled all over the cricketing globe, be it in Afghanistan, UAE or T20 leagues in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dean-jones-passes-away/article32690722.ece
25 September 2020||MUMBAI,||‘I tried to bat till the end’||For Rohit Sharma, batting against Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL is akin to taking on Australia — he loves to whack their respective bowling attack, irrespective of the venue. The Mumbai Indians captain couldn’t have asked for a better opportunity to get himself going — facing KKR early on in IPL 2020. He made the most of it by tonking a match-winnings 54-ball 80, that included six sixes, to get his and the team’s campaign going after the loss to Chennai Super Kings in the opener. Satisfied Rohit was satisfied with the fact that he could virtually bat out the innings in the hot and humid conditions in Abu Dhabi. “I was a bit tired in the end and it was a lesson for us that one set batsmen needs to bat deep till the end. We’ve seen it in the past and that’s what I tried to do,” he said after the match. That’s one aspect that he hasn’t been able to consistently demonstrate in the last three editions of the IPL. In 2017, he tallied 333 in 16 innings (avge. 23.78) and only 286 in 14 (23.83) in 2018. Once he returned to the opening slot last season, he finished with 405 runs in 15 games at 28.92. Ominous sign If Rohit continues to build on the momentum that he has generated against his favourite opposition, it could be an ominous sign for the other teams in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-tried-to-bat-till-the-end-rohit/article32690886.ece
25 September 2020||Chennai,||Jones was a stalwart with grace, says N. Srinivasan||He was light of feet and brave of heart. And his courage and conviction surfaced in extreme adversity. Despite being dehydrated under the scorching sun and humidity, he progressed to an epoch-making 210 in the Chepauk Tied Test of 1986. Watching that incredible innings — Dean Jones had to be administered drips after his blood-and-guts effort — was N. Srinivasan. “I was viewing that match as a spectator. I could sense Jones was a fierce fighter. His extraordinary double hundred played its part in the Test ending in a sensational tie.” Srinivasan recalled. The former ICC and BCCI chief realised that Jones, with his hard running, ability to squeeze the ball into gaps and calculated big hits, was a quintessential one-day player. Jones remained a cult figure who had a bar named after him at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. “But still I don’t get a drink free there,” Jones often quipped. “He could adapt to all forms of the game, revelled in one-dayers, and after retirement he was best suited to commentary, where he combined his knowledge with humour,” said Srinivasan. It did not matter to him whether it was a Test match or the Tamil Nadu Premier League. He adjusted to the game’s different tiers with enthusiasm and wit. Srinivasan said: “Once he interviewed me in Tirunelveli before a TNPL game. And his love for the game came through forcefully. And I could make out Jones was a stalwart with grace. He will be missed by the Indian cricket lovers.”  As a commentator, he adjusted to different tiers of the game with enthusiasm and wit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jones-was-a-stalwart-with-grace-says-n-srinivasan/article32690770.ece
25 September 2020||Kozhikode,||Professor Deano — the entertainer in the box||The IPL lost one of its side attractions on Thursday. Dean Jones' untimely demise has robbed the tournament of one of its most perceptive and entertaining commentators. It may be no exaggeration to say that Jones the commentator had more followers in India than back home in Australia. Remember how he used to dress up as an academician during his stint as Professor Deano for NDTV? He extended Australia's long tradition of excellent cricketers-turned-commentators. The likes of Ian Chappell, Richie Benaud and Bill Lawry elevated Channel 9 and now Brett Lee, Jones’ colleague on Star Sports Dugout, is a delight too. Jones, however, had to live through one terrible phase when he was sacked by Ten Sports after he made an insensitive description of Hashim Amla during the second Test between Sri Lanka and Australia at Colombo in 2006. He regretted his mistake and was able to win back the broadcaster's faith. Jones could put a smile on the viewer's face, with his sense of humour. He would also showcase his knowledge of Hindi, like if 52 was needed for victory, he would say: “They now need to make baawan .” Scott Styris, former New Zealand all-rounder and now a fine analyst, always managed to bring the best out of Jones. During a recent IPL broadcast, Styris was talking to Lee about the speed of pace bowlers. “I was happy with my bowling,” Styris said. “The batsmen were also happy with your bowling,” quipped Jones. It is hard to believe Jones is no more. You will be missed, Deano!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/professor-deano-the-entertainer-in-the-box/article32690717.ece
25 September 2020||DUBAI,||Super Kings face the Capitals test||Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s promotion in the batting order will be an area of interest when Chennai Super Kings strives to pick up the pieces against a confident Delhi Capitals in its third IPL outing on Friday. Dhoni had come in at No. 7, promoting Sam Curran, Jadhav and Ruturaj Gaikwad, but the ploy did not work out leaving Faf du Plessis with too much work in too little time. For Capitals, R. Ashwin’s probable absence after a shoulder injury could force a reshuffle to the bowling line-up. Amit Mishra could be an option to partner Axar Patel in case Ashwin is unable to make it. Another aspect will be pacer Mohit Sharma’s performance. His loose deliveries at the back-end made things difficult for the Capitals even as Kagiso Rabada bowled tightly at one end. Shimron Hetmyer is likely to get another chance unless Ricky Ponting wants to bring in some stability in the form of Alex Carey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-kings-face-the-capitals-test/article32690684.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||An effervescent cricketing star, full of swagger and zest||In a year of grim tidings, the demise of Dean Jones in Mumbai on Thursday is the latest hammer-blow. Sport has lost an effervescent cricketing star, who made a smooth transition to the commentary box with his swagger and zest intact. During his prime, the former Australian batsman was all energy and aggression. He exuded an aura in One Day Internationals (ODI), with shots that blended the conventional and the unorthodox while embellishing it with frenetic running between the wickets. Jones, Deano to his friends, was a sharp fielder too and he was part of the 1987 World Cup-winning squad helmed by the indomitable Allan Border. The Madras classic After a tearful Kim Hughes resigned and left the reins of a weakened Aussie unit to Border in 1984, the latter identified Jones as one of his vital cogs, who along with David Boon, Geoff Marsh, Steve Waugh and Craig McDermott, could revive Australia. Jones and ODIs shared an adrenaline-loaded bond but he is often remembered for his rousing 210 in the famous Tied Test at Chennai, Madras then, in 1986. The enduring images of him batting relentlessly despite the southern metro’s searing heat, egged on by a ruthless Border, is the stuff of legend. Jones later admitted that he urinated in his pants, vomited on the turf, but soldiered on as his captain wanted him to stay at the wicket. The Test’s anniversary recently passed us by and just as those old pictures of Jones emerged, he now lies cold in Mumbai. Life’s myriad turns could not be starker! Broadcast embrace After a decade of cricket for Australia, the Victorian embraced television, became a perennial fixture in commentary boxes, forged new friendships and was always eager to have a chat. He could be politically incorrect too and a ghastly word he used to describe South African great Hashim Amla, put Jones to pasture. He apologised profusely and reintegrated himself with the media bandwagon that tails the willow game. At 59, he had many years of good talk and booming laughter left in him but his heart deemed otherwise and cricket is poorer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/an-effervescent-cricketing-star-full-of-swagger-and-zest/article32690720.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Murray takes on Wawrinka in blockbuster opener||Twelve-time champion Rafael Nadal will open against Belarus’ Egor Gerasimov in the opening round of the French Open starting on Sunday (Sept. 27). Gerasimov was a finalist at the Tata Open Maharashtra early this year, losing to Jiri Vesely. In the draws unveiled on Thursday, the Spaniard was placed in the bottom half, with US Open champion Dominic Thiem a potential semifinal opponent. Thiem will have a tough start against Marin Cilic, and finds himself in a quarter that also has Alexander Zverev and Gael Monfils. Djokovic, the top seed, heads the top half, and will open against Swede Mikael Ymer. Daniil Medvedev is a potential last four opponent for the Serb, with Stefanos Tsitsipas and Matteo Berrettini rounding off the quarter. The stand-out match of the first round will be between Andy Murray and Stan Wawrinka (bottom half). In fact, the Brit's last match at Roland Garros was against Wawrinka, a gruelling five-set semifinal that the latter won in 2017. Among women, top seed Simona Halep leads the top half with Elina Svitolina, while the bottom has second seed Karolina Pliskova paired with 2020 Australian Open champion Sofia Kenin. Halep vs Sorribes Halep will play Spain’s Sara Sorribes first up, while Pliskova will take on a qualifier. Serena Williams, who is in the same half as Halep and Svitolina, will start against fellow American Kristie Ahn in a rematch of the US Open first round. Another possible rematch is a potential fourth-round clash between the 38-year-old winner of 23 Majors and Victoria Azarenka, a worthy finalist in New York recently. Gauff vs Konta In an exciting contest, 16-year-old Coco Gauff will meet 2019 semifinalist Johanna Konta in the first round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/murray-takes-on-wawrinka-in-blockbuster-opener/article32690698.ece
25 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||He was a very good human being, says Shivlal Yadav||“It is very sad for world cricket. It has lost such a wonderful cricketer and a thorough gentleman,” N. Shivlal Yadav, former India off-spinner said on Dean Jones’ death. “I vividly remember that unforgettable double century he scored against us in the 1986 Chennai Tied Test. He got the better of us on the field and also beat the extreme heat. He was vomiting repeatedly and still continued to play. “It should rank as one of the most fighting innings ever,” Shivlal, who played in that Test, told The Hindu . “More than his cricketing abilities, I always found him to be a very good human being, always jovial. I did meet him many times after that epic knock and he was a wonderful company to be with always,” Shivlal said. Jones’ death was a “shocker” for former India left-arm spinner S.L. Venkatapathi Raju. “For the last two days I have been sharing quite a few thoughts with Jones as we are doing shows for Star Sports for IPL 2020. “Today being my-off day, I was in the room only and came to know through the boys that he had suffered a massive stroke. It is really unfortunate,” Raju told The Hindu from Mumbai. “In fact, we have been bumping into each other in the last three years as part of our commentary stints,” Raju said. Golf partner “Not many may be aware that we played golf together many times and even yesterday he was recalling how Hyderabad city had developed,” Raju said. “The discussions also veered about the pandemic and how life had become a struggle. He wondered as to when we could walk freely in the streets again,” Raju said,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/he-was-a-very-good-human-being-says-shivlal-yadav/article32691208.ece
25 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Too early to judge Cummins: Karthik||Kolkata Knight Riders captain Dinesh Karthik says it would be unfair to judge pacer Pat Cummins on the basis of his performance against Mumbai Indians.  Forgettable outing Knight Riders’ expensive acquisition Cummins, who was part of the Australian squad on its tour of England, had a forgettable outing (3-0-49-0) in his team’s season-opener. “It’s very unfair to judge him right now, he’s just off quarantine. At literally 3:34 (p.m.), he got the permission to play,” Karthik said. “We are just happy to have him, I don’t think this is the match to judge him. From what I’ve heard and seen, he’s one of the best going around in the world. I trust him completely and I’m sure he will come good,” Karthik said. Karthik was pleased with the showing of young speedster Shivam Mavi, who captured the important wickets of Quinton de Kock and Rohit Sharma in his four-over spell costing 32 runs. Pat for Mavi “I think he was upfront, he was really good. The poor guy missed out due to injury last season, so he’s really looking forward to this competition. “He’s shaping well, so that’s a good sign for KKR,” the skipper. Karthik said KKR’s batting slots would be decided as per the situation. “The advantage with our batting is that we are very fluid and we want to keep it that,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/too-early-to-judge-cummins-karthik/article32690890.ece
25 September 2020||SOCHI,||Hamilton eyes Schumacher’s record||Lewis Hamilton seeks to equal Michael Schumacher’s record 91 Formula One wins at the Russian Grand Prix here on Sunday despite fears over a potential Coronavirus fall-out from allowing 30,000 fans to attend. The six-time World champion is one win away from what once was believed to be an untouchable total, but he will be a clear favourite to succeed on a track where he has triumphed four times in six years. He has also reeled off six wins in nine races this season to open up a 55-point lead ahead of Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas in the title race, the Finn and former teammate 2016 champion Nico Rosberg being the only other victors since Sochi arrived on the calendar. Another Mercedes win at the former home of the 2014 Winter Olympic Games would also be a record for most successive victories by a team at a single Grand Prix. But all involved with the champion are aware that not only is the event set to be the first sporting occasion to host a major crowd in the COVID-19 era, but it will also see the team shadowed by a Netflix film crew. Spectators The organisers say 30,000 spectators are expected and that the race is sold out.  At the German GP at Hockenheim, run in teeming rain, Mercedes celebrated 125 years of motorsport with its worst performance of the season — a flu-struck Hamilton ending up classified ninth and Bottas crashing out from fourth.  Hamilton, lauded this week as one of Time magazine’s 100 most influential people in the world this year, has approached the race with humility. “I never thought that I would be here, that’s for sure,” he said after his 90th career triumph at the Tuscan GP two weeks ago. “It just does not seem real to me.” Rival His greatest rival this weekend is likely to be teammate Bottas, winner on the tight Sochi track in 2017, his maiden triumph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-eyes-schumachers-record/article32690885.ece
25 September 2020||Paris,||Halep will be the player to beat at French Open||Former champion Simona Halep arrives at the rescheduled French Open as the player to beat in a women’s draw missing title holder Ashleigh Barty and recent US Open winner Naomi Osaka, two of the world’s top three. Serena Williams can never be discounted as she launches another bid for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam singles crown, but Roland Garros is the American’s least successful major despite her wins in 2002, 2013 and 2015. Garbine Muguruza, who defeated Williams in the 2016 final, is another contender while fellow former World No. 1 Victoria Azarenka is hoping to take the momentum from her run to the US Open final into the clay swing. Last year’s runner-up Marketa Vondrousova will again target a deep run in Paris having rediscovered some form at last week’s Italian Open, where she made the semifinals before losing to Karolina Pliskova.  Pliskova, the second seed in Paris, said Halep was undoubtedly the favourite for a tournament pushed back from its traditional spring slot for the first time in its history due to the coronavirus.  Halep, who also won in Dubai before the five-month tour suspension, spent the break working hard on her fitness, but said the global health crisis had given her a fresh outlook on tennis.   A sore hamstring has sidelined three-time Slam champion Osaka, while Bianca Andreescu, the 2019 US Open winner, will miss the tournament as well.  Despite the notable absentees, the field here is stronger than the US Open with the return of Halep, Elina Svitolina, Kiki Bertens and Belinda Bencic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/halep-will-be-the-player-to-beat-at-french-open/article32690888.ece
25 September 2020||CHENNAI,||We are still finding our feet, says Fleming||After a win and a loss in its first two matches, Chennai Super Kings takes on Delhi Capitals in its third game in seven days on Friday in Dubai, and head coach Stephen Fleming said the team is still finding its feet, figuring out the right combination. “One of the biggest challenges is to find the right combinations and also give the guys some match-play, keeping in mind we’ve got many players who haven’t played for 12 months,” Fleming told the team’s website. “We are working hard on many fronts, one is to get the right team for the conditions which we’ve been unsure about, and also to get the guys up to speed with their playing form,” he added. The former New Zealand captain added that Dwayne Bravo has been helping Lungi Ngidi after the latter was hit for four sixes in the final over by Jofra Archer in the game against Rajasthan Royals. Analyse, get better “It will certainly hit Lungi’s confidence hard, and the key thing for us is just for him to get better and analyse what he didn’t quite get right and make sure that the next time he’s in that opportunity, he is better than what he was the last time. “We’ve one of the best death bowlers in the game in our squad and already Dwayne has been alongside him. We’ll use the experience in the team to make sure he is okay and looks forward to the next opportunity he gets,” said Fleming. On Rayudu The coach also added that he is hopeful of having Ambati Rayudu for the next match against Sunrisers Hyderabad, especially with a six-day gap after Friday’s match. Kasi Viswanathan, CSK CEO, revealed that Bravo has resumed training, but the team will take a call on playing him in Friday’s game only before the match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-still-finding-our-feet-says-fleming/article32690686.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||God’s guiding hand||The word Azhvar means one who is deeply involved in something. To be involved in something, one must like it. Secondly, one must get an opportunity for involvement. And finally, and most importantly, the thing one is involved in must be something that engages one for a lifetime. It must not be something temporary, here now, gone the next minute. And given the nature of the mind, it is difficult for us to find something that holds our attention always. The mind has, after all, been likened to a monkey, which cannot stay in one place for long, but keeps jumping about here and there. The only thing that is capable of lasting forever is attachment to Lord Narayana. Once one realises that there is nothing worth thinking of than the Lord, the involvement begins and never goes away. We see this in the case of Pillai Urangavilli Dasar, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Initially, he was enamoured by the beauty of his wife’s eyes. He would walk in front of her, holding an umbrella to shield her eyes. Ramanuajacharya asked him if he would give up this obsession, if he (Ramanuja) showed him something more beautiful. Pillai Urangavilli Dasar agreed. Ramanuja showed him the beauty of the eyes of Lord Ranganatha of Srirangam, and Pillai Urangavilli Dasar became a slave to Ranganatha’s charms. So, he reached the point where he focused on the indestructible, whereas earlier he had focused on the temporary. But God’s guiding hand is what takes us to the point where we see Him as our only refuge. If Dasar had not been in Srirangam, and if Ramanuja had not witnessed the odd sight of a man guarding his wife’s eyes, the transformation of Dasar would not have happened. Both divine will and an Acharya’s guidance are necessary for us to take the right path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gods-guiding-hand/article32690678.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sudeva FC coach plumps for all-Indian team||The first Bhutanese to be at the helm of affairs of an I-League club, FC Sudeva head coach Chencho Dorji says it was his idea to have an all-Indian team for the upcoming season. On Wednesday, Dorji was named head of Delhi-based Sudeva FC which is making its debut in the I-League, set to start in the second half of November. “It was my idea to have all Indians in the team and no foreigners, and the management was supportive. I have been following Indian football and I know Indian players’ ability,” Dorji said. “There will be pressure, but giving young Indian talent a platform is one of our most important objectives,” he was quoted as saying in a release. About his foray into the I-League, he said, “Being the first from my country, it is a great opportunity and a big responsibility.” Dorji has been head coach of the Bhutan national youth team. He said his team is a mix of the club’s academy players and experienced new recruits. “Our primary focus is on player development and the style to be adopted will depend on the team composition,” he said. Good infrastructure Dorji said Sudeva FC has good infrastructure and he was planning a pre-season of around six weeks, starting early next month. “We shall have all the players and staff staying at our academy in Delhi, with maximum priority being given to their safety,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sudeva-fc-coach-plumps-for-all-indian-team/article32690887.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 08:08 IST,||Sudoku - September 25, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-25-2020/article32691590.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||These greens pack a punch||Packed with nutrition, microgreens are fast gaining popularity. And a growing tribe of health conscious individuals are trying their hand at growing these superfoods in kitchen gardens during the pandemic. While being a plant parent can be challenging, microgreens need little space to grow. They are small plants in the next stage of sprouting, when the first leaves develop from the seed. “If you have a windowsill or balcony that gets a few hours of sunshine every day, you are good to go,” says Visakhapatnam-based S. Ravi Kanth Reddy, founder of the NGO Mother Earth Environmental Consciousness Society (MEECONS) and advocate of sustainable living. Recently, Ravi Kanth and his wife Naga Vijaya, released a video on her YouTube channel, Vijaya’s Healthy Home. The video showed how to grow microgreens through hydroponics, showing the time-lapse of the growth of such greens. “These superfoods contain abundant Vitamin C, E and anti-oxidants, and are far more nutritious than the adult leafy versions. These are ideal to throw onto a salad or sandwich. You can also garnish a dish with a dash of microgreens,” he says. Besides being healthy, they are also simple to grow. “They don’t need a lot of light and can be grown in four to six days. So, there is no fretting about fertilising, repoting, or pruning,” he explains. And more importantly, these greens are completely organic as you would be growing them without pesticides or fertilisers. “Seeds like those of fenugreek, wheat, green gram and mustard take just two to three days to germinate. Preparing the seed is the first step in growing microgreens. For the initial 24 hours, the seeds need to be placed in a darker place before shifting them to a bright spot,” he says. Process of choice He used the hydroponic method, which he says can be an alternative to cocopeat and soil, as these may not be easily accessible everywhere during the pandemic. “I used a stainless steel sieve, which is usually available at every household, to grow microgreens hydroponically. Wash the seeds well; spread them on the sieve and place it above a container with water; spray water twice a day and cover with a lid. Follow the process for two to three days till you see tiny leaves coming out,” he says, adding, “After this, shift the sieve along with the container to a brighter spot. But do not cover it. In six days’ time, you are good to go and harvest it.”  What to keep in mind  When using cocopeat and soil, microgreens should be grown in flat surfaces, like a tray or cardboard box with drainage holes, that can hold up to two inches of soil.  Spray water daily to keep it moist, especially during the first two-three days of the germination stage.  Microgreens taste best when fresh but can be refrigerated for a couple of days.  The tender greens can be used as a nutritious side dish, added to smoothies or as colourful topping to salads.  Use seeds that are untreated with any chemical.  Good quality soil and cocopeat, which are chemical-free, ensure that microgreens grow well.  Be careful not to overwater them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/these-greens-pack-a-punch/article32690894.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Turning a new leaf||On a morning walk around their gated community in Gandipet, Hyderabad, Madhavi and her husband Venugopal Vippulancha were heartbroken to see a pile of disposable plates and cutlery dumped at a street corner. Adding to the misery of the sight was the non-biodegradable waste (milk sachets, disposable plates) that cows were feasting on. The couple started to think of an alternative option, keeping in mind the harmful effects of eating from low-cost plastic plates. This led them to consider healthy and environment-friendly alternatives, like plates made from leaves of banana or palash trees. Venugopal says, “We call them vistarakulu in Telugu. They are basically dried leaves stitched together with thin dry twigs. Though they are still available, the usage has come down. With all events — big and small — turning to buffet options, leaf plates were gradually replaced by sturdy, leak-proof paper plates with plastic coating and colour, with harmful chemicals.” The couple decided to bring the trend of leaf plates back and named their project Vistaraku. They started making frequent trips to their farmhouse in Siddipet on being urged to do so by Madhavi’s mother. Venugopal says, “It was because of my mother-in-law that we frequented the farm and started planting organic fruits. Then we noticed that our farm was well-endowed with palash (flame of forest tree) whose leaves are traditionally used to make vistarakulu (leaf plates). Our caretaker dismissed the trees calling them useless because the fallen leaves needed to be constantly cleared. We started collecting and making plates out of the leaves as they fell. They couldn’t be stitched; they were too small to be used for meals but were ideal for snacks and breakfast.” Being a member of organic farmers and food groups helped Venugopal and Madhavi understand the advantages of leaf plates. Naturopaths on the groups discussed why cooked food, especially rice and raw meat, was traditionally covered with palash leaves. “Apart from adding flavour to cooked food, palash is also known to have insect repellent properties. Our search took us to a community that helps tribal leaf cultivators in Odisha. The leaf, which the community harvests, is called siyali . Tribal women trek into forests in groups to harvest them. The leaves grow as climbers and are a protected species. Once collected, these are sold in the market to be made into plates and bowls,” says Venugopal. He is thankful for the reach through organic food groups on Facebook. One such contact put them in touch with a supplier who works for the welfare of the tribal communities. Their next step was to find machines that convert these leaves into sturdy plates. A mechanical engineer, Venugopal says that the machinery was available. “Even though operating these machines is no rocket science, there are no takers. Reason being there is no steady supply of leaves. And if the machines break down due to minor glitches, the service team takes at least a month to attend to them. Since we had sorted the problem of steady leaf supply, I put my engineering skills to practise and worked on the machines to fix them. Soon, we started making vistrakulu with help from two girls from the village; now we have a team of six.” The process of making these plates is simple; stitched leaves are placed on squares of hard brown paper with a polycoat of 5 microns which acts as adhesive on applying heat. They are then put in between heated frames of desired size and shape, with the leaf facing up. “The temperature is anything between 60-90 degrees. Pressure is applied for about 15 seconds. The heat makes the fine sheet of polycoat on the hard brown paper act as gum that makes the leaf stick to it,” explains Venugopal. Starting local The couple began supplying to parties held in their Gandipet society and family functions. “That was the only way we marketed Vistaraku. Friends and family started posting on social media about the plates, and we got a good amount of traction. Until then, we were just producing and not knowing where to sell them. Surprisingly, there are a lot of enquiries from abroad about our product.” Vistaraku, for now, is only being sold through their Facebook account or through their website. Size of meal plates range from 11 to 16 inches, breakfast plates range from six to 10 inches and bowls from three to six inches.  They can be found on Facebook as Vistaraku or visit their website: www.vistaraku.co.in   Green traditions Communities in different parts of India use different leaves for trditional dining plates like coconut, sal, lotus, banana, banyan and oak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/turning-a-new-leaf/article32690901.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghosts Use Facebook Friend request sent||The story so far: When Mrs. Ghosh leaves Rocky and Maya alone in Rocky’s bedroom, Maya persuades Rocky to allow her to open a Facebook account on his computer.  “No one will ever know,” Maya said. “Do you even know how to open an account?” asked Rocky, hoping she hadn’t paid attention in computer class. “What use are lessons if they don’t help in real life?” grinned Maya, as she tapped at the keys. “Why would teachers even teach us how to open an email account, or the dangers of using the Internet, if students were not supposed to use Facebook or encounter dangers?” “How did you get an email account? You’re under age?” Rocky asked. “I created it when mummy allowed me to practice my lesson on her tablet.” “You lied about your age, didn’t you? That’s illegal! You can be sent to jail.” “I didn’t exactly bluff,” said Maya. “It was to learn to create an email. And everyone in class has done that. So?” Maya shrugged. “When mummy and papa were busy, and Nana wanted to connect with far away relatives, I helped Nana.” Maya searched for her family members from her new account. She found her mother, smiling. Their teachers were there too, all smiling. “That’s Nana!” Maya jumped, as her late grandfather’s profile picture showed up. His account was still active. “I’ve sent him a friend request.” Maya said, as ‘Friend request sent’ flashed on the screen. “There. In that corner. Nana’s reply will appear.” Rocky was surprised at how many of his friends were on Facebook. He began to feel left out. “Maybe Nana’s busy?” said Maya, as she wondered why he hadn’t responded immediately. “Busy!” Rocky’s eyebrows arched. “Scaring people!” “How should I know what ghosts do?” exploded Maya. “You know everything.” “When did I say that?” Maya retorted. “You’re the one who reads about all those extra-territorial creatures like aliens and ghosts.” “Extraterrestrial creatures, Maya! And don’t you compare my aliens to ghosts.” Rocky hated it when anyone poked fun at his passion. “Why? Aliens are very much like ghosts!” grunted Maya. “How?” “Both come from outside the world.” She giggled and poked his nose. “That’s not logical,” Rocky mumbled, and they went back to the computer. But nothing seemed to happen. When Mrs. Sharma called, Maya went home, disappointed.  To be continued   “What use are lessons if they don’t help in real life?” grinned Maya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ghosts-use-facebook-friend-request-sent/article32690990.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Let’s go places||Towering peaks and endless skies:Nubra Valley, Ladakh In a far-flung part of northern India, nestled amid rugged mountains and uninhabited lands, is the stunning Nubra Valley. It is located in a sensitive region; near the Siachen Glacier, the site of the world’s highest military conflict. Getting here is an experience in itself, for, you will have to journey through the Khardung La, on a route that is said to be one of the world’s highest motorable roads. In Nubra — which offers a taste of winding lanes, ancient monasteries, charming houses, spectacular valleys and terrific views — the opportunities to simply stand and gaze are plenty. While you’re there, don’t miss the characteristic Bactrian camels; they are easy to spot as they have two humps!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/lets-go-places/article32691003.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Dish-covering the world||The house was silent but Baba, typing away, knew this would change in a few minutes. He had just sent off the last email when Sarika burst in, groaning, “Math is tough!” Soon, Arjun staggered out to tell them about his wonderful history class. “But,” he said mournfully, “I have two tests and have to do something for World Tourism Day!” “Me too!” Sarika yelped. “Something about travelling, I think.” “Different ways of travelling and how they help,” Arjun corrected. “How can we do that when we haven’t gone anywhere for ages?” Sarika wailed. Baba, who had been listening, now exclaimed, “Your Aji’s travel stuff! You can use that.” “The stuff Aji collected when she travelled years ago?” Sarika asked. “How will that help us?” “I don’t know,” Baba shrugged. “No harm looking at it,” Arjun said, while Sarika stayed gloomily silent. So, the old suitcase was carried into the dining room. “Your Aji,” Baba puffed, struggling to open it, “was a famous scientist, travelling around the world giving lectures. And this,” he threw back the lid, “is what she brought back!” Suitcase of memories The suitcase smelt musty and was filled with brochures, yellowing newspaper clippings and photos that had faded to a gentle brown. “Look at Aji!” Arjun pounced on a photo. Aji was astonishingly young, her hair a startling black, dressed in a long coat, a smart hat on her head. Written on the back, in thin blue ink, was were the words, “Washington, 1980”. “Where were you when Aji travelled?” Sarika asked Baba. “Your aunt and I stayed home, with your grandfather,” Baba said. “Aji always brought back lots of toys, books and clothes for us!” Still, Sarika thought, it sounded a little sad. She was glad Amma was working upstairs, and not somewhere far away. “Why did Aji bring back menus from her trips?” Arjun demanded, holding up a faded card. “We loved to read them,” Baba laughed, “and imagine what those dishes tasted like!” Sarika was looking through a little notebook and looked up to say, “Aji even made notes about the food she ate.”  Jaipur:   Ghevar – sweet dish (yummy)   Dal Baati. (Not difficult) Must try with the kids!  “Here’s another,” she turned the page.  Washington:   Donuts – must make! (Kids will love!)   Add powdered sugar (lots!)  Arjun giggled, “These words in brackets are like secrets Aji was telling herself.” “Aji ate Shepherd’s pie in London!” Sarika announced. “What did it taste like?” “Was it made of shepherds?” Arjun demanded. “No idea,” Baba shrugged. “Aji wanted to make those dishes for us. But once she got home, there was so much to do that I suppose she just forgot!” “Aji really travelled the world,” Arjun sounded impressed. “Here are her notes from Germany.”  Germany:   Quarkkaulchen – pancakes   Potatoes, raisins, served with sugar, fruits. (strange but tasty combination)  “She marked it with a star,” Arjun said, “and…” Travel answers Sarika, who had slipped away to her room, came back to say, “Shepherd’s pie is common to England and was created to use leftover meat and vegetables. It’s also called cottage pie. Shepherdess pie is the vegetarian version!” “Ooh,” Arjun said. “Now her notes make sense!”  London:   Shepherd’s Pie … Shepherdess pie (bland, needs tomatoes)   Great way to get kids to eat veggies!  “Yes,” Baba nodded. “She wanted to remember the dishes and how to make them for us.” “But why?” Sarika demanded. “Why did Aji want to cook these things for you?” “I suppose,” Baba said slowly, “she thought food was a way for us to travel and learn about the world.” “What can you learn about a place from eating the food?” Arjun demanded. “You can learn a lot,” Sarika said. “Didn’t we just learn something about the food and people of England?” “Yes,” Baba laughed. “And Sarika presented the information like a report for a school project!” “Baba!” Sarika gasped. “You were right! Aji’s travel stuff did help.” “How?” Arjun demanded. “Don’t tell me we have to interview Aji or write a diary entry or…” “Even better,” Sarika grinned. “We will research the food Aji ate and…” “Noooo,” Arjun groaned. “That’s so boring!” “And then,” Sarika continued, “cook all the food she wanted to make for Baba and his sister.” “Cook?” Arjun was suddenly interested. “And eat,” Sarika said. “Cook all these dishes?” Baba looked like someone had given him an unexpected gift. “That will be the best way of travelling and discovering things about the world!” And it was!  “The stuff Aji collected when she travelled years ago?” Sarika asked. “How will that help us?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/dish-covering-the-world/article32691026.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Holiday, like never before||When was the last time you took a holiday, peeps? Mine was in December 2019, when we went to Bandipur National Park and Tiger Reserve. We woke up at 4.00 a.m. every day for five days to take a four-hour jeep ride trying to spot a tiger. I know, waking up that early doesn’t sound like much of a holiday, but it was kind of awesome. Even if we didn’t see a single tiger the entire time. If there’s one thing I’ve really missed these last six months, it’s travelling. The summer vacation was a wipe out; there have been no long weekend trips to nearby hill stations, and I haven’t met my cousins in forever. It sucks big time. And the thing is, it looks like it might be a while before we all get to be tourists again, discovering cool music, trying new food, learning to say ‘hello’ in a new language or seeing a new statue or palace or cave for the first time. Well, my suggestion is that if you can’t travel to a new place for some time, why not be a tourist in your own city? Before you dismiss the idea as being lame, think about it: how many places have you visited in your city? Parks? Historic buildings? Lakes? How many treks have you been on just outside city limits? I haven’t seen much of the city I live in, that’s for sure. Look around So here are five touristy things to do in your own city! 1. You might not be able to go on a safari for a while, but the lakes and parks near your home have some pretty awesome wildlife of their own. Sure, no tigers and dholes, but birds and bugs for sure! I spotted a kingfisher, a kite and a black-headed Ibis at our local lake. 2. What’s the oldest building in your town or city? Have you ever visited it? You might not be allowed inside, but you might be allowed to take a look from the outside and get some cool photographs. I’m planning to visit the Delhi Gate, which is all that’s left of the Bangalore Fort built in the 16th century. 3. A trek is a great way to get some outside time, and it’s pretty easy to maintain social distancing while you do. Bonus: picnic treats when you reach the top (don’t forget to pack your trash and dispose of it when you get home. Littering is NOT cool!) 4. Eat local! We’re allowed to order in once a month and it’s almost always pizza or pasta. But how about trying something that’s native to your home state that you haven’t eaten before? Last week we ordered Mangalore buns, kara buns and nippattu from our local Iyengar bakery. It was yummm! 5. Take a tour. If you don’t feel comfortable stepping out, then take a virtual tour of a museum. If your local museum doesn’t offer one, check out something from another country. Did you know you can tour NASA’s Langley Research Center online? Kinda cool, if you ask me!  ...the lakes and parks near your home have some pretty awesome wildlife of their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/holiday-like-never-before/article32691047.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Wanderlust||Across  1. ____ Itza: a monument built by the Maya civilization (6) 5. The Jagannath Temple is in this city (4) 6. Location of Chalukyan cave temples (6) 8. “The Sound of Music” filming location (8) 10. Visit this country to see the Petronas Twin Towers (8) 13. The Lekki Conservation Centre is in this Nigerian city (5) 15. You can see Maori rock carvings in this town (5) 16. Jordanian city on the Red Sea coast (5) 17. Mount Pulag is on this island in the Philippines (5) Down 1. Cayo Coco is a beach in this country (4) 2. Visit Lothal to see the ____ Valley civilisation (5) 3. Mount Everest is part of this range (9) 4. Wildlife sanctuary in Gujarat (3) 5. The Machu Pichu is in this country (4) 7. The Taj Mahal is in this city (4) 9. The Clifton Suspension Bridge is a symbol of this city (7) 10. Gozo is an island of this Mediterranean archipelago (5) 11. Canal in Egypt (4) 12. You need a rocket to visit this place (4) 14. Palolem is a beach in this Indian state (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/wanderlust/article32691006.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||How do hailstorms occur?  Hail is water in the atmosphere and is formed when drops of water freeze together in the cold regions of a thunderstorm clouds. It is created when water droplets are lifted high into the sky by the strong winds of a storm, until they move past the freezing level and form into ice. Once they become too heavy for the wind to support, they will start to fall.  Why don'twe feel earth's rotation?  Have you sat on a merry-go-round and closed your eyes while it’s spinning? The spinner spins it once and allows it to rotate on its own for a while, until it slows down. Then, the spinner spins it again. At this time how do you feel? As though you're not moving at all, right? That is the same case with not feeling the Earth rotating under your feet. You don't feel it because you are traveling at the same constant speed as the Earth, and smoothly, with no breaks or bumps. The Earth never stops rotating, so, you feel like you are not moving at all. But if the Earth were to suddenly stop rotating, it will be like crashing onto a wall while running. You will feel it then! How to ask a curious question 1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article32690985.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article32691010.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Symbols for drum beats||When temples began to cancel festivals due to the Covid-19 lockdown, it severely impacted the artistes who perform at these events. Percussionist Madiyan Radhakrishna Marar from Kanhangad, Kerala, who was also forced to stay indoors, decided to use the time to complete his long-pending project — to devise a unique notation system to represent the rhythms of the chenda drums. Marar created a visual expression for the chenda beats that would be universally understood. The idea was to help students from all backgrounds understand the technique of playing the instrument, especially those for whom the language of instruction is alien. “In this region, people don’t speak only Malayalam,” says Radhakrishnan, whose village is just 50 km south of Karnataka. “ I have students in Udupi and Mangalore. I converse with them in Kannada. Classes have gone online, with Skype being the connecting tool. Often, audio follow-ups are over WhatsApp. Not all learners can hear all the syllables properly or uniformly,” he says. Creating the script Marar, therefore, felt the need to translate the sounds of the ancient chenda into representative signs. “My script primarily has five marks, one of which denotes the pause,” he points out, highlighting the script’s fool-proof quality. “The preparatory work lasted for two months. I tried several ways before arriving at a lipi that was to my satisfaction.” Radhakrishnan shared his work with his peers for their feedback. His guru Sadanam Vasudevan and maestro Kalamandalam Prabhakara Poduval were impressed. Prabhakara Poduval terms the script a healthy revolution. “It needs to be popularised,” says the septuagenarian, who hails from Palakkad district’s Malamakkavu village known as the birthplace of tayambaka — the most distinct chenda concert. Tayambaka, performed for nearly 90 minutes with assistance from bass chenda and cymbals, is what Radhakrishnan has specialised in, in his career spanning four decades. He first played tayambaka as a 10-year-old at Vettekkorumakan temple in Balussery, Kozhikode district, after initial training from his father Kalaveedu Krishnankutty Marar. Training process Soon, Radhakrishnan was sent to Thiruvananthapuram, where Vasudevan, a family friend, became his chenda guru. “I had gurukula training, staying with my master.” He simultaneously attended a high school in the city. When in Class 10, he went back to his village and became the tayambaka winner at the state-level youth festival, a first for Kasargod as well, a feat the district is yet to repeat. Radhakrishnan also gained knowledge about the melodious panchavadyam ensemble as his father initiated him into the timila. And he debuted with this slender drum at the Annapoorneswari temple in Cherukunnu, Kannur district. To gain proficiency, he spent an entire monsoon under Pallavoor Kunjukuttan. He also learnt to play the edakka. Despite being trained in playing various percussion instruments, Radhakrishnan is essentially a tayambaka exponent. “I owe a lot to the arts specific to my region,” he says. The raga-based singing for the Yakshagana theatre has made him sensitive to the shruti (pitch) of the chenda. And Thidambu Nritham, where priests dance with the deity on their heads to energetic chenda beats, has strengthened Radhakrishnan’s percussive skills. He developed new rhythmic cycles, adding novelty to tayambaka’s 150-year-old history. He is currently working on a book titled Tayambaka Vilakku . Timila player Mohanan Marar of Peruvaram in Ernakulam district says the late percussionist Chendamangalam Unnikrishnan tried to come up with symbols for the chenda sounds. “Finally, Radhakrishna has completed the task,” he says. “I wish the model all success.” The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s traditional arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/symbols-for-drum-beats/article32690569.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The frailties of a screen idol||Historians often caution about not seeing the past from the prism of today. Can we process an old film with contemporary wisdom? Critics often use the cliché, ‘ahead of its time,’ but they use it in hindsight, to define films whose worth their predecessors failed to measure. ‘Timeless’ is another hackneyed term. Both phrases can be applied to Satyajit Ray’s Nayak (The Hero). Like every good piece of art, every generation of artistes can find their reflection in Ray’s inward-looking journey of a film star. Delving into the compromises that an artiste has to make, the 1966 masterpiece deliberates on most questions that might have come up among those watching Bollywood being unravelled in the last few months.  Starring Uttam Kumar as the reigning superstar Arindam Mukherjee and Sharmila Tagore as Aditi Mukherjee, the editor of a woman’s magazine, the film is black and white but the narrative is not. Right from the opening scene where the matinee idol almost shrugs off the ephemerality of audience taste to the last scene where he is on the edge of life and death, the film opens a window to the conscience of a popular actor who guards his public image assiduously. But as the mask comes off gradually, with the persuasion of Aditi, perhaps a gentle reflection of his older self, the star becomes increasingly vulnerable. From a reference to cocaine and describing alcohol as second nature to a dependence on sleeping pills, there is plenty that rings a bell. Was Ray perpetuating a stereotype or was he merely reflecting a complex reality? One that is still playing out today. Perception and reality As the master auteur digs deeper, the moving train becomes a metaphor for the star’s escape from his universe, but here again he finds prying eyes in different compartments, each with different points of view about him. One besotted fan sees him as a modern Krishna while those who had read the morning paper wonder whether there is a devil lurking behind the charming persona. The best is the silent scene where Arindam is blowing circles with cigarette smoke and a teenage female fan, lying ill on the upper berth, quietly imitates him. This is how the image of screen gods percolates into the masses. To his credit, Kumar moves effortlessly between perception and reality. And Tagore provides an honest counterpoint, since Aditi is not a fan girl. At first, she tears apart his god-like persona but what she finds makes her develop empathy for him and eventually, she literally brings him back from the edge of the moving train. At another level, the film denotes Ray’s own response to the market demand to make something more accessible for an audience fed on the diet of spectacles. He picks a subject that has dollops of glamour and gives the audience a sense that they are going to watch something they know about, but when they walk into his world, he takes them to the depths of human behaviour and etches a psychological portrait instead. Soon, we discover, it is not just the actor who is putting on a mask, everybody around him has a façade. And here, Ray presents an interesting potpourri of self-seeking and hypocritical characters. The lure of cinema In one of the many flashbacks that dot the screenplay, Arindam’s mentor Shankarda warns him that cinema as a medium reduces good stage actors to mere puppets of technicians, but Arindam still chooses the stardom that cinema offers. Naseeruddin Shah, who tried his hand in commercial films, once told me that acting in such films was like a wrestling match where one actor tries to outdo the other. But he also said that when he started off, he wanted to be a popular film actor despite his theatre background. It is this dichotomy that Ray captures in Nayak . In another memorable flashback, Arindam the star develops cold feet and backs off when a friend and leftist leader asks him to address some mill workers on strike, workers who are also his fans. It reminds us today of the many stars who chose not to stand in solidarity with protesting students last winter and of the smear campaigns faced by those who did.  The Bengali film is available on YouTube, with subtitles||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-frailties-of-a-screen-idol/article32690535.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||From sabhas to streaming services||“My guru Sudha Ragunathan and her guru M.L. Vasanthakumari have set to tune several Purandaradasa kritis,” says Carnatic vocalist and playback singer (of Bahubali fame) V. Deepika before rendering one for the Mani Krishnaswamy Academy Facebook live show. Amidst the floating thumbs up and heart emojis, one of the comments says, “Such a beautiful voice, who is she?” Though artistes are missing the energy and applause of audiences in an auditorium, they are discovering a new and exciting way of staying connected with listeners. Classical performances went online some six months ago when the lockdown began. Now, there are performances almost every day, with artistes charging much less than they do for live shows and some performing for free. They are also becoming tech-savvy in order to be able to present a perfect online concert. For this, of course, they have taken the help of the experts who offer streaming services. “Talent from all over the world is being streamed on the Live4You platform that came into being within minutes of the lockdown in March,” says Prakash RSV, the man behind the online platform that is among the most sought after by Carnatic musicians and fans. Digital expanse Seeing the response, Live4You has now extended its services to Bharatanatyam and popular music. The platform apparently gets views ranging from a few thousand to even two lakh views for Carnatic music shows. “After the lockdown, this was my way of spreading positivity among the artiste fraternity,” says Prakash, a Chennai-based finance professional, who has recently opened a live-streaming platform for marriages, industrial events, and other celebrations. Though an artiste’s worth cannot be judged by the number of views, comments or shares, Prakash strongly believes there is definite value at least for the number of views. “Only if someone stays on the page for at least two minutes does Facebook count it as a view. If the performance is not riveting, a viewer will leave the page in seconds, the attention span on the Internet being so short.” Live4You has hosted over 250 concerts, including that of top musicians. “We have also conducted competitions,” he says. Prakash’s new venture Easwara will provide professional quality concerts from studios on Facebook live. “To solve technical glitches, we began the ‘Live4You Discussions’ to guide artistes regarding lighting, audio and camera placement ahead of the concert,” explains Prakash. If the Mangaluru-based Mani Krishnaswamy Academy (MKA) has become a household name, it is because of the efforts of Nityananda Rao and his son Vibhu Rao. The quality of programming comes from Rao’s deep respect for the late vocalist Mani Krishnaswamy’s music. It all began when he took his daughter Prarthana Sai Narasimhan to her as a student. “Her teaching was so inspiring that my entire family became her admirer,” says the businessman-cum-music connoisseur. After her demise in 2002, Rao started the Mani Krishnaswamy Academy. Non-stop music Rao has been organising concerts, workshops, lec-dems and early morning performances under a flyover in Surathkal. “One such recital was scheduled for April 5 but had to be cancelled. It was then that I suggested to my son to hold it online instead of cancelling. Since then the music hasn’t stopped.” MKA has held 300 concerts on FB live. “Funds for our programmes from central and State governments, corporates and individuals stopped because of the lockdown,” says Vibhu. They now accept voluntary contributions, which has helped them pay artistes, many of whom in turn donate the amount to needy musicians. Programmes attract 50,000 to 2 lakh views. According to Nityananda Rao, “The digital platform has widened the performer and viewer base. Besides listeners from across the country, we have many people watching from Dubai, Singapore, the U.K., and the U.S. Going by the response, it looks like artistes and viewers have adapted well to the new normal. Chennai-based Chitravina Ganesh’s Gayatri Fine Arts (GFA) has been live-streaming concerts over the last few months. Administered by Michigan-based Vidya Venkatesh, its Facebook handle hosts artistes not only from the U.S. and other parts of the world, but also from Chennai and other parts of India. On Krishna Jayanti, GFA held eight hours of a thematic performance by 16 artistes on FB live. “The first concert was in New Zealand, then in India, Singapore, the U.K. and the U.S.,” says Vidya, an IT professional and head of event management at GFA. For Navaratri, nine senior artistes are to perform, and on Saraswati Puja and Vijayadashami, a Guru Samarpanam is planned with 21 artistes. “Singers have realised the significance of this medium and are trying to understand its working. This is heart-warming and shows how art helps them transform with changing times. I remember how during one live streaming we were desperately sending messages to the artiste about a problem with his audio. We usually advise performers to invest in a quality mike and to have someone around with a phone in hand when they are performing,” says Vidya. Of a high standard Flautist Shantala Subramanyam has been curating Kalakriya, the live concert arm of Indian Classical Gems (ICG) FB, yet another popular page for Carnatic music. With 1.5 lakh followers, ICG has been playing music videos for three to four years. “The good thing is Lakshminarayanan Chudamany, the page administrator, is the only one who can post music videos in this group. This has kept the standard high,” says Shantala, emphasising on the need to maintain quality while going online. “We have a good balance of vocalists and instrumentalists ,” she says, adding that every live concert gets more than 5,000 views. Shantala’s thematic presentations include Vaishnava composers and Lalgudi’s popular compositions. Upcoming programmes include Chitravina Ravikiran’s compositions, Navavaranam, Swati Thirunal’s Navaratri kritis, and U.S.-based youngsters, under the age of 15, singing Devi kritis. What is special about Kalakriya’s live streams is that Shantala anchors each show, choosing the artiste’s repertoire, explaining the raga, tala, composers, and the history behind the song. “I also speak of prosody or narrate anecdotes; and if it’s an instrumental concert, I talk about the instrument and its technique.” These parts are pre-recorded and merged with the live presentation by a tech person in Florida. “In order to help pakkavadhyam artistes, especially those based in small towns with no access to technology and no income, we sometimes mix their pre-recorded performance with the live show,” she explains.  The writer is a trained   classical musician.    Though an artiste’s worth cannot be judged by the number of views or shares, Prakash of Live4You believes there is definite value at least for the number of views||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/from-sabhas-to-streaming-services/article32690542.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Walking through verses||Someone once said that we put things in a museum to take them out of the world. But John Keats, who in his short life worked to perfect the art of poetry, referring to his poem Ode on a Grecian Urn , said: “Objects are better historians than we are. They hold truths. They tell stories. They capture history, forever.” In his poem, Objects , poet W.H. Auden, who engaged with politics, religion and love, declares that objects “make time more golden than we meant to tell”. What would it be to museumise poetry? Poetry by its very nature is an experience, but to museumise it would mean that it becomes a piece of history, a poet’s response to the times they are living in. The new poetry museum Piccolo Museo della Poesia Chiesa di San Cristoforo (Little Museum of Poetry) housed in an ancient church in Piacenza, Italy, is all set for its first ‘An Exhibition of Poetry’ and hopes to do precisely that. Kannada poet Mamta Sagar is curating this exhibition, which opens tomorrow, along with Italian poet and visual artist Antje Stehn. “We are living in very difficult times,” says Mamta. “The whole world is going through the pandemic. India is also going through a politically trying period. Voices of truth are being muzzled. What does it mean for a poet to face these twin turmoils? My endeavour is to capture that.”  In several languages Featuring the works of over 250 poets from across the globe, it will also have an installation titled ‘Rucksack,’ which will be a large bag made of dried tea bags. Short poetry in several languages of the world will be heard on an audio loop throughout the exhibition space. From India, Mamta Sagar’s selection will have 28 poets from 15 languages. A handwritten poem, a creative video presentation, a portrait of the poet, and the image of an used teabag collected from the poet will become part of the show. “I want to celebrate India’s diversity at a time when we are being forced to homogenise,” explains Mamta, who has collected poems from Kashmiri to Malayalam. Some of those who form the Indian showcase include Khasi poet Abner Pariah from Shillong, Tamil poets Sukirtharani and Salma, Urdu poet Abdul Manan Bhat from Kashmir, English poet Tenzin Tsundue from Dharmashala, and Assamese poet Jiban Narah. “Language is hardly a barrier, poems are primarily about sound, meaning comes later. Poetry has moved beyond literature,” says Mamta. Is poetry then an augmented reality, turning the intangible to tangible? “Poetry is interdisciplinary. I am a performance poet, Antje is a visual artist-poet, similarly there are so many poets across the world who merge it with other art forms. Poetry has extended itself.” Is that why there is a video aspect to the poems in the museum? “A poem that was written in the 12th century may convey different things to me. Hence, we felt that a video can represent the contemporary readings of the poet. A lot is conveyed through emphasis, pauses, and other stylistic tools,” says Mamta. If poetry is about bringing “various voices under one roof,” it moves beyond the personal experience and takes on the role of shared individualism. “I agree. Most countries of the world are facing political and social crises. By the very choice of poets and their poems, we are proposing a certain view. We are against all kinds of marginalisation, whether of caste or gender.” The most interesting aspect of this museum is that it is located in a church. In a multi-religious country like India this could be a complex task to achieve. “Churches in Europe have been centres of art too. But in India this is difficult.” Religious spaces are not merely about religion, they are also about architecture, history and more. “These things have to be celebrated. They have to become sites of inclusion, where conversations between people begin. The actual experience of god is in the humane,” she stresses. Mamta, eventually, hopes to bring her part of the exhibition to India too. These poems, throbbing with life, will live to tell the story of a time gone by — of tears, of sorrow, of pain and of how poets across the world came together to tell the story of humanity. There will come a time when poems will become historians.  From India, Mamta Sagar’s selection will have 28 poets from 15 languages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/walking-through-verses/article32690540.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Going beyond the glamour||Veteran dancer Sudha Chandrasekhar, who will celebrate her 80th birthday next month, talks about her teenage years with excitement. A student of Thiruvidaimarudur Kuppiah Pillai, the dancer performed across India, from her hometown Bombay to southern cities, from the princely state of Bhavnagar to the national capital New Delhi. Audiences for her Bharatanatyam shows included Prime Minister Nehru, Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, visiting foreign dignitaries and even Hindi filmstars. In 1967, shortly after marriage to Sankaranarayanan Chandrasekhar, she moved to Canada, and ten years later, to Michigan in the U.S. Sudha has spent the last five decades performing, teaching, collaborating, exploring and learning, but all along, she has adhered strictly to the Thanjavur tradition of the dance. Regardless of their nationality or ethnicity, the word Thiruvidaimarudur trips off the tongues of her students with ease. “We’re not easily fascinated by other styles in Thanjavur,” she says. “We don’t need to change, because every little nuance is taught in each of the 108 adavus.” With complexity systematically accruing at each level, the student imbibes the movement vocabulary without craving ‘newness’ for the sake of novelty. Only to dazzle There is a growing trend in Bharatanatyam — barring the odd exception — towards gymnastic stretches, ever longer, higher leaps, and challenging jatis designed to dazzle with their length and complexity. Some observers long for the ‘old’ Bharatanatyam, with its repose and ample space for abhinaya and subtlety. And it is interesting that we sometimes find the old tradition hiding in Canadian and American dance studios. Sudha’s initial lessons, when she was hardly four, were under Kuppiah Pillai’s son-in-law and daughter, A.T. Govindraj Pillai and Karunambal. Karunambal’s brother Mahalingam Pillai came to Bombay from Tamil Nadu shortly after, while the patriarch himself arrived later. After her arangetram at age 16, Sudha received in-depth lessons under Kuppiah ‘thatha’. Meanwhile, gurus Mahalingam and Govindaraj would prepare her for performances. One was a ‘powerful and deep teacher,’ while the other was the authority from whom Sudha learnt everything about rhythm. Kuppiah’s younger son Kalyanasundaram, not a teacher then, played the mridangam; he also ran a drama company. Karunambal taught at the family’s Sri Rajarajeswari Bharatha Natya Kala Mandir, founded in the mid-1940s in Bombay, and also gave lessons around the city. A highly knowledgeable teacher, “her hands once placed (in position) would never droop,” recalls Sudha. The rules regarding the striking of the feet, flexing the knees and wrists were repeatedly emphasised. Sudha also admits that without the support of her parents — Jayalakshmi and V. Doraiswamy — her hectic parallel career in dance and college may not have been possible, but equally, no performance was complete without Karunambal’s blessings and debriefing. Popularising the gurus After moving to the U.S., Sudha and her husband organised visits by their gurus Mahalingam, Kalyanasundaram and other family members to tour and teach there. She hopes to continue doing so with other members of the family. Although her gurus never spoke of their careers prior to coming to Bombay and Karunambal never took to the stage, Sudha is happy to see the next generation of girls and boys from the dance family carve out individual careers. “Kalyanasundaram master’s daughter Shruthi is doing very well, and Mahalingam sir’s granddaughter Bharathi, and Govindaraj’s and Karunambal’s daughter Raji are conducting classes in Chennai,” she says. Maintaining this continuity in the inherited dance form is clearly important for her. Sudha is conscious of the historical currents that have shaped Bharatanatyam. “I feel that by our (non-hereditary dancers) getting into performing and taking over the teaching of the dance form, which was for our own sake, we are doing some kind of injustice to the community of nattuvanars. Because they have got the art; I don’t think we have completely got it yet. What they had was something unique, powerful and I wish more had been done to preserve what they were doing .” Recalling the performance of a hereditary dancer she watched once, Sudha says, “You could see the power in that dance. It has to go back to that sometimes. There’s too much glamour now.”  The Delhi-based author writes on classical dance.   There is a growing trend in Bharatanatyam towards gymnastic stretches, ever longer, higher leaps, and challenging jatis designed to dazzle with their length and complexity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/going-beyond-the-glamour/article32690565.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||A global vision||My personal relationship with Kapila Vatsyayan, beloved czarina of Indian culture and the performing arts, who passed away last week, goes back to the1990s when I was conducting my doctoral research in India. Vatsyayan was revered as a global Indian who had placed Indian performing arts on the world map. Her passing ends an era of scholarship in the arts, which Vatsyayan realised by working as a cultural minister, administrator, curator, institution builder and scholar. For her multifaceted contribution to the arts, Vatsyayan was honoured with numerous national awards. Internationally, she received the Rockefeller award, Congress on Dance Research award, the Thalia prize and many more. A towering personality, a great orator, and a legend in her lifetime, Vatsyayan leaves behind a huge void and a monumental cultural legacy which I hope will be reclaimed in the years to come.  Returning after her studies to India, Vatsyayan became involved in the post-Independence nation-building initiatives of the 1950s. Her cultural vision was unique because it was rooted in the cultural ethos and plurality of Indian traditions but was also international and modern at the same time. We can see this double commitment in the numerous institutions that Vatsyayan established and her pioneering performing arts scholarship which she crafted in the 1960s and 1970s. An institution builder  As an institution builder, Vatsyayan worked closely with Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, and translated Nehru’s vision of ‘Unity in Diversity’ into reality. Her vision is enshrined in the cultural vision of the three national Akademis and the Centre for Cultural Resources and Training, which she helped conceptualise. In 1972, eight years after Nehru’s passing, Vatsyayan published Some Aspects of Cultural Policy in India , which described the many cultural institutions that Nehru and Maulana Azad had envisioned for the preservation and modernisation of the arts. This book is used as a textbook for policy studies in India and abroad. After Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984, Vatsyayan conceived the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), as a tribute. All the cultural institutions that Vatsyayan helped establish in the decolonial period of the 1950s were modern, national and international in vision but rooted in the ethos of Indian culture and civilisation. As a scholar, Vatsyayan authored over 20 books and published more than 200 research papers. I see Vatsyayan’s three early books, Classical Indian Dance in Literature and the Arts (1968), Indian Classical Dance (1974) and Traditions of Indian Folk Dance (1976), as representing a trilogy of intertwined texts that challenged the Orientalist conceptions of Indian arts. Vatsyayan not only rejected this scholarship but created a new, interdisciplinary field of arts scholarship by recontextualizing Indian performing arts within the world view of Indian culture, classical literatures, ancient texts, archaeology, sculpture, painting and civilisation. Linking traditions While Vatsyayan identified common themes, principles and techniques that linked the ‘classical’ with the folk and modern traditions of India, she clarified that this cultural continuum has been maintained through guru-sishya systems of transmission which stand at the heart of India’s classical and folk arts production. In her role as vice-president of the Indian Council for Cultural Affairs, Vatsyayan explained to the world that the guru-sishya concept of living tradition is unique to India. She presented eminent artiste T. Balasaraswati (1918-1984) as a singular embodiment of this living tradition, with a family lineage going back seven generations. When second-generation Indian classical dancers migrated to the US and UK in the 1980s, they packed Vatsyayan’s three texts into their suitcases and used these creatively to transmit Indian traditions within guru-sishya frameworks in the ‘Little India’ schools they established around the world. Vatsyayan’s trilogy thus served as bridging texts linking global cultural production with the local and enabled the globalization of India’s classical dance traditions. I had the honour of spending many hours in conversation with Vatsyayan both in India and abroad. On one occasion, I recall asking Vatsyayan to identify the key differences between Orientalist and Indian nationalist dance scholarship. Vatsyayan shook her head firmly and told me to figure this out myself! In another context, when we were talking about the future of Indian dance scholarship, she explained that we are all Macaulay’s children and must feel free to engage the cultural history of Indian performing arts from diverse viewpoints. I was struck by her generous response and realised in that moment that Vatsyayan was not just a daunting scholar of Indian tradition, but also an anti-colonial Indian, imbued with the deep passion to counter Macaulay’s pejorative vision of Indian culture and replace it with the real cultural history of India as it is embodied in the complex plurality of India’s culture and her parampara traditions. Although Vatsyayan’s passing represents the ending of a foundational moment in world dance history and cultural policy, I am hopeful that her global Indian arts legacy will abide as living memory and remind us of the singular modernity, plurality and globality of Indian performing arts.  The writer is the convener of the post-graduate   South Asian Dance Studies Programme   at Roehampton University, London.   She identified common themes, principles and techniques that linked the ‘classical’ with the folk and modern traditions of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-global-vision/article32690571.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The untold stories of Pettai||It is hard not to be reminded of one of his many characters from Pettai when striking up a conversation with Thamizhprabha. Like the women and men in his debut novel published by Kalachuvadu in 2017, Thamizhprabha is raw, honest and unapologetically plainspoken. The 350-page Tamil novel, the English translation of which is under way, is a startling revelation of arguably one of the most stereotyped localities in Chennai — Chintadripettai. Through some powerfully drawn characters, Thamizhprabha effortlessly breaks many myths about the place, laying bare before the reader a life that is rich and robust, despite the depressing day-to-day mundanities. Pettai is particularly about the Dalits living on the banks of the Cooum in Chintadripettai. “Chintadripettai is dominated by Dalits but not confined to them; and Pettai speaks about Dalit life there. I have often wondered why the oppressed are often forced to live on the margins — on the banks of Cooum in this case. Pettai is somewhat of an answer to many questions within.”  As someone who grew up in Chintadripettai, Thamizhprabha brings to Pettai a refreshing originality that not many literary works on Chennai and its people can boast of. The 33-year-old writer, who is also co-authoring the script and screenplay for Pa. Ranjith’s next film on boxers in North Chennai, points to the intrinsic bias against the marginalised that has almost always existed in mainstream literature. “I have often felt that when the rickshaw-puller or street vendor comes forward to tell their stories in their own language, we will get an entirely different version. If you think Pettai is original, it’s exactly because of this.” Breaking clichés Dalit writers and storytellers, Thamizhprabha says, have more than one job to do. “We cannot just stop with telling our stories. We have to break all the clichés that exist about our lives in literature and cinema.”  Pettai does that with unmatched eloquence. The novel speaks aggressively to its reader without being loud. It tells the story of a family residing in Chintadripettai, their neighbours and friends, and through their story offers a prismatic view of their language, food, culture, and sports. In doing so, Pettai also puts forth how their lives are deeply interwoven with the politics of our times. So, if beef as a dish in many varieties, including kavaabu (kebabs), is much-loved in Rooban’s family, it turns into an unexpected tool of discrimination in the IT company that he works for. For Thamizhprabha, it’s partly his own experience. “I worked in an IT company for 12 years and even though I was not writing back then, I was sensitive enough to realise that I was being discriminated against only because of my beef-eating habit. Later, when I became a writer, I had to turn the food that was used to discriminate against me into an art form.” Just like the Madras dialect that Thamizhprabha generously employs in his novel. Politics of song and sport Pettaispeaks about Gana music as an art form and how Chintadripettai is among the earliest places in Chennai where Gana thrived and survived. “The singers render songs, maybe not as professionally as Carnatic musicians, but they carry a raw emotion in their voice.”    Pettai also speaks about how Christianity has made their lives better, but not without taking a swipe at men who use religion to manipulate people. “Growing up there, I have been witness to both. I cannot say one thing and leave another unsaid,” Thamizhprabha says. The novel shows how the carrom board can be a tool of development and in that sense deeply political. A professional carrom player, Lawrence discovers his son’s friend Bala’s talent in the sport and takes him to Masila, the coach. Bala soon becomes an international player and restarts the Ambedkar night-school in Chintadripettai. In a tightly built climax that attempts to unravel many knots, there is also this achingly beautiful portion about Bala’s father standing in the terrace looking down at the locality that had once ridiculed his family as thevuda soru (a pejorative given to people who buy leftovers cheap from restaurants).  Pettai is at once a story of hope and determination. It’s as celebratory as it is complex. It is a demonstration of the innate strength of humans when confronted with the most difficult challenges. Like the deeply devout Regina who waits for her husband to be dragged to the policestation to expose the wrongdoings of Pastor Ebenezer. Or the not-much-talked-about Bala who gambles only to later use the money to set up the night-school. “My characters are not perfect,” says Thamizhprabha. “I do not want to bring a political correctness to my characters that would otherwise not exist. If I do that, I will be influencing their lives as a writer.” But the women of Pettai — from Kiliyambal who we only know through the reminiscences of her friend Nagomi to the meek Evangeline whose determination prevails in the end — easily stand out for their toughness and resilience. “That’s how they are, the Dalit women. They face the twin oppression of caste and misogyny. They have to be extraordinarily strong to survive both,” Thamizhprabha says. Like the many characters in his novel, Thamizhprabha loves challenges. Working on Pa. Ranjith’s Salpetta is one such. “We have written the script and screenplay together. He offers a comfortable space for me to work. But it was challenging in that we have to work on a story set in the 1970s.” Thamizhprabha is also ready with his next novel, which has a woman as the protagonist and is again set in Chintadripettai. “They might ask why I continue to write about Chintadripettai, but there are many stories that still remain to be told.”  The writer is a Chennai-based independent journalist.      We cannot just stop with telling our stories, we have to undo what was done in our names in the past   Like the many characters in his novel, Thamizhprabha loves challenges. Working on Pa. Ranjith’s Salpetta is one such. “We have written the script and screenplay together,” he says||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-untold-stories-of-pettai/article32690531.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Remembering a genius composer||For Carnatic music lovers, the name Papanasam Sivan instantly brings to mind the image of an old, unassuming man with grey beard and vibhuti smeared on his broad forehead. A great composer, he has enriched the world of classical music with gems in Tamil such as ‘Naan Oru Vilaiyattu Bommaiya,’ (Navarasa Kanada); ‘Paratpara Parameswara’ (Vachaspati); ‘Kaana Kann Kodi Vendum’ (Khambodi); ‘Devi Neeye Thunai’ (Kiravani); ‘Ka Vaa Vaa’ (Varali) and ‘Kapaali’ (Mohanam). Papanasam Sivan developed a passion for composing songs after he shifted base from Kerala to Tamil Nadu. His father died when Sivan was just seven. He used to live with his ailing mother in Thiruvananthapuram. As a young boy, he worked as a cook in Ootupara. He would work through the day and spend the night listening to harikatha. Thus began his love for bhajans and religious discourses. In 1910, Sivan travelled to Papanasam to stay with his brother. It is here that he began to listen to Carnatic concerts, becoming so passionate about music that he took to writing kritis. The legendary vocalist Konerirajapuram Vaidyanatha Iyer, whose concerts Sivan would listen to the most, also inspired him to compose songs. Vaidyanatha Iyer was known for his Thodi renditions, and Sivan composed more than 20 kritis in the raga. Soon the two developed a deep bonding, with Sivan looking up to Iyer as his guru. Sivan would never miss Iyer’s concerts and he once walked more than seven miles from Kumbakonam to Ammankudi to attend one. Iyer made Sivan sit next to him on stage and rendered his song ‘Sikkalmeviya’ in Kambodi raga. When Sivan settled in Madras in 1929, Rukmini Devi was among the first to recognise his genius. He was associated with Kalakshetra from 1934 to 1939 and Rukmini Devi was one of his students. Perhaps this tenure at Kalakshetra inspired Sivan to compose several pada varnams that are now performed in Bharatanatyam. Many leading musicians such as S. Rajam learnt music from Sivan. He will also be remembered for his bhajans. He would lead the early morning processions through Mylapore’s temple streets during the Tamil month of Margazhi. Many Carnatic stalwarts such as S. Ramanathan, D.K. Jayaraman and Ramnad Krishnan would join him. Even after Sivan’s death, the tradition has been continued by musicians such as Sanjay Subrahmanyam, S. Sowmya, Vijay Siva and Gayatri Venkatraghavan. One of Sivan’s first songs on Lord Kapaleeswarar ‘Kaana Kankodi’ in Kambodi, was composed during one of these outings. His composition, ‘Srirama nama bhajanaisei maname’ was composed to show his devotion to Lord Rama. Also, since his original name is Ramayya, he used it as the mudra in his kritis. The online celebration This year marks the 130th birth anniversary of Papanasam Sivan. To commemorate the occasion, Sivan Fine Arts Academy in association with Papanasam Sivan Rasigar Sangam will host a special online event from tomorrow to October 1. It will be inaugurated by N. Murali, president, The Music Academy, at 7.30 p.m. The evening will begin with Dushyant Sridhar’s talk on Papanasam Sivan followed by the rendition of Sivan’s ‘Iha Param’ kriti in Simhendramadhyamam by 80 students from the U.S. The six-day celebration will feature 130 musicians from across the globe, who will present 130 of Sivan’s kritis, (without repetition). On the inaugural day, Sudha Ragunathan, Sowmya, Sikkil Gurucharan, Gayathri Venkataraghavan, Rukmini Ramani and Mallika Ramani, Kunnakudi Balamuralikrishna, Bharat Sundar and Ashok Ramani will perform. Concerts of musicians including Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi, Gayathri Girish, Saketharaman, Mahathi, Nisha Rajagopal, K. Gayathri, Ashwath Narayanan, Vishnudev Nambootiri, Vignesh Ishwar, Vasudha Ravi and Suryaprakash will be screened from September 27 to October 1. Each day will also feature the solo performances of close to 25 artistes. On the last day, the Sivan memorial lecture will be delivered by K. Harishankar, secretary, Narada Gana Sabha, and Cleveland V.V. Sundaram.  The writer is a Carnatic vocalist and grandson of Papanasam Sivan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/remembering-a-genius-composer/article32690550.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||On unsung maestros||Madhuradhwani in association with Carnatica is hosting an online festival that focuses on the life and works of unsung maestros. The festival began on September 18 and is on till October 3. It features multimedia presentations on musicians including Vedaranyam Vedhamurthy (nagaswaram), Vairamangalam Lakshmi Narayanan, Calcutta K.S. Krishnamurthy, Trivandrum R. Venkatraman (veena), T.M. Thyagarajan, Radha and Jayalakshmi, Budalur Krishnamurthy (gottuvadyam/chitravina), T.K. Rangachari, B.V. Raman and B.V. Lakshman, Kumbakonam Rajamanickam Pillai (violin), Sathur A.G. Subramaniam, Manakkal Rangarajan, Veenai R. Pichumani, Voleti Venkateswarlu and flautist T. Vishwanathan. The festival is being streamed on Madhuradhwani’s Facebook page and YouTube channel at 6.15 p.m. It also features an array of concerts by young musicians. Today’s concert by Madurai Siva Ganesh is dedicated to T.K. Rangachari and Sruthi Shankar Kumar’s concert tomorrow is in memory of B.V. Raman and B.V. Lakshman. On Sunday, L. Ramakrishnan will present a violin concert in tribute to Kumbakonam Rajamanickam Pillai.  Sai Vignesh’s concert on September 28 is dedicated to Sattur A.G. Subramaniam. The concert on September 29, in memory of Manakkal Rangarajan, will be by Deepika Varadharajan. The concerts of Anjani Srinivasan (veena) in memory of R. Pituchumani and G. Abilash, dedicated to Voleti Venkateswarlu, on September 30 and October 1 respectively, will bring this week’s line-up to a close.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/on-unsung-maestros/article32690545.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Fundraiser for artistes||Teamwork Fine Arts Society is organising a digital fundraiser, Ibelieve#ArtMatter on October 4. It will be streamed on Teamwork Arts’ Facebook Page and on BookMyShow. The event aims to reach out to a wide range of artistes and craftspersons, including ragis in gurdwaras, Bauls of Bengal, classical dancers, Benarasi sari weavers, toymakers, theatre actors, stage designers and more, who have been facing a financial crisis due to the pandemic. Over 450 well-known performers such as Vikku Vinayakram, L. Subramaniam and Kavita Krishnamurti, Malavika Sarukkai, A.R. Rahman, Amit Trivedi, Kailash Kher, Usha Uthup, Sivamani and Selvaganesh will participate. Apart from popular bands such as Neeraj Arya’s Kabir Cafe, Advaita and Shillong Chamber Choir, folk musicians Kutle Khan, Chugge Khan and Abha Hanjura will also be a part of the show. There will be a special Odissi performance by Nrityagram ensemble. The five-hourevent will be hosted by Shabana Azmi and Manoj Bajpayee. Papa CJ, Radhika Vaz, and Abish Matthew will perform stand-up routines.  Javed Akhtar and Varun Grover will present two special spoken-word pieces as part of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/fundraiser-for-artistes/article32690553.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Lighting workshop||Popular light designer Sushant P. Jadhav, who has worked on several dance productions, will conduct a virtual workshop on ‘Light design in dance’ from October 5 to 7 (7 p.m.to 9 p.m.). Organised by Sanskriti, the session will have Sushant explaining the importance of lighting in solo and group performances. He will also talk about how lighting should be conceived when the artiste is choreographing a piece and during the rehearsal. Call 09323039639 to register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/lighting-workshop/article32690557.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Thejas Bala Natyotsav’s 11th anniversary||Senior Bharatanatyam dancer and guru Srekala Bharath’s Thejas School of Performing Arts (TSPA) will celebrate the 11th anniversary of Thejas Bala Natyotsav with a three-day virtual event starting today to September 27 (6 p.m.). The festival annually showcases talent, in the 8-12 age groups from dance schools across the world. This year, the school invited applications in the form of videos from participants. Among the 130 entries received, 12 children have been selected. Four students will perform each day for a duration of 20 minutes. The festival will be streamed on Srekala Bharath’s TSPA YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/thejas-bala-natyotsavs-11th-anniversary/article32690555.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Musical ode||The 130th birth anniversary celebrations for Papanasam Sivan will begin with his ‘Iha Param’ kriti in Simhendramadhyamam. “One of the reasons to choose this song was because it was popularised by M.S. Subbulakshmi, and we are singing it in her memory too, since her 104th birth anniversary was celebrated recently. We planned to present it at this year’s Cleveland Tyagaraja Aradhana with 150 students, but since the event was cancelled due to the pandemic, I decided to make it a part of this event with 80 students,” says Ashok Ramani, who has conceived this musical ode to his grandfather. The participating students were trained by Srividhya Vasudevan, Prarthana Sai Narasimhan and Trichur Rithu for the Cleveland festival. “One group of students will sing the pallavi portion followed by another group rendering the sangatis. This pattern follows till the charanam.” The event can be viewed on Ashok Ramani’s Facebook and YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/musical-ode/article32690547.ece
25 September 2020||September 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Spirituality in abstraction||For a musician, music is considered his dharma. The words dhaarayate iti dharma actually mean virtues worthy of acceptance, virtues that celebrate the natural flow of life without inhibitions. These virtues are defined by changing times. Unlike the restrictive term ‘religion,’ dharma can change with times. As such, tradition and change go hand in hand. This thought works behind all streams of learning, including music. It is considered that the musicality of the Vedic mantras gave birth to Indian classical music, which once flourished in temples. Saam-gaan led to the Gandharva Vidya and Margi Sangeet of yore which, with changing times and frequent travel between different regions, also adopted local melodies and gradually older jaatis gave way to raga music. As a tool of worship, music incorporated various deities with the help of pada (lyrics) and swara (melody). Traditional prabandh and dhrupad are the best examples of devotional padas. It is commonly believed that the literal meaning of most traditional khayal and thumri bandishes (written in the dialects of the Ganga-Yamuna belt) are erotic. Hindustani music, however, also has a strong devotional element like its southern counterpart — albeit in different ways. The latter, an essentially kriti-based musical form, is like the worship of an idol, while the Hindustani stream is dominated by the chosen raga’s melody, and is therefore entirely empirical and almost abstract — inspired by Sufism, wherein the deity and the devotee become lovers, yearning for each other’s company. In the words of eminent musicologist Deepak Raja, “To regard devotional lyrics as the exclusive flag-bearers of bhakti in music is a misrepresentation of the character of music as an art as well as of bhakti as a human aspiration. The liberation of music from poetry does not, in any manner, dilute its transcendentalism.” Over the years, several legendary musicians have agreed that a raga may or may not respond in the same way on each day or during every concert. Ustad Ali Akbar Khan once recalled how the gandhaar of Yaman was vibrating in such a manner that he found it difficult to render it that day. Vidushi Kishori Amonkar was known to have taken poetic liberties while etching ragas, but she once revealed her helplessness, “I cannot defy the loving beckoning of the swaras. I must surrender and listen to the mood of a particular swara in that specific moment.” It is said that Ustad Amir Khan would infuse emotions and a reflective mood into his singing by employing heavily suggestive pauses. In his music, the meend-laden gait of the raga or the oscillating notes say a lot more than the articulated swaras. Hence, he chose to sing only those ragas that offered a broader canvas, such as Shree (meaning Lakshmi/ aesthetically pleasing), Bageshri (originally Vaageshwari or goddess of speech), Rageshri (Rageshwari or goddess of emotions). There are many such ragas attributed to gods and goddesses. For example, the straight approach to swaras, as in raga Durga, very easily draws the image of the armoured, combatant goddess. This pentatonic raga’s assertive ascending movements focus on the mid-octave and upper-octave regions, and it unfolds its beauty in the medium tempo. Contours of Bhairavi Another popular raga is Bhairavi (the consort of Bhairav or the fearsome form of Siva). True to its name, it can enchant or mystify through its apparently soft contours. It is capable of creating all the rasas associated with raga music. Compared to Durga and Bhairavi, Narayani and Eeshwari are lesser-known. All are different names of Durga, denoting different moods of the goddess. Similarly, each of these ragas etches a different character. Pt. Ravi Shankar invented a set of five distinctly different Eeshwaris: Parameshwari, Kameshwari, Jogeshwari, Gangeshwari and Rageshwari. But apart from Parameshwari and Jogeshwari, the rest are almost forgotten.  The devotional element of a raga also relies on certain rhythmic cycles. Chautal and jhaptal exude power, while rupak and jhumra signify a desolate mood and dhamar spouts euphoria. The slow tempo of teental, ektal, jhumra and several other talas provide a wide canvas for peaceful and meditative elaboration — as exemplified by Ustad Amir Khan’s music. So the meaning of the pada can have several interpretations depending on the musician’s personality and the inherent nature of the raga, the ornamentations deployed, and the tempo applied. This trend encouraged musicians to move higher spiritually from a form provided by the lyrics to the formlessness of raga music. The writer is a music critic and musicologist.  Carnatic music is a kriti-based musical form, while the Hindustani stream is dominated by the chosen raga’s melody||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/spirituality-in-abstraction/article32690561.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Containment zones in Capital increase to more than 2,000||The total number of containment zones in the Capital has breached the 2,000 mark with over 300 having been added over the last six days, according to Delhi government Revenue Department records. This, even as a panel of experts tasked with reducing COVID-19 cases being reported from containment zones that account for roughly 40% of the total daily COVID-19 cases in Delhi, to ‘zero’ by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has met on multiple occasions to formulate a strategy to this end. Submit report Sources privy to information in this regard said the experts had been asked to submit their report by the end of the month, following which it would be discussed at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in attendance, to effectively attempt at reducing cases in containment zones to non-existent levels. According to official figures, there are 2,059 containment zones across Delhi as of September 23 up from 1,751 on September 17 — an increase of 308 over the last week or 51 being delineated per day. Government records positthat active containment zones are up to 1,612 from 1,433 and the number of zones removed from the list of containment zones has increased to 1,464 from 1,293. Till Thursday, the total number of COVID cases in Delhi was recorded at 2,60,623 with 2,24,375 recoveries, 5,123 deaths and 31,125 active cases. The South-West district, with 341, has the highest number of containment zones, followed by 234 in the West, 229 in the North-West, 221 in the North and 207 in the Central district. The North-East district had the lowest number of such zones: 72, followed by 115 in the South-East district. Mr. Baijal, at a meeting of the DDMA on September 18, according to sources, had observed that the administration’s focused attention should be on containing transmission as well as improving the recovery of patients and reducing deaths due to COVID-19. Mr. Baijal had also directed expert groups to prepare a blueprint on restrategising the containment policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-of-containment-zones-in-capital-crosses-2000-mark/article32690919.ece
25 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Bills aimed at lifting MSP safety cover, says Minister||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Thursday said the Centre’s agriculture sector Bills were primarily aimed at lifting the safety cover in the form of Minimum Support Price (MSP), thereby ruining the food growers of the country. Mr. Badal said Punjabis would not accept any such move that aimed to harm farmers’ interests, and the State government would vehemently oppose these attempts of the BJP-led Union government. “No one will be allowed to harm the interests of farmers at any cost. The agriculture Bills will deprive the farmers of a safety cover in the form of MSP,” said Mr. Badal. He said the Rs. 50 increase in MSP of wheat announced by the Centre recently was the least in the previous decade (only 2.6%). He said this was despite the fact that the Commission for Agriculture Cost and Prices (CACP) had recommended an MSP increase of 6% in the wake of 8.4% food inflation. “This is a pointer that the Union government is dragging its feet from giving due MSP to farmers,” said Mr. Badal. Highlighting the significance of MSP to farmers, the Finance Minister said that besides ensuring well being of food growers, it also acted as a catalyst in the State’s development. In Punjab, procurement of food grains worth Rs. 70,000 crore took place every year. Mr. Badal said the State received Rs. 3,900 crore mandi fees annually, which was used for maintenance, repair, and upkeep of 65,000 km of link roads, bridges, culverts, mandis, and other infrastructure.  ‘BJP anti-Punjab ’ The Finance Minister said Punjab always borne the brunt of the BJP government’s anti-Punjab stance. “Special tax concessions to hill States, the GST regime, and now these agriculture Bills have broken the backbone of Punjab’s economy,” said Mr. Badal. The worst part was that the Shiromani Akali Dal had always been part and parcel of the BJP’s anti-Punjab tirade, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bills-aimed-at-lifting-msp-safety-cover-says-minister/article32691193.ece
25 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Tribal youth block highway in Rajasthan||After 15 days of protest at the nearby hills, tribal youth on Thursday laid siege to the Udaipur-Ahmedabad national highway in Rajasthan’s Dungarpur district with the demand for recruitment to vacant posts of teachers in the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) area. The protesters clashed with the policemen, who lobbed teargas shells to disperse them. Several tribal youth and policemen were injured in the scuffle, but the highway remained blocked till late in the evening. Though the traffic was diverted to other routes, a massive jam for several kilometres was witnessed on the highway. Policemen injured The youth hurled stones and damaged a large number of vehicles after blocking the road. Police used force to bring the situation under control, but Additional Superintendent of Police Ganpati Mahawar and several other policemen, brought mainly from Bichhiwara police station, were injured in the clash. The youth have been demanding the appointment of Scheduled Tribe candidates to 1,167 posts of general category teachers for TSP area, left vacant after the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) held in 2018. They were earlier staging a protest on the issue at Kakri-Dungri hills, situated adjacent to the national highway. The Bichhiwara police had registered two cases on the protest, terming it as violative of the guidelines for the COVID-19 pandemic. The district officials had tried to persuade the agitating youth to stage their protest at a designated place after getting the Collector’s permission, but the demonstrators did not relent. The TSP area in Rajasthan comprises the complete Banswara, Dungarpur and Pratapgarh districts and some blocks in five other districts. With the delay in the holding of this year's REET, which has been postponed several times, the tribal candidates lost patience and raised the demand for recruitment to the posts which remained unfilled in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tribal-youth-block-highway-in-rajasthan/article32691196.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s COVID-19 tally climbs to 2,60,623 with 3,834 new cases||As many as 3,834 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,60,623, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 36 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,123. Of the total cases, 2,24,375 people have recovered and there are 31,125 active cases. Out of the total 15,810 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 55.5% were vacant, as per government data on Thursday. However, 72.17% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 66.48% of ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done, was 6.4% – the second lowest in over a month. The number of containment zones in the city on Thursday was 2,059 – the highest till now. “Delhi Govt. is proud to announce that the Flu Screening Centre and Liquid Medical Oxygen Plant were inaugurated today at Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Sector- 6, Rohini. With the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic insight, this plant will further enhance the oxygen supply in the city [sic.],” Health Minister Satyendar Jain said in a social media post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-260623-with-3834-new-cases/article32690916.ece
25 September 2020||Lucknow,||‘No proposal to sell J.P. Narayan Centre’||There are no plans to sell the Jaya Prakash Narayan International Centre (JPNIC), a multi-purpose convention centre dedicated to the socialist ideologue in Lucknow, an Uttar Pradesh official stated on Thursday. “No such proposal has been sent to the government,” Chief Engineer of the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) Indu Shekhar Singh told The Hindu . “We are a construction agency. This is a government project. How can we pass a proposal to sell it,” the official asked. Mr. Singh’s clarification came after a controversy was triggered over a report that the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government was planning to sell off the JPNIC to private firms for a slated price of over Rs. 1,642 crore. The JPNIC, an interpretation centre envisaged along the likes of the India Habit Centre in New Delhi, was conceived by the previous Samajwadi Party government, under Akhilesh Yadav. Once complete, the almost 19-acre project near the Gomti river would boast a number of facilities ranging from a world-class convention halls, an Olympic-sized swimming pool, a multi-sports block, a luxury hotel, an auditorium, a business centre, a helipad and a museum. Dedicated to the personal and political journey of J.P. Narayan and through it the nascent years of Indian democracy, the museum, called the Museum of Socialism, has been operative since late 2016. However, most of the other facilities are either incomplete or inoperative. After coming to power in 2017, the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government had initiated a probe into its construction. SP president Akhilesh Yadav claimed that by selling the JPNIC to “private hands” the BJP government would finish off the “prime objective” of the centre that was dedicated to socialist values.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-proposal-to-sell-jp-narayan-centre/article32691195.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Bio-decomposer technique will curb stubble burning pollution’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Indian Agricultural Research Institute on Thursday to see the bio-decomposer technique of converting crop stubble into compost, which is deemed a cost-effective way to deal with air pollution caused due to crop stubble burning. The technology, called ‘Pusa Decomposer’, involves making a liquid formulation using decomposer capsules and readily available inputs, fermenting it over 8-10 days and then spraying the mixture on fields with crop stubble to ensure speedy bio-decomposition of the stubble. Mr. Kejriwal said that this technique will decrease the use of fertilisers and increase the productivity of the farm soil. He also said that he would meet the Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to discuss the efficient and effective implementation of this simple, doable and practical technique to stop stubble burning. “Delhi and many other North Indian States are covered with smoke due to stubble burning in the neighbouring States by the farmers. We visited the Pusa Agricultural Institute today and spoke to its director. They have developed a new and innovative technique, under which they give four capsules, with the help of which the farmers can prepare 25 litre of liquid mixture with jaggery and chickpea flour, which is sufficient to cover 1 hectare of land,” he said. “When the farmer sprays the liquid mix on the stubble, the stubble softens and melts down in 20 days. The farmer can then begin sowing again and he does not need to burn the crop stubble. The soil loses its richness due to stubble burning and it also destroys the useful bacteria and fungi in the soil, apart from causing harm to the environment. This improves the fertility and productivity of the soil as the stubble works as manure and compost for the crops and lesser fertiliser consumption is required in the future,” he also said. The cost of the capsule, Mr. Kejriwal said, is very less and the Delhi government would soon be getting a proposal with all the important details. The technique, he said, was the result of many years of hardwork and efforts of the scientists who got the validation after a year after all their pilot testing and projection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bio-decomposer-technique-will-curb-stubble-burning-pollution/article32690922.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. moves HC over ICU bed reservation for COVID-19 patients||The Delhi government has moved the Delhi High Court challenging its decision which stayed the Health and Family Welfare Department’s order directing 33 big private hospitals here to reserve 80% of ICU beds for COVID-19 patients. The petition stated that the Single-Judge Bench, while passing the order, did not appreciate the categoric submissions made on its behalf regarding the surge in the number of COVID-19 patients, and the dynamic efforts being undertaken to tackle the ever-changing situation regarding healthcare and medical facilities in the Capital on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Delhi government stated that the High Court’s order on Tuesday was passed on the plea of the Association of Healthcare Providers and has been masked as a petition that is seeking to secure the interest of non-COVID-19 patients. “In reality, the same has been preferred on behalf of private nursing homes and hospitals solely to look out for and secure their own financial interests, and be able to levy arbitrary and exorbitant medical treatment fee and other such charges from critical COVID-19 patients,” the petition stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-moves-hc-over-icu-bed-reservation-for-covid-19-patients/article32690910.ece
25 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Dalit girl ‘gang-raped’ by upper caste men in U.P.||A 19-year-old Dalit girl from a village in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh has alleged gang rape, police said. The girl is in the intensive care unit of the J.N. Medical College in Aligarh after the alleged assault on her by four persons of upper caste when she went to collect fodder. Shahid Siddiqui, Principal of J.N. Medical College, said she suffered upper spinal injury leading to quadriplegia. “it could be because of strangulation. The samples have been taken, but as of now sexual assault could not be confirmed,” said Prof. Siddiqui. Police sources said the incident happened on September 14 in Boolgarhi village that falls under the Chandpa police station in Hathras. An FIR was registered against one person identified as Sandeep on the complaint of the victim’s brother and he was arrested under charges of attempt to murder and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act. “In what was being seen as a case of enmity between two families, took a new turn on Tuesday when the investigating officer went to record the statement of the girl in the hospital. Earlier, she was not in a condition to record her statement,” ASP Hathras, Prakash Kumar, said. On the basis of the girl’s statement, three more persons have been booked. Two accused have already been arrested and two others would be nabbed soon, Mr. Kumar said, adding section 376D (gang rape) of IPC has been added to the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dalit-girl-gang-raped-by-upper-caste-men-in-up/article32691191.ece
25 September 2020||Guwahati,||More opposition against Tripura Bru resettlement||More local communities in Tripura are up in arms against the resettlement of the Brus displaced from adjoining Mizoram. Members of the Halam community, a Scheduled Tribe of Tripura, also called Riam, on Thursday prevented surveyors from assessing land in the Churaibari area in Dharmanagar Subdivision of North Tripura district. The area borders Assam. People belonging to the Manipuri and Muslim communities in the area too protested the proposed settlement of Bru refugees in the area. This was the first instance of conflict over the issue of resettling the internally-displaced Brus beyond the Kanchanpur and Panisagar Subdivisions of North Tripura district. The sizeable Bengali, Mizo and local Brus – also called Reangs – have been against the settling of the Bru refugees near the areas they inhabit. Ethnic violence More than 35,000 Brus displaced due to ethnic violence in Mizoram since 1997 are currently distributed among seven relief camps in these two subdivisions. Leaders of the refugees, in January, signed a quadripartite agreement with the Centre and the Mizoram and Tripura governments for rehabilitation in Tripura instead of returning to “uncertainty” in Mizoram. “We are not against Bru resettlement but the Tripura government must settle them somewhere else. Our land and resources are very limited and sharing them with more people belonging to a different community will leave us with nothing. We cannot let this happen,” said Moni Ranglong, a Halam leader. He added that all villagers in the area blocked the road of surveyors guided by a plan to settle 1,000 displaced Bru families in forest land around Balicherra village in the Churaibari area. The locals practice jhum or shifting cultivation on the wooded slopes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-opposition-against-tripura-bru-resettlement/article32691194.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Domestic workers protest over social security||Domestic workers, many of them out of work since the outbreak of the pandemic, protested near Civil Lines metro station on Thursday, demanding financial aid and social security benefits such as pension, help for education of their children, insurance, and maternity benefits from the government. The protest was part of a national protest in around 20 States under the banner of National Platform for Domestic Workers, a network of over 50 unions and associations, the platform said. The group said that domestic workers were not included in the Code of Social Security, 2020, which was passed by the Lok Sabha earlier this month which means that domestic workers will not get any social security benefits from the government. “We are protesting against the anti-labour laws passed by Parliament,” said Christin Mary, national coordinator of National Domestic Workers’ Movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/domestic-workers-protest-over-social-security/article32690911.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Now, Sisodia, diagnosed with dengue||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who was admitted in a government hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 earlier this month, was diagnosed with dengue on Thursday and later shifted to a private hospital in the city, sources said. Mr. Sisodia was shifted to Max Hospital, Saket, a private hospital, on Thursday night. “He is admitted in ICU of Max Saket and will most probably given plasma therapy,” the source said. Mr. Sisodia was admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital on Wednesday with fever and low oxygen level. He was tested positive for COVID-19 on September 14 and was under home isolation till then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-sisodia-diagnosed-with-dengue/article32690912.ece
25 September 2020||Guwahati,||Former Assam IGP under CID scanner||Assam’s Crime Investigation Department raided the residence and two hotels owned by a former Inspector-General of Police in connection with the leaking of question paper for a test to recruit sub-inspectors. The CID has also questioned a State Bharatiya Janata Party leader for his alleged involvement in the leakage that saw 50 candidates appear for the “written test” at a lodge in Guwahati on September 19, a day before the scheduled date of exam. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had on September 20 ordered a probe into the leaking of the question paper via social media and asked Director-General of Police Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta to catch the culprits. The Chief Minister sought action against any “vested interest” that conspired to derail the recruitment process. The test to have been conducted by the State Level Police Recruitment Board was subsequently cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-assam-igp-under-cid-scanner/article32691197.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||Shelter home case: sentence challenged||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to respond to a petition by Vikas Kumar, a former Child Welfare Committee member, challenging his life imprisonment in a case of sexual assault of several girls in a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar asked the agency to submit its response by October 1, the next date of hearing. The High Court will hear Kumar’s appeal along with appeals of other convicts, Brajesh Thakur and Dilip Kumar Verma, both also sentenced to life imprisonment by the trial court in the case. The trial court had on January 20 convicted the three for offences under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and offences of rape and gang-rape under the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shelter-home-case-sentence-challenged/article32691198.ece
25 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP alleges corruption in civic bodies||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday attacked the BJP for allegedly not paying salary to municipal corporation workers and said that the South Corporation has to give Rs. 2,137 crore to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which can be used to pay salaries to North body employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-alleges-corruption-in-civic-bodies/article32690913.ece
