27 September 2020||Washington DC,||PM pitches for larger role in UN||Articulating an inclusive vision for the world and India’s role in manifesting it, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) how long India would be kept out of the top UN decision making bodies. He assured the world of the adequate supply of vaccines and highlighted India’s contribution to the UN peacekeeping missions and its non-exclusive foreign policy, making the case for India playing a leading role in the world body. Mr. Modi, who spoke in Hindi and delivered the first speech at the UNGA debate, said the problems and solutions of the world in 1945 were quite different from today. “Today, we are in a completely different era,” he said, asking if the character of an institution from those times is even relevant today. He said the UN enjoyed “unparalleled” respect in India but Indians were concerned whether the reform process would “ever reach its logical conclusion.” “For how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations?” Mr. Modi said, in a reference to India’s long-standing quest for a permanent seat at the United Nations Security Council. Mr. Modi questioned the sufficiency of the UN’s response on issues such as terrorism, the refugee crises and the coronavirus pandemic. “Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?” he asked. Later in his speech, Mr. Modi assured the global community that India’s vaccine production capacity would help the world. “India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-pitches-for-larger-role-in-un/article32706516.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC: allow export of pending consignment of onions||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Union government to decide quickly on its notification prohibiting export of onions and said, “It will be in the interest of justice if export of pending consignments of onion with valid shipping bills are allowed.” A Division Bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition filed by Horticulture Produce Exporters Association and others through advocate Sujay Kantawalla. They have contended that though their bills were prior to issuance of notification dated September 14, 2020 which prohibited export of onions, they were not being permitted to export. The petition stated, “The containers were illegally kept on hold by the customs authorities, as they were illegally acting upon some information that they had received at around 10 a.m. purportedly informing them some policy changes regarding onion exports were to happen, however no policy decision or notification came up.” Senior advocate Pradeep Jetly appearing for Union of India said, “Those consignments of onions which were loaded prior to issuance of the said notification will be allowed to be exported.” The court said, “It appears that the consignments of the petitioners were with the customs authority prior to issuance of the impugned notification. While we appreciate the decision taken by the authorities to mitigate the hardship of those exporters where consignments were already loaded for export, we believe that it would be in the interest of justice if the same benefit is extended to the goods of the petitioners.” The Bench added that “We expect a decision to be taken expeditiously as admittedly the goods are perishable.” The judges adjourned the matter for September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-allow-export-of-pending-consignment-of-onions/article32706961.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre advances procurement of paddy in Punjab, Haryana||Amid mass farmer agitations in Punjab and Haryana, the Centre has advanced kharif paddy procurement, allowing operations to begin on Saturday instead of the scheduled date of October 1. According to the Food Ministry, the change is due to the early arrival of paddy in these States. Both States have announced that procurement will begin from Sunday. Punjab and Haryana have been the hotspots of farmer protests against three controversial new Bills successfully piloted through Parliament by the government to enable agriculture market reform. However, farmers fear that the new legislation will dismantle the government’s procurement system and the minimum support prices (MSP) by undermining the network of notified mandis. “In view of the earlier arrival of paddy in the mandis of Haryana and Punjab, the Government of India has issued orders to start the paddy procurement program in these two states from today i.e. 26 September, 2020. The aim is to provide the facility to farmers to sell their produce at the minimum support price (MSP),” the statement said. Farmers unimpressed The announcement has not appeased the farmers. “They are announcing this early procurement to try and stop our andolan [protest]. But the farmers will not be distracted,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union secretary general Yudhvir Singh. “Anyway, there is a staggered rota system [in the mandis] now. Those who have early harvest will go and sell while the others continue the protest.” The Centre had also announced MSP rates for the rabi season crop unusually early this year, in what was seen as a bid to reassure the protesting farmers that the MSP will continue. “The MSP for wheat saw the lowest increase in the last 10 years. Farmers have seen it as an indication that the government is not even listening to their concerns. The Centre will not escape the backlash,” said farmer activist Ramandeep Singh Mann.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-advances-procurement-of-paddy-in-punjab-haryana/article32706681.ece
27 September 2020||Kolkata,||Ex-Bengal BJP chief upset on elevation of Mukul Roy||Differences in the West Bengal unit of the BJP came to the fore on Saturday over the elevation of Mukul Roy to the post of national vice-president. Mr. Roy, considered one of the founding members of the Trinamool Congress, joined the BJP after quitting that party in October 2017. Mr. Roy was a member of the national executive of the party and his elevation is seen as an attempt to placate him before the 2021 Assembly polls. Over the past few months, speculation was rife about his role and differences with other leaders of the Bengal unit of BJP. Mr. Roy said he along with State party president Dilip Ghosh will ensure the victory for the BJP in the 2021 Assembly polls. However, senior BJP leader and former president of the State unit Rahul Sinha seemed extremely upset with being left out. “I have served the BJP for 40 years. I have been a soldier of the party from its founding days, but now leaders from the TMC are coming and taking our post. There cannot be anything more painful than that,” Mr. Sinha said. The BJP leader did not specify whether he will remain in the party or not but said he will announce his next move in the next 10-12 days. Before Mr. Ghosh was appointed Bengal unit BJP president in 2015, Mr. Sinha was one of the most important leaders of Bengal. Following Mr. Ghosh’s appointment as Bengal chief, Mr. Sinha was appointed national secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-bengal-bjp-chief-upset-on-elevation-of-mukul-roy/article32706778.ece
27 September 2020||Kolkata,||Stay on sexual harassment probe against professor||Using the term khoshgolpo , or a pleasant conversation, does not amount to sexual harassment by any stretch of imagination, the Calcutta High Court has held in a case related to Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. On July 1, the university issued a notice to Mr. Bhattacharyya for allegedly making a derogatory remark against the Vice-Chancellor on Facebook. He contended that he had made the remark on a closed WhatsApp group, and had not named anyone. But on August 4, he was summoned by an enquiry committee to explain why he had made the remark. He told the committee that he would not respond unless he was given a formal chargesheet, and as a parting shot, said he was happy to have had “khoshgolpo” with the members. One of the female members of the committee, however, took offence at the use of the word, upon which Mr. Bhattacharyya, on camera, withdrew his statement. The member, subsequently, mentioned the matter to the Vice-Chancellor and was asked to put down the episode in writing. Her letter was forwarded to the Internal Complaints Committee, which issued a notice to Mr. Bhattacharyya on August 14, following which he went to the Calcutta High Court. “The dictionary meaning of the Bengali word “Khoshgolpo” is ‘a pleasant chat, an amusing tale or story’. The complaint does not even indicate that the said amusing chat of pleasant story was made with any inappropriate gesture or expression or otherwise. It, therefore, is ex facie clear to the Court that the word by any stretch of imagination, cannot amount to any sexual harassment,” Justice Rajasekhar Mantha said on Friday. “Courts normally do not interfere with enquiries, particularly that of sexual harassment, at the inception. The facts of the instant case are, however, too blatant and proceedings absolutely ridiculous, warranting interference, to prevent abuse of process of law ,” the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stay-on-sexual-harassment-probe-against-professor/article32706780.ece
27 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State caseload crosses 7,000||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph, which has been on a steady climb since the past one week or more, went up by 7,006 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case burden to 1,67,939. The State has also been increasing the daily testing of samples in proportion to the rise in case burden, with 58,799 samples tested in the past 24 hours. However, the test positivity continues to remain at a high of 11.9, indicating the extent of disease transmission. 3,199 recoveries The number of recoveries made on Saturday is 3,199. The total recoveries reported so far being 1,14,530, the active cases in the State now is 52,678. Of these, 378 persons are critically ill and being treated in ICUs. The number of new hospital admissions on Saturday was 3,446. State’s COVID-19 toll rose to 656, with another 21 deaths between September 3 and 25 being added to the official list. Six of these deaths were reported from Kasaragod, four from Alappuzha, three each from Malappuram and Ernakulam, two from Thrissur, and one from Pathanamthitta. Locally acquired infections accounted for 6,761 of the 7,006 new cases reported on Saturday (96.5%), consistent with the changed epidemic picture in the State, wherein local transmission has replaced almost all of the imported cases of infection. In 664 of these cases, the authorities have not been able to identify the source of infection. The locally acquired infections include those reported in 93 healthcare workers. Thiruvananthapuram scaled another new high, with the daily case burden jumping to 1,050 cases from the 800-odd cases reported the previous day. Cases are rising steadily in other districts too. Malappuram has 826 cases, Ernakulam 729, Kozhikode 684, Thrissur 594, Kollam 589, Palakkad 547, Kannur 435, Alappuzha 414, Kottayam 389, Pathanamthitta 329, Kasaragod 224, Idukki 107, and Wayanad 89.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-caseload-crosses-7000/article32706790.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI/COLOMBO,||Address aspirations of Tamil people, Modi urges Rajapaksa||Calling on the newly elected Sri Lankan government to fully implement the 13th constitutional amendment, which envisages a measure of power devolution to provinces, Prime Minister Narendra Modi “highlighted” India’s concerns about the rights of the Tamil minorities, during talks with his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa via video conference on Saturday. “Prime Minister Modi called on the government of Sri Lanka to address the aspirations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and respect within a united Sri Lanka, including by carrying forward the process of reconciliation with the implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution,” said a joint statement released after the meeting, in a clear indication that both sides agreed to the reference. Differing stance “Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa expressed the confidence that Sri Lanka will work towards realising the expectations of all ethnic groups, including Tamils, by achieving reconciliation nurtured as per the mandate of the people of Sri Lanka and implementation of the Constitutional provision,” the joint statement added, also indicating the difference in their stands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/address-aspirations-of-tamil-people-modi-urges-rajapaksa/article32706505.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s youth want housing, jobs, amenities in new master plan||Delhi’s youth want affordable housing for students, institutions to provide employment, community amenities like libraries and better accessibility to educational institutions among other facilities in the upcoming master plan for the city. A ‘Youth Sabha’ held by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) saw young citizens aged 18-30 raise pertinent issues concerning their education and career. The meeting was part of a series of consultations being held by the urban body with respect to the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) – 2041. Two more ‘Youth Sabhas’ are lined up for October 1 and 3. A senior DDA official said, “The objective of this consultation was to take the views of Delhi’s youth on what more could be provided to ensure quality education. The dialogue aimed to focus on the access to associated amenities like housing, connectivity to these institutions and so on.” According to the DDA, over 800 people had registered for the event and around 450 participated in it. Skill enhancement The official further said, “A need was felt for equitably distributed skill enhancement institutions that would help them [students] hone their employability skills and make them ready for the job market. The gap between jobseekers and actual available jobs is vast and some concrete steps need to be taken to bridge it.” The urban body also said that students residing on the Capital’s periphery complained of longer travelling time. “A youth from Najafgarh mentioned that the nearest college is 25 km away and it takes him one hour to traverse that distance one way. This is not only time consuming but also unsafe for young women as they do not always get to travel thro-ugh appropriate means of commute,” the official said. Several civil service aspirants residing in Mukherjee Nagar raised issues pertaining to their safety and unaffordable housing facilities for students in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-youth-want-housing-jobs-amenities-in-new-master-plan/article32706682.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP for increasing fine for not wearing masks to Rs. 1,000||If the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) gets its way, citizens will find themselves forking out Rs. 1,000 as way of fines for not wearing masks and failing to cover their mouth and nose in public. At present, citizens have to pay Rs. 200, but the civic body has proposed that the State government increase the amount. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, while holding a videoconference on Saturday said the question of fines was raised at a recent meeting with the Chief Secretary. “The decision has to be taken at the government level,” Mr. Prasad said, while reiterating that wearing masks and keeping a distance from others in public spaces was the most effective way of reducing the risk of exposure to COVID-19. In the first week of May, when masks were made mandatory in the city, a notification was issued by the then civic chief saying that people not wearing masks would be fined Rs. 1,000 for the first violation and Rs. 2,000 for subsequent violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-for-increasing-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-to-rs-1000/article32706541.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||2,239 COVID-19 cases in Telangana||Telangana continues to record over 2,000 cases a day. On Friday, 2,239 samples tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total to 1,83,866. The toll reached 1,091 as 11 more COVID-19 patients died. While 58,925 samples were put to test on September 25, results of 882 were awaited. The total number of tests crossed 2.8 lakhs on Friday. Of the 2,239 new cases detected on Friday, 316 are from GHMC, 192 from Rangareddy, 164 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 141 from Nalgonda, 106 from Karimnagar, 91 each from Warangal Urban and Bhadradri Kothagudem. In August second week, senior officials from the State Health department estimated that the cases will come down in GHMC by the end of August, and by end of September in other districts. The cases clearly did not decline in GHMC area. Even to this day as around 300 people tested positive for coronavirus in the municipality limits. September will come to an end in four more days. And there are no signs of decline in other districts too. High number of cases are being recorded in Karimnagar, Medchal Malkajgiri, Nalgonda, Warangal urban, Khammam, Bhadradri Kothagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2239-covid-19-cases-in-telangana/article32706746.ece
27 September 2020||Mangaluru,||TV anchor Anushree questioned||Television anchor Anushree was questioned by the Central Crime Branch police in a drug-related case here on Saturday. The police said she was questioned for nearly three hours at the Panambur police station on the basis of information that she knew Tarun, a choreographer who had been arrested by the city police this week on charges of consuming drugs. She was asked a set of questions by a team, which included Vinay Gaonkar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic), and Shivaprakash, police inspector, CCB, the police said. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Anushree said she hadn’t attended any drug-related parties. She knew Tarun and Kishore Aman Shetty, actor-turned-choreographer, arrested for drug peddling, as they were her choreographers about 12 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tv-anchor-anushree-questioned/article32706730.ece
27 September 2020||BENGALURU,||No-confidence motion defeated by voice vote||The no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition Congress in the Legislative Assembly against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday was defeated by a voice vote. The Congress did not press for division of votes. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who moved the motion, said the House did not have confidesnce in Mr. Yediyurappa, while accusing him of protecting corrupt officials. Mr. Siddaramaiah claimed that even the ruling BJP members were upset over the handling of COVID-19, alleged corruption in the government, and slackening of development works. He maintained that the BJP government did not have people’s mandate. Describing Mr. Yediyurappa as the architect of “Operation Kamala”, he said the BJP came to power only through such an immoral method. Speaking on the motion, Congress leader and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said no one in the State, including farmers, youth, women, students, parents, labourers, medical staff, and patients, had trust in the government. He wondered why the Chief Minister was yet to take a delegation of MPs, let alone an all-party delegation, to the Centre to seek assistance for handling floods and COVID-19. Countering this, Mr. Yediyurappa wondered if it was possible for the BJP to win 25 of the total 28 Lok Sabha seats in the State if the people were not with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-confidence-motion-defeated-by-voice-vote/article32706543.ece
27 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID recovery rate close to 90%||The State has reported 7,293 new COVID-19 infections and 57 deaths in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The infection tally went up to 6,68,751 and the death toll rose to 5,663. On a brighter note, the COVID recovery rate inched closer to 90% with 9,125 new recoveries in the past day. So far, 5,97,294 patients have recovered and the recovery rate stands at 89.31%. There are only 9.84% or 65,794 active cases, while 0.85% of the persons infected died so far. In the past day, 75,990 samples were tested and 9.60% of them turned positive. The overall positivity rate of the 55.23 lakh tests conducted so far was 12.11%. New cases East Godavari has again reported over a thousand new cases, while Prakasam reported 10 new deaths, the highest. The new infections and deaths reported in districts are as follows: East Godavari (1,011 and 4), Chittoor (975 and 8), West Godavari (922 and 4), Prakasam (620 and 10), Kadapa (537 and 8), Anantapur (513 and 2), Nellore (466 and 3), Krishna (450 and 6), Visakhapatnam (450 and 5), Vizianagaram (444 and 1), Guntur (393 and 3), Srikakulam (306 and 2) and Kurnool (206 and 1). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (93,184),West Godavari (63,504), Chittoor (59,243), Anantapur (55,729), Kurnool (55,456), Guntur (52,709), Nellore (50,493), Visakhapatnam (49,039),Prakasam (46,063), Kadapa (42,389), Srikakulam (38,090), Vizianagaram (33,803) and Krishna (26,154).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-recovery-rate-close-to-90/article32706510.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,||CBI chargesheets nine suspended policemen in Sattankulam case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against the nine suspended policemen of the Sattankulam police station, who were involved in the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Madurai. The charge sheet has been filed against the then inspector S. Sridhar, sub-inspectors P. Raghu Ganesh and K. Balakrishnan, head constables S. Murugan and A. Saamadurai and constables M. Muthuraj, S. Chelladurai, X. Thomas Francis and S. Veilumuthu. Special sub-inspector Pauldurai, an accused in the case, died after contracting the novel coronavirus. The charges against all the accused have been booked under Section 120 B (party to a criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), read with Sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 182 (false information), 193 (false evidence), 211 (false charge of offence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-chargesheets-nine-suspended-policemen-in-sattankulam-case/article32706583.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||State records 20,419 new cases, 430 more deaths||Maharashtra recorded 20,419 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking its total case tally to 13,21,176. The State also reported 430 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 35,191. With 23,644 patients being discharged, the tally of recoveries has touched 10,16,450. Of the total cases, 2,69,119 are active. Of the 430 fatalities, 227 took place in the last 48 hours, while 110 had taken place a week ago. Another 93 deaths took place prior to that. Mumbai reported 2,282 new cases, taking its tally to 1,96,585. With 44 more deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 8,750. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 4,819 new cases, pushing its cumulative case load to 4,62,738. The death toll in the densely populated region has now touched 15,385. The number of cases in the Pune division is 3,51,308, while the death toll is 7,606,. Nashik division’s cumulative case tally is 1,74,802 and the death toll stands at 3,563. Kolhapur division has reported 89,581 cases and 2,684 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division’s case tally stands at 50,198 and the death toll is 1,290. Latur division has reported 52,709 cases and 1,427 fatalities, while Akola division has reported 38,835 cases and 839 deaths. Nagpur division has recorded 99,509 cases and 2,266 fatalities. While 1,496 COVID-19 patients from outside Maharashtra have received treatment in the State, a total of 131 have died so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-20419-new-cases-430-more-deaths/article32706962.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 vaccine likely to be free for needy||Those unable to afford a probable COVID-19 vaccine will get it for free, and the government is considering a large immunisation programme to make it widely available, a highly placed official involved in the strategy told The Hindu . The vaccine is likely to retail between $2-$3 (Rs. 140-Rs. 210), the official said. Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India (SII), tweeted on Saturday: “Will the government have Rs. 80,000 crore over the next one year? Because that’s what the Health Ministry needs to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle @ PMOIndia?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-free-for-needy/article32706503.ece
27 September 2020||GUNTUR,||State to dig 2 lakh borewells free of cost||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the “YSR Jalakala” scheme on Monday at his camp office. It is expected to benefit three lakh farmers. The government allotted Rs. 2,340 crore through which five lakh acres are expected to be stabilised, as the government plans to provide free borewell connections. Fulfilling another promise made during his padayatra, Mr. Jagan said he had seen the struggles of farmers in digging a borewell, which forced them to incur debts and hence decided to take up the programmes. Farmers can apply for borewells at the village secretariats or online. The applications will be scrutinised by the Village Revenue Officer and later Assistant Project Director, District Water Managing Agency (DWMA), and later the applications would be sent to a geologist. The administrative approvals would be given by Assistant Project Director, DWMA, and later the contractors would take up digging of borewells. A special software would ensure that the entire process was completed within the stipulated time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-dig-2-lakh-borewells-free-of-cost/article32706511.ece
27 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||One held in Navi Mumbai for betting on IPL matches||The Central unit of Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested one person for betting in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) matches in UAE. Acting on a tip-off, senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar, and his team, raided Suyash Swaraj housing society in Koparkhairane Sector 8 and nabbed Vijay Yashwant Khairnar (39) on September 25. Two mobile phones, one TV and Rs. 2.26 lakh cash was seized from the flat. “Khairnar had purchased a mobile application which he was using to place bets in the IPL matches. He had been betting on all the matches since the beginning of the tournament,” Mr. Kolhatkar said. Prima facie, the police suspect that the accused took bets from seven people daily and then forwarded it to another bookies. “There were no limits on the amount received, which was around Rs. 1 lakh per person. We are looking into other people linked to him,” Mr. Kolhatkar added. The police are also investigating from whom he purchased the mobile application. He was arrested under various sections of Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act and is currently out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-held-in-navi-mumbai-for-betting-on-ipl-matches/article32706960.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The fire spreads||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-fire-spreads/article32706680.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCB questions Deepika for 5 hours in drug racket case||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday questioned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan in connection with the drug racket unearthed during the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Ms. Padukone arrived in Mumbai from Goa in a chartered flight on Friday, and was quizzed by the agency for five and a half hours. Ms. Khan, who also came from Goa on Friday, was questioned for four hours on her equation with Rajput as was Ms. Kapoor. Both have denied consumption of drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-questions-deepika-for-5-hours-in-drug-racket-case/article32706689.ece
27 September 2020||Kolkata,||Increase number of functional courts: CJ||To increase the workload in the high court and at the district level, the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court has ordered an increase of the number of functional courts and final hearings of matters, upon consideration of the recommendations of its COVID committee. Four Division Benches including one headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan will continue functioning, apart from the four regular single Benches, Calcutta High Court Registrar General Rai Chattopadhyay said in a notification. Two other single Benches will sit three days a week and if upgraded Internet connectivity is available, another Bench may be added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/increase-number-of-functional-courts-cj/article32706773.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The fire spreads||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-fire-spreads/article32706775.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. suffers setback||In an embarrassment to the State government, a law it sought to push to favour “ease of doing business” was defeated in the Legislative Council on Saturday, with even a BJP legislator opposing the changes. The Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020, had been passed by the Legislative Assembly earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-suffers-setback/article32706542.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Burning issues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/burning-issues/article32706880.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The fire spreads||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-fire-spreads/article32706963.ece
27 September 2020||BUTTAIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI),||Downpour in many parts of W.G., rivulets overflowing||Several mandals in the district received good rainfall in the last two days and many streams and rivulets are overflowing snapping road links to many habitations. One person was washed away and three were rescued when their car fell into a stream near Ramachandrapuram village of Buttaigudem mandal on Friday night. The victim, Kancharla Ramarao, was a native of Pandirimamidigudem village. The body was traced on Saturday, said K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana. Many mandals, including Eluru (85.2 mm), Pedapadu (92.6), Undi (82.4), Bhimavaram (78.2), Velerupadu (68.4), Kalla, Peravali, Jangareddygudem, Palakoderu, Buttaigudem received a good amount of rainfall in 48 hours.  Heavy rain forecast  Home and Disaster Management Minister M. Sucharitha said heavy rain was forecast for Krishna, West Godavari, Guntur, Nellore, Prakasam and other districts and moderate rainfall in other parts of the State, and appealed to the people to be cautious for the next two days. Krishna Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that due to the continuous downpour in the catchment areas Keesara, Paleru, Katleru, Wyra, Munneru and other streams were in spate and the inflows into the Krishna were increasing. “At present, the discharge from Prakasam Barrage was 1.40 lakh cusecs and by Sunday morning it is likely to be 3 lakh cusecs,” he said. He appealed to people, farmers and cattle-rearers to be cautious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/downpour-in-many-parts-of-wg-rivulets-overflowing/article32706512.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||She sells sea shells||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/she-sells-sea-shells/article32706514.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal assures 24x7 water supply in Capital||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the Delhi government is making all efforts to ensure 24x7 water supply to every household and end the issues related to installation of water pumps and overhead tanks to store potable water. The AAP government has decided to hire a consultant to suggest measures to achieve this goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-assures-24x7-water-supply-in-capital/article32706688.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bihar Opposition closes in on seat sharing deal||The Rashtriya Janata Dal-led (RJD) Mahagatbandhan is close to finalising seat distribution among its alliance partners. If the RJD has its way, then Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party is unlikely to continue in the alliance. Sources indicated that the RJD, being the senior partner in the alliance, will keep close to 140 seats out of the 243 Assembly seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-opposition-closes-in-on-seat-sharing-deal/article32706781.ece
27 September 2020||Chennai,||State reports 5,647 new cases, 85 deaths||Tamil Nadu added 5,647 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking its tally to 5,75,017. While 5,612 persons were discharged, 85 persons died. Chennai, for the third day in a row, reported over 1,000 cases. A total of 1,187 persons tested positive and 23 persons died in the city. Till date, 5,19,448 persons have recovered. A total of 9,233 persons have died in the State so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-5647-new-cases-85-deaths/article32706585.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCB questions Deepika for 5 hours in drug case||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday questioned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan in connection with the drug racket unearthed during investigations into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Ms. Padukone was quizzed for five and a half hours. She was summoned after it came to light that she was the alleged admin of a WhatsApp group where drugs were discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncb-questions-deepika-for-5-hours-in-drug-case/article32706964.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,||C.T. Ravi, Tejasvi Surya in Nadda’s team||In a reshuffle of the BJP organisation, C.T. Ravi and Tejasvi Surya from the State have been inducted into the team of office-bearers selected to work under new party national president J.P. Nadda. Mr. Ravi, Minister for Kannada and Culture, has been appointed one of the eight national general secretaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ct-ravi-tejasvi-surya-in-naddas-team/article32706545.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||In inexorable climb, Kerala cases rise by 7,006||It was a fresh high for COVID-19 cases in Kerala, as 7,006 more people were reported to be positive on Saturday. Daily testing was up, with 58,799 more samples tested. Test positivity was 11.9%, indicating steady transmission. Active cases stood at 52,678. Of these, 378 patients were in ICUs, with 93 on ventilator support. The number of new hospital admissions on Saturday was 3,446. Kerala’s toll rose to 656, with 21 more deaths that occurred between September 3 and 25 being added to the list. Six deaths were in Kasaragod, four in Alapuzha, three each in Malappuram and Ernakulam, two each in Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur and one in Pathanamthitta. Locally acquired infections accounted for 6,761 new cases (96.5%). In 664 cases, the authorities could not pinpoint the source of infection. The locally-acquired infections included 93 healthcare workers, 22 of them from Thiruvananthapuram and 15 from Kannur. Thiruvananthapuram witnessed another high on Saturday, when daily cases jumped to 1,050 from the 800-plus reported the previous day. Cases were rising in other districts too. Malappuram had 826, Ernakulam 729, Kozhikode 684, Thrissur 594, Kollam 589, Palakkad 547, Kannur 435, Alapuzha 414, Kottayam 389, Pathanamthitta 329, Kasaragod 224, Idukki 107 and Wayanad 89 cases. Telangana on Friday reported 2,239 fresh cases. Eleven more patients died while 58,925 tests were conducted. Of the new cases, 316 were from Greater Hyderabad, 192 from Rangareddy, 164 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 141 from Nalgonda, 106 from Karimnagar, 91 each from Warangal Urban and Bhadradri Kothagudem. In the second week of August, health officials estimated that cases would come down in Hyderabad by month-end, and by end- September in other districts. Andhra Pradesh reported 7,293 new infections and 57 deaths on Saturday. There were 65,794 active cases, while 0.85% persons infected died. In the past day, 75,990 samples were tested and 9.60% were found to be positive. East Godavari reported over a thousand fresh cases again, and Prakasam reported 10 new deaths. New infections and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (1,011 and 4), Chittoor (975 and 8), West Godavari (922 and 4), Prakasam (620 and 10), Kadapa (537 and 8), Anantapur (513 and 2), Nellore (466 and 3), Krishna (450 and 6), Visakhapatnam (450 and 5), Vizianagaram (444 and 1), Guntur (393 and 3), Srikakulam (306 and 2) and Kurnool (206 and 1).  Tamil Nadu added 5,647 fresh cases on Saturday, taking its overall tally to 5,75,017. While 5,612 persons were discharged, the deaths of 85 persons were registered in the State. Chennai, for the third day in a row, reported more than 1,000 cases. Atotal of 1,187 persons tested positive for the infection and 23 persons died in the city. Coimbatore followed with 656 new cases. Of the 85 persons who died, 50 were in government hospitals and 35in private hospitals.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-inexorable-climb-kerala-cases-rise-by-7006/article32706431.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tejasvi in, Ram Madhav out in BJP rejig||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday announced his new team of office-bearers which combined big inclusions, such as the appointment of first-term MP Tejasvi Surya as chief of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), to the exclusion of general secretaries such as Ram Madhav, P. Muralidhar Rao, Saroj Pande and Anil Jain, in a significant rejig. The list had been anticipated since Mr. Nadda took over as party chief in January this year, and is now being seen in conjunction with a possible Cabinet expansion in the next few weeks. The biggest changes were seen in the most significant group of office-bearers — general secretaries. Four general secretaries from former president and current Home Minister Amit Shah’s team, who were handling important States, were dropped. They are Ram Madhav, who was in charge of Jammu and Kashmir and the northeast; P. Muralidhar Rao, who handled the southern States and Rajasthan; Saroj Pande, who handled Maharashtra; and Anil Jain, who handled Haryana among other States. Senior BJP sources say a couple of them may find space in the Cabinet expansion. If the exclusions were interesting, the inclusions were interesting too. Dilip Saikia, all of 47 years and a first-term MP from Mangaldoi in Assam, was made general secretary, a big promotion for him, as was C.T. Ravi, MLA from Karnataka. Former Union Minister in the Manmohan Singh government, D. Purandeswari from Andhra Pradesh, made a comeback into the limelight as general secretary. With D. Aruna as vice-president and K. Laxman as OBC Morcha chief, both from Telangana, the two States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have been given decent prominence in the team. Poll-going States It seemed to be a mixed bag for poll-going West Bengal and Tamil Nadu (both in 2021). No name from Tamil Nadu was included in the list whereas for West Bengal, the party high command sent a clear message that Mukul Roy, appointed vice-president, would be calling the shots in the State unit. Former West Bengal BJP chief Rahul Sinha, who had been included as national secretary earlier, was dropped from the list altogether, while Anupam Hazra, a former Trinamool Congress MP from Bolpur recruited into the BJP by Mr. Roy, was appointed national secretary. The northeastern States were given heavy representation. M. Chuba Ao from Nagaland was made national vice-president and Mmhonlumo Kikon, MLA from Nagaland, has been appointed one of the national spokespersons. This reflects not just the party’s expansion in these areas but also the intention to stay the course. A significant message in the list was for the faction-ridden Maharashtra unit. With the appointment of former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis as a co-in-charge for Bihar during the poll, leaders with whom he does not share very comfortable equations — former State Minister Vinod Tawde and Pankaja Munde — have been appointed national secretaries. It is a balancing act that says a lot about the situation in the State unit. The list included an appointee to a post that had remained empty in name since Piyush Goyal became Union Minister in 2014, that of treasurer. Rajesh Agarwal, long-time MLA from Bareilly and former Finance Minister in Uttar Pradesh, has been made treasurer, and Sudhir Gupta, MP from Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh, appointed co-treasurer. With all these changes, there were some significant continuations too — Amit Malviya and Anil Baluni will continue in their respective roles as social media and media cell in-charge. The list will be expanded in the coming weeks by appointments to other cells and morchas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejasvi-in-ram-madhav-out-in-bjp-rejig/article32706437.ece
27 September 2020||Chennai,||SPB laid to rest with State honours||Legendary playback singer S. P. Balasubrahmanyam — SPB to his legions of fans — was laid to rest with a police gun salute on Saturday morning, amidst an outpouring of grief from fans across the world and his peers in the world of films. The City Armed Reserve Police Personnel gave a gun salute with 24 personnel firing three rounds each in the air before his body was lowered in the pit at his farmhouse in Tamaraipakkam on the outskirts of Chennai. The singer died on Friday afternoon at a private hospital in the city, where he was admitted on August 5 after testing positive for COVID-19. While his body was initially brought to his residence in Nungambakkam, it was later shifted it to his farmhouse in Tamaraipakkan in Red Hills and placed in a cold glass-panelled casket. From Saturday morning, a steady stream of fans came to pay their homage. Among the members of the Tamil film industry who came to pay their respects were playback singer Mano; directors Bharathiraaja and Ameer; actors Vijay and Arjun; and music composer Devi Sri Prasad. Minister for Tamil Official Language and Culture Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan placed a wreath on the body. Many local local politicians also paid their respects. Andhra Pradesh Water Resources Minister P. Anilkumar; Kerala NRK Development Officer in Chennai Anu P. Chacko on behalf of the Kerala Chief Minister; and Tiruvallur District Collector Mageshwari Ravikumar were among those who paid floral tributes. Over 1,000 policemen The police made elaborate arrangements to ensure physical distancing norms were maintained. Over 1,000 police personnel from the Chennai city and Tiruvallur district police were deployed at the burial site. Wooden barricades were set up to regulate the visitors, and the police allowed only 150 persons at regular intervals from the morning. At around 10.20 a.m., family members led by son S.P. Charan began to perform the last rites. From Friday afternoon, fans shared their memories on social media, including songs he had sung across languages and reminiscences of his live performances. Over the last decade, SPB had been active on reality shows as well, and several videos of his praising and encouraging young contestants were shared by fans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spb-laid-to-rest-with-state-honours/article32706449.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bihar Opposition narrows down seat sharing formula||The Rashtriya Janata Dal-led (RJD) Mahagatbandhan (grand alliance) is close to finalising seat distribution among its alliance partners. If the RJD has its way, then Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) is unlikely to continue in the alliance. Sources indicated that the RJD, being the senior partner in the alliance, will keep close to 140 seats out of the 243 Assembly seats. The Congress, which had been demanding more than 90 seats, agreed to climb down and might get close to 70 odd seats. In 2015, the Congress had fought on 42 seats, including a couple of Janata Dal (United) candidates who fought on the Congress symbol. All the three Left parties — the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist)[CPI-ML]; the Communist Party of India(Marxist) [CPI(M)]; and the Communist Party of India (CPI) — will get more than two dozen seats all put together. The fourth partner — Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insaan Party — will get less than 10 seats. “We are at the last stage of tying up our alliance. More or less all the allies have agreed upon the emerging formula. We are likely to make an announcement in the next 72 hours,” a senior leader from the alliance said. The Congress has been trying to keep the RLSP on board too, but according to sources, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has been arguing against keeping them on. “He is not confident that the party will stay on with the Opposition alliance in a post-poll scenario, especially if the victory margin between the NDA (National Democratic Alliance) and the Mahagatbandhan is narrow. He also feels that the RLSP brings very little to the table,” a senior Congress leader said. Mr. Kushwaha’s recent comments that he would not fight if Tejashwi Yadav is made the face of the alliance also doesn’t help his cause. However, the Congress State in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil, at a press conference on Friday, had asserted that all like-minded parties will remain together. The RJD is negotiating with CPI(ML), leaving the Congress to talk to the other two Left parties. “Our primary objective must be to defeat the BJP (Bhartiya Janata Party) and its allies,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-opposition-narrows-down-seat-sharing-formula/article32706441.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCB questions Deepika for 5 hours in drug racket case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday questioned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan in connection with the drug racket unearthed during investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Ms. Padukone arrived in Mumbai from Goa in a chartered flight on Friday, and was quizzed by the agency for five and a half hours. She was summoned after some Whatsapp chats came to light alleging that she was the admin of the group where drugs were discussed, with her manager Karishma Prakash. Ms. Khan, who also came from Goa on Friday, was questioned for four hours on her equation with Rajput as was Ms Kapoor. Both have denied consumption of drugs. Ms. Prakash along with actor Rakul Preet Singh were questioned by the NCB on Friday. Executive producer of Dharma Productions Kshitij Ravi Prasad has been arrested by NCB and he will produced in court on Sunday. Meanwhile director Karan Johar who owns the production house, distanced himself from Mr Prasad. In a statement on social media on Friday, Mr Johar said: “Kshitij Prasad joined Dharmatic Entertainment (sister concern of Dharma Production) in November 2019 as one of the executive producers on contract basis for a project which eventually did not materialise. I do not know Kshitij Prasad personally, nor is he is my aide. Neither I nor Dharma Production can be made responsible for what people do in their personal lives. These allegations do not pertain to Dharma Production.” Earlier this week, designer Simone Khambatta, and Rajput’s manager Shruti Modi were also questioned. The NCB has so far arrested 16 accused in this case, including Rajput’s girl friend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and the late actor’s house manager Samuel Miranda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncb-questions-deepika-for-5-hours-in-drug-racket-case/article32706459.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bars, pubs reopen in TS after 194 days||Business at several bars and pubs resumed on Saturday following government permission given the previous day to reopen them. Clubs, however, continued to remain closed for members. The government permitted bars, clubs and tourism bars to reopen after 194 days of closure, initially due to COVID-19 the lockdown and later to meet the Centre’s guidelines on safeguards to be followed against the novel coronavirus. In the case of clubs, the managements have decided to bide time and reopen them only after only after ensuring that safety measures for members were put in place. Besides, several facilities in clubs like tennis courts, swimming pools, gyms, card rooms, dining halls and salons have to be cleaned and sanitised which will take a week or 10 days. Even use-and-throw glasses have to be procured. The health condition of bearers and stewards has to be checked, the president of New Club at Marredpally, P. Laxman Rao said. He added that post lockdown, the government had enhanced liquor rates which has necessitated recalibration of billing machines. A fresh rate list has to be put up on notice boards of clubs. An executive member of Fatehmaidan Club G. Srinivas Goud said most clubs were preparing to open in the first week of October. Caught off-guard The lights were switched on Saturday evening at pubs and bars in Hyderabad. Only a few pubs did not open as the announcement of permission to reopen caught them off-guard. At some pubs on Jubilee Hills Road no.36, Road no. 45 and Madhapur areas, long rows of cars could be seen with patrons waiting to step inside. Pubs, bars and clubs in Telangana have been under a lockdown for a longer period than other those in states after the Centre granted permission for reopening from September 7. The SOP norms issued by the Telangana government prohibit get-togethers, musical events and performances on dance floor. Permit rooms attached to liquor shops too have not been given permission to open up. “Fifty per cent occupancy, 22 tables instead of 50. No standing tables. Three times sanitisation. Staff was asked to come back and quarantined for 15 days. Hostel facility provided so that they dont have to stay and go out. Cutlery goes through UV sanitisation. No use of disposable tableware. Two sets separated, so that one set is left unused for 24 hours,” said Sanjay Bathla of Over The Moon (OTM) in Madhapur. “OTM is an open-air facility so there is no scope for recirculation of air. In addition we are following all the standard operating procedures, including sanitisation, thermal checks for staff as well as customers. The staff get an oximeter check as well,” he added. “We have been getting enquiries after the news of reopening in other states was reported. With the steps we are taking for customer safety, nobody should have doubt,” said the owner of a microbrewery unwilling to go on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bars-pubs-reopen-after-194-days/article32706859.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Heavy flood resumes to many reservoirs as monsoon retreats in Telangana||After a slowdown for a couple of days, heavy flood has started reaching all major reservoirs in the Krishna and Godavari Basins in the two Telugu States on Saturday following heavy inflows into all upstream reservoirs. “From less than 55,000 cusecs of flood discharge from Narayanapur dam to the river course at 8.30 p.m. on Friday, it crossed 1.61 lakh cusecs at 8.30 p.m. on Saturday with the help of increase in the discharge of flood at Almatti. Coupled with supplementation from Bhima and the intermediary catchment area between Narayanpur and Jurala, the inflows into Jurala reached 3.25 cusecs by 9 p.m. on Saturday,” flood monitoring officials at Jurala stated. Accordingly, the discharge of flood to the river course at Jurala was about 3.7 lakh cusecs, including 3.49 lakh cusecs, from 37 spillway gates and another 21,000 cusecs from the power house. Coupled with supplementation of nearly 70,000 cusecs from Tungabhadra, the realised inflows into Srisailam were over 4.1 lakh cusecs at 9 p.m. and the discharge of flood to river was about 4.07 lakh cusecs, including 3.77 lakh cusecs from 10 spillway gates and another 30,000 cusecs from the right bank power house. At the same time, the inflows realised into Nagarjunasagar were over 3.56 lakh cusecs and the discharge of flood to river was about 3 lakh cusecs, including 2.72 lakh cusecs from 20 spillway gates and another 28,000 cusecs from the power house. Godavari Basin With release of nearly 95,000 cusecs of flood from Jaikwadi on Saturday evening, the inflows into Sriramsagar are expected to increase further over the next few days from nearly 1.19 lakh cusecs as on Saturday. With increase of flood to Singur to nearly 23,000 cusecs, the chances of the reservoir getting surplus have become almost certain now with the flood cushion standing less than 8 tmcft against its full reservoir storage of 29.9 tmcft. The discharge of flood from Mid Manair was about 10,000 cusecs, while it was nearly 60,000 cusecs from Lower Manair dam on Saturday evening. At Yellampally, the discharge of flood was nearly 1.34 lakh cusecs against the inflows of over 1.26 lakh cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heavy-flood-resumes-to-many-reservoirs-as-monsoon-retreats-in-telangana/article32706750.ece
27 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Retain chapters on Nehru, Assam Congress tells CM||The Opposition Congress in Assam has requested Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to retain certain chapters on India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in the syllabi of Class 11 and 12. Congress MLA and Leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia on September 25 wrote a letter to Mr. Sonowal, seeking instruction to the Assam Higher Secondary Education Council for retaining the chapters on the former Prime Minister’s policies and contributions to the country. The AHSEC had in a move to provide relief to students affected by the COVID-19 pandemic dropped several chapters from Political Science and History subjects for Class 11 and 12. Missing chapters The chapters missing also include those on former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s ‘Garibi Hatao’ campaign, anti-Sikh riots of 1984, the Ayodha dispute, the 2002 Gujarat riots, Mandal Commission report, minority rights, women’s empowerment and the first three general elections besides the NDA phase under former Prime Minister Ataj Bihari Vajpayee. The AHSEC said these chapters were dropped to reduce the students’ load by 30%. “Any move to ease the workload of students is welcome, but the choice of chapters is questionable,” Mr. Saikia said, citing Nehru’s nation-building and foreign polices and Ms. Gandhi’s plans for alleviating poverty. “Any unbiased person would concede that Pandit Nehru laid the foundation of modern India. Pt. Nehru had signed the Panchsheel Agreement with China and the neighbouring country had stated that it still wants bilateral ties based on that pact,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retain-chapters-on-nehru-assam-congress-tells-cm/article32706694.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Safety concerns over ARFF staff working long hours||Safety concerns have been raised over the Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) services personnel in the international airports of the State working beyond the eight-hour and 12-hour shifts. Though the critical services are well organised, equipped, and staffed at the airports managed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) — Cochin International Airport Ltd. (CIAL) and Kannur International Airport Ltd. (KIAL) — ARFF personnel working for 24 hours is a concern for flyers and the operating airlines. These long hours of duty by ARFF personnel, who are the first to reach the spot in case of an emergency within the boundary of the airport, is in violation of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) guidelines. In case of an emergency, ARFF personnel have to reach ‘airfield crash fire tenders’ within the response time of 90 seconds.  Crash fire tenders In the case of low visibility and inclement weather, crash fire tenders are placed at predetermined positions on both sides of the runway to adhere to the response time. The flouting of ICAO and DGCA guidelines comes amidst reports that the ARFF could not stick to the response time during the August 7 Air India Express flight crash after overshooting the Kozhikode international airport runway. “Poor visibility and hassles of reaching the crash site below the tabletop runway are the reasons,” sources said. At the Thiruvananthpauram international airport, 24-hour shift is in practice among the fire service personnel. The ARFF personnel working beyond the shift hours at the airports of the State cite convenience, family needs, and restrictions on travel owing to the pandemic, sources at the airport told The Hindu . The flyers and the airlines fear that ARFF personnel working long hours without adequate rest will lead to fatigue and affect their professional skills and the level of protection provided at airports. DGCA circular As per the DGCA circular of June 14, 2017, fatigue is an important factor that directly affects human performance and is greatly influenced by the shift system of ARFF services. “There must be considerations to ensure that the ARFF personnel can have sufficient rest despite the need to be on 24-hour operational readiness at most airports,” it has said. A top official of the KIAL said they adhered to the eight- and 12-hour shifts for ARFF personnel at the Kannur international airport. At CIAL, the eight-hour shift is being enforced among the 90-odd members of the ARFF team. Various exercises are held to ensure appropriate physical fitness to overcome the rigours of the job. These trained fire safety personnel for the aviation sector are highly paid.  Long hours of duty by ARFF personnel is in violation of the ICAO and DGCA guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/safety-concerns-over-arff-staff-working-long-hours/article32706882.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Isher Judge Ahluwalia, noted economist, passes away||Padma Bhushan awardee Isher Judge Ahluwalia, a renowned economist who also worked extensively on issues related to urbanisation and education, passed away on Saturday in the national capital. Fondly known as Isher to her colleagues and friends, the 74-year old, who was the better half of former deputy chairperson of the erstwhile Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia, had been battling cancer over the past ten months. Her demise comes a little over a month after she stepped down from the chairpersonship of the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER), which she is credited with transforming into a research institution to reckon with. Ms. Ahluwalia was ICRIER’s chairperson for a period of 15 years till she resigned last month, citing her declining health. She was the director and chief executive of the think tank between 1998 and 2002. “I can say without an iota of doubt that ICRIER was in her DNA. The only persons who got precedence over ICRIER were her grandchildren,” said Rajat Kathuria, the present director and chief executive at ICRIER. Awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2009 for her services in the field of education and literature, Ms. Ahluwalia had led a high-level expert group on urban infrastructure and services for the Centre between 2008 and 2011. “Isher was and will continue to be an icon for women economists,” said former Competition Commission of India member Geeta Gouri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isher-judge-ahluwalia-noted-economist-passes-away/article32706445.ece
27 September 2020||Hyderabad,||‘Maternal uncle of wife plotted Hyderabad man’s murder’||While D. Avanthi Reddy was in the process of beginning her newly-married life at a rented house in Gachibowli, 15 km away in Chandanagar, her parents and maternal uncle were conspiring to eliminate her husband, for close to a month. Gachibowli police, who remanded to judicial custody the 14 accused in Chinta Yoga Hemanth Kumar’s kidnap and murder case, said Ms. Avanthi’s maternal uncle Yugandhar Reddy was at centre of the conspiracy. “Since the day she eloped and got married, her parents and other relatives felt humiliated. They were upset over her decision to marry a person from another caste with low productive status,” a senior officer associated with the probe said. Every day, Ms. Avanthi’s parents, D. Laxma Reddy and Archana, would cry over the marriage. “Unable to see them in such a state, Yugandhar came up with the idea to kill Hemanth and bring Avanthi back to their house. He proposed the idea to her parents, who agreed and paid an advance amount of Rs. 1 lakh to execute the murder,” he said. The cup of sorrow in Hemanth’s family has been overflowing since his murder. Hemanth’s brother Chinta Sumanth Kumar, who arrived from the UK on Saturday, said, “ Anna used to keep me posted about his relationship with Avanthi. I was really happy for him, as he finally got married to the love of his life.” Ms. Avanthi bemoaned her parents and relatives will be set free in a few years, but her husband will never return. Hemanth’s mother Chinta Lakshmi Rani said her son was killed only because of their lower financial status. “Though we belong to an upper caste, they thought we were not up to their financial status,” she said, wailing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maternal-uncle-of-wife-plotted-hyderabad-mans-murder/article32706418.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,||ED calls for details of Bineesh Kodiyeri’s assets||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has directed the Kerala State Registration Department to submit the sale deed and encumbrance certificate of all properties owned by Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, as part of its probe into his alleged financial transactions with one of the accused in the Bengaluru drug bust case. A letter by the Assistant Director of the ED in Kochi states that no transactions of the immovable assets of Mr. Kodiyeri should be carried out without prior information as the agency is investigating a case against him under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The investments made by Mr. Kodiyeri are being investigated and are suspected to be part of his proceeds from crimes committed under Sections 16, 17, and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other related offences. The Registration Department has asked nearly 315 Sub Registrars to file a report as per the ED’s directive. Information on Mr. Kodiyeri’s assets could be collected within two days as it is available online, senior department officials said. The ED had questioned Mr. Kodiyeri after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) suspected that he had financial transactions with Muhammed Anoop, one of the accused in the drug bust case. The agency is probing whether there was any illicit fund flow between them. The ED had also examined two now-defunct firms floated by Mr. Kodiyeri and others in 2015. The agency is also looking into his sources of income and investments. It is also probing whether Mr. Kodyieri had any interests in a currency trading firm that had recently come under the ambit of its investigation in the gold smuggling case. CPI(M) flays BJP Meanwhile, a meeting of the CPI(M) State committee in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday concluded that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had “politically weaponised” Central law enforcement agencies to destabilise the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala. The conference felt that corporate entities struggling to find a foothold in Kerala had orchestrated the conspiracy to destabilise the LDF rule. The LDF’s spirited resistance to the move to privatise airports, PSUs and other strategic national assets had upset the big businesses and they wanted the LDF out of power to promote their vested interests in Kerala. The BJP was the political arm of the profiteers. The Congress, which played second fiddle to the BJP in Kerala, was their B-team, leaders at the meeting said. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who chaired the conference, singled out the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for criticism. The CPI(M) felt that the CBI had attempted to cast the LIFE Mission a under a pall of suspicion to discredit the government project to provide free housing to the poor.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-calls-for-details-of-bineesh-kodiyeris-assets/article32706423.ece
27 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Weeding out lantana restores grasslands in Rajasthan||A special drive to uproot the invasive lantana bushes in the famous Sajjangarh wildlife sanctuary in Rajasthan’s Udaipur district has helped in ecological restoration of grasslands and saved biodiversity. The month-and-a-half-long campaign was accompanied by the plantation of native species on the cleared patches of land. ‘Mission lantana’ The small sanctuary in the southern Aravalli hills, spread over 5.19 sq. km, is home to a large number of herbivores. Lantana camara , a thicket forming shrub, has covered vast tracts of land in the sanctuary, stopping the natural light and nutrition for flora and fauna. The toxic substance in its foliage and ripe berries affected the animals, while its expansion stopped the natural growth of grass and other shrubs. With the herbivores not getting sufficient forage, the prey base for carnivorous animals was declining, leading to ecological disturbances in the food chain. The “mission lantana” was taken up last month at the instance of a senior woman police officer who noticed an unease among the herds of spotted deer with the gradual shrinking of their natural habitat. Inspector General of Police Binita Thakur discussed the matter with wildlife experts and initiated action to get rid of lantana bushes, which had taken over almost 50% of the sanctuary. The drive involved collective efforts and ‘shram daan’ (voluntary physical work) by the forest officials, police personnel, wildlife lovers, representatives of voluntary groups and local villagers. The volunteers used hand gloves and an equipment, monkey jack, for removing the toxic flowery shrubs. After 45 days, about 10 hectares of land has been cleared. The Forest Department, which has planted over 500 saplings in the cleared pockets, plans to take up sowing of grass and a variety of alternate plant seeds as the vegetation useful for herbivores. Udaipur-based environmentalist Satish Sharma told The Hindu that the drive should be taken up in the rainy season for the next three to four years to make a permanent impact. “The correct ecological approach would be the removal from top to bottom in hilly areas and centre to periphery in the plains.” Tourism & Wildlife Society of India’s honorary secretary Harsh Vardhan said lantana, first introduced in 1807, had spread to wildlife reserves, river banks and the Project Tiger areas where it had obliterated native grass and reduced biodiversity. In some regions, the plant has made inroads into pastures and shrunk the cattle grazing areas, affecting the livelihood of villagers. Natural grass has started growing in the Sajjangarh sanctuary and the spotted deer and other herbivores can be seen foraging on the vegetation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weeding-out-lantana-restores-grasslands-in-rajasthan/article32706696.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Heavy rain lashes Telangana, parts of A.P.||Heavy rains lashed across the State on Friday night and Saturday under the influence of a very vigorous south-west monsoon. Fifteen places recorded rainfall in excess of 10 cm. More rain forecast The State government put all the district collectors on high alert with more rain forecast in the next three days. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders asking officers to stay put in their headquarters and take measures to ensure that there is no loss of life and property. He also ordered cancellation of leave and permission for public holidays to all officers in districts. Meanwhile, the Meteorology department has stated that south-west monsoon was very vigorous over Telangana and heavy to very heavy rain occurred at several during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. The chief amounts of rainfall of 10 cm and above was recorded at Palakurthi (Jangaon district) and Shadnagar (Rangareddy) – 15 cm each, Wargal (Siddipet), Bejjanki (Siddipet) and Chennaraopet (Warangal Rural) – 13 cm each, Suryapet and Damaragidda (Mahabubnagar) – 12 cm each, Kondapak (Siddipet), Parvathagiri (Warangal Rural) and Makthal (Narayanpet) – 11 cm each, Nallabelly (Warangal Rural), Miryalaguda (Suryapet), Kosgi (Vikarabad), Vikarabad and Narayanpet – 10 cm each. Revenue authorities of the Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts have been kept on high alert on Saturday night, owing to the possibility of lifting the flood gates of the Himayatsagar reservoir, letting out huge quantities of water into Musi river. The gates of Himayatsagar will be opened after several years. Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board officials in charge of the twin reservoirs in Hyderabad have informed that there have been continuous inflows into Himayatsagar even while Osmansagar (Gandipet) has not received much water. “Any more rains in the catchment area could necessitate release of surplus water from Himayatsagar into Musi. As the Meteorology department has predicted more rains, we have kept the Revenue authorities on alert,” said a water board official. Reservoir levels Reservoir levels have reached 1,756 feet by 9 p.m. on Saturday, against the full tank level of 1763.5 feet. Flood gates will be operated when water level reaches 1760 feet, an alert from the water board said. Heavy rains across the city, which began on Friday evening continued on Saturday too. Multiple spells of showers lashed various localities of the city, resulting in inundation of roads, colonies and at times, homes too. Water flowed knee deep on nearby colonies with Saroornagar lake overflowing. Water entered homes too in a few locations, from where residents have been evacuated. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials have informed that over 100 residents have been shifted to safer locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heavy-rain-lashes-telangana-parts-of-ap/article32706412.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre advances procurement of paddy in Haryana, Punjab||Amid mass farmer agitations in Punjab and Haryana, the Centre has advanced kharif paddy procurement, allowing operations to begin on Saturday, September 26, instead of the scheduled date of October 1. According to the Food Ministry, the change is due to the early arrival of paddy in these States. Both states have announced that procurement will begin from Sunday. Punjab and Haryana have been the hotspots of farmer protests against three controversial new Bills successfully piloted through Parliament by the government during the monsoon session to enable agriculture market reform. However, farmers fear that the new legislation will dismantle the government’s procurement system and the minimum support prices (MSP) by undermining the network of notified mandis.  “n view of the earlier arrival of paddy in the mandis of Haryana and Punjab, the Government of India has issued orders to start the paddy procurement program in these two states from today i.e. 26 September, 2020. The aim is to provide the facility to farmers to sell their produce at the minimum support price (MSP),” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-advances-procurement-of-paddy-in-haryana-punjab/article32706439.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre for early rollout of mother tongue as medium of instruction||The Union Ministry of Education has informed the Supreme Court that it is fully backing a push for “mother tongue” as medium of instruction in schools. The use of “home language” for learning will bridge the gap between the intelligentsia and the masses, it said. The Ministry said an order was issued on September 10 to academic authorities, including the CBSE, the NCERT and the NCTE, to initiate the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP), which was approved by the Union Cabinet in July 2020, to promote “mutlingualism” and use of “home language” as a mode of instruction. The Centre’s affidavit came in response to the Supreme Court’s inclination to examine whether imposing English on a multitude of schoolchildren, whose language of instruction is their mother tongue, will amount to depriving them of an effective education guaranteed to them under Article 21A (fundamental right to education) of the Constitution. The case in question is an appeal filed by the Andhra Pradesh government against the State High Court decision to strike down its order to make English a compulsory medium of instruction. A group of Telugu scholars and prominent personalities led by former Deputy Speaker of Andhra Pradesh, Mandali Buddha Prasad, represented by advocate Vipin Nair, have opposed the move by the Jagan Reddy government. They said the government move will see Telugu join the pantheon of 197 regional and ethnic languages which have become extinct. According to the 2011 census, there are 1,369 rationalised ‘mother tongues’ spoken by more than 10,000 people. While there are 22 national languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, there are only six classical languages recognised in India. Mr. Prasad said Telugu is one of the classical languages under the Eighth Schedule, spoken by more than 81 million people. In its affidavit, the government said NEP 2020 focuses on “multilingualism”. It recognises the power of local languages to help young children “learn and grasp non-trivial concepts more quickly”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-for-early-rollout-of-mother-tongue-as-medium-of-instruction/article32706453.ece
27 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Retain chapters on Nehru in syllabus: Cong.||The Opposition Congress in Assam has requested Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to retain certain chapters on India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in the syllabi of Classes XI and XII. Congress MLA and Leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia wrote to Mr. Sonowal on September 25, seeking instruction to the Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC) on retaining the chapters related to the former Prime Minister’s policies and contributions to the country. The AHSEC, in a move to provide relief to students affected by the closure of schools due to COVID-19 pandemic, dropped several chapters from political science and history subjects for Classes XI and XII. Apart from Nehru’s policies, the chapters missing include those on former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s ‘Garibi Hatao’ campaign, anti-Sikh riots of 1984, the Ayodha dispute, the 2002 Gujarat riots, Mandal Commission report, minority rights, women’s empowerment and the first three general elections, besides the NDA phase under former Prime Minister Ataj Bihari Vajpayee. The AHSEC said these chapters were dropped to reduce the students’ load by 30%. “Any move to ease the workload of students is welcome in the current abnormal situation, but the choice of chapters for exclusion is questionable,” Mr. Saikia said, citing Nehru’s nation-building and foreign polices and Ms. Gandhi’s plans for alleviating poverty. “Any unbiased person would concede that Pandit Nehru laid the foundation of modern India by emphasising on industrialisation of the country via scientific technology. Similarly, Pandit Nehru had signed the Panchsheel Agreement with China and the neighbouring country had recently stated that it still wants bilateral ties based on that pact,” he wrote. Mr. Saikia, son of former Assam Chief Minister Hiteswar Saikia, also said that Nehru continued to get global respect for spearheading the Non-aligned Movement during the Cold War. “Even political opponents including Bharat Ratna Atal Behari Vajpayee and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh publicly acknowledged Nehru’s unparalleled contribution to nation-building and the nurturing of democratic values,” he said, adding students of the present generation needed to know his contributions. “...Everyone had noticed a concerted campaign by a certain section over the past few years to tarnish the image of Pandit Nehru and negate his contribution to the nation,” Mr. Saikia wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retain-chapters-on-nehru-in-syllabus-cong/article32706785.ece
27 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Visually challenged Boden brothers teach chess online||In a visionary feat, a visually challenged tutor from rural Odisha is teaching chess online to students in faraway New Jersey, United States. Soundarya Kumar Pradhan from Boden in Nuapada district is a self-taught chess player and a silver medallist in the Men’s Rapid Team Chess in the 2018 Asian Para Games held in Jakarta. Lucknow-based Chess Club Black and White (CCBW), which trains aspiring players, decided to deploy Mr. Pradhan’s prodigal skills. Mr. Pradhan told The Hindu , “One of founders of the organisation approached me to take a class on an experimental basis. I grabbed the offer. They were very impressed. I was requested to join them as guest faculty. All my students can see normally.” At present, four students each in Lucknow and New Jersey are being trained by him. Two more students are expected to join from both cities shortly, said Mr. Pradhan, who is pursuing his BTech programme in computer science at the National Institute of Technology, Jamshedpur. Big dreams Boden, a block headquarter town that is little more than a big village, is an insurgency-affected region bordering Chhattisgarh. Till some years ago, it had only 2G Internet connectivity. This, however, did not stop Mr. Pradhan and his older brother, Prachurya Pradhan, also an international visually challenged chess player, from dreaming big. The older brother has also been giving online coaching to budding chess players. The brothers were born with Leber Congenital Amaurosis, a rare inherited eye disorder. Their father is a teacher in the local college and their mother is a homemaker. They were introduced to chess by their uncle very early in their lives. In time, the Internet proved to be the biggest source of chess lessons for the duo. Between them, they have visited eight countries in seven years and won several laurels for India. “I improved my English-speaking ability by playing online chess games consistently. I can speak English with an American accent, which led to opportunities for coaching overseas players,” said Mr. Soundarya Pradhan.       “I was asked by Indic AI, an online platform that provides accessible education for differently-abled, to train budding chess players. I have utilised the COVID-19 period to the fullest,” said Mr. Prachurya Pradhan, who has cleared the first two papers towards becoming a Chartered Accountant in the first attempt — another rare feat for a visually challenged student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visually-challenged-boden-brothers-teach-chess-online/article32706434.ece
27 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Mumbai woman gets hands from Chennai man||A Chennai family’s decision to generously donate the organs of a young engineer, in the thick of the pandemic, has given new hands to Mumbai’s Monika More, 24, who had lost both her hands in an accident in 2014. Doctors at Mumbai’s privately-run Global Hospital, supported by teams of medical experts from Mumbai, Chennai and Kochi, last month successfully conducted the rare bilateral hand transplant on Ms. More. She was discharged from the hospital on Saturday after month-long treatment to continue her rehabilitation. Ms. More, a resident of Kurla here, underwent a 16-hour bilateral (double hand) transplant procedure on August 28, 2020, soon after the limbs reached the hospital after being flown in by a chartered plane. So far, her recovery has been satisfactory, and it would take another 18 months before Ms. More is able to use both her hands again after a gap of six years. She lost both her hands after falling into a gap between a suburban local train and the platform at Ghatkopar, Mumbai. She tried to use prosthetic limbs for a few months, but later applied for bilateral hand transplant at the hospital. “On several occasions, there were potential organ donors who could have donated their hands for Monika, but she missed the opportunities as the donor families did not agree to external limb donation, which is considered taboo. Finally, a suitable donor was identified in Chennai and we did not waste time and the rare opportunity,” said Dr. Nilesh G. Satbhai, consultant-plastic, aesthetic, hand and reconstructive microsurgeon, Global Hospital, Mumbai. In accordance with protocol, the donor has not been identified. What has been shared is that the donor was a brain-dead man, whose family generously agreed to donate all limbs, giving new life to six different patients, including Ms. More. “After performing the complex procedure successfully, Monika was put on immunosuppressant medication. She was kept in the transplant ICU in a separate room, with a dedicated nurse, as strict care and isolation was needed. Regular dressings were done for both the hands,” Dr. Satbhai said. “The patient was able to sit up and walk with support for her arms on the third day itself,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-woman-gets-hands-from-chennai-man/article32706455.ece
27 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||No garba in Gujarat this year due to COVID-19||The COVID-19 outbreak in Gujarat would deprive the people of the State of the famed garba celebrations during Navaratras this year with the Gujarat government announcing on Saturday that it would not permit any garba event anywhere due to the pandemic. The government said it would also not hold the State-level Navratri Mahotsav this year during the festival period from October 17 to October 25. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani after a review meeting. In a statement, the government said, “In public interest in view of the pandemic, CM has taken a decision to not allow the garba celebrations and also not hold the State level event at Ahmedabad.” Earlier, State BJP president C.R. Patil also said that no garba festival should be held because it can accelerate the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-garba-in-gujarat-this-year-due-to-covid-19/article32706697.ece
27 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||No garba in Gujarat this year due to COVID-19||The COVID-19 outbreak in Gujarat would deprive the people of the State of the famed garba celebrations during Navaratra this year with the Gujarat government announcing on Saturday that it would not permit any garba event anywhere due to the pandemic. The government said it would also not hold the State-level Navratri Mahotsav this year during the festival period from October17 to October25. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani after a review meeting. In a statement, the government said, “in public interest in view of the pandemic, CM has taken a decision to not allow the garba celebrations and also not hold the State level event at Ahmedabad.” Earlier, State BJP President C.R. Patil also said that no garba should be held because it could accelerate the spread of the virus. “It is not possible to maintain social distancing norms during garba,” a government official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-garba-in-gujarat-this-year-due-to-covid-19/article32706784.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,||ED questions Ragini and Sanjjanaa in drug case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned several accused in the drug racket that the Central Crime Branch (CCB) is investigating. Officials not only questioned actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani but also others accused of peddling drugs and organising parties. They also questioned three alleged drug peddlers arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a separate case. “Any drug peddling will involve black money and hawala transactions. We are after the money trail and probing whether there are any larger investments in these narcotics trade in the city and whether the money trail leads to any individual or a syndicate that is yet to be uncovered,” a senior ED official said. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru CCB police questioned costume designer Ramesh Dembla in connection with the ongoing probe into the drug scandal, on Saturday. “He is closely associated with the two actors arrested in the case and had attended some of the parties under the scanner. He was questioned and his statement recorded,” sources said. The Mangaluru CCB police, who are also probing allegations of drug abuse and links to the film industry, questioned television anchor Anushree on Saturday. She was questioned for nearly three hours on the basis of information that she knew Tarun, a choreographer who had been arrested earlier in the week on charges of consuming drugs, said the police. Later, Ms. Anushree told reporters that she had not attended any parties where substance abuse was rampant. She, however, said she knew Tarun and another accused in the case, actor-turned-choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty, professionally as both were her choreographers about 12 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-questions-ragini-and-sanjjanaa-in-drug-case/article32706425.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Address aspirations of Tamils, Mahinda told||The two leaders spoke via a videoconference, marking the first virtual summit held by PM Mahinda since he won the general elections in August, and the first such bilateral summit PM Modi has held with a neighbouring country, apart from the SAARC summit on COVID-19 that he convened in March. During the talks, New Delhi promised a $15-million grant for the promotion of Buddhist cultural exchanges, but demurred from a decision on Colombo’s twin requests of a deferment of its debt repayment and a currency swap. A joint statement issued after the meeting also made a reference to 13A as the amendment is known. Sri Lanka’s Tamil leadership has raised concern that the existing 13th Amendment — the only legislative assurance of power devolution so far — might be under threat as the Rajapaksa government plans to embark on a new Constitution. Some within the government have called for repealing 13A. While Mr. Rajapaksa has consistently promised India and the island’s Tamil community his commitment to 13A, as it is known, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who will likely enjoy greater powers according to the recently tabled 20th Amendment Bill, has emphatically said he would focus on “development rather than devolution”, and told The Hindu in an interview last year that he would not proceed on devolution “against the wishes and feeling of the majority [Sinhala] community”. Both sides discussed cooperation on a number of infrastructure and energy projects India is keen to pursue in Trincomalee, and the Colombo East Container Terminal project, which it has bid for jointly with Japan. Officials said PM Modi hoped for “early and decisive action” on these projects that have been pending for more than three years. India has not yet responded with a decision on the requests made personally by PM Mahinda during his visit to Delhi in February this year, for a three-year moratorium on Sri Lanka’s $960-million debt owed to India, and for a $1.1-billion currency swap arrangement, in addition to the $400-million currency swap that the RBI has already sanctioned. “Extending financial support to Sri Lanka is one of our priorities. Both these requests are being discussed at the official level and we hope for an agreement at the technical level shortly,” Mr. Narang said, asked about the reason for the delay in the decisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/address-aspirations-of-tamils-mahinda-told/article32706426.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kharge terms new labour laws ‘anti-worker’||The Narendra Modi government’s claim that the new labour laws will facilitate ease of doing business is false, Congress leader and former Labour Minister Mallikarjun Kharge said on Saturday, adding that the three labour codes passed by Parliament are “anti-worker” and remove the hard-earned social security net. Earlier on Wednesday, Parliament has passed the three labour codes — the Industrial Relations Code, the Social Security Code and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, that gives the establishments greater freedom in worker termination and exit policies. Their passage in Rajya Sabha by voice vote came amid a boycott by opposition parties, including the Congress and the Left, over the suspension of eight MPs. States bypassed “They have weakened trade unionsand finished the security and safety for the workers. States’ powers have been usurped by the central government with these laws. These codes are anti-worker, anti-labourer and it is important to agitate against them,” Mr. Kharge said, addressing a press conference in the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kharge-terms-new-labour-laws-anti-worker/article32706442.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. nod for re-entry of Tibetans with return visas||The Union Home Ministry has allowed Tibetan migrants in foreign countries to return to India through any of the 107 immigration check posts. The restriction by MHA, prohibiting international travel to and from the immigration check posts was issued on March 23 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The restrictions have been gradually relaxed.  The MHA, in the latest order, said: “It has been decided to permit Tibetan migrants who have their residence in India and holding certificate of Identity issued by the Ministry of External Affairs and Return Visa to enter India.” The MHA order said the return is subject to the condition that such Tibetan migrants should have been registered with the Foreigners Regional Registration Office. “Their Return Visa shall stand restored with immediate effect to facilitate their entry into India. However, if the validity of such visas has expired, they may obtain a fresh Return Visa from the Indian Missions/Posts concerned,” the order said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-nod-for-re-entry-of-tibetans-with-return-visas/article32706443.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID vaccine likely to cost between Rs. 140-Rs. 210||The Serum Institute of India (SII), which has begun phase-3 trials of its vaccine candidate, Covishield, this month, has committed to producing about 100 million doses for India and 92 other low income countries, partly aided by a $150-million fund by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Half of those doses are expected to be available for India though it isn’t clear yet whether a vaccine shot would involve one or two doses. On Saturday, Adar Poonawalla, CEO, of SII had tweeted: “Will the government have Rs. 80,000 crore over the next one year?” It was not immediately clear if the costs mentioned were only for the first 100 million doses. A spokesperson for SII said no further clarification was available for Mr. Poonawalla’s statement. Complex situation Given India’s population of 130 crore, this works out to about Rs. 600 per vaccine. “The situation is currently complex and dynamic but a likely price would be close to half of that or $2-$3 (Rs. 140-Rs. 210),” said the person who declined to be identified because the policy wasn’t yet firmed up. “Those in the national immunisation programme will get it free. There will be a large government-led programme...essentially all who cannot pay will get it free.” India’s mission Indradhanush, or the national immunisation programme, provides free vaccines against 12 vaccine-preventable diseases mostly to children and the pregnant. Some are provided nationally and some sub-nationally depending on the rate of disease prevalence. Human trials The COVID-19 vaccines being tested are only being administered in healthy adult volunteers to check for safety and efficacy. Shahid Jameel, a virologist and Director, Trivedi School for Biosciences, Ashoka University, said for pregnant women to be administered the vaccine, a certain percentage of them would have to be included in phase-3 trials. Once the trials are proven safe and efficacious in adults, the vaccines can be re-purposed for children. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said a vaccine could be available by early next year. He told Parliament that a “vaccine strategy” was also ready and health care workers were likely to be the first recipients. The SII vaccine has been developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. There are other candidates being tested by other Indian companies. Another official familiar with the vaccine development process said the flu vaccine had cost around Rs. 500 and the hepatitis B vaccine Rs. 350. “It’s in the ballpark but there could be different prices if it’s delivered via the national immunisation programme”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-vaccine-likely-to-cost-between-rs-140-rs-210/article32706446.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Origins of Indian culture’ panel may be reconstituted||The Union Culture Ministry is considering reconstituting the committee that was formed in 2016 with the objective of “holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture since 12,000 years ago” as it has failed to submit its report till now, Ministry sources said. Asked whether the Ministry had set up a committee to study ancient history, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said in his written reply to the Lok Sabha on September 14: “Yes, Sir. An expert committee has been set up for conducting holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture since 12,000 years before present and its interface with other cultures of the world.” Mr. Patel’s reply included the list of names of the committee members, including chairperson K.N. Dikshit, the former Joint Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India. Asked if the committee’s report would be used in textbooks, the Minister replied: “At present, there is no such proposal.” The 16-committee was formed in 2016 by then-Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma. More members The source added that Mr. Patel had reviewed the matter and was likely to reconstitute the committee with a larger number of members who represented all aspects of Indian history, including experts of Buddhist, Jain and Mughal history. One of the members of the committee, Dr. B.R. Mani, the former Director General of the National Museum and former Additional Director General of the ASI, told The Hindu that a report of the committee could not be compiled as only a few members had submitted their reports. After Mr. Patel’s reply to the Lok Sabha, concerns over the composition of the committee were raised by various political parties. While speaking in the Rajya Sabha during Zero Hour on September 22, DMK MP Tiruchi Siva raised the lack of diversity, asking for Tamil scholars to be included as well. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 23 asking for the committee to be re-constituted as it did not include any representation from Southern States, particularly Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/origins-of-indian-culture-panel-may-be-reconstituted/article32706450.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||Role of housewife least appreciated: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court said “the role of a ‘housewife’ is most challenging and deserves much appreciation, but is least appreciated” while directing an insurance company to pay the family of an accident victim over Rs. 8 lakh as compensation. A single judge Bench of Justice Anil Kilor was hearing the plea of Rambhau Gawai, which had been rejected by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Achalpur in Amravati district, on the ground of falsity of age on February 3, 2007. Mr. Gawai’s wife Baby worked as a labourer and died on March 31, 2005, when the driver of the jeep she was travelling in crashed the vehicle into a tree. Mr. Gawai and his two sons, aged 18 and 20, are residents of Tembursonda village, Chikhaldara taluk in Melghat, a tribal area in Vidarbha, had claimed a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh. The tribunal had ruled the husband is the earning member of the family and the sons are both majors and therefore cannot claim compensation. Refuting the order, the High Court said, “In India, by law since 1969, birth registration is made compulsory as per provisions of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act.”  ‘Fewer births registered’ It added, “However, till date the registration of births is low at 80%. Those born in remote areas, like the deceased Baby, have lesser likelihood of registration of birth and possessing a birth certificate. Therefore, there is a practice of mentioning the approximate age if any such occasion to mention the age arises.” The 23-page judgment said, “In fact, emotionally she holds the family together. She is a pillar support for her husband, a guiding light for her child/children and harbour for the family’s elderly. She works round the clock without a single day off, no matter whether she is working or not. However, the work she does goes unacknowledged and is not considered a ‘job’. It is an impossible task to count the services she renders, which consists of hundreds of components that go into the functioning of a household itself, in monetary terms.” The court added, “The tribunal ought to have accepted the case of the appellant that the deceased was earning Rs. 100 per day and her monthly earning was Rs. 3,000, in addition to her work as a homemaker” The court directed the insurance company to pay Rs. 8,22,000 as compensation with 6% interest per annum from the date of application (2007) till its realisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/role-of-housewife-least-appreciated-bombay-hc/article32706460.ece
27 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha man tries to sell fake COVID-19 vaccine||Odisha’s drug enforcement agency and police on Friday took a man into custody on charges of trying to sell fake COVID-19 vaccine in Bargarh district. The accused, identified as Prahallad Bisi, was found preparing vials with ‘COVID-19 vaccine’ stickers on them. “We have arrested the persons in possession of vials. The vials have an unidentified liquid. The accused refused to disclose the composition saying everybody will soon get to know about it,” said Sasmita Dehury, Bargarh Drugs Inspector, over phone. Ms. Dehury said the man had not sold it in open market and there was no information of anybody being injected with it. On being tipped off that a person was preparing counterfeit drugs in Rishida village, a team raided the spot. They found Bisi (32), having stocks of the counterfeit vaccine. “We have booked him under section 18(c) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940,” Ms. Dehury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-man-tries-to-sell-fake-covid-19-vaccine/article32706461.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Akalis quit NDA over farm sector Bills||According to a party statement issued here, Mr Badal said the decision to quit the NDA was taken because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding Punjabi as an official language in Jammu and Kashmir. The pressure to quit the NDA alliance had been mounting on the Akali Dal, following farmers’ protests over the Bills. The SAD initially supported the ordinances but later took a U-turn on the issue. Many senior party leaders had cautioned the party leadership over the possible backlash over the issue. Earlier, SAD’s lone representative in the Union Cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit the government against the Bills. Ms. Badal in her resignation letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wrote, “In view of the decision of the Government of India to go ahead with the Bill on the issue of marketing of agricultural produce without addressing and removing the apprehensions of the farmers and the decision of my party, Shiromani Akali Dal not to be a part of anything that goes against the interests of the farmers, I find it impossible to continue to perform my duties as a minister in the Union Council of Ministers.” The Opposition Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party had been accusing the Akali Dal of misleading people on the agriculture Bills issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akalis-quit-nda-over-farm-sector-bills/article32706409.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka Assembly adopts two farm Bills||The Legislative Assembly on Saturday adopted two agriculture-related Bills that have faced stiff opposition from farmers. The Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020, passed in the morning, enables non-agriculturists to purchase farm land. The Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, adopted in the afternoon, permits farmers to sell their produce outside APMC yards. While the Congress opposed the first Bill and staged a walkout, the Janata Dal (S) spoke in support of the changes. The APMC Bill was opposed by both the parties and they walked out during the Minister’s reply. The Bill on land reforms was passed after an amendment to the ceiling of land in the original Bill, while removing restrictions on purchase of agricultural land. It also said ‘A’ class irrigated land should be sold only for agricultural purposes and banned sale of land granted to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. During the discussion on the Bill in the House, Revenue Minister R. Ashok moved an amendment and retained the land ceiling limit mentioned in the parent law, Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961. An Ordinance and the original Bill had proposed to double the ceiling areas for a person or a five-member family from 54 acres to 108 acres (10 to 20 units) and for a 10-member family from 108 acres to 216 acres (20 to 40 units). But the Minister moved the amendment and retained the 1961 Act’s ceiling to 54 acres (10 units) for a person or a five-member family and a maximum of 108 acres (20 units) for a 10-member family. The Bill omitted Section 79 (A), which removed income limit for purchase of land. Earlier, a person having non-agricultural income up to Rs. 25 lakh was eligible to buy farm land. It deleted Section 79 (B), which under 1961 Act barred non-agriculturalists to own the land. The Bill also omitted 79 (C), which earlier empowered the tahsildar to scrutinise the purchase of land and issue notice in case violation of 79 (A) and 79 (B).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-assembly-adopts-two-farm-bills/article32706414.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TSRTC to resume services to Karnataka, Maharashtra from tomorrow||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) on Saturday announced resumption of inter-state bus services to Maharashtra and Karnataka, except Bengaluru, from Monday. Speaking to The Hindu , an RTC official said, “The decision to exclude Bengaluru is based on the fact that the number of cases are very high there. It was taken mutually by the TSRTC and the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). The KSRTC will not be plying buses from Bengaluru to Telangana as well.” In a statement issued to the media, the transport body said that the corporations of Karnataka and Maharashtra would also restore their operations to Telangana. Important routes are Raichur, Bidar, Nanded, Mumbai, Pune, Gulbarga, Nagpur, and Chandrapur, among others. Meanwhile, city bus services had few takers. This was attributed to the weekend and heavy spells of rain in the city. While the number of buses pressed into service was approximately the same as on day one, the trips made were lesser than those on Friday. On Friday, TSRTC had pressed into service 731 buses, which is a quarter of their city fleet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tsrtc-to-resume-services-to-karnataka-maharashtra-from-tomorrow/article32706754.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||L. Adimoolam elected INS president||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) on Friday elected L. Adimoolam, from Health and The Antiseptic publication, as president of the top body of publishers of newspapers, magazines and periodicals. He will succeed Shailesh Gupta ( Mid - Day) for 2020-2021, the INS said in a statement. While D.D. Purkayastha ( Ananda Bazar Patrika) was elected deputy president, Mohit Jain ( The Economic Times) was elected vice-president, and Rakesh Sharma ( Aaj Samaj) was elected honorary teasurer of the society. Mary Paul is the secretary general. Members of the executive committee include S. Balasubramaniam Adityan( Daily Thanthi) , Girish Agarwal( Dainik Bhaskar) , Samahit Bal ( Pragativadi) , Gaurav Chopra ( Filmi Duniya) and Vijay Kumar Chopra ( Punjabi Kesari) . Other members are: Karan Rajendra Darda ( Lokmat , Aurangabad), Vijay Jawaharlal Darda ( Lokmat , Nagpur), Jagjit Singh Dardi ( Charhdikala Daily) , Viveck Goenka ( The Indian Express , Mumbai), Mahendra Mohan Gupta ( Dainik Jagran) , Pradeep Gupta ( Dataquest) , Sanjay Gupta ( Dainik Jagran , Varanasi), Shivendra Gupta ( Business Standard) , Sarvinder Kaur ( Ajit) , M.V. Shreyams Kumar ( Mathrubhumi Arogya Masika) , Dr. R. Lakshmipathy ( Dinamalar) and Tanmay Maheshwari ( Amar Ujala , Delhi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/l-adimoolam-elected-ins-president/article32706435.ece
27 September 2020||Kozhikode,||Lost a brother, says Yesudas||Singer K.J. Yesudas has said S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was like a brother to him. “We may not have been born to the same mother, but Goddess Saraswathi was our mother of music,” Mr. Yesudas said. “We therefore lived like true brothers.” The singer said he would never forget the way SPB addressed him. “He called me anna (big brother) from the bottom of his heart,” he said. “Now he has gone away from me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lost-a-brother-says-yesudas/article32706447.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia hails ‘singing moon’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has condoled the demise of celebrated playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam and hailed him as the “singing moon” who shed his special radiance over the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-hails-singing-moon/article32706462.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana to launch portal for land records||Dharani, an online portal which is a single platform for accessing all records related to lands in the State, will be launched on Vijayadasami day. The launch of the portal, developed by National Informatics Centre, will also mark resumption of land registrations which were suspended in the State since September 7. This was decided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday . He will himself click the button on the auspicious day, a release of CMO said. It added that Mr. Rao asked senior officials to complete all arrangements for the launch before Vijayadasami. The necessary software, hardware and bandwidth should be put in place by then. He said the government will train the Tahsildars, Deputy Tahsildars and sub-registrars in their functions and updating records on Dharani. Demonstrations about the functioning of the portal will be given to them. He sought the appointment of one computer operator to assist officers in every mandal and sub-registrar office. The registration fee survey number wise will be fixed well before the launch of the portal. Training and licences will be issued to document writers at Tahsildar and sub-registrar offices. Data pertaining to all types of properties should be uploaded in the portal before Vijayadasami, Mr. Rao told the officers. The changes thereafter will be carried out as and when they arise. Mr. Rao warned that either registration of land or any other revenue related issues will not be addressed before Vijayadasami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharani-portal-to-be-launched-on-dasara/article32706419.ece
27 September 2020||Ahmedabad,||Dalit lawyer killed in Kutch||A Dalit lawyer in Gujarat’s Kutch district was brutally murdered on Friday evening, prompting angry community members to launch protests and block highways. Devji Maheshwari, resident of Rapar town in Kutch and a lawyer with over a decade of practice, was stabbed on his way to his office. He succumbed to his injuries before he could be taken to a nearby hospital. As word spread about the killing, hundreds of community members in Rapar and other towns in the district blocked highways and burnt scrap tyres. Family members also refused to accept the lawyer’s body for cremation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dalit-lawyer-killed-in-kutch/article32706783.ece
27 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Pubs, bars resume services in Telangana||Several bars and pubs in Telangana resumed services on Saturday after the government granted them permission to reopen. Clubs, however, continued to remain closed for members. The managements have decided to reopen them only after ensuring that safety measures were in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pubs-bars-resume-services-in-telangana/article32706428.ece
27 September 2020||Guwahati,||12 dead in flash floods, landslides in Meghalaya||At least 12 people have died in Meghalaya since September 22 due to flash floods and landslides caused by heavy rainfall, said officials. East Khasi Hills district officials said four people, including a two-year-old girl, died in landslides at three locations in Shillong on Friday. The deceased include footballer-turned-cricketers Razia Ahmed and Feroza Khan. The former had represented the State women’s team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-dead-in-flash-floods-landslides-in-meghalaya/article32706452.ece
27 September 2020||Kolkata,||Cinema halls to open in West Bengal from October 1||The West Bengal government on Saturday decided to open cinema halls, jatras, open air theatres and allow musical and dance performances in the State from October 1, subject to physical distancing norms. “To return to normalcy, Jatras, Plays, OATs, Cinemas & all musical, dance, recital & magic shows shall be allowed to function with 50 participants or less from 1 Oct, subject to adherence to physical distancing norms, wearing of masks & compliance with precautionary protocol,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted. The decision comes ahead of the Durga Puja celebrations in the State. Cinema halls have remained shut since the nationwide coronavirus lockdown began in late March. The relaxation, however, comes at a time when COVID-19 cases continue to rise, with the State recording more than 3,000 new cases and 50 deaths daily. Cases touch 2.4 lakh On Saturday, the State recorded 3,181 new COVID-19 infections taking the total number of cases to 2,44,240. As many as 56 deaths were recorded in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the State to 4,721. The number of active cases are 25,544 and the discharge rate is 87.61%. Of the 56 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, 13 were recorded in Kolkata, taking its toll to 1,652. The North 24 Parganas district recorded 14 deaths, taking the district’s toll to 1,064. Of the new infections recorded in the past 24 hours, 668 were recorded in Kolkata, and 693 in North 24 Parganas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cinema-halls-to-open-in-west-bengal-from-october-1/article32706456.ece
27 September 2020||C. JaisankarTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Patients opting for home quarantine rising in Tiruchi||The percentage of COVID-19 patients preferring home treatment has gone up in Tiruchi district. Till a few weeks ago, almost all patients who tested positive for the virus were desperate to get themselves admitted to the hospital for treatment. While about 60% of the patients preferred Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, others got admitted to private hospitals. Of those admitted in the MGMGH, the health authorities, after screening, shifted the patients with mild symptoms for COVID-19 to the Special Care Centre at Khajamalai. It is being observed that the number of patients desiring home quarantine is on the rise. According to official statistics, out of 536 active cases on Friday, 326 patients are under treatment at the MGMGH. Thirteen patients are being treated at the Special COVID Care Centre. About 165 patients receive treatment at various private hospitals in Tiruchi. As many as 291 patients are under home isolation-cum-treatment. It is 54% of the total active cases. Of the 291 patients, 142 receive follow-up treatment after being discharged from the hospitals. “Patients who preferred home treatment are being closely followed by the respective block medical officers and doctors of Urban Primary Health Centres. Only asymptomatic patients are allowed to receive home treatment. We have not received any report of complications so far from those opted for home treatment,” says Collector S. Sivarasu. He told The Hindu that they had been given a medical kit containing vitamin tablets, and kabasura kudineer powder free of cost. They had been following treatment protocol regularly, and all of them were cooperating with the health officials. The patients had been given emergency phone numbers and they were being contacted twice a day by the respective health official. Stating that the spread of COVID-19 was under control, Mr. Sivarasu said the district registered an average of 80 to 120 fresh cases daily. There was no alarming increase in fresh cases in any parts of the district. It had been noted that there was no significant rise in cases after the large-scale relaxation on lockdown restrictions since September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-opting-for-home-quarantine-rising-in-tiruchi/article32706969.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable wholesalers prepare for move back to Koyambedu||After nearly five months since the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex was closed after it turned into a COVID-19 hotspot, vegetable traders on Saturday prepared to reopen shops there after the last day of business at the Thirumazhisai market. About 70% of wholesalers vacated their shops at the Thirumazhisai market by Saturday afternoon. They noted that 80% produce was sold as Sunday was declared a holiday. Sheds put up at the temporary market will be dismantled, and final preparations are under way at Koyambedu. Retail prices of vegetables are likely to drop by 10%-20% as 200 wholesale shops would operate at Koyambedu from Monday, said traders. However, several precautionary measures have been put in place to restrict crowds. The market will not function on Fridays to enable maintenance work. Vehicles bringing produce will be allowed between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. from Sunday. Monday onwards, only retailers’ vehicles will be permitted to enter till 9 a.m. Passenger autos and two-wheelers have been banned from entering the premises, according to the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. Besides issuing vehicle passes, one-way traffic will be implemented to avoid congestion. S. Chandran, a trader, said wholesale shops and those who sell curry leaves and lemons had been permitted to trade. “We expect less crowd as business will be allowed only in shops and not in public spaces or on the streets. We have been instructed to have thermometers, oximeters and hand sanitisers in each shop,” he said. With the reopening of shops in Koyambedu, merchants said retailers would be able to make up for their losses. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders’ Association of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, said, “Wastage and loss will be reduced, and consumers will get fresh produce. Some vegetables like lettuce, broccoli and spring onions will now be available.” About 10,000 visitors and 2,000 retailers’ vehicles are expected to come to the market daily. Only workers in specific uniforms will be allowed. Face masks and physical distancing were mandatory, Mr. Rajasekaran said. While the CMDA has listed out several restrictions, public health experts have called for sustaining the precautionary measures. Precautionary measures Prabhdeep Kaur, Scientist E/Deputy Director, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology, said measures should be taken to keep the marketplace more open, with fewer closed areas or small enclosures. “A fever camp should be stationed. Vendors and workers should be registered with details of names, address and phone numbers so that contact tracing is possible when required,” she said. Vendors and workers should be periodically tested so that signs of transmission could be picked up early, Ms. Kaur added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-wholesalers-prepare-for-move-back-to-koyambedu/article32706590.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Condolences pour in for SPB||Condolences and messages from members of the Tamil film industry continued to pour in on Saturday for S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away on Friday afternoon. Singer Anuradha Sriram said that for several singers like herself, S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was an “encyclopedia” of sorts. “When it came to film music, he had been there, and had done it all. He was a pioneer. If any of us wanted a reference or some guidance on how to go about a song, we could be sure that SPB sir had already sung a track like that, and we looked up to it,” she said. Among the several videos shared on social media of SPB’s appearances on singing shows on TV, one was a clip of him and Ms. Sriram, where she stands next to him, in awe, as he sings En Kadhaley from Duet . “He performed as if every performance was his first — he was extremely meticulous, prepared and committed. No concert happened without a rehearsal and his thoroughness was something we all aimed to emulate,” she said, reminiscing about singing with him on stage. Recalling how SPB dubbed for him in the Telugu film Athadu , actor Nasser said it was a rare instance where the singer dubbed for someone other than actor Kamal Haasan in Telugu. “His voice lent a whole new dimension to my character and the movie took my career to greater heights. I consider this a personal gift that he has given me and will always be thankful to him for that,” he said. Actor Nayanthara said he was the “voice of all seasons and all reasons”. “Even at this juncture of mourning, our search to emote ends only in your songs. Such was your presence,” she said in a statement.  Even at this juncture of mourning, our search to emote ends only in your songs Nayanthara Actor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/condolences-pour-in-for-spb/article32706603.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘A privilege to act for his voice’: Actor Mohan on SPB||“Today is a black day for the music world. It is unbelievable that he is no more,” said actor, producer and director Mohan. As an actor, Mr. Mohan starred in several songs sung by S.P. Balasubrahmanyam that went on to become massive hits. From Ilaiya nilaa in Payanangal Mudivadhillai to Mandram vandha and Nilaave Vaa in Mouna Raagam , SPB’s hits for Mr. Mohan were many, and they are celebrated to date. “When I was in school, there was only a radio. SPB’s voice was something we used to stand and listen to. In college, I had friends who spoke different languages, and in the movies we saw, there always were beautiful songs that he sang,” said the actor. Calling him an “extraordinary singer with whom everyone could connect”, Mr. Mohan said he was happy to have had the privilege to act in his voice. “It was an honour,” he said. “So many generations he has sung for... He was a complete singer! Whichever song it was, he would turn it into absolute perfection. He was a genius and an extraordinary human being,” he said. The actor said the late singer was a wonderful person, with an extraordinary sense of humour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-privilege-to-act-for-his-voice-actor-mohan-on-spb/article32706597.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 5,647 new infections, 85 fatalities||Tamil Nadu added 5,647 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, taking its tally to 5,75,017. While 5,612 persons were discharged, 85 persons succumbed to the infection. Chennai, for the third day in a row, reported more than 1,000 cases. A total of 1,187 persons tested positive for the infection, and 23 persons died in the city. Coimbatore followed with 656 new cases. Four districts had 200-plus cases — Salem (296), Chengalpattu (259), Tiruvallur (235) and Cuddalore (212). Cases stayed high in a number of districts. Tiruppur reported 188 cases, while Thanjavur had 179. There were 161 cases in Villupuram, while a total of 145 persons tested positive in the Nilgiris and 141 in Tiruvarur. Till date, 5,19,448 persons have been discharged in the State. The toll kept rising, with 85 more persons — 50 in government hospitals and 35 in private facilities — succumbing to the infection. A total of 9,233 persons have died in the State so far. Five of the deceased were in their 30s. One of them — a 38-year-old man from Ariyalur — did not have co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private hospital on September 19 with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing for four days. He died on September 23 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 34-year-old woman from Chennai, with diabetes and hypothyroidism, died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital a day after admission, on September 24, due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Districts’ toll Apart from Chennai, Salem and Thanjavur recorded six deaths each, while Coimbatore and Vellore saw five deaths each. As of date, a total of 46,336 persons are under treatment in the State. This includes 10,311 persons in Chennai and 4,859 in Coimbatore. Another 94,037 samples were tested in the State, taking the tally of samples tested in the State to 70,04,558.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-5647-new-infections-85-fatalities/article32706612.ece
27 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Three running fake job portal arrested||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Saturday unearthed a fake job portal and arrested three persons for allegedly duping people in the guise of providing jobs amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The police said the accused had created a fake job portal, which was similar to a leading job portal, and reached out to job-seekers through various modes. Recently, the CCB received a complaint about the portal duping a person who lost his job owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. The police said Sivasankar, 28, of Velachery, is an engineering graduate and had lost his job recently. Searching for a new job, he posted his profile on the website and deposited Rs. 3,000 initially towards registration. As he did not get any offer, he called up the numbers provided in the website. The person who received his call asked him to pay Rs. 8,000 so that he could get a job in a foreign country. The scammers made him transfer up to Rs. 1.45 lakh to their account towards “processing fee”. As he did not get any job, he lodged an online complaint with the CCB. A special team of the Anti-Bank Fraud Wing took up the investigation that led to a gang operating from New Delhi. The team summoned A. Arif Khan, 31, Wajid Khan, 29, and Sandeep Kumar, 24, to the city and arrested them. They were remanded in judicial custody. A special team is also on the lookout for the suspects who were behind the fraud. The police also said the gang had cheated several job-seekers during the recent slump in the job market. An officer said the gang would target job-seekers and make them pay a processing fee, running into several lakhs, in their Paytm accounts and go off the radar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-running-fake-job-portal-arrested/article32706624.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Victims need not be heard before releasing convicts: HC||Courts cannot injunct an Advisory Board from considering premature release of convicts just because victims of crime insist on giving them a personal/oral hearing to oppose the release on the ground of threat to their lives if the convicts were let free, the Madras High Court has held. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said personal/oral hearing had neither been explicitly contemplated nor it could be read into the rules relating to premature release. Hence, it would be sufficient if written representations were considered. The first Division Bench vacated an interim injunction granted by another Bench on February 6, 2019, restraining the Advisory Board in Puducherry from considering the premature release of life convicts Venkatesh alias Dhanasekar, Sathish, Narayanan, Madhan and Sankar alias Jai Shankar. The convicts were part of a 16-member gang which had hurled countrymade bombs on the Mudaliarpet police station campus in the Union Territory in broad daylight and murdered a rival gang member Kumar alias J. Jayakumar, besides injuring two constables in 2004. Subsequently, an attempt was made to kill Jayakumar’s brothers, Thulasi alias J. Iyappan and J. Manikandan, by hurling bombs but the duo escaped, leading to registration of a case for attempt to murder. In another attempt, the trio’s father, Subbu alias Jayaraman, got killed in 2009. An eyewitness to Jayakumar’s death was also done to death in 2010. Citing all these instances, Jayakumar’s mother J. Dhanasekari and brothers Iyappan and Manikandan feared they would also be killed if the life convicts were released prematurely. The woman and her two sons insisted that they must be given an opportunity for personal/oral hearing before the Advisory Board to oppose the release. Rejecting their plea, the Chief Justice said: “In order to claim a right of hearing, one may have to demonstrate prejudice or likelihood thereof.” The scales of opportunity to be offered to the convict and the victim have to be evenly balanced. When convicts have no right to seek a personal/oral hearing before the Advisory Board, such an opportunity could not be given to victims of crime too, the first Bench added. “The remission to be considered is a discretion to be exercised as per some settled parameters and not as a routine exercise… This consideration is not akin to adversarial proceedings where the presence of two or more sides may require a dialogue or a hearing,” the court said. The judges closed the case with the hope that the Advisory Board would take into consideration all materials before arriving at an objective conclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victims-need-not-be-heard-before-releasing-convicts-hc/article32706623.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandemic resulted in delayed reporting of cardiac issues’||COVID-19 has resulted in the delayed reporting of cardiac problems, said K.P. Suresh Kumar, chief cardiologist, Kauvery Hospital, here on Saturday. Addressing a discussion through virtual conference on cardiac emergencies organised as part of The Hindu Wellness Series in association with Kauvery Hospital, he said owing to the fear of contracting SARS-CoV-2 infection, many people with symptoms related to cardiac problems decide to postpone or avoid visiting hospitals. Stressing on the need for immediate medical attention, ideally within two hours, in case of a heart attack, Dr. Suresh said any delay could result in irreversible damage to the heart and severely reduce the chances of saving life. Pointing out that many people misinterpret a heart attack as ordinary pain in the chest, he said a thumb rule could be to get medical attention if the pain one experiences is very different from any experienced before. He highlighted the need to not ignore some atypical symptoms of cardiovascular problems like unexplained fatigue and exertional breathlessness. C. Sundar, senior consultant cardiologist, Kauvery Hospital, highlighted how changes in lifestyle and food habits had increased the risk of cardiovascular disease. He said 28.1% of deaths were attributed to the ailment. While only 3.5% of the young population screened had hypertension in 1990, it was 14.5% in 2017. Regular exercise and balanced dietary habits were crucial in preventing cardiovascular disease. Giridhar Gyani, director general, Association of Healthcare Providers (India), spoke on how non-communicable diseases had become the major disease burden for India. He said around 63% of India’s disease burden were non-communicable diseases, of which cardiovascular disease was the majority. Arguing that preventive measures were better than curative measures, Dr. Gyani said the Ayushman Bharat Scheme of the Union Government focused on some of these preventive measures. “The scheme is not just about insurance. The setting up of 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres across the country will play an important role in addressing the non-communicable disease burden,” he said. Stating that COVID-19 had helped in taking stock of health infrastructure, he expressed hope that it would help in strengthening it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-resulted-in-delayed-reporting-of-cardiac-issues/article32706614.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC adjourns case against T.N.’s new land acquisition law||The Madras High Court on Friday refrained from hearing a case challenging the validity of the Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws Act of 2019 aimed at reviving the operation of three different land acquisition laws which had become void after the enactment of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013. The First Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy simply adjourned the casesine diesince the Supreme Court had on September 27, 2019, ordered that the High Court should not hear any new or old writ petition concerning the subject matter until the top court passes further orders on a special leave petition preferred by the State government challenging the High Court’s July 3, 2019, verdict on a connected issue. The SLP before the Supreme Court was preferred against a judgment delivered by a Division Bench of Justices S. Manikumar (now Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court) and Subramonium Prasad (now a judge of the Delhi High Court). The two judges had held as unconstitutional a State amendment made to the 2013 Central law through the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act of 2014. Land acquisition for public purposes was carried out in the State originally under three main State enactments - the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Harijan Welfare Scheme Act of 1978, the Tamil Nadu Acquisition for Land for Industrial Purposes Act of 1997 or the Tamil Nadu Highways Act of 2001. However, all these three laws became repugnant after the 2013 Central enactment came into force on September 27, 2013. In order to save them from becoming void, the State legislature, by way of a local amendment, inserted Section 105A into the Central law to pre-empt the latter’s application to land acquisitions made in the State for industrial purposes, Harijan welfare and laying/widening of State highways. After the State amendment to the Central law, the Tamil Nadu government continued to acquire land for public purposes under the three laws. However, when the validity of the amendment was put to challenge, the Division Bench, led by Justice Manikumar, held it to be unconstitutional and also declared to be illegal all acquisitions made in the State under those three laws since September 27, 2013. The Bench, nevertheless, made it clear that its ruling would not apply to lands that had already been put to public use or if the purpose for which they were acquired had been accomplished. Serious implications Since the ruling would have a serious bearing on other lands that the government had acquired, for public purposes such as phase II of the Chennai Metro Rail (CMRL) project, but were yet to be put to use, the State government moved an appeal before the Supreme Court. The top court did not stay the High Court verdict in entirety but granted a limited interim stay of the portion declaring all acquisitions made since September 27, 2013, to be illegal. Subsequently, in December 2019, the State enacted a new law to revive the three old State land acquisition laws, which were found to have become null and void by the High Court. It was this 2019 law that had been put under challenge now by a litigant named M. Arunsandron. His counsel Richard Wilson told Chief Justice Sahi’s Bench that the 2019 Act had been brought in to nullify the effect of the judgment passed by the Bench led by Justice Manikumar. He contended that the attempt to revive the three old laws through the 2019 enactment was illegal and that the only option available before the government was to re-enact those three laws and obtain Presidential assent as observed by the Division Bench in July 2019. On the other hand, Advocate General Vijay Narayan claimed the State was well within its power to enact the 2019 law and that there was nothing illegal about it. After hearing arguments, the Chief Justice expressed difficulty in deciding the case in view of the interim injunction issued by the Supreme Court restraining the High Court from hearing any new or old cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-adjourns-case-against-tns-new-land-acquisition-law/article32706957.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC mulls fresh probe against Minister S.P. Velumani||The Madras High Court is mulling over the possibility of ordering a fresh preliminary inquiry by an “independent agency” into allegations of largescale irregularities by Municipal Administration and Rural Development Minister S.P. Velumani in award of several civil work contracts to private firms by the Greater Chennai and Coimbatore municipal corporations. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha said they might order a fresh probe by an independent agency if they were not satisfied with the preliminary inquiry conducted by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), which had filed an elaborate report, running to hundreds of pages, finding no material to proceed against the Minister. The judges asked advocates V. Suresh and E. Raj Thilak, representing the complainants Jayaram Venkatesan of NGO Arappor Iyakkam and DMK MP R.S. Bharathi respectively, to make their submissions on the possibility of transferring the same complaints, which they had lodged with the DVAC in 2018, to the “independent agency” for a fresh preliminary probe. The Bench also asked the lawyers to enlighten the court on Monday as to whether the independent agency should also be made as one of the respondents in the present batch of cases pending before the court. Direction sought The complainants wanted a direction to the DVAC to register a First Information Report (FIR) against the Minister and then conduct a full-fledged investigation. Their advocates told the court that if it was dissatisfied with the DVAC’s preliminary inquiry report, the best course would be to order registration of FIR and then transfer the case to an independent agency, such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). However, the judges differed and said they may instead order another preliminary inquiry by an independent agency. Dealing with the issue earlier, another Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan had appointed Superintendent of Police R. Ponni of the DVAC to conduct the preliminary inquiry. Accordingly, the officer conducted a detailed probe and filed a report to DVAC Director Vijay Kumar on December 18, 2019, stating that no case had been made out for registration of FIR. The inquiry report was approved by the Director and forwarded to the Vigilance Commissioner on January 13 this year. The Vigilance Commissioner, too, endorsed the report on January 18 and moved it to the government, which accepted the report on January 22 and dropped all further proceedings on the complaints lodged against the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-mulls-fresh-probe-by-independent-agency-against-minister-sp-velumani/article32706616.ece
27 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Growing up in south India, he was part of our culture’||Composer A.R. Rahman and S.P. Balasubrahmanyam go back a long way, much before the former took the music world by storm in 1992 with Roja . Mr. Rahman’s association with the late singer started in 1982. “One of the very first performances I did in a big way was celebrating the birthday of SPB, in 1982-83, at the Music Academy,” Mr. Rahman said in a nostalgic video he posted on social media. “The compere was Suhasini Mani Ratnam, and I still remember that as being a high in my life,” he said. Mr. Rahman, then called Dileep, was a keyboard player for other composers back then. It was at that phase in his life that he first worked with SPB. “He would learn a song in 15 minutes, sing it in 10 and go for the next recording. I have never seen a singer like that — so quick, professional and humble,” said a nostalgic Mr. Rahman. The composer, of course, would go on to work with him much more closely — SPB sang the melodious Kadhal rojavae in Rahman’s debut album Roja . “He walked in and asked, ‘How can this studio produce cinematic sound?’ I smiled. He came back after the film released and told me that I had proven that music could be produced anywhere,” he said. SPB himself has special memories of recording for the track. He once told The Hindu , “I’d never seen such a small studio in my life until then. The recording equipment was threadbare and the voice cubicle small.” Roja released to much fanfare and was a superhit. A successful run Subsequently, the two worked on several superhit albums, including Gentleman, Kadhalan and Duet , among others. SPB and Rahman have also collaborated for a handful of “Rajinikanth introduction songs”, the most popular among them being Oruvan Oruvan from Muthu . They have also performed in numerous shows together, in India and abroad. “I remember the amazing lessons I learnt from him. He never said no to anything, was always ready to experiment... be it acting, music direction or singing. He lived a full life, in music, life and kindness, and was loved by everyone,” Mr. Rahman added. The video was interspersed with performances of SPB on stage with Rahman. “He had a personality for every hero he sang for. I don’t know if any singer would be as versatile as him. He was loved by everyone. We should celebrate his music, his life and his personality,” he said. “Growing up in south India, SPB was part of our culture, victories, love, devotion and joy. He’s shared his gift so much with us that we shouldn’t brood. We should celebrate him instead,” the composer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/growing-up-in-south-india-he-was-part-of-our-culture/article32706609.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.R. Baalu flays Minister, Secretary for supporting farm bills||DMK Parliamentary party leader T.R. Baalu on Saturday said the argument of Agriculture Minister Duraikannu and Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi that the newly-enacted Farm Bills would benefit the farmers was unacceptable and against the interests of farmers. “The AIADMK government supported the bills in both Houses of Parliament to escape CBI raids. The AIADMK government has become panicky after the DMK and its alliance partners announced a State-wide demonstration,” he claimed in a statement. Mr. Baalu said at a time when farmers in the country were boiling over the likely consequences of the legislation, the Minister and the Secretary supporting it was highly condemnable. “The Minister from the Delta district and the Secretary were under compulsion to justify the legislation to save the Chief Minister post of Mr. Edappadi K. Palaniswami,” he said and added that it was regrettable. Minimum support price Mr. Baalu accused Mr. Bedi of expressing views in favour of corporate houses when he opined that there was a provision to levy 150% penalty on corporate houses if they reduced the minimum support price. “What is the need for the Secretary to give such an explanation? There is no reference to minimum support price in the legislation as mentioned by the Secretary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tr-baalu-flays-minister-secretary-for-supporting-farm-bills/article32706619.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electric autos will be available at Metro stations soon||Chennai Metro Rail is planning to introduce electric autorickshaws to give passengers a ride till their doorstep from its stations. It has been about three weeks since services resumed on the 45 km network in the phase-I project. Initially, there were nearly 10,000 commuters travelling but now the number has risen to 20,000 a day. But this is still lower than the pre-COVID-19 traffic of 1.15 lakh commuters a day. Increasing patronage According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the traffic could touch peak levels only next year when most professionals return to offices and educational institutions start functioning as usual. “But we need to gradually start putting back in place facilities to assist passengers to reach their destinations from the stations. So, we have been in talks with a private firm for electric autorickshaws. But this may take some time due to formalities like obtaining permission from the government and registrations,” an official said. Electric autorickshaws are being considered after the contract with a firm that had been running share cars around the stations was terminated some time ago. Contractor issues Officials said the contract had to be terminated as they were unhappy with the way the service was operated, and owing to a few other issues.  “It is important to bring in as many last mile connectivity options as possible for patronage has to go up. But now, there is an additional responsibility to ensure that there is no crowding in the autorickshaws or share cars,” an official said. For the past week, electric bikes have been available at the Alandur, Thirumangalam and Vadapalani stations. This service may be extended to more stations depending on the response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electric-autos-will-be-available-at-metro-stations-soon/article32706593.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urged to ensure safety of students||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to take utmost care to ensure the safety of students of Classes X to XII and teachers who would attend schools (on a voluntary basis) from October 1. He said the government could not afford to remain indifferent on the ground that the students were in the classes with the consent of their parents. In a statement, he said after announcing its decision to open schools for the students of Classes X, XI and XII, the statement of the School Education Minister that the Health Minister would decide on allowing teachers above 50 years to attend schools had caused confusion among parents and teachers. “It gives an impression that the government has not taken seriously the safety of students. The announcement that students would be offered only guidance and they should bring a letter of consent from the parents exposed the government’s motive to pass the buck,” he alleged. Mr. Stalin said there was a doubt that the School Education Minister was not aware of the government order to reopen the schools. “His argument that the Health Minister would decide on who among the teachers should be involved and the Chief Minister would finalise the decision on reducing the syllabus was a clear indication of lack of coordination among various departments,” the DMK leader said. GST compensation In another statement, Mr. Stalin on Saturday said it was highly condemnable that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had not raised his voice against the Centre, which had used Rs. 47,272 crore meant for compensating States affected by the implementation of the GST. “The Chief Minister is maintaining silence even after the CAG, in its report, had pointed out about the use of the compensation cess for other purposes,” he said in the statement. Mr. Stalin said the State governments had agreed to GST amendments since the Centre made a sovereign guarantee and subsequently adopted it in their Assemblies. “When Tamil Nadu decided to adopt a resolution, I suggested it be sent to a select committee. But the government claimed that it had the guarantee from the Centre. Now, the BJP government has thrown to the winds its promise.” He said no Central government in the past had committed an act that would fully dilute the federal structure of the country and financial autonomy of the State governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-cm-to-ensure-safety-of-students/article32706618.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Non-compliance with precautionary measures still an issue in many parts of the State||Non-compliance with mask wearing and physical distancing norms continues to be a problem in several parts of the State. Public health officials, doctors and experts have been reiterating the need for adherence to precautionary measures to contain the transmission of COVID-19. However, going by the number of violations of COVID-19 norms and the amount of fines imposed, adherence remains poor in several districts. According to officials, around Rs. 1.8 crore has been collected as fine for more than 80,000 violations in the State till September 25 under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. As per the amended Act, a person can be fined for violating quarantine measures and physical distancing norms, not wearing masks and spitting in public places. However, many persons, including in Chennai, do not wear masks or continue to wear masks improperly in public places. Chennai topped the table, with a fine amount of nearly Rs. 63 lakh collected so far, for around 31,000 offences. Apart from the city, the number of violations and fines collected was high in a number of districts. Thanjavur accounted for nearly 5,000 offences and around Rs. 11 lakh as fine. In Salem and Namakkal, the fine imposed was more than Rs. 9 lakh each. A little over Rs. 8.5 lakh was collected as fine in Tiruvarur, while in Tiruppur, around Rs. 8 lakh was collected for offences under the Act, according to official sources. There were several instances of violations in districts such as Dindigul, Erode, Krishnagiri, Theni and Tiruchi. A public health official said that many were still unaware of the benefits of wearing masks. “Masks provide protection, while regular handwashing and disinfection of places, including houses and hospitals, are important. People should avoid crowding and unnecessary travel,” he said. E. Theranirajan, dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said that many people continued to wear masks improperly. “As of now, there are three vaccines against COVID-19 — face masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing,” he said. Worrying areas The areas of concern, according to Prabhdeep Kaur, Scientist-E/Deputy Director, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology, are public transport, restaurants operating in closed spaces, workplaces with 100% employee strength and malls functioning with full AC, which could lead to an increase in transmission in the coming days. “When we look at the number of cases, it is slightly on the upward trend and we need to watch very carefully. We will get to know the real scenario in two to three weeks. Considering that the incubation period of the virus is 14 days, we will know the effect of opening up by the end of September,” she said. She said that socialising at home too should be done with utmost care, as there are elderly members and persons with co-morbidities in families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-compliance-with-precautionary-measures-still-an-issue-in-many-parts-of-the-state/article32706607.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meet on gynaecological cancers held to mark awareness month||The need for HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccination for adolescent girls, screening for cervical cancer every five years after the age of 30, learning the risk factors, identifying symptoms for early detection and steps for cancer prevention were highlighted by gynaecologic oncologists during a discussion on gynaecological cancers on Saturday. With September being Gynaecologic Cancer Awareness Month, the Association of Tamil Nadu members of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) organised a discussion on gynaecological cancers. Talking about cervical cancer, Abraham Peedicayil, head of department, Gynaecologic Oncology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said HPV vaccines had averted 20 deaths for every 1,000 persons vaccinated. “It is a high impact vaccine. It is licensed for those above nine years of age but the ideal time is during the early teens. The vaccine is safe for all ages and no serious side effects have been reported,” he said. He noted that screening for cervical cancer should be done for every five years after the age of 30. “Ovarian cancer is the seventh commonest cancer in women in our country but it is the deadliest of all gynaecological cancers. Unlike uterine cancers that have bleeding, ovarian cancer has vague symptoms, is diagnosed late, and has no early tests,” said Anbu Subbian, consultant — gynaecologic oncologist, KMCH, Coimbatore. She added that some women were prone to higher risk — older age group, family history, obesity, endometriosis, infertility drugs and smoking. “The symptoms are persistent bloating, eating less, feeling fuller, abdominal and/or back pain, trouble with your bladder and bowel... A family history of ovarian, breast, colon or uterine cancer can put you at a higher risk of ovarian cancer. Learn your risks and listen to your body,” Dr. Subbian said. Jaishree Gajaraj, gynaecologic oncologist, Apollo Cancer Institute, said the stigma associated with cancer still existed. “People diagnosed with cancer feel it is a deadly disease, while relatives and friends keep away from patients. That cancer means death is not true,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-on-gynaecological-cancers-held-to-mark-awareness-month/article32706588.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OMR toll rates to be hiked by 10%||Motorists using Rajiv Gandhi Salai, popularly known as Old Mahabalipuram Road, will have to shell out more from October 1, with the Tamil Nadu Road Development Company (TNRDC), which manages the road, increasing toll fees. “This is a regular revision and has been done every two years so far. This year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the revision is happening in October. Otherwise it would have been effected from July,” an official explained. The toll will be increased by 10%. Cars will now have to pay Rs. 30 for a single trip instead of the earlier Rs. 27. For a round trip, cars will pay Rs. 60. Light commercial vehicles will have to pay Rs. 78 (single) and Rs. 154 (round trip) while trucks will be charged Rs. 117 (single) and Rs. 220 (round trip). Normally, the road would witness around 1 lakh vehicles a day and a large percentage of them were two-wheelers. The Tamil Nadu Road Development Company had issued around 25,000 local resident passes (LRP). Since the road has joined the nation-wide FASTag network, residents with LRP passes have been asked to get their passes linked with FASTag cards. “This will allow them to enter FASTag lanes without any cash being deducted in any of the five plazas on Rajiv Gandhi Salai,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omr-toll-rates-to-be-hiked-by-10/article32706592.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secy. holds review meeting with Collectors||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam held a review meeting through video conferencing with 15 District Collectors to discuss COVID-19 prevention measures as their districts had shown a spike in the number of cases. Mr. Shanmugam discussed prevention measures with the Collectors of Salem, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore, Tiruppur, Kancheepuram, Thanjavur, Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Vellore, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Tiruvarur and Coimbatore. An official release said the Chief Secretary discussed issues such as containing the spread of COVID-19, taking steps to reduce the fatality rate, identifying the symptoms swiftly and providing proper treatment. The Chief Secretary also said that the measures should be intensified in containment zones, and that the districts should be supervised by the District Collectors, monitoring the number of cases and the availability of beds and medicines since restrictions had been relaxed. The release recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently praised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for the State’s response during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-secy-holds-review-meeting-with-collectors/article32706601.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic hit on highway||Traffic was affected for several hours on the Chennai Bengaluru Highway near Sunguvarchatram from the early hours of Saturday as a container lorry, carrying part of an industrial machinery, broke down. On Friday, the container lorry was transporting the cargo to a power plant in Mumbai. At 2 a.m., the payload rolled down from the vehicle near Sunguvarchathram and the container also broke down, disrupting traffic. Vehicles soon began piling up on the arterial road. Police personnel reached the spot and managed to move the vehicle with earthmovers to clear the path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-breakdown-affects-traffic-on-chennai-bengaluru-highway/article32706587.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No need for new parties in DMK alliance: VCK leader||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Saturday said that his party would continue to be with the DMK-led alliance, and he believed that there was no need for new parties in the front as it was already strong. Announcing that the VCK would protest against the farm Bills across Tamil Nadu on September 28, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the party was ready for the Assembly election and was determined to keep “reactionary forces” out of power in the State. “We are in the alliance led by the DMK and are very clear that casteist and religious forces should not gain prominence in Tamil Nadu, and power should not be in the hands of reactionary forces,” he said. Formidable alliance Contending that only the DMK-led alliance could keep the BJP at bay, he said that it was already a formidable alliance. “Only a DMK-led alliance can stop the BJP and Sanatana forces. There are already 10 parties in the alliance, and there is no need to add to it. There is enough strength,” he also said. Mr. Thirumavalavan added that the VCK would revert to contesting on an ‘independent symbol’. “Only in 2001, we contested on some other symbol. After that, we have been contesting on our own symbol. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, we adopted a different strategy in Villupuram (where its candidate contested on the DMK symbol). In future, we will continue to contest on an independent symbol,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-for-new-parties-in-dmk-alliance-vck-leader/article32706622.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ever popular, the devotionals that SPB sang||Omni buses across the State still start their day with S.P. Balasubrahmanyam’s Namasivaya Namasivaya, Om Namah Sivaya.  “Like M.S. Amma’s Venkatesa Suprabhatam , his Shiva Sthuthi, consisting of Lingashtakam and Bhilvashtakam, are popular in several houses. These were recorded in the late 1970s,” recalled an old timer at an audio company. The singer has recorded thousands of devotional songs for audio companies like Vani, Sangeetha Cassettes, HMV (now Saregama), Shubham, Aditya, Anand Audio and Inreco. “Those were the days when if one company recorded an album, on let’s say Lord Muruga, and if it became a hit, all others would follow suit. All his albums were hits,” he said. Sangeetha founder and managing partner H.M. Mahesh said their first devotional recording with SPB was in 1983-84, where he sang on Goddess Mookambika. Work ethics “He would arrive on time for the recording, listen to the song once or twice and sing the track. If the music director was not present, he would himself listen to the recording, okay it, and leave. He would finish around six songs in under two hours,” he said. He has lent his voice to devotional songs in Kannada, Tamil and Telugu, set to music by M. Rangarao, Vijayabhaskar, Upendrakumar, T.K. Pugazhendhi, Ashok, Manicka Vinayagam and the duo Rajan-Nagendra. “Even if the songs were by someone unknown, he would still sing them and encourage people. He was someone who did not have any conditions for singing songs. If they were good, he would sing them,” Mr. Mahesh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ever-popular-the-devotionals-that-spb-sang/article32706599.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire in ICF||High-value electrical equipment and other items stored in a warehouse of the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in Perambur were gutted in a major fire that broke out in the early hours of Saturday. Sources said the blaze erupted from the warehouse around 3 a.m. Immediately after the receipt of the alert, personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services reached the spot and began firefighting operations. Personnel from fire stations in Villivakkam, Koyambedu, J.J. Nagar, Egmore and Sembium joined the efforts to bring the blaze under control. Station Officer Suriya Prakash said, “We began the operation at 3 a.m. Over 100 personnel with water tankers and foam tenders were pressed into service. Around noon, we brought the fire under control.” The cause of the accident was not immediately known. However, personnel suspect it could have been caused by an electrical short circuit. Fire and Rescue Services DGP C. Sylendra Babu and railway officers visited the spot and supervised the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-fire-breaks-out-at-icf-electrical-equipment-gutted/article32706594.ece
27 September 2020||CHENNAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of spurious ‘biodiesel’ hits business of petroleum dealers||Petroleum dealers and oil marketing companies (OMCs) in the State are concerned over the sale of a spurious product in the name of biodiesel to truckers. The product is being sold Rs. 15 cheaper than the price of regular diesel, said oil industry sources. “Our fuel outlets are not involved in this sale. Imported biofuel is being blended with diesel and some chemical and they are selling them in bulk to fleet owners using tankers. In the long run, this product corrodes the engine and leads to the vehicle being discarded,” said a dealer in Erode district. ‘Business hit’ Dealers said that Thoothukudi, Salem, Erode, Madurai, Tirunelveli and even Chennai and Tiruvallur were witnessing sale of such spurious fuel, which was affecting their business. An official in Thoothukudi confirmed that there were sellers of such spurious fuel, and action would be taken soon. “One dealer in Tiruvallur lost around 60 KL because of it. When price of diesel goes up in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, we usually see a hike in sales in bordering areas. But that is not there now. Instead, bulk customers have just moved to buying this fuel and are tanking up on it to save money,” said another dealer. An oil industry expert said this was a pan-India issue. “Dealers in Gujarat have said they would stop purchase this month-end if the government and oil marketing companies do not take steps to curb the menace. Also, imagine the cost to the environment. At a time when the country has switched over to the cleaner BS-VI fuel, this could prove detrimental to the whole exercise,” he pointed out. Detailed probe sought K.P. Murali, president, Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers Association, urged the Centre to order a CBI inquiry into the issue. “We had sought the assistance of the State government and in some districts, the Revenue Department swung into action and has arrested a few people. We need a thorough investigation into the matter,” he said. Indian Oil Corporation Executive Director (Tamil Nadu) and State Level Oil Industry coordinator P. Jayadevan said the industry had taken up the issue with the State government and raids had been conducted and vehicles seized. The Ministry had also written to the State government, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-spurious-biodiesel-hits-business-of-petroleum-dealers/article32706626.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bills will benefit farmers: BJP||The three new agriculture-related Bills introduced by the Central Government will bring direct benefits to farmers, claimed BJP’s State agricultural wing president G.K. Nagaraj here on Saturday. He said that the Congress, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and other parties are opposing the Bills for the sake of votebank politics. “Congress ruled the country for more than 50 years and did not bring in any change to the lives of farmers. So was the condition when DMK ruled the State. Now, they are opposing the bills when the BJP is making efforts to better the lives of farmers,” he said. Mr. Nagaraj said that the DMK president M.K. Stalin did not oppose when the AIADMK Government introduced the contract farming law in Tamil Nadu in 2019 but now he is raising voice against contract farming.  ‘Will ensure MSP’ “The legislations are not imposed for contract farming by farmers. They have the freedom of choice. The legislation will also ensure minimum support price for farmers,” he said. According to him, farmer producer organisation (FPO) will enable farmers become direct sellers of their produce. Meeting held Mr. Nagaraj along with State vice-presidents of the party Vanathi Srinivasan, Karuppu Muruganantham, and P. Kanagasabapathy and State treasurer S.R. Sekar convened a discussion on the Bills with members of at least 15 farmers’ associations and around 50 farmers from Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tirupur on Saturday. He added that similar discussions will be held in agricultural districts namely Tanjavur, Tiruchi, Villupuram, Kancheepuram, Salem, Erode and Cuddalore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bills-will-benefit-farmers-bjp/article32706646.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. to resume barricading of quarantine areas||Coimbatore Corporation will resume barricading the houses of COVID-19 positive persons with metal sheets. The civic body had decided to return to the earlier form of containment following instructions from the Chief Secretary, who interacted with officials through video conferencing on Saturday morning, said sources. Following instructions from the Chief Secretary, the Corporation Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner held a meeting with zonal assistant commissioners, sanitary officers and other field-level officers to ensure that they reverted to quarantining houses with metal sheets. The Corporation that had originally used metal sheets to quarantine houses and streets had given up the move a fortnight ago after a resident near Hope College Junction taunted the Corporation with a banner outside his house. Then the Corporation had said it would only stick bills outside the quarantined house and not use sheets or poles to restrict movement of people. Now, the Corporation would quarantine a house if the number of positive cases was fewer than three. It would block movement on a part of the street or the entire stretch if the number of COVID-19 positive cases was more than three, the sources added. As for apartment, quarantining a flat or floor or block would depend on the number of cases, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-to-resume-barricading-of-quarantine-areas/article32706659.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Habitat loss puts lion-tailed macaque on IUCN’s endangered list for sixth time||The Lion-tailed macaque (Macaca silenus), a primate endemic to small and severely fragmented rainforests of the Western Ghats in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, continues to be in the ‘endangered’ category on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. The latest conservation status of the primate was updated in the IUCN database recently, based on technical reports over the years from a group of researchers, including Mewa Singh of University of Mysore, Ajith Kumar of the Centre for Wildlife Studies, and Honnavalli N. Kumara of the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History. According to a technical report, the total wild population of lion-tailed macaque could be about 4,000 individuals, consisting of less than 2,500 mature individuals, made up of 47 isolated sub-populations in seven locations in the three States. The population is expected to suffer a decline of over 20% in the next 25 years owing to varied reasons, including hunting, road kills and habitat loss, it said. Though the conservation status of lion-tailed macaque had improved from ‘endangered’ in the first assessment in 1990 to ‘vulnerable’ in 1994, its status has remained ‘endangered’ since 1996. The researchers have observed that the population of the mostly shy and frugivorous primate, which prefers upper canopies of evergreen rainforests, was registering a declining trend in its home range in the Western Ghats from the Kalakkad Hills in the south to Sirsi-Honnavara in the north at an altitude of 100-1,300 m. “Fragmentation of the habitat is one of the major threats to the species. Several habitats that remain disconnected from others can be linked. There are contiguous habitats in Karnataka and Kerala. The population in the Valparai plateau of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) can also be linked to other populations. Enough research has been done on various aspects of the conservation of the primate over the last several years, and now it is the responsibility of the authorities to implement them on the ground,” says Professor Mewa Singh of the University of Mysore. Researchers feel that continuous monitoring is crucial to understanding the population trend for the management and protection of lion-tailed macaques in their habitat. Officials of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are preparing to estimate the lion-tailed macaque population of Valparai in October in collaboration with the Nature Conservation Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/habitat-loss-puts-lion-tailed-macaque-on-iucns-endangered-list-for-sixth-time/article32706958.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Labour shortage: MSMEs seek direct train service from all States||Industries are looking at a gradual increase in orders as lockdown restrictions have been relaxed. But labour shortage is crippling activities, say MSME owners. President of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers' Welfare Association P. Nallathambi said that workers from other States are returning by trains. However, regular train service is yet to resume from all States and cities. Hence, many workers in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar travel to New Delhi and take a train from there to come to Chennai and from there to Coimbatore. If trains services are available at pre-COVID frequency, more workers will be able to return. The factories are able to operate partially with the available workforce. It needs to be seen if all the units will have orders to operate at full capacity if all the workers return, he said. Coimbatore Distict Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said only 25 % of the migrant workers who went home during lockdown have come back to Coimbatore. Not all the MSMEs have the resources to spend huge amounts to bring the workers back. Hence, train services should be increased across the country. The industries face at least 50 % labour shortage and many of them are skilled workers, he said. Mr. Nallathambi added that the district administration is collecting data of migrant workers from the industries. All the industries have been asked to share details such as name, home State, Aadhaar number of the migrant workers with the Revenue Department and this is an on-going exercise. Apart from the labour problem, he said that one of the demands of the MSMEs was financial support. The Tamil Nadu government has recently said that industries that have taken loan from Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) need to pay only 6 % interest. Earlier, the units were paying 12.2 % interest and 6 % was reimbursed. Now, the units have to pay only 6 % and the remaining will be borne by the State government. This facility is available till March next year. The government should extend it for a year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/labour-shortage-msmes-seek-direct-train-service-from-all-states/article32706653.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Cuddalore textile park will comply with all norms’||A textile processing park planned at Cuddalore by Southern India Mills' Association (SIMA) will ensure that industries comply with all the norms of the Central and State governments, the association said, in the wake of recent protests against the park. T. Rajkumar, chairman of the park, told The Hindu , that the project, which is supported by the Central and State governments, will not draw water from the ground when the proposed desalination plant is commissioned. Also, effluents from the textile clusters in the State will not be brought by pipeline to the Cuddalore park for discharge, as feared by some sections of people. Mr. Rajkumar explained that the SIMA textile processing park with 10 textile processing units will come up on 237 acres at Periyapattu village in Cuddalore district in the third phase of the SIPCOT industrial park there. Borewells The units will need about 10 mld (million litres a day) of water for treatment. Though five borewells have been sunk at the park as part of the project, the plan is to take the complete requirement from the proposed desalination plant when it is set up. The Central government provides 40 % of the project cost and the State government will extend 9 % for the processing park. The promoters of the park will contribute 51 %. The association, which mooted the project in 2005, had finalised on Cuddalore as the location because of water availability. Further, marine discharge of treated effluents is an accepted technology worldwide and it can be implemented here. The Central and State governments will monitor whether the discharged effluent meets the norms. The effluent will not affect marine life in that area, he said. Even if one unit does not meet the standards, it will be shut from the rest of the system. “We are trying to have online control too,” he said. Earlier too the association had distributed pamphlets to the villagers explaining the details of the project and it has now submitted the required information to the government. The current challenge is how to draw water for the daily requirement till the desalination plant is set up. If this can be resolved, five units will commence operations in a year. The State Government has agreed to give water from the second phase of the industrial park as a temporary measure. The desalination plant is expected to be ready in two years, he added. The textile park will create 5,000 direct jobs and create more indirect jobs.  Effluents from the textile clusters in the State will not be brought by pipeline to the Cuddalore park for discharge T. Rajkumar, Chairman, SIMA textile processing park||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-textile-park-units-will-comply-with-norms-says-sima/article32706630.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||West Zone office closed after staff test positive||Coimbatore Corporation has temporarily closed its West Zone office in R.S. Puram after a few employees tested positive for COVID-19. According to sources, the civic body decided to close down the office a few days ago after seven employees tested positive. The Corporation took the swab samples of employees after the zone accounts officer tested positive. After closing down the premises at the junction of Sir Shanmugam Road and Ramachandra Road for disinfection, the Corporation has moved officials to the nearby S.R.P. Ammani Ammal school. Sources said the Corporation had retained only skeletal staff to attend to queries from members of the public and those staff were seated outside the main building. The restriction on movement of people would go on for a few more days to ensure that the zonal office was safe for both employees and members of the public. Of late, the zonal office had seen more visitors as the Corporation had decentralised the building plan approval process and started identifying beneficiaries for implementing the special micro-credit facility for street vendor scheme. The zone office serves 20 wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/west-zone-office-closed-after-staff-test-positive/article32706657.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Burglary: two more held||The Sulur police, on Saturday, arrested two more members of a burglary gang that was involved in several housebreaks and thefts in Coimbatore district. A. Nagaraj (23) and B. Sivan (22) from Panthalur in the Nilgiris were arrested by the police in connection with the theft of four sovereign jewellery from the house of N. Prabhu, a farmer from Pattanam Pudur near Sulur. Police said the accused were among the men who were caught on camera roaming in underwear in several residential areas of Coimbatore district. The police had earlier arrested another member of the gang, also a native of the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglary-two-more-held/article32706663.ece
27 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||Coimbatore City Police on Saturday arrested Sulthan Singh (32) and Poora Ram (22), residents of Edayar Street, for possession of 118 kg banned tobacco products. The seized contraband was worth Rs. 85,728. Bazaar Street police also seized a car belonging to the accused. The two were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.    Podanur police arrested Nazeer (28), a resident Kurichi, on charges of chain snatching on Saturday. Police recovered the 1.5 sovereign chain that the accused snatched from a woman in Kurichi. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan lauded the police team that arrested the accused within two hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized/article32706664.ece
27 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Petrol pump run by cooperative society inaugurated||Forest Minister Dindigul C. Sreenivasan and Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju inaugurated a petrol bunk run by Poothampatti Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Society, here on Friday. The Cooperation Minister said that there are currently 41 petrol bunks run by the cooperative societies across the State. Ten additional petrol bunks will be inaugurated soon, he said. During the lockdown period from April 1 to August 31, the sales at the 41 petrol bunks was Rs. 124.72 crore, said the Minister. The Ministers also inaugurated new buildings at a cost of Rs. 1.64 crore and issued loans to farmers, self help groups and the differently abled. Forest Minister Sreenivasan said that 261 self help groups in Dindigul were sanctioned loans worth Rs. 1.59 crore from May 8 to September 15. District Collector M. Vijayalakshmi was also present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-pump-run-by-cooperative-society-inaugurated/article32706937.ece
27 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers postpone protest against project||Farmers opposing the proposed project to draw Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal seepage to fill water bodies in Perundurai Town Panchayat have decided to postpone their protest planned on September 28 after talks with revenue officials at Modakurichi Taluk Office. The anicut at Surampatti was constructed in 1964 and has a catchment area of 38.31 square mile. The main source of water is through LBP seepage and water is stored in the anicut and released into Nanjai Uthukuli canal that helps in irrigating 2,450 acre directly and 2,000 acre indirectly at the panchayats of Lakkapuram, Muthugoundanpalayam and Nanjai Uthukuli. But, farmers claimed that the proposed project by the Perundurai Town Panchayat to draw seepage and fill three water bodies will affect the inflow at the anicut and affect them directly. Tahsildar Ravichandran said that the issue will be taken up with the District Collector for necessary action. Since Section 144 of CrPC had been clamped in the district due to COVID-19 pandemic, permission will not be granted for the protest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-postpone-protest-against-project/article32706639.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||30 out of 33 child marriages stopped during lockdown||As many as 33 child marriages were reported in Madurai district from March 25 to August-end, during the lockdown. Data obtained from the district administration shows 30 child marriages were prevented by officials and the first information report was filed in the remaining three cases. Collector T.G.Vinay says officials from the Social Welfare Department, Childline, District Child Protection Office and the police department worked in tandem to prevent child marriages. Out of 13 blocks in Madurai district, the highest number of child marriages were reported in Usilampatti. There was no child marriage case in Chellampatti, Tirumangalam and T. Kallupatti during that period. “There was no significant increase in child marriages reported in the district during the lockdown period, when compared to pre-COVID-19 times,” says Mr. Vinay. However, the prevalence of child marriage is a matter of concern and needs to be addressed immediately, say women and child rights activists. According to Jim Jessudos, Director of Childline, patriarchal mindset was the root cause of child marriages. “Parents consider their daughters a financial burden and want to marry them off as early as possible,” he says. The fear of inter-caste marriages is another major reason, says managing trustee of Justice Shivaraj V. Patil Foundation S. Selva Gomathi. “It is important for parents to sit down and talk to their daughters and try to understand their needs,” she says. Poor family conditions and anxiety over paying hefty dowry drive parents to marry off their daughters early, says Mr. Jessudos. “Besides, the uncertainty due to pandemic drove parents to arrange marriage for their daughters. Parents wanted to use the lockdown restrictions which stressed on conducting a simple wedding without many guests,” he says. Child Welfare Committee member B. Pandiaraja says that parents arranged marriages for their daughters with their family members in some instances as they consider it to be a safety measure. Empowerment of girls through education and sensitising families to the adversities of child marriages are important to tackle this issue, says Mr. Jesudoss. In families where there are more than one girl child, the government must support the girl children to complete their higher education, says Ms. Selva Gomathi. The Collector says they are analysing the reasons child marriages and places where such cases are reported. “We are focussing on sensitising the parents to the ill-effects of child marriages. We tell them that health of girl children will be affected if they are married off at a young age. We have issued 10,000 postcards for girl children so that they can report to us about any distress they face,” he says. Childline operates a helpline, ‘1098,’ for children in distress across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-out-of-33-child-marriages-stopped-during-lockdown/article32706935.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Added wards in Madurai corporation to get new roads||After years of riding through unpaved roads in the wards that were annexed to Madurai Corporation in 2011, road users can finally heave a sigh of relief as the Corporation will lay new roads in the added wards present in the southern part of the city. For this, the civic body has recently received administrative sanction and has been allocated Rs. 15 crore under the Integrated Urban Development Mission. The project will be carried out in four packages and new roads will be laid for around 26 kilometres in the added wards present in the southern part of the city. City Engineer S. Arasu said that the tender process for the project is currently under way. “We have proposed laying new roads only in the added wards of the southern city, as underground drainage system is currently being constructed in the added wards of the northern city under the Smart Cities Mission,” he said. A Corporation official said that most of the roads included in the project are small streets in residential areas. The streets are mainly covered in wards like Iravathanallur, Chinna Anuppanadi, Avaniapuram, Villapuram, Pampan Swamy Nagar and Tirupparankundram. Vedamani, a resident of Sonaiya Nagar East 4th Street which has been selected under the project, said that the streets in the ward have remained damaged for nearly a decade. “The streets are pothole-ridden and become slushy after a brief rainfall. Rainwater often stagnates, worsening the mosquito menace in the area,” he said. The civic body must ensure that durable roads were laid, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/added-wards-in-madurai-corporation-to-get-new-roads/article32706814.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||81 test positive in Madurai district||A total of 81 people tested positive for COVID-19, here on Saturday, taking the tally of cases to 16,287. According to the State health bulletin, all of the cases were indigenous. The number of persons discharged reached 14,371 as a total of 64 people recovered. The death toll was 385 as two people succumbed to the disease. There were 721 active cases as on date. Dindigul Total count of positive cases in Dindigul district rose to 8,702 as 56 people tested positive on Saturday. A total of 64 people were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities. The total number of discharges was 7,985. The number of active cases were 560 and the number of deaths remained at 157 as no deaths were recorded. Theni In Theni district, 67 people tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 14,608. As on date, a total of 13,958 people were discharged. There were 474 active cases as on date. Three persons succumbed to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 176. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram recorded 21 new cases, taking the total number of cases in the district to 5,467. With the discharge of 37 persons and death of a patient on Saturday, the active cases were at 170. Sivaganga A total of 28 new COVID-19 cases were recorded in Sivaganga district, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 5,040. There was one death on Saturday. A total of 37 persons got discharged and the active cases was at 298. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded 38 new positive cases that took up the total number of positive cases to 14,263. However, with 132 patients having got discharged on Saturday (13,811 till date), the number of active cases has come down to 243. The district has so far registered 209 deaths. Southern districts Among southern districts, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts have registered one COVID-19 death each. Both the districts have registered more number of discharges than the number of fresh positive cases. In Tenkasi, 66 new positive cases have taken up the total number of positive cases to 7,137. However, with 103 discharges (6,487 till date), the number of active cases has come down 517. Death toll in the district was 133. Thoothukudi district recorded 49 positive cases (13,214 till date) with a discharge of 99 on Saturday (12,461 till date) with 632 active cases. Death toll in the district increased to 121. Kanniyakumari registered the highest number of positive cases of 96 on Saturday (12,321 till date) while it recorded 53 discharges (11,166 till date). The number of active cases was 938 with a total deaths of 217. Tirunelveli district saw 90 fresh positive cases (12,350 till date). The number of discharges in the district was 109 (11,264 till date) that brought down the number of active cases to 890. Death toll in the district till date is 196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81-test-positive-in-madurai-district/article32706943.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police introduce new facial recognition app||The city police have introduced a new facial recognition technology-based mobile phone app, FACETAGR that would help the police identify some 3,000 criminals with a click of a photograph of the face of suspicious persons. “We have a data base with photographs of around 3,000 criminals. The app will help policemen in vehicle checking duty to verify the identification of any suspicious persons,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), R. Shiva Prasad said. Commissioner of Police, Prem Kumar Sinha, has introduced the app that is already available with Chennai City police. With the click of a photograph of the suspicious person, the app loaded in the mobile phones of around 2,000 police personnel will search and try to match the photograph of the suspicious person with that of all the 3,000 photographs available in the data base. “This process will take around 15 seconds only. The app would also give extent of match in terms of percentage. Even 60% of match between the photograph of the person with the data base will be enough to identify the person with the details of crime cases against him,” Mr. Shiva Prasad said. Senior officials will be able to keep a tab on every single time the app is used by the authorized police personnel. As of now, only the police personnel in the Law and Order duty and Crime wing have been given access to the app. Without the app, the police used to take the suspicious persons intercepted during vehicle checks to police stations and verify them based on their finger prints or through their Aadhar card verification. “This app will save time for the police and spare people from unnecessary harassment,” he added. Besides, the app can also be useful to track down accused with their images carved out of video footages of closed circuit television cameras, he added. The app has been in use in the city for the last 10 days during which some 300 images have been matched based on input of some 1,500 persons, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-introduce-new-facial-recognition-app/article32706815.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC upholds punishment awarded to Election Officer||Upholding the punishment imposed on an Election Officer who in the 2006 Assembly elections allowed 26 bogus votes to be cast, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the election was the touchstone of the democratic process. The court was hearing the petition filed by A. Jegarajan who was posted as the Election Officer in 2006 at a polling booth in Thirumalairayapuram, Athoor Assembly constituency in Dindigul district. He challenged the punishment imposed on him by the inquiry committee on charges of serious irregularities and misconduct. Charges were framed against the petitioner and a criminal case was registered against him based on a report by the Election Commissioner. The Judicial Magistrate concerned acquitted the petitioner and the charges against him were quashed. However, departmental proceedings against the petitioner concluded that all the charges framed against the delinquent officer had been proved on the point of preponderance of probability. The same was confirmed by the appellate authority and the review authority. Justice RMT. Teekaa Raman observed that the petitioner, being a government servant appears to have colluded with one political party in order to allow 26 votes to be recorded in the electronic voting machine over and above the voters attended as per the voters list. As per the evidence of the departmental witness, 26 voters had not even come to the booth and due to the misdeeds of the petitioner, one person benefited and was declared elected. Dismissing the petition, the judge said that the punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority cannot be termed as excess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-upholds-punishment-awarded-to-election-officer/article32706938.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sugarcane cultivation becomes bitter for farmers in Madurai||The sugarcane cultivation area in Madurai district has drastically shrunk to around 1,150 hectares this year compared to a six-year average of around 3,900 hectares. The delay in settlement of dues from cooperative sugar mills, compounded by the financial crisis caused by COVID-19 pandemic, has discouraged farmers to cultivate sugarcane - a cash crop promoted by the Agricultural Department. N. Palanichamy, president, Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association, says that the National Cooperative Sugar Mill at Alanganallur has not paid a Fair Remunerative Price (FRP) of around Rs. 1 crore to farmers who had harvested sugarcane from February. Apart from this, the mill has not paid the State Advisory Price on sugarcane for a period of two years, totalling to Rs. 19 crore, he added. Many farmers had borrowed extensively to pay labourers for cutting cane, says S, Jayakalai, a farmer from Thirumal village in Thirumangalam block. “The farmers have to pay around Rs. 1,500 to labourers for cutting one tonne of sugarcane. But, one tonne of sugarcane fetches an income of only around Rs. 2, 750.” he says. But, even this amount is not paid to farmers on time. “Hence, farmers have stopped cultivating sugarcane, despite the good demand for the crop. Many farmers are struggling to repay their loans. So, they have opted to cultivate other crops like cotton, banana and groundnut,” he adds. K. Kathiresan, a farmer from Vellalore village in Melur block, says that around a decade back, sugarcane was cultivated in around 5,000 hectares in the district. “But, over the years, the cultivation area has drastically reduced. The delay in payment of dues has demotivated small and marginal farmers to cultivate sugarcane,” he says. Mr. Palanichamy says that the government must increase the FRP to ensure that the farmers earn decent profits. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan says that the department is taking steps to expedite the settlement of dues to the sugarcane farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugarcane-cultivation-becomes-bitter-for-farmers-in-madurai/article32706811.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Post-lockdown, libraries open doors as readers trickle in||With libraries opening their doors to readers in Madurai district, authorities say that the number of visitors are low but definitely rising. At the district central library located in Simmakkal, a senior official, says that around 100 visitors arrive each day, mostly to study for competitive exams. “When we opened in the first week of September, we saw very little crowd. Hardly, a few knew that we were open. As the word spread, more students began arriving to study. We anticipate a rise in numbers in the subsequent week,” the official said. Currently, the library is open from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Temperature check is done at the gate and people must sit in a socially distanced manner for reading, the official says. “Our staff wear masks all the time. We are yet to open the newspaper reading room as elderly people may be tempted to come and read and we do not want to expose them to any risk,” the official says. M. Sasidaran, a student who is preparing for the Union Public Services examination, says that although the library was open for a short while, it provides a calm space for focussed learning. “During the last few months, I was forced to coordinate with my study group only through phone calls. But, with the library open we can once again do group study,” he adds. The Gandhi Museum library usually sees a large crowd of elderly people, says Curator and Administrative Officer K. R. Nanda Rao. “However, we are not allowing them in. Currently, only 10 or 15 people come and we have placed sanitizers for their use. Our librarians are very strict about COVID-19 restrictions and hence enforce the mask norm. We are hoping that the numbers will rise soon,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-lockdown-libraries-open-doors-as-readers-trickle-in/article32706808.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate stabilises at 3.6 %||The positivity rate in Madurai district has stabilised at 3.6 per cent since the second week of September till September 25 as a minimum of 2,500 samples are being taken every day by the district administration. Deputy Director, Health Services, K. V. Arjun Kumar, said that 70 to 90 cases have been recorded in the last two weeks. “We are determined to sustain the gains we have made till date. The focus is to ensure that the untested get tested too,” he says. He adds that majority of those who were tested every day were contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. “Apart from them, we also test workers at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Primary Health Centres and public at fever camps,” he says. A source from the Madurai Corporation said that the number of people getting tested at fever camps have dropped since the lifting of lockdown. “Since work has begun, people do not have the time to think about their health. They are mostly concentrating on their livelihood. The cases are few in number too. Fear regarding COVID-19 has dropped,” the source said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that they will continue to ensure testing of samples until the number of active cases currently at 721, drops even further. “We do not have a fixed number of tests each day. Patients with severe acute respiratory infection and influenza like illnesses get tested. We want to ensure that the positivity rate is low,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-stabilises-at-36/article32706941.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Spent countless hours trying to sing like SPB’||In his 15-year career as a musician in a light music troupe, R. Palanikumar, a resident of Madurai, has spent countless hours on stage trying to perfect his ‘S. P. Balasubrahmanyam’s voice.’ “When I was young, SPB’s voice was my lullaby and my morning alarm. The more I heard him, the more I wanted my voice to sound like him. With repeated listening, I began to use a similar tone and a base voice just like him without even realising. This was useful in my career as a light music troupe singer as I would be tasked with singing all of SPB’s songs and I would sing it with joy,” he says. Heartbroken by the death of his personal hero, Mr. Palanikumar, a singer in the Navarasam Music Troupe, spoke to The Hindu after performing at a tribute show in Arapalayam on Friday. “In orchestras, it is impossible to miss songs rendered by SPB. Be it a temple festival or wedding, 18 out of our 25-30 song list would be songs by SPB. These songs have helped me during times of extreme sorrow and joy. It is hard for me to clearly articulate the impact he has had on me. It is evident now that if I have a life and if I am earning a living, it is because of SPB,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spent-countless-hours-trying-to-sing-like-spb/article32706948.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chamber played an active role during lockdown: Minister||The district administration has helped in containing the spread of COVID-19 in the city and this has reflected in drop in the number of positive cases, said Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar during the 96th anniversary celebrations of the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry here on Saturday. Mr. Udayakumar recollected the active role played by the Chamber during the COVID-19 lockdown through its social activities. He said that the Chamber had provided food to the COVID-19 care centres through the Amma Kitchen and this was not the first time that the Chamber had stepped up for the cause of the city. It was the Chamber which first mooted a Bench of the Madras High Court to be established in Madurai. Be it infrastructure, railway broad gauge or the airport expansion project, the Chamber has always voiced for the development of the district and now the projects were being realised, he said. Agreeing with him was Minister for Information and Publicity Kadambur C. Raju. He appreciated the role played by the District Administration in containing the spread of COVID-19. He pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appreciated Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for the efforts taken to contain COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. The Ministers honoured M. Poorna Sundari, who cleared the UPSC examination. They lauded the efforts of the visually impaired girl from Madurai and said that she had not only brought laurels to the city, but to the entire State. She was an inspiration to everyone, they said at the anniversary celebrations. Madurai Collector T. G. Vinay and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, in their respective addresses urged the public to strictly follow the COVID-19 guidelines by wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. TN Chamber Senior president S. Rethinavelu, president N. Jegatheesan and other officer bearers welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-played-an-active-role-during-lockdown-minister/article32706952.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient with head injury treated successfully||A 43 year-old COVID-19 positive man from Thoothukudi with a major head injury was successfully treated at Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Centre. The patient who met with an accident on August 22 was shifted to Velammal Medical College Hospital as he required emergency services. “He arrived very late in the night and we immediately began doing first aid. Although we got reports stating that he was COVID-19 positive, doctors undertook the task of performing the high risk surgery in the early hours of the following day so as to save the patient,” said Consultant, Neurosurgery at the Hospital, M. Ganesh Kumar. He added that during the surgery, doctors usually use aerosols. The use of the material could increase the COVID-19 viral load by manifold but the team was careful in performing the surgery. “The patient has recovered now and even came to the hospital for a follow up. He is doing better now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patient-with-head-injury-treated-successfully/article32706945.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC: Consider proposal for time-bound promotion||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the State to consider the proposal for time-bound promotion with pay hike to AYUSH doctors working under the Municipal Administration Department, on par with the Allopathy Medical Officers. Justice R. Suresh Kumar took cognisance of the fact that a proposal for the same was sent by the Commissioner of Municipal Administration to the Secretary of the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department in 2016 itself. The court directed the State to consider this proposal and decide the same on merits within a period of three months. The court was hearing the petition filed by 15 AYUSH doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-consider-proposal-for-time-bound-promotion/article32706806.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Detention order set aside||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to C. Mohan, the hairdresser who drew Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention for his social activities during the COVID-19 lockdown. He was booked for charging an exorbitant interest rate. Justice V. Bharathidasan granted anticipatory bail to Mohan. In his petition, Mohan said that a false complaint was lodged against him. He was innocent and did not commit any offence, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/detention-order-set-aside/article32706807.ece
27 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hairdresser gets advance bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to C. Mohan, the hairdresser who drew Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention for his social activities during the COVID-19 lockdown. He was booked for charging an exorbitant interest rate. Justice V. Bharathidasan granted anticipatory bail to Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hairdresser-gets-advance-bail/article32706979.ece
27 September 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Training on liquid fertilizer preparation from seaweeds||A day-long training on ‘Liquid fertilizer preparation from seaweeds’ will be conducted on October 7 by Dr. M.G.R. Fisheries College and Research Institute at Thalainayeru, a constituent unit of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam. The programme will cover modules on importance of seaweeds, types, liquid fertilizer preparation methods, and advantages of this fertilizer over other inorganic fertlizers, a press communique issued by Dean S. Balasundari here on Friday said. The participation fee of Rs. 300 could be remitted through fund transfer using the following details: Indian Overseas Bank, A/c No. 006201000073000 / IFSC code: IOBA0000062 / Branch: Nagapatinam. E-certificate will be issued to the participants. Interested candidates can register their names before 5 p.m. on October 6 with the Professor and Head, Department of Aquaculture, Dr. M.G.R. Fisheries College and Research Institute, Oradiyambulam, Thalainayeru 614712, Mobile No. 094422 88850, email: athithan@tnfu.ac.in, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-on-liquid-fertilizer-preparation-from-seaweeds/article32706982.ece
27 September 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Teachers raise money to buy phones for students||A group of teachers at the government school in Elambalur in Perambalur district has made sure that 44 students, including two in Class XI, attend online classes by providing them with mobile phones and SIM cards. The joint initiative of four teachers was the brainchild of K. Bairavi, a mathematics teacher, who found that students were not responding to messages sent by the school. “When the government asked us to begin online classes, none of the phone numbers furnished by students was active. Of the 16 students in English medium and 26 in Tamil medium in Class X, only two replied to our messages,” said Ms. Bairavi. The teachers then went from door to door and learnt that the phone numbers pertained to devices of their parents. Ms. Bairavi consulted her family about the idea of buying phones and SIM cards for students. She realised that Class 10 students were worried that with no Internet access, they could lose an academic year. Ms. Bairavi’s daughter urged her to buy phones for all her students. At the cost of Rs. 1 lakh, 16 students of the English medium received phones with active Internet connections. Inspired by her, other teachers in the school — R. Selvaraj and S. Suresh — along with Perambalur MLA R. Tamilselvan, who heads the Parent-Teachers Association, and the headmistress of a private school, too, agreed to donate mobile phones. “We got two donors from Qatar, who were willing to help the students,” Mr. Selvaraj said. Forty four handsets were purchased, two of which were given to two Class 11 students who performed well in Class 10. “I have decided to take the expenses of recharging the phones on a monthly-basis. It will cost Rs. 4,000, but it will ensure that my children learn,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-raise-money-to-buy-phones-for-students/article32706628.ece
27 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 death toll touches 500 in U.T.||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 500, and the number of infected persons to 26,032 in the Union Territory during last 24 hours. According to statistics released by Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S. Mohan Kumar, six persons hailing from Puducherry region succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the overall death toll to 500. As many as 439 new admissions were made in the Puducherry region, 61 in Karaikal, 34 in Mahe and 21 in Yanam, taking the overall tally to 26,032. Congress legislator T. Djeamourthy tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-death-toll-touches-500-in-ut/article32706632.ece
27 September 2020||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow devotees to take holy dip in 22 theertham wells’||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) functionaries and other opposition parties, protested against the Tamil Nadu government for disallowing devotees from taking a dip in the 22 theertham wells of the Ramanathaswamy Temple, here on Saturday. The temple was closed to devotees between March 23 and September 1 following State Government orders amidst COVID-19. Once the lockdown was lifted on September 1, devotees were allowed only to two major shrines inside the temple according to the protesters after extensive temperature checks. No puja articles were allowed as well. The functionaries demanded that all those visiting the temple be allowed to enter through all four entryways. Devotees must also be allowed to take a dip in the 22 theertham wells and the Agnitheertham sea. The government must also allow pujas to be performed near the sea, they sought. The protesters also said that tourists and visitors must be allowed to visit Dhanushkodi as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-devotees-to-take-holy-dip-in-22-theertham-wells/article32706818.ece
27 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Collector warns farmers against bogus KVKs||District Collector S.A. Raman has advised farmers not to fall prey to bogus Krishi Vigyan Kendras here. Mr. Raman said in a release that Krishi Vigyan Kendra operates only at Sandhiyur and they do not have any branches here. He said that it has come to the notice some miscreants with fake names of KVK are approaching farmers and indulging in scams by promising benefits to them under State and Central government schemes. Mr. Raman advised farmers to complain at the Collectorate or KVK, if they are approached by such bogus companies, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-collector-warns-farmers-against-bogus-kvks/article32706650.ece
27 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Community halls, UPHCs identified in Salem to set up COVID-19 care centres||The Health Department has identified community halls and upgraded primary health centres (UPHCs) in Attur here to set up COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) to treat patients with mild symptoms. Officials said that with schools and colleges expected to reopen, the Department had identified community and wedding halls and UPHCs here to set up the centres. Deputy Director of Health Services (Attur) R. Selvakumar said that only one or two school buildings were utilised so far as CCCs. “A community hall has been identified in each block to set up the CCC. Facilities are being readied according to COVID-19 treatment guidelines at four UPHCs. Each UPHC will have about 30 beds. Arrangements are in place to set up about 300 to 400 beds, if required. There are sufficient number of beds in Attur Government Hospital and home isolation is permitted for a few patients.” He added that about 30 to 50 beds could be arranged in each community hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/community-halls-uphcs-identified-in-salem-to-set-up-covid-19-care-centres/article32706666.ece
27 September 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Minister flags off mobile ration shop of Sankarankoil Cooperative Society||Minister for Adi Dravida and Tribal Welfare, V. M. Rajalakshmi, flagged off the mobile ration shop of Sankarankoil Cooperative Society here on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that the State Government has announced the introduction of 3,501 Amma mobile ration shops. Accordingly, 46 mobile ration shops have been introduced in Tenkasi district where 28 Cooperative societies were serving 6,730 family cards at their doorsteps. The newly flagged off mobile ration shop of Sankarankoil Cooperative society would serve 135 family card holders in Nochikulam village. She listed out that four mobile ration shops would serve people in Kadayanallur Assembly constituency and 11 mobile shops in Tenkasi Assembly segment. The number of mobile ration shops for other constituencies is Alangulam (16), Sankarankoil (9) and Vasudevanallur (6). Collector Arun Sundar Dayalan, Tirunelveli Regional Cooperative Joint Registrar, Priyadarshini, Sankarankoil Revenue Divisional Officer, Murugaselvi, Tenkasi District Supply Officer, Kokila, Cooperative Deputy Registrars, Muthusamy, Gurusamy, Veerapandi and others were present on the ocassion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-flags-off-mobile-ration-shop-of-sankarankoil-cooperative-society/article32706946.ece
27 September 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers can purchase seeds and fertilisers||Farmers can purchase seeds and fertilisers from Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies, block-level Agriculture Extension Centres and private centres by providing their Aadhaar number details, said a press release from the district administration. The release said that with the commencement of cultivation in the Rabi season, there was sufficient stock of seeds and fertilisers available at the centres. All centres have to oblige by the rules issued by the government and display the price of the products outside the centres. Farmers have to submit their fingerprints on the point of sale devices and furnish their Aadhaar card details to purchase the products, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-can-purchase-seeds-and-fertilisers/article32706812.ece
27 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for distribution of wheelchairs||The district administration has invited applications for distribution of wheelchairs meant for those affected by muscular distrophy or spinal problems. The wheelchairs will be distributed based on an interview at the Collectorate on October 9, a press release from Collector M. Govinda Rao said. Applicants must submit copies of their family card, Aadhaar card and two photographs, either in person or through post before October 6. The beneficiaries will comprise those who fulfil the stipulation of paralysis of hands and legs. The applicants are expected to have national identity cards for the differently abled. Students, employees and self-employed people will be given preference, the release said. Allocation It added that 10% of the wheelchairs will be given to Central and State government employees from among eligible applicants. Another 10% will be given to senior citizens. Men over the age of 60 years and women over 55 years of age are eligible to apply. More details will be provided over phone: 04362 236791, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-distribution-of-wheelchairs/article32706983.ece
27 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Agriculture Minister R. Doraikannu on Saturday inaugurated veterinary dispensaries at Puliamangalam and Devarayanpettai in Ammapettai Union. The dispensaries will be useful for farmers for healthy rearing of over 8,000 livestock and poultry, a press release said.     Candidates who have not applied online to Government Polytechnic College in Karur have been provided an opportunity to take part in the admission process for first year and direct admission to second year through lateral entry for Civil, ECE and CSE programmes. Aspirants will be provided guidance over phone: 95669 53713 / 86675 22799, and facilitated to apply through email or post before September 29, for participation in the online counselling on September 30, Principal V. Thenmozhi said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article32706976.ece
27 September 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose removal of ‘encroachments’||Residents of Kottagudi, an area located on the Western Ghats near Bodinayakanur, staged a protest against the district administration and attempted to prevent demolition of areas deemed as encroachments here on Friday. Officials arrived earlier in the day to the village to pull down the encroachments so that a primary health centre (PHC) could be built in the village. However, most of the residents who are members of a tribal community, opposed the demolition of their houses which they say was now being regarded as encroachments. The residents said that they had lived in the forest area for several years and were dependent on the ecosystem for survival. They had expanded their living area over time and had built houses in the area to ensure that their families could live away from the forest region. The protesters sat in front of the bulldozers with their children, seeking a meeting with the district administration regarding the removal of encroachments. After representatives from both sides discussed potential solutions, another site was identified by the villagers and approved by the district administration for the construction of the primary health centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-oppose-removal-of-encroachments/article32706944.ece
27 September 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||V.O.C port handles long wind blades||The V. O. Chidambaranar Port on September 15 handled wind blades with a length of 74.90 metres, the longest of its kind to be made in India. According to a press statement from the Port Trust, a vessel flagged for Panama, ‘M.V. Ginkgo Arrow’, loaded 50 windmill towers and 33 windmill blades on September 15. The ship’s hydraulic cranes were used to load the towers and blades. The vessel completed loading and sailed from the port on September 21 to the port of New Orleans, USA. The port has already handled 881 wind blades and 397 wind blade towers during this financial year. “During the last financial year, the port handled 1,667 wind blades and 648 wind blade towers, making V.O. Chidambaranar Port a gateway port for export of wind blades,” according to the press statement. Chairman, V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust, T.K. Ramachandran, said that the feat was possible only due to the collaborative efforts of port officials, agents, transporters and exporters. He added that with the significant increase in wind power generation capacity in India and the localisation of the wind energy equipment supply chain, the only imports to India are limited to castings and power electronics. “The manufacturing companies starting industries at ‘Tuticorin SPEEDZ’ (Smart Port Employment & Economic Development Zone) can benefit from mature industrial climate and culture, lower transportation cost for manufactured products and global reach provided through VOC Port,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-port-handles-long-wind-blades/article32706954.ece
27 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Direct shipping service, a threat to sail vessels industry||The direct ship service between Thoothukudi and Maldives poses a threat to mechanised coastal sail vessel service between these two destinations. The service was inaugurated on September 21. Besides carrying 16 containers, the maiden ship left Thoothukudi for Male with 2,000 tonnes of other cargo - mostly construction materials, fruits and vegetables. The service has opened new business avenues for exporters but mechanised sail vessel industry, which was operating vessels to Colombo, Lakshadweep and the Maldives from Thoothukudi, is facing a threat. The Old Harbour, the base of mechanised coastal sail vessels, which once handled up to 35 vessels, now has 19 vessels. While nine vessels shuttle between the Maldives and Thoothukudi with 450 to 500 tonnes of cargo, 10 vessels take cargo to Lakshadweep. After enjoying excellent business for decades, the mechanised vessel industry initially faced problem from Chinese products. Even as the quantum of materials exported to the Maldives is steadily coming down, the economic meltdown worsened the problem further. “Now, the direct shipping service may blow death knell to the mechanised sail vessel industry, feeding around 6,000 workers of this industry directly and indirectly,” says S. Lasington Fernando, president, Mechanized Coastal Sail Vessel Owners’ Association. The industry, which was flourishing till 1990 by taking fruits, vegetables, dry fish, construction materials, manure and other essentials, started wilting after growth in container traffic. While service to Colombo was stopped completely in 2010, only 15 vessels are being operated to Maldives from where metal scrap is being imported. “The Indian government should ensure that our industry doesn’t get decimated by the introduction of another service. It should allocate certain quantity of cargo for the sail vessels so that it will also be afloat along with the direct shipping service,” says Mr. Lasington.  The Indian government should allocate certain quantity of cargo for sail vessels so that it will also be afloat along with the direct shipping service S. Lasington Fernando President, Mechanized Coastal Sail Vessel Owners’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/direct-shipping-service-a-threat-to-sail-vessels-industry/article32706940.ece
27 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No Net, no phone? just head to a library round the corner||For the underprivileged students in villages in Manikandam block in Tiruchi district with no access to the internet and online classes, the concept of street libraries conceived by the Block Education Officer seems to hold promise for sustenance of academic activities. One such library established in Pirattiyur has received a good patronage, and it has been planned to establish similar ones across Manikandam block. The idea was conceived when teachers found it difficult to reach students whose parents would either take their phones and go to work or those who could not afford to purchase smartphones with internet access, said K. Marudhanayagam, Manikandam Block Education Officer. “While we were trying to organise ways to encourage learning among children amid the pandemic, we realised that many could not access online classes. While some children had access to a smart phone, it belonged to their father who would take it with him to work. Children who are eager to learn must not lose out for no fault of theirs,” he said. The street library will help the children to cultivate reading habit, understand borrowing and lending, improve their reading level and also learn and share knowledge with their near and dear ones, Mr. Marudhanayagam said. Six such libraries, with 300 books each, have been established in Pirattiyur. “While we have stocked the library with autobiographies, novels and educational books, our students have recommended books that they would like to read. We will stock those books too,” K. Asha Rani, Headmistress, Panchayat Union Middle School, Pirattiyur, said. “Many children even brought their parents and grandparents along to read, which took us by surprise,” she said. It works like any other lending library where students may borrow any book and return it after reading. However, there are no fees or late fine. “The students can read the book at the library, or take it home and read it,” Ms. Rani said. The libraries have been set up near the homes of students who study at the panchayat union school. “With the cooperation of the parents, the libraries are kept outside some students’ houses, while some are also kept at the entrance of houses where there is vacant space,” Ms. Rani said. All books were donated by well-wishers, Mr. Marudhanayagam said. “We are planning more libraries and require donations. Many donors brought vauable books and handed them over to us. The children will make best use of them,” he said. Books for older children, and for youth attempting competititve examinations too, will be stocked soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-net-no-phone-just-head-to-a-library-round-the-corner/article32706981.ece
27 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 deaths shoot up||COVID-19 cases have increased again in central region on Saturday as 677 new cases were recorded, a sharp increase when compared to 591 on Friday. The region recorded 14 deaths, six of which pertained to Thanjavur, four to Pudukottai, two to Nagapattinam and one each to Ariyalur and Tiruchi. In Thanjavur, men aged 54, 65, 58, 65, 67 and 60 years, all suffering from comorbid conditions, including diabetes, died of COVID-19. In Pudukottai, two men, both aged 52 years, one who had an acute cerebrovascular accident, and another with a kidney complication; a 76-year-old man, and an 83-year-old man with no clinical history succumbed to the viral infection. Two men - a 57-year-old with no pre-existing conditions and a 50-year-old suffering from comorbidities, including hypertension, died in Karur, while in Ariyalur a 38-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome died of COVID-19. In Tiruchi, a 70-year-old man with a medical history of chronic kidney disease died. Meanwhile, Thanjavur continued to record the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts. A total of 179 patients tested positive on Saturday. Among them was a lecturer at a college, a ward manager and a staff nurse at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, a volunteer on COVID duty, a teacher at a private school, three employees of a private hospital. Tiruvarur recorded 141 new cases, while Tiruchi recorded 96 cases. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. A total of 88 patients tested positive in Pudukottai. Karur also recorded a sharp increase in cases with 71 new cases on Saturday. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and local index cases with no travel or contact history. In Nagapattinam, 45 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among the patients were those with a history of respiratory illnesses and their immediate contacts. In Ariyalur, 32 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The patients included inter-district travellers, primary contacts and patients with respiratory illnesses. Perambalur recorded 25 cases, among which eight hailed from Perambalur, six from Veppanthattai, five from Veppur and six from Alathur blocks. Meanwhile, 382 new throat swabs were lifted from contacts and patients with symptoms of COVID-19 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-deaths-shoot-up/article32706972.ece
27 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Miyawaki concept takes root||Buoyed by the success of Miyawaki method, a Japanese approach of raising plantations of native tree breeds in a dense manner, on South Devi Street in Srirangam and Perumalpuram in Thiruvanaikoil, the Tiruchi Corporation has decided to extend the concept to other parts of the city. As against the normal plantation where saplings are planted in uniform gaps, the Miyawaki method envisages planting the saplings within a close range to ensure quicker growth of the plants. On a vacant plot owned by Sri Ranganathaswami Temple in Srirangam, the Corporation raised 10,000 flower and fruit bearing trees in 2019. Similarly, another site owned by the Temple at Perumalpuram in Thiruvanaikoil was also brought under the Miyawaki initiative. Four more plots at Srinivasa Nagar in Srirangam, Balaji Avenue in Thiruvanaikoil and Sanjeevi Nagar owned by the Tiruchi Corporation were further brought under the concept. About 25,000 saplings have so far been raised at six locations in the city. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the initiative had made a remarkable progress. The saplings had grown from three to 10 feet in Srirangam and Thiruvanaikoil. It had made an evident impact on ambience, atmosphere, greenery and temperature in and around the project sites. Hence, it had been decided to bring more open plots in the city under the Miyawaki concept, he said. Selection of plots was on. The Assistant Commissioners of all four zones have been asked to prepare a list of places, where the urban forestry plan could be undertaken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miyawaki-concept-takes-root/article32706970.ece
27 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 99.85 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 13,499 cusecs and the discharge 20,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32706974.ece
27 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Awardee felicitated||M. Dharmasastha, a NSS volunteer of Bishop Heber COllege, who received the prestigious National Award for NSS for 2018-19 in the volunteer category earlier this week from President Ramnath Govind through virtual mode was felicitated by Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University P. Manisankar and Registrar G. Gopinath. Dharmasastha attended the prestigious Republic Day parade in New Delhi in January and is the only NSS volunteer from Tamil Nadu to receive the award consisting of a medal and a certificate, NSS Coordinator of Bharathidasan University A. Lakshmi Praba said. NSS Programme Officer of Bishop Heber College R. Ravi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awardee-felicitated/article32706975.ece
27 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Two women hacked to death, petrol bombs hurled||Two women — A. Shanmugathai, 50, and S. Shanthi, 45 — were hacked to death by unidentified assailants, who hurled petrol bombs on them before attacking them with sharp weapons, at Marugalkurichi, under the Nanguneri police station limits, on Saturday. The severed head of Shanmugathai was found a few metres away in the village. The police suspect that the murders could be revenge for a double murder reported in March. Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli district, N. Manivannan, who inspected the scene of crime, said that special teams had been formed to nab the accused. This is the fifth murder between two rival groups of the same village ever since one Nambirajan eloped with T. Vanmathi, 18, of the locality last year. Vanmathi’s brother, Chellasamy and his accomplices were arrested for beheading Nambirajan in November 2019 in the Tirunelveli city police limits.  In retaliation, two relatives of Vanmathi — Arumugam, who runs a small eatery in the village, and Suresh — were hacked to death in March. Held for murder Nambirajan’s parents Arunachalam and Shanmugathai, their sons Ramaiah and Sankar and their relatives, including Esakkipandi, were arrested in connection with the double murder. While Shanmugathai had come out on bail earlier, a few of the accused came out of jail only three days ago. “We chased them out of the village anticipating trouble,” the SP said. The gang, which came in search of the male accused, beheaded Shanmugathai as her sons were not present in the house. Similarly, they also went to the house of Esakkipandi, another accused in the double murder. Since, he was not there, the gang inflicted multiple cut injuries on his mother, Shanthi, 45, leaving her dead on the spot. The police have recovered some weapons, including petrol bombs. A minor girl, Selvi, 14, who was in the house, sustained minor injuries in the melee, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-hacked-to-death-petrol-bombs-hurled-in-nanguneri/article32706621.ece
27 September 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||New bus stand coming up||A modern bus stand is coming up at a cost of Rs. 3 crore at Nannilam in Tiruvarur district under Capital Grant Subsidy scheme. A complex with 24 shops, a restaurant, two waiting rooms for passengers, 10 bus bays and free lavatories figure among the amenities. Also, 42,000 square ft of floor space in the bus stand will be tar-topped, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said on Friday, after inspecting the progress of works along with Collector T. Anand. They also inspected an overhead water tank being constructed at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh at Nallamangudi. Mr. Kamaraj who also took stock of COVID prevention activities said the spread of the pandemic was under control in the district, owing to the combined efforts of different government departments. Eighty-five percent of the infected patients in the district had returned home after successful treatment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-bus-stand-coming-up/article32706977.ece
27 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||16 accident ‘hotspots’ identified in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris district police have identified 16 accident “hotspots” across the district, and are seeking feedback from the public to bring down the number of accidents in these locations. Police officials said that these “hotspots” are locations where multiple accidents have occurred over the last few years. Nilgiris district superintendent of police V. Sasi Mohan said that the number of accidents reported in the district was much lower than anywhere else in the State. Adverse impact “However, as the district is dependent on tourism and any accidents could have an effect on the industry and its perception among tourists, we are constantly working towards reducing traffic accidents each year,” he said. The SP said that a total of 175 fatal as well as non-fatal accidents were reported across the district in 2019, while the number of accidents this year stands at 100. “The reduction in the number of accidents is due to the COVID-19 pandemic leading to a reduction in tourists and subsequently, vehicular traffic, since March this year,” he said. The police have appealed to local residents and members of the public to write in with their suggestions about how each of these “accident hotspots” can be made safer, either through improved signage or small changes to existing infrastructure. The appeal for feedback have been made through the police’s social media platforms. “We hope that the public, who use these roads can give us some advice as to how best the safety in these areas can be improved for motorists,” said Mr. Mohan. The police are also imposing stricter penalties on rash and negligent drivers as well as motorists, who get involved in accidents under the influence of alcohol. “Previously, a normal accident case would be registered read with an offence booked for drunk driving. Now, police have been given powers to book offenders under section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code, under which they can be remanded,” added the Superintendent of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-accident-hotspots-identified-in-the-nilgiris/article32706649.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||5 deaths, 656 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported five deaths and 656 new COVID-19 cases. A total of 4,859 patients from the district are under treatment in different hospitals and 595 persons were discharged after treatment on Saturday. With the death of five patients, the district’s toll rose to 413, a media bulletin issued by the Health Department said. Tiruppur district reported 188 new cases and four deaths. As many as 1,719 patients are under treatment in different hospitals in Coimbatore and Tiruppur. The district’s toll increased to 118. Salem district reported 296 fresh cases and four deaths. Three persons had returned from Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Kallakuruchi.  The deceased were aged 56, 71,72 and 55. Laboratory inaugurated An RT-PCR testing laboratory was inaugurated at the Vinayaka Mission’s Kirupananda Variyar Medical College and Hospital in Salem on Friday by Joint Director of Health Services R. Mallarvizhi Vallal, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital R. Balajinathan. Namakkal district reported 134 cases and one death. According to health officials, three patients had returned from Perambalur, Erode, Salem and one from Goa. A 72-year-old man from Vellore died at Namakkal GH. Erode district reported 140 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 6,280. While 115 persons were discharged, 1,138 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll to 82. The Nilgiris reported 145 cases, raising the district’s tally to 3,646. Krishnagiri recorded 70 new cases and Dharmapuri 95.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-deaths-656-cases-in-coimbatore/article32706662.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Survey carried out in ATR to accord land rights to tribal families||A sub-divisional committee formed by the Coimbatore sub-collector on Saturday surveyed a land inside the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) which a tribal settlement had sought for individual rights to homestead under provisions of the Forest Rights Act, 2006. A team of officials from the Revenue, the Forest and the Survey and Land Records Departments surveyed a place called Theppakulamedu which 23 families of the tribal settlement named Kallar Kadar had sought for allocation under the Act. Original settlement Sources in the know of the developments said that the sub-divisional committee surveyed around 11 acre of land at Theppakulamedu, equivalent to the 4.5 hectares of land the tribal families had been claiming for several decades as their original settlement. The 23 families had to leave the original settlement named Kallar Kadar settlement in ATR following a landslide in August last year. Though they built temporary shelters near to the landslide-hit settlement, the Forest Department evicted the families and made them live in an unused tea estate quarters at Thaimudi near Valparai from August 20 last year. Tribal rights activist S. Thanaraj, who is also the State Co-ordinator of Ekta Parishad, Tamil Nadu, said that the survey done on Saturday has given hopes to the families of realising their dream of right to homestead at Theppakulamedu, a place they chose in gram sabha. Deputy Field Director of ATR Arockiaraj Xavier said that processing of various rights to at least 750 tribal families living in the tiger reserve was under different stages. The rights for the tribals ensured under the Forest Rights Act include rights to homestead and agricultural land, and community rights to collect forest produces other than timber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-carried-out-in-atr-to-accord-land-rights-to-tribal-families/article32706648.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Third phase of outer ring road project begins in Erode||The much-delayed Erode Outer Ring Road project resumed here recently as the State Highways Department is keen on completing the third phase of the work within three months after which traffic congestion on arterial roads in the city is expected to get reduced. The 14.8-km project, sanctioned in 2006, will connect Kokkarayanpettai in Namakkal district with Thindal Medu in Erode district and was planned to be implemented in three phases. While the first two phases, Kokkarayanpettai to Lakkapuram and from Lakkapuram to Anakalpalayam were completed and opened for traffic, land acquisition for 815 metres in the Anakalpalayam – Thindal Medu stretch (7.2 km) halted the project for over six years now. Land owners of 400 metre stretch at Puthur Pudupalayam, two houses at Rangampalayam and an agriculture land at Anakalpalayam approached the court and recently compensation was finalised for the owners. Two houses at Rangampalayam were demolished and the land at Anakalpalayam was acquired and compensation was settled to the owners. However, land owners at Puthur Pudupalayam claimed that compensation is yet to be settled to them and had an altercation with officials on Friday. Later, revenue and police officials explained to them that compensation was deposited in the court and they can submit their claims. Later, officials continued the work. A senior Highways Department officials told The Hindu that work had commenced in the 850 metre stretch and would be completed within three months. After completion, vehicles can use the stretch without any interruption, she added. Private vehicles and lorries from Namakkal and Karur districts proceeding towards Perundurai and Chithode can use the road and need not enter Erode town which will give a respite to road users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-phase-of-outer-ring-road-project-begins-in-erode/article32706642.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Establish two anganwadi centres at Sathyamangalam: CPI||The Communist Party of India has urged the district administration to establish two anganwadi centres at Sathyamangalam as centres were not available for children within two km radius from their residence. The party’s south union committee meeting was held at the party office in Sathyamangalam that was chaired by union’s deputy secretary A.K. Pongiyannan. Other participants were S. Mohan Kumar, State Committee Member, former MLA P.L. Sundaram, and union secretary S.C. Natraj. There are 20 children at Nadupalayam at Shenbagapudur Panchayat who are ready to be admitted to anganwadi centre. But, they said that no centre is available in the area and children have to go to another village, which is over two km away. Likewise, there are 22 children at Vellimalai Karadu in Makkinamkombai Panchayat where there is no centre. A resolution was passed over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/establish-two-anganwadi-centres-at-sathyamangalam-cpi/article32706643.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects strong room where EVMs are kept||Collector C. Kathiravan on Friday inspected the strong room at the Railway Colony Corporation Higher Secondary School at Kollampalayam where electronic voting machines (EVMs) were stored. The seal of the strong room was opened in the presence of representatives from recognised political parties and officials. A total of 3,179 ballot units, 836 control units and 217 Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trial (VVPAT) were kept in the room after the local body elections last year. Mr. Kathiravan along with political party representatives inspected the room and found everything to be intact. Tahsildars Sivagami (Election), and Parimaladevi (Erode), Corporation Assistant Executive Engineer A. Anand and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-strong-room-where-evms-are-kept/article32706638.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Needs attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/needs-attention/article32706652.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Curtailed trade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curtailed-trade/article32706656.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CBI files chargesheet in Sattankulam deaths case||The accused are now in judicial custody and lodged in the Madurai Central Prison. The CBI, which took over the investigation, registered two cases against the accused on July 7. The investigation revealed that the father and son were arrested on the evening of June 19 and were allegedly tortured in the Sattankulam police station by the accused policemen. A false case was registered against them by the accused policemen, and the post-mortem reports revealed that they died owing to blunt injuries. Further investigation is under way to find out the role of other persons in the case, the CBI said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-files-chargesheet-in-sattankulam-deaths-case/article32706598.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Honouring a friend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honouring-a-friend/article32706605.ece
27 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||VTU to declare engineering, architecture results today||VTU will declare the results of all degree programmes in engineering and architecture on its website [vtu.ac.in.] on Sunday. These are the results of recently concluded examinations of final year BE, B.Arch, and B.Tech courses and back-log courses. The university has already declared the results of civil engineering courses as the students wanted them on time to apply for jobs in the State government. The university has also declared results of all its postgraduate courses. Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa told The Hindu that the university provides online options for all examination-related services. VTU is yet to decide on reopening colleges for postgraduate courses for offline classes for this academic year, following UGC’s recommendation that the offline classes could start from November. The varsity is also considering various options to start offline classes once the dates are announced. The university is also considering organising practical classes in laboratories with social distancing and other hygiene norms. The average strength of a class is around 60. However, a team that attends practical lessons in the laboratory is between 12-15. The number of members in a group that works in the laboratory will be reduced to ensure that the laboratory is not crowded, the VC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vtu-to-declare-engineering-architecture-results-today/article32706742.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positivity rate highest in Bengaluru Rural last week||As the number of coronavirus infections in India and Karnataka continues to soar, the positivity rate among both asymptomatic and symptomatic cases over the last week in the State has been the highest in Bengaluru Rural. Data from the Karnataka State COVID-19 War Room as of September 24 evening shows that the positivity rate among asymptomatic cases in the last seven days since the date of the report in Bengaluru Rural stands at 29.7 — for 2,331 tests conducted and 692 cases. Mysuru had the second highest positivity rate of 26.9 for 7,228 tests and 1,943 cases. Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Hassan, and Shivamogga are among the other districts with higher positivity rates for asymptomatic cases. Bengaluru Urban, which is the largest contributor to the State’s tally with over two lakh cases, has a positivity rate of 13.8 — the same as Udupi and Yadgir. The number of asymptomatic tests for the same period in the State capital was 1,10,425, and positive asymptomatic cases 15,194. The least positivity rates for asymptomatic cases were in Kolar (7.5%), Uttara Kannada (10%), and Bidar (10%). Karnataka’s asymptomatic positivity rate is 14.7. As for symptomatic cases, the positivity rate was highest again in Bengaluru Rural (62.6 — 414 tests and 259 cases), followed by Mysuru (48.4 — 1,110 tests, 537 positives), and Udupi (47.5 — 434 tests and 206 positives). The State’s positivity rate for the same period was 38.2 — for 20,756 tests and 7,925 positives, while Bengaluru Urban’s was 44.3 — 7,215 tests and 3,197 positives. The least positivity rates were in Ramanagaram (3.3), Bagalkot (10.9), and Haveri (19).    Responding to questions about the positivity rate, Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Rural P.N. Ravindra told The Hindu that a temporary drop in testing numbers was a major factor. “The positivity rate increased as the number of tests had dropped briefly due to some reasons. Health workers were on strike for a few days. In addition, there was no supply of RAT kits for some days. Because of all this, testing numbers had dropped from the earlier 500 to 600 tests a day,” he said. But he said the issues had been resolved. On Saturday, a meeting with various stakeholders had resulted in an action plan for the district as well. “We also received 10,000 RAT kits on Friday. Sunday onwards, testing will be ramped up, including for targeted and vulnerable groups. In two to three days, positivity rate should come down,” he added. On the other hand, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said increased testing had decreased the positivity rates in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits. “The BBMP is making consistent efforts to increase the testing rates and follow syndromic approach (ILI surveys ) to detect areas of transmission. As a result of this, test positivity is decreasing. However, we can’t be complacent as other areas are seeing surge in cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-positivity-rate-highest-in-bengaluru-rural-last-week/article32706552.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 8,811 new cases, 86 fatalities||The State on Saturday reported 8,811 new cases, taking the total number to 5,66,023. With 86 new deaths, the toll rose to 8,503.This includes death of 19 COVID-19 patients owing to other causes. As many as 5,417 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 4,55,719. Active cases crossed one lakh and touched 1,01,782. Of these, 832 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. Bengaluru Urban continued to report over 4,000 cases for the third consecutive day. With 4,083 new cases, the total tally in the district touched 2,16,630. With 27 of the 86 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 2,821. As many as 67,857 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 26,049 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 45,86,780.  With the pandemic having affected all the key strategic interventions of TB programme, resulting in almost 35% decline in TB case notification in 2020 as compared with previous year, the Union Ministry has directed all States to ensure that all newly diagnosed TB patients or those currently on treatment be tested for COVID-19 by RT-PCR/Truenat/CBNAAT methods. And, all COVID-19 cases should be screened for TB symptoms. Besides, TB screening should be mandatorily done for all those who present with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) if their symptoms are persisting for more than 10 days. Following this, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) has directed all deputy commissioners and district health officers to follow the Union Ministry’s directions. The State government has announced a COVID risk incentive of Rs. 5,000 for nurses working with PPE kits in COVID hospitals, COVID health centres, and COVID Care Centres run by the Health and Family Welfare Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-8811-new-cases-86-fatalities/article32706556.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa offers to resign, retire if charge of BDA ‘scam’ is proved||Launching a counter-attack on charges of corruption in a BDA housing project in which the role of his family member is alleged, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday said he would resign and retire from politics if there was an iota of proof in the allegations. This came after Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah sought that he step down pending an enquiry either by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court or SIT monitored by the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court. In response, Mr. Yediyurappa challenged that Mr. Siddaramaiah, who raised the issue in the Legislative Assembly, should either prove the allegations or quit his post. “Even if there is an iota of proof to show involvement of my family members, I will retire from politics,” the Chief Minister said. He said Mr. Siddaramaiah should be responsible while making corruption charges. Intervening in the debate, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the contractor had filed an FIR against the TV channel that conducted a sting operation. “Do you trust such a sting operation? And what is wrong in the person mentioned in the conversation expressing anger against someone collecting money in his father’s name?” he asked. Continuing his attack, he said it was not proper on the part of Mr. Siddaramaiah to level the charges banking on an audio conversation. Angered by this, Mr. Siddaramaiah sought to remind the treasury Benches that it was the responsibility of the government to get a probe done. This triggered an heated exchange of words between the Chief Minister and Mr. Siddaramaiah with both leaders losing their cool. The entire lot of BJP members and Congress members joined the argument by supporting their leaders. When a semblance of order prevailed in the House, Mr. Madhuswamy said Congress the should follow norms such as furnishing documents and taking permission before making such charges. Responding to this, Mr. Siddaramaiah recalled that the BJP had accused the then Minister K.J. George with respect to the death of IAS officer D.K. Ravi though it did not have any evidence. He also read out a WhatsApp chat purported to have taken place between a contractor and a prominent person about payment of bribe for the BDA project. Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah raised the issue of an audio conversation through telephone between a certain individual and a TV channel with respect to a Rs. 666.22 crore housing complex work being executed by the BDA and alleged exchange of bribe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-offers-to-resign-retire-if-charge-of-bda-scam-is-proved/article32706565.ece
27 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||APMC Bill: Govt. acting under pressure from Centre, says Opposition||The adoption of the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which seeks to permit farmers to sell their produce outside the APMC, saw walkout by the Opposition Congress and JD(S). While Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar maintained that the Bill would help farmers by relieving them from the clutches of middlemen, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah described it as “anti-farmer”. He alleged that the APMC amendment was being pushed by the Centre. Reading out a letter written to the State government by the office of the Home Minister Amit Shah and a senior Central official asking for amending the APMC Act, he said the Centre was under pressure from the MNCs and corporates to take up the amendment. Arguing that the Centre did not have powers under the Constitution to intervene with respect to APMCs that came under the State list, Mr. Siddaramaiah urged the State government to desist from “succumbing” to the Centre’s pressure. Pointing out that the APMCs in the State had earned Rs. 615 crore revenue the previous year, he wanted to know if the private players who would come to the fore after the implementation of the Act would provide this to the government. He cautioned the State government that it may meet a similar fate that befell with respect to GST compensation. Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi launched a counter-attack by pointing out that the Congress had promised in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto to scrap the APMC Act. He described the present opposition to the Bill by the Congress as double standard. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy pointed out that the farmers’ revolving fund that was used for market intervention scheme to help them during price crash was being run with the help of the APMC cess. He expressed concern that such a system may come to an end after the implementation of the new legislation. “If you succumb to pressure from the Centre, the federal structure will be destroyed,” he cautioned. Allaying fears, Mr. Somashekhar said the MSP system would continue and salaries of the APMC staff would be paid through the government. Not satisfied with the reply, the Opposition staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/apmc-bill-govt-acting-under-pressure-from-centre-says-opposition/article32706561.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police to soon levy fines on those not wearing mask||Starting next week, the police will be equipped to levy fines on people not wearing masks in public places or following social distancing rules. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to provide handheld devices to all police stations. At present, only BBMP marshals and health inspectors have been given machines to levy fines. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, during a videoconference with representatives of various citizens’ groups and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) on Saturday, said, “For effective implementation of safety precautions, the civic body has decided to tie up with the police.”D. Randeep, Special Commissioner (Heath and Solid Waste Management), BBMP, said that around 109 police stations in the BBMP limits would be given one device each by Monday. During the videoconference, several citizens sought clarifications on the roles and responsibilities of nodal officers for each of the 198 wards. In the absence of councillors, it is their job to liaison with residents through regular meetings and ensure that grievances are addressed. Activists including Kathyayini Chamaraj, who was a member of Shanthinagar Ward Committee, raised questions on the composition of the new committees and how people could participate in them. Mr. Prasad said officers had been directed to hold at least two meetings a month. “Anybody can participate in the meetings. They will be held virtually and the nodal officer is expected to be at the ward office at the time so that those who cannot join virtually can come to the office,” he said. Epidemiologist Giridhar R. Babu, who took part in the meeting, said the risk of contracting coronavirus was at an all time high as there was free movement of people with no restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-to-soon-levy-fines-on-those-not-wearing-mask/article32706550.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||668 prisoners tested positive for COVID-19, govt. tells HC||The State government has told the High Court of Karnataka that 668 prisoners lodged in 47 prisons have tested positive for COVID-19 as of September 18 and 585 of them have fully recovered from the infection after being treated at designated hospitals or care centres. Also, the government said that 16,418 tests for COVID-19 were conducted for prisoners. While 11,116 tests were conducted for those brought to prisons for the first time, 4,794 tests were conducted for the existing inmates, and 508 for prisoners who returned from parole, as of September 18. The data was submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of a petition filed by Amol Kale, a prime accused in Gauri Lankesh murder case lodged at the central prison in Mysuru. The petitioner had sought various measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the prison. The remaining 83 prisoners are undergoing treatment at designated COVID-19 hospitals or care centre, the government said while pointing that no COVID-19 inmates are being treated in any prison. Only isolation wards have been set up inside each prison to isolate inmates with symptoms of cough, cold, and fever, and they are tested for COVID-19, the government said. 97.7% of the capacity The court was also informed that the present population in the prisons is only 97.7% of the total capacity as against 110% that existed in March owing to various decongestion measures initiated in view of COVID-19. As per the data, Bengaluru Central Prison had 320 COVID-19 prisoners of which 303 had recovered and 17 were under treatment and Mysuru Central Prison had 64 COVID-19 inmates of which 55 recovered and nine were undergoing treatment as of September 18. Also, in 11 prisons none of the inmates have tested positive for COVID-19 so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/668-prisoners-tested-positive-for-covid-19-govt-tells-hc/article32706553.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online application to book slots to file papers in HC||In a first, a software application has been developed to book time slots to submit petitions and documents in court. It has been introduced by the High Court of Karnataka to overcome the challenges posed by the COVID-19 restrictions. The application, called ‘Physical Filing – Online Appointment’, has been developed on the model of booking seats for a movie in a multiplex. It was developed by the High Court’s in-house technical team within a span of seven days. The time slots convenient to advocates or their clerks or the litigants can be booked for the physical filing of fresh petitions, caveats, interlocutory applications, and DD deposits at the specially designated nine counters at the Principal Bench of the High Court in Bengaluru. How it works The time slots, ranging from two to 10 minutes, have been set for the filing of specified documents. The users, after registering themselves, can log into the application and choose the date and time slot of their choice for a particular service. On confirmation of booking, the application will generate an acknowledgement which the user will have to show at the entrance gate of the court in order to get to the filing counters. T.G. Shivashankare Gowda, Registrar (Computers), told The Hindu that the application was developed as Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka wanted a technological solution to reduce the burden on the staff who were required to communicate time slots after processing 300 to 500 emails received from advocates every day. Pointing out that this was the first time such an application was developed for the courts in the country, he said it was subjected to a security audit before introduction. The online application allows each user to book three to five slots, depending on the type of documents they want to submit at the designated counters. The software will indicate the available and already booked dates and time slots in green and red boxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-application-to-book-slots-to-file-papers-in-hc/article32706579.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing costs reduced||The State government has revised COVID-19 test costs, making it more affordable to people. The ceiling rate for private samples in private laboratories, including screening and confirmatory tests using the RT-PCR method, has been reduced from Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 1,600 per test, inclusive of the cost of the PPE kit. Furthermore, the rate of testing for samples sent by the government in private laboratories, including screening and confirmatory tests, has been reduced from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 1,200 per test, inclusive of the cost of the PPE kit, said Jwaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), in a circular issued on Saturday.The cost of testing samples using the RT-PCR technique had been fixed at Rs. 2,250 per sample in April. This included the screening test and confirmatory test. For the samples referred by the State government, the cost was reduced to Rs. 2,000 in July. The ceiling rate for private samples in private laboratories had been fixed at Rs. 3,000 per test. Subsequently in August, this was reduced to Rs. 1,500 per test for samples sent by the government in private laboratories and Rs. 2,500 for private samples in private labs.“As the rates of RT-PCR reagents have come down, the Task Force Committee has reconsidered the issue of re-fixation of rates for RT-PCR to be charged by private laboratories and reduced the cost,” stated the circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-costs-reduced/article32706554.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C.T. Ravi, Tejasvi Surya in Nadda’s team||In a reshuffle of the BJP organisation, C.T. Ravi and Tejasvi Surya from the State have been inducted into the team of office-bearers selected to work under new party national president J.P. Nadda. Mr. Ravi, Minister for Kannada and Culture, has been appointed one of the eight national general secretaries, a key post in running party affairs across the country. Mr. Surya, a first-time MP from Bengaluru South, has been appointed national president of the BJP Yuva Morcha, replacing Poonam Mahajan. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar has been appointed a party spokesperson. Mr. Ravi, an aspirant to become BJP State president, neither got that post nor was happy with the “light” portfolios of Kannada and Culture and Tourism he got in the State government. This is the first time he will hold an office at the national level in the party. Meanwhile, just over a year after winning the Lok Sabha polls, being appointed national president of the Yuva Morcha is seen as a big break for Mr. Surya.  P. Muralidhar Rao, who is in charge of party affairs in the State, has been dropped from the list of national general secretaries, paving the way for a new person to be in charge in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ct-ravi-tejasvi-surya-in-naddas-team/article32706577.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition to changes to farm laws||Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmers, Dalits and workers groups, has called upon farmers to “gherao Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at sight”, to tell him of their opposition to the amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, and Karnataka APMC Act, 1966. The “alternative people’s Assembly” passed a resolution on Saturday condemning the amendments as anti-farmer, anti-poor and pro-corporate. Aikya Horata has also given a call to make Monday’s State Bandh successful to force the state government to withdraw these legislations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-to-changes-to-farm-laws/article32706562.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. develops indigenous COVID-19 diagnostic kit||An indigenous RT-PCR diagnostic kit has been developed by a start-up incubated at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.). The test kit, based on reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), has been approved for use in authorised COVID-19 diagnostic labs by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Developed by Equine Biotech, founded by Utpal Tatu, professor in the Department of Biochemistry, IISc., the test using the “Global diagnostic kit” takes about one-and-a-half hours to confirm the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in patient samples, and its run time is shorter compared with the kits available in the industry, according to its founders. The company is currently seeking to licence its new COVID-19 test kit and work with med-tech companies and other industries for mass production, marketing, and distribution of these kits. “Our start-up has been working on testing for coronavirus infections for many years, even before the COVID-19 pandemic started. This experience has helped us engineer the kit for COVID-19,” an IISc. release quoted Prof. Tatu as saying. Mass produced With COVID-19 becoming a global pandemic, and India climbing up the case chart to number two, ramping up testing in the country is crucial for tracking and controlling the spread of the infectious disease. “India needs home-grown diagnostics kits that can easily be mass produced and made accessible to a larger population. But so far, only a few Indian companies have developed reliable and accurate RT-PCR kits; most of the kits used widely are imported, and therefore expensive,” the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-develops-indigenous-covid-19-diagnostic-kit/article32706563.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jewellery store robbery: 3 held||The police have cracked the September 20 robbery at a jewellery store at Jalahalli and arrested three men, one of whom had been caught robbing another jeweller but was out on bail. Based on CCTV camera footage and fingerprints analysis, the police zeroed in on Gopa Ram, who was held in 2016 but was out on bail. He was working as a food delivery partner and decided to burgle the shop with two of his associates, Jitendra Mali, 31, and Veer Rao, 32, both hailing from Rajasthan and working in the city. The police have recovered 1.75 kg gold ornaments and Rs. 3.5 lakh in cash from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jewellery-store-robbery-3-held/article32706559.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Welder dies as tanker explodes||A welder, Gourishankar, 28, working on an empty petrol tanker died in an accident when part of the tanker caught fire and exploded at Electronics City on Saturday. Another worker, who sustained minor injuries, is being treated in a private hospital. The incident occurred at a workshop in Veerasandra. It was an underground tanker installed at a petrol bunk that had suffered damage and was leaking, said the police. It was being mended at the workshop. The police have registered a case of negligence against the owners of thepetrol bunk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/welder-dies-as-tanker-explodes/article32706581.ece
27 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Heavy rains throw life out of gear in NK districts||Heavy rains lashed several places in Dharwad district and caused inundation in some low-lying areas and disrupted life. Downpour lashed the twin cities and surrounding villages from Friday night and continued on Saturday morning too resulting in flash floods in a few streams and inundation of low-lying areas like Haveripet in Dharwad. The Dharwad-Saundatti road was waterlogged for few hours in Dharwad. Following the downpour, power supply was disrupted in several localities in Dharwad city on Friday night and it was restored only on Saturday evening. According to an initial estimation, standing crops in 8,000 hectares of farmlands in Dharwad taluk alone have been damaged. Officials of the Agriculture Department said that following a spate in Tuppari Halla, standing crops of soya, cotton and maize had been damaged in fields along the stream. Rains have caused damages to onion and chilli crops too. The bridge on the Dharwad-Saundatti Road near Harobelavadi has been submerged once again severing the road connectivity. Huli Keri in Alnavar taluk, where maximum rains were witnessed, is almost full to the brim. Further rains may cause the tank to breach, sources said. There have been reports of inundation of a few small bridges in Gadag district, which also witnessed downpour from Friday night. Interspersed with small pauses, rainfall lashed the city on Friday night continued on Saturday disrupting the normal life in most parts in Kalaburagi district. The downpour started as a light drizzle on Friday evening, the rains picked pace in the night and intensified to continue on Saturday too. Most roads of the city were hit by the showers leaving most of the areas and road corridors inundated with water affecting the movement of traffic. The rainwater entered few houses and gushed into cellars of commercial complexes. According to the India Metrological Department, the rainfall recorded till Saturday 8.30 am in Kalaburagi district stood at 58 mm rainfall against the normal rainfall of 6 mm. Heavy rain from Friday night to Saturday morning wreaked havoc in Yadgir and Raichur districts. Officials said that nearly a hundred houses partially collapsed and water had entered several more. Several key bridges got submerged. Life was completely disrupted as people in low-lying residential layouts were seen busy removing rain and drain water from their houses. Standing crops, such as green chilli, cotton, paddy and red gram, on nearly 1,000 acres were destroyed. Between 50 and 75 pump-sets that were set up to to irrigate land from the Krishna and the Bhima were also washed away. Connectivity between Yaddalli and Horuncha villages and Saidapur and Belagundi in Yadgir taluk was cut off. A motorcyclist who was crossing the bridge near Yelheri fell into the water and was rescued. Low-lying areas in Devikere, Naganoor, Khanapur SH, Satyampet, Bhairamaddi, Beeranur, Bommanahalli, Sharadahalli Ganganal, Kollur villages were partially inundated.   (With inputs from Kalaburagi and Yadgir)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rains-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-nk-districts/article32706733.ece
27 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Swab testing compulsory for all patients in Dharwad district||The Dharwad district administration has made it mandatory for all patients visiting private and government hospitals in Dharwad district to mandatorily undergo testing for COVID-19 infection. Chairing a review meeting with private doctors here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that private hospitals should collect swab samples of poor patients and send it to KIMS or DIMHANS. And if patients were unable to pay the testing fees, the administration would get the tests done free of cost, he said. Mr. Patil said the administration had taken the decision to conduct free testing in order to ensure that poor patients were not deprived of the facility of swab testing and medical treatment at private hospitals. Early detection Emphasising the need for early detection and timely treatment of the patients, Mr. Patil said that patients visiting the private hospitals as outpatients or in-patients, should provide their domicile address and contact number. He clarified that patients from other districts could be admitted in private hospitals in the district provided they had registered in their respective districts. He said hi-flow oxygen if required would be provided to private hospitals by KIMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swab-testing-compulsory-for-all-patients-in-dharwad-district/article32706822.ece
27 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||New V-C takes charge||Director of Regional Science Centre at Dharwad and professor of Chemistry at Karnatak University, K.B. Gudasi has been appointed as the new Vice-Chancellor of varsity for four years. Following the appointment order issued by the Governor on Saturday, Prof. Gudasi took charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-v-c-takes-charge/article32706735.ece
27 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||A nanotech product to help fight spread of virus||A Shivamogga-based nanotech company has come up with a nanocomposite polyethylene film to combat the spread of COVID-19 infection. The company has got its product tested to show that the virus gets neutralised within a short period after coming in contact with the film. Ad-Nano Technologies Pvt. Ltd. has developed this product in collaboration with Balaji Poly Pack, also in Shivamogga. The manufacturers have plans to make PPE kits using the material they have developed. Mohammed Adnan Javeed, managing director of Ad-Nano Technologies, said the polyethylene sheets could be used to cover the floor and other surfaces in places such as hospitals. “When coronavirus settles on our product, it gets neutralised in a short time,” he said. The company, which has been into nanotech products since 2013, has got its product tested for anti-viral activity from the Technical and Innovative Textile Solution Centre (TITSC) at Coimbatore, a testing centre recommended by the ICMR. Certification Vinay Gangisetty, head of Balaji Poly Pack, said after developing the product, the company contacted the ICMR for certification. “As per the ICMR direction, we got our sample tested from the TITSC. The results showed that within 10 minutes of the virus coming in contact with our product, its activity is reduced by 35.41% and in 30 minutes it will be reduced by 69.04%. Within one hour, its activity comes down by 89%. And, after two hours and 54 minutes, there will be no viral activity at all,” he said. The material could be used for PPE kits, curtains in hospitals, bed covers, floor mats, wall coating sheets, seat covers, and similar items. Many studies have shown that the virus could be active on different surfaces for one to three days. “It is a matter of concern. We are now combating this by using sanitisers or disinfectants. But this product will reduce this risk of spreading the infection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-nanotech-product-to-help-fight-spread-of-virus/article32706827.ece
27 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Death toll reaches 300; 15,144 test positive in Hassan district||The death toll owing to COVID-19 rose to 300 in Hassan district on Saturday, with three more reported on the day. So far, 15,144 people, including 229 on Saturday, tested positive. According to a bulletin released by the district administration, 12,355 have recovered from the infection. A total of 2,489 people are under treatment and among them 51 are in the intensive care unit. In D.K., Udupi Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Saturday reported 477 COVID-19 positive cases while D.K. reported 8 deaths too. According to the State bulletin, 420 positive cases were found in Dakshina Kannada while 57 were found in Udupi district. The districts also reported 152 and 116 discharges, respectively. Dharwad district reported four deaths followed by three in Haveri district on Saturday. Davangere and Vijayapura recorded two deaths each while Gadag and Bagalkot recorded one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-toll-reaches-300-15144-test-positive-in-hassan-district/article32706821.ece
27 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Transport coop. society gets help from businessman to restart services||The Sahakara Sarige (Transport Cooperative Society) is all set to relaunch its transport services on October 26. Businessman M. Mahendra, a native of Hosanagar in Shivamogga district and currently settled in Bengaluru, has spoken to the executive body of the transport company that runs on a cooperative model. The 30-year-old organisation, with headquarters at Koppa, was offering its services on 76 routes, catering to the needs of over 30,000 people spread over Shivamogga, Udupi, and Chikkamagaluru districts. It stopped its services this February following increase in losses. Later, the representatives of the executive committee met representatives of the State government seeking funds. It also asked the government to reimburse the student pass dues. Around 300 employees have not got salaries for several months. E.S. Dharmappa, president of the society, told The Hindu the transport services will be restarted on a phased manner from October 26. “Mr. Mahendra, who travelled in our buses as a student in 2001-02, has come forward to revamp the organisation. He has agreed to provide funds for the immediate requirements so that we can start the services. As of now, we have not signed any agreements with him. Our concern is that employees get jobs and salaries and to help the public,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-coop-society-gets-help-from-businessman-to-restart-services/article32706743.ece
27 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man gets 10 years’ RI for minor’s rape||A Hassan court has convicted a person accused of raping a minor and sentenced him to 10 years rigorous imprisonment, besides levying a penalty of Rs. 25,000. Indresh, a resident of Kumbarahalli in Channarayapatna taluk, was accused of raping a minor on March 17, 2018. Based on the complaint filed by the victim, the police had registered a case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences 2012 Act, besides relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.  The first additional district and sessions judge K. Narayana Prasad pronounced the judgment on September 22. The accused was fined Rs. 25,000. The court also ordered a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the victim. V.R. Upadhye represented the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-gets-10-years-ri-for-minors-rape/article32706744.ece
27 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||This market is a slushy mess||The withdrawal of COVID-19 lockdown might have helped many people to resume their economic activities, but it has also worsened the lives of vegetable growers and sellers in Kalaburagi. For, wholesale vegetable market which functioned at a relatively clean and neatly developed layout on the outskirts of the city during the lockdown was shifted back to what was locally known as Kanni Market near the Central Bus Stand. The new market place resembles the muddy field prepared for paddy transplantation. Over a thousand farmers from nearby villages and more than 2,000 vegetable vendors, mostly women, come to this market to sell and purchase vegetables. They are forced to run their business standing on ankle-deep mud. With no arrangements to keep the vegetables for selling, the farmers put vegetable bundles, bags and crates in the mud. The vegetables often slip from the hands and fall in the mud. The vendors clean them at their respective houses in the night and sell them on the push-carts next morning in the localities of Kalaburagi. There are several instances of people slipping and falling on the slippery ground and getting injured. Yet, nobody from the administration has bothered to look into it. The market commences at 4 p.m. and continues till 11 p.m. every day except on Saturdays. The authorities never bothered to make some lighting arrangements, let alone shifting the market to some better and safer place. Vendors tie torchlight around their necks and carefully move in the dark on the muddy ground with loads on their heads and shoulders. Thousands of vehicles – four-wheelers, two-wheelers, three-wheelers and push-carts – are brought to the place by farmers and vendors. They are chaotically parked along the roadside that often leads to traffic jam. Petty quarrel among people over parking issues are common scenes. But, no traffic police has been deployed to ensure proper parking. To add to this, accumulation of garbage has added to their woes. With the incessant rains lashing the region for a fortnight now, the garbage generated in the market is simply left behind. Now, the whole market stinks. “I don’t know what disease will emerge from Kalaburagi market if it continues to function the way it is now,” a farmer from a nearby village told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/this-market-is-a-slushy-mess/article32706824.ece
27 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Health Department, zilla panchayat to begin COVID-19 testing in 228 gram panchayats in DK||The Health Department and the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat will begin a mega COVID-19 testing exercise in all 228 gram panchayats in the district from Monday. The testing will be done on dates given to the respective panchayats, according to Selvamani. R., Chief Executive Officer, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat. It is to detect the infection early and prevent the spread of the virus and deaths, he said. Mr. Selvamani said that people, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, can get themselves tested voluntarily and the exercise will be conducted for more than a week. Early diagnosis Ramachandra Bairy, District Health and Family Welfare Officer, said that an early diagnosis of COVID-19, especially among those who had co-morbidities, helped in preventing the condition from worsening. Many patients with co-morbidities approached doctors very late thus risking their lives. Those with a poor immune system should get r̥tested early, he said. The DHO said that many young people thought that they had strong immunity and hence there was no need to wear masks in public, or to follow social distancing and take other precautions. He said that such people, who might be asymptomatic, might carry the infection to senior citizens at their homes with or without co-morbidities. 494 deaths The district reported 494 deaths owing to COVID-19 and co-morbidities till Friday. Some of the victims are from outside Dakshina Kannada. The district is third in the State in terms of deaths after Bengaluru [2,794] and Mysuru [715] . The district had 4,957 active cases till September 25. Dr. Bairy said that community involvement and support is required to contain the spread of the virus. Other departments and local organisations should join hands to ensure a good response for the testing. The department will also plan such testing in the jurisdiction of urban local bodies after some days, the DHO added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-department-zilla-panchayat-to-begin-covid-19-testing-in-228-gram-panchayats-in-dk/article32706825.ece
27 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bridge on NH 66 develops crack||A newly-built major bridge across the Souparnika on NH66 developed a huge vertical crack in one of its girder joints on Saturday in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district. The Kundapur police restricted traffic on the new bridge and diverted vehicles on the old bridge at Arate-Hosadu, said Inspector Gopikrishna. Eyewitnesses said that broken steel rods were visible through the gap. The nearly 1-km bridge was part of the four laning of NH66 between Kundapur and the Goa border (189 km). IRB West coast Tollway Pvt Ltd., a subsidiary of IRB Infrastructure that undertook the project in 2014 on BOOT basis at a cost of Rs. 1,650 crore, is yet to complete the four lane work. Residents along the highway stretch had been alleging sub-standard work. NHAI Project Director, Mangaluru, Shishu Mohan did not answer telephone calls. Udupi Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu told The Hindu that engineers from IRB and officials from the NHAI were inspecting the affected bridge. Quoting NHAI officials, he said the crack was on the surface carriageway and an inspection conducted by the authority five months ago had found the bridge was in order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bridge-on-nh-66-develops-crack/article32706737.ece
27 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Tributes paid to SPB||Tributes were paid to legendary playback singer S. P. Balasubrahmanyam at a condolence meeting organised by the Dakshina Kannada Sahitya Parishat here on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, S. Pradeep Kumar Kalkura, president, Dakshina Kannada Sahitya Parishat, said that the late singer had added strength to Tulu and Konkani by singing their songs. When he sang in Tulu no one could make out make out that SPB did not know the language. Music director Charan Kumar said that Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was a simple man and knew the limitations of the Tulu film industry. Director, playwright, and theatre personality Vijaya Kumar Kodialbail said that he respected Tulu very much. Meanwhile, Mr. Balasubrahmanyam had sung Mokeda Singari Untude Vayyari for Pageta Puge released in 1972. It was a hit song in the coastal belt. Later he had sung several other songs like Prema Nataka Dane for Bisatti Babu , Katud Sotu Poyena for Yan Sanyasi Aape , Tuluvere Ponne Tooyare Parlu for Bayyamallige , and Bhagiratamma Per for Oriyardori Asal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tributes-paid-to-spb/article32706740.ece
27 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Varsity to hold re-exam owing to teacher’s blunder||Mangalore University has now been forced to re-conduct an examination for a Kannada paper for all final semester postgraduate students of Kannada of 2019-20. It is because a Kannada teacher on Mangalagangotri campus of the university did not conduct the examination on the campus, which was among the five centres, on the scheduled day, that is Friday. The exam was held at other four centres on that day. Sources said that the university had postponed the Kannada Matthu Computer Balake (KNH 553) subject paper from September 21 to September 25, as all examinations scheduled for September 21 had been postponed in view of heavy rains and floods, especially in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada on September 20. Notice sent The university has now served a notice on the teacher, seeking an explanation as the rescheduled date had been intimated to all concerned electronically and why he had failed to adhere to it. Sources said that now the university was in the process of rescheduling the examination again. The date was yet to be fixed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-to-hold-re-exam-owing-to-teachers-blunder/article32706741.ece
27 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Nagesh Marol, retd NMPT engineer, passes away||Nagesh Marol, retired Superintending Engineer with the New Mangalore Port Trust passed away on Friday. He was 91. He joined the Public Works Department in 1954 and was involved in construction of roads and bridges in the then South Canara and Mercara divisions, a statement here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nagesh-marol-retd-nmpt-engineer-passes-away/article32706738.ece
27 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Southwest monsoon: no district has seen shortfall||The southwest monsoon, which is now on its last spell before retreating, has been more than bountiful this year and no district has come under the deficit category. The rainfall pattern from June 1 to September 25 indicates that 10 districts received ‘normal’ rain, 19 received ‘excess’ rain, and one received ‘large excess’ rain, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) classification. Large excess is defined as 60% above the long-term average or normal; excess rainfall is 20% to 59% above normal; and normal has a wide range that is 19% below to 19% above the long-term average. Deficit is when the rainfall is 20% to 59% below normal. Based on this, Chitradurga district comes under large excess as it received 489 mm of rain, which is 90% above its normal, as per the analysis of Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The entire North Karnataka belt and Uttara Kannada, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chickballapur, Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, and Chamarajanagar districts are under excess category. The districts known to receive very heavy rains, including the coastal region of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Haveri, Mandya, and Ramanagaram districts, have been clubbed under the normal category. The monthly rainfall pattern for September also indicates a similar trend and 14 districts have come under large excess category, with rainfall being 60% above normal for the period. This covers the entire central Karnataka region, the coastal belt, Kodagu and Malnad region. Five districts have received excess rain (20% to 59% above normal) and 11 spread across the south and north Karnataka regions have been classified under normal category for September. Not a single district is under the deficit category. In terms of actual rainfall measured in millimetres, Udupi district has received 4,543 mm of rain, followed by Uttara Kannada which received 3,177 mm and Dakshina Kannada that received 3,165 mm of rain between June 1 and September 25. Though Kodagu saw major landslips and flooding, throwing life out of gear, it received 2,058 mm of rain, which is 5% below its long-term average. The bulk of the damage is attributed to the heavy rainfall that happened for a few days in the second week of August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/southwest-monsoon-no-district-has-seen-shortfall/article32706576.ece
27 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Approval for Kodagu’s homestays fast-tracked||The process of legalising homestays already registered with the Tourism Department in Kodagu has now been expedited with Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy asking the deputy tahsildars in the three taluks for submitting factual reports on the conditions of homestays after a detailed inspection. The homestays had been awaiting inspection after registering with the department. However, the COVID-10 pandemic delayed the process and moreover the homestays had also shut down their operations over the scare besides poor footfall to the district. Hopefully, the process may get over before Dasara in October with document verification and spot inspection remaining. Kodagu is home to several hundreds of homestays but only a few of them have been registered with the Tourism Department, fulfilling the conditions for hosting the guests and in the interest of tourists’ safety that has become a top priority over the pandemic. So far, the department has approved 480 homestays (they have already received certificates) and 397 more homestays, which had sought approval after registration, had not been verified as yet. Nevertheless, not all the homestays have come forward to register if the unconfirmed numbers are an indication. In total, 935 had been registered after the district administration warned of shutting down unauthorised ones following complaints. As the process of legalising the already-registered homestays was delayed over shortage of manpower in the Tourism Department, the Deputy Commissioner assigned the task to the deputy tahsildars for completing the pending tasks in gram panchayat and hobli limits at the earliest. Though the industry sources claim Kodagu has over 2,000-3,000 homestays, sources in the Tourism Department said their numbers might not be more than 1,200-1400, arguing that many had shut down their operations after the district was hit by floods and landslides for three years in a row. The back-to-back calamities hit tourism and arrivals fell drastically, forcing many to wind up operations after suffering losses. The pandemic rubbed salt in their wounds. The homestays’ numbers and location remain unconfirmed since many of them operate in isolated and remote areas. Also, those located in remote areas and facing connectivity issues besides those in areas prone to landslides and floods had voluntarily suspended business, the sources add. As the department took more than a year to assess the facilities at the homestays since many had mushroomed all across the land of coffee without valid licences to operate, the district administration resolved to get them evaluated from the revenue authorities. A registration fee of Rs. 500 was collected from each homestay that registered with the department and the list of approved homestays was made available on the website of Kodagu district administration https://kodagu.nic.in The licence has to be renewed once in five years. The conditions for approval include – homestays should have a maximum of five rooms and a minimum of two rooms with attached bathroom, ample parking, CCTV surveillance, property owner should reside in the same premises and there should be ample space for the guests to move around. The NoC from the jurisdictional gram panchayat and the police are a must for approval of homestays. Tourists will come to know which are the homestays being operated legally with the list made available on the websites of Kodagu district administration and the Tourism Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/approval-for-kodagus-homestays-fast-tracked/article32706829.ece
27 September 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||UoM to implement NEP from next year||The University of Mysore (UoM) has resolved to implement the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) from the next academic year, and constituted an expert committee comprising education experts and former Vice-Chancellors besides a task force in this connection. The Academic Council of the University, which met here recently, discussed the NEP and gave its nod for its enforcement from the year 2021-22, making all preparations and incorporating valuable inputs for the improvement of higher education. “We need to start the groundwork for the implementation and inputs from all committees will be looked into. If we start the preparations now, we can bring in the NEPfrom 2021,” said UoM Vice-Chancellor G. Hemanth Kumar. The council also approved the engineering faculty in the university and the College of Engineering would start its functioning from the next academic year. A state-of-the-art college building is coming up on a 12-acre plot on Manasagangotri campus near the School of Architecture, off Hunsur Road. Two government colleges in Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts are being taken over by the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-to-implement-nep-from-next-year/article32706820.ece
27 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Storage up||The gross storage capacity across all the dams in the Krishna basin — comprising Narayanapura, Almatti, Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Tungabhadra, and Bhadra dams — is 417.52 tmc ft. The current storage is 414.84 tmc ft, which is almost 99% of the capacity. In the Cauvery basin, against a gross storage capacity of 114.57 tmc ft, the current storage is 112.17 tmc ft (98%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/storage-up/article32706580.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Labour Bill is defeated in Legislative Council||In a reversal, hours before the Karnataka legislature session came to an end on Saturday night, the Legislative Council defeated the Bill introduced to bring changes to three crucial labour laws. The Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020, which the labour unions had opposed, had been passed by the Legislative Assembly earlier. Soon after Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar moved the Bill for consideration of the House, ruling party member Ayanur Manjunath said the proposed changes in the labour laws are anti-labour and against international labour conventions. Speaking on the changes being brought to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, raising the threshold limit from 100 to 300 for the industries to seek government permission for closure, layoff or retrenchment, he said: “Industrialists were already misusing the provisions when the threshold was 100. With this amendment, there is threat of government losing control over industries.” He said if thousands of industries misuse this Act, there would be large-scale unemployment. On the proposed changes to Factories Act to increase working hours, Mr. Manjunath said it is “inhuman” and goes against the agreed international labour convention. “Working hours have been fixed considering health and efficiency of the worker,” he said. He, however, supported the Bill considering the current industrial and unemployment conditions. Meanwhile, the Opposition Benches urged the Minister to make provisions to protect labour and reintroduce the Bill, or refer it to the select committee, or withdraw the bill. While the Minister urged the Opposition to pass the Bill, tempers flared and the Opposition demanded division of votes. Congress Chief Whip M. Narayan Swamy tore a copy of the Bill. Senior Congress member B.K. Hariprasad said the Bill has been modelled on Gujarat where unions do not exist. Leader of the House Srinivasa Poojary accused the Opposition of setting a bad precedent by asking for division of votes because the combined Opposition – Congress and JD(S) – had the number on their side in the 75-member Upper House. Chairman K. Prathap Chandra Shetty allowed voting in which the Bill was defeated with 26 voting against and 14 in favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labour-bill-is-defeated-in-legislative-council/article32706570.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister promises to hasten land acquisition for water project||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Saturday assured the Legislative Council that the land acquisition process for Upper Krishna Project phase 3 will be hastened. “Unified rates have to be fixed for the land to be acquired and rehabilitation should be taken up. The process will start soon. We will consult the Chief Minister,” the Minister said, in response to the issue of North Karnataka irrigation projects raised by Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil and JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti on the floor of the House on Friday. The UKP phase-3 involved acquisition of nearly 1.3 lakh acres of land and submergence of 20 villages in the backwaters of Almatti reservoir of Bagalkot district. The project is set to irrigate about 14 lakh acres across seven North Karnataka districts. Mr. Jarkiholi pointed at the SLP in Supreme Court and the court’s direction not to notify the Krishna tribunal award 2. “The project cannot start without the notification.” He said that an interim application was made before the court in February 2019 seeking direction to the Centre to notify the tribunal award, and several requests had been made to the Centre on the matter. Meanwhile, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J. Madhuswamy said that due to the pandemic, the court proceedings had been delayed, and the State government was in touch with the legal team to take the case forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-promises-to-hasten-land-acquisition-for-water-project/article32706568.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||TV anchor Anushree questioned||She said she answered all the questions asked by police on that basis. If need be, she said she would come for questioning again. The anchor said there was a need to rid society rid of the drug menace. Tarun was taken into custody after the arrest of Aska, a native of Manipur, here also on the charges of consuming drugs. The two were arrested after Shetty was arrested in a drug peddling case. Later, the police had served a notice on Ms. Anushree to appear for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tv-anchor-anushree-questioned/article32706830.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence not communal or planned, says Siddaramaiah||The violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli police station limits in Bengaluru on August 11 rocked the Assembly on Friday, as the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress members indulged in heated exchange of words. This followed Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah dwelling into the episode during the debate on no-confidence motion moved against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Mr. Siddaramaiah maintained that the violence was not pre-planned as being claimed by the BJP. “The clashes were not pre-planned or organised as being claimed by the BJP and certain others. In fact, it could have been averted if filing of FIR against the accused Naveen, who put out an objectionable social media post against Islam, was not delayed,” he maintained. He alleged that such a delay in filing FIR had made the mob turn its anger at the police. “If it was a communal clash, they would have attacked more houses and people,” he said, while pointing out that only the houses of a few persons related to Naveen had been attacked. He took exception to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai describing the violence as pre-planned. “It is a clear case of failure of intelligence, the police and the government,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah’s stance angered the BJP who indulged in an argument with the Congress members. Finally, order prevailed after Mr. Yediyurappa intervened and appealed to maintain calm. Mr. Siddaramaiah said some of innocent persons too had been arrested in the violence. “No doubt that the guilty should be punished, but the innocent should not be,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-violence-not-communal-or-planned-says-siddaramaiah/article32706566.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||View from the top||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/view-from-the-top/article32706572.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No-confidence motion defeated by voice vote||“How we could have won 12 of the total 15 Assembly seats that went to bypolls if we did not have the trust of the people?” he wondered. He challenged Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar to show their popular support in the forthcoming bypolls. The six-day monsoon session of the legislature, held in the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic, stretched till late into the night on its last day with marathon, stormy debates on a range of issues – from allegations of corruption against Mr. Yediyurappa and his family to implications of Bills that were passed or sought to be passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-confidence-motion-defeated-by-voice-vote/article32706573.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Assembly adopts two farm Bills||The Bill deleted Section (80), which under 1961 Act barred transfers of land to non-agriculturists in the form of sale, gift or exchange.    The amendments would nullify 13,814 cases related to violation of the provisions of Sections 79 (A) and 79 (B), pending in courts. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah termed the Bill as “anti-farmer and anti-people” and said the government was hand in glove with private housing societies and corporate lobby. He said the Bill would affect food security and small and marginal farmers. Congress members staged a walkout before the Minister’s reply on the Bill. JD (S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy welcomed the decision to reduce the ceiling of land. In his reply, Mr Ashok said the Cabinet sub-committee formed during the Siddaramaiah government had recommended deletion of sections 79 (A, B, C), and 80 of the 1961 Act. He said their stand now exposed the party’s double standards. He read out statements made by R.V. Deshpande and D.K. Shivakumar on the floor of the House in the past in support of the deletion of the sections. Farmers’ leader, the late M D Nanjundaswamy too demanded deletion of these sections when he was a member of the House, Mr. Ashok said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assembly-adopts-two-farm-bills/article32706574.ece
27 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||414 test positive in Alappuzha||The district reported 414 COVID-19 cases and 335 recoveries on Saturday. It also registered four COVID-19 related deaths, taking the death toll to 34. The fresh cases include 403 people who contracted the virus through local transmission, four persons who came from other States, three from abroad, three health staff, and a Mannar native. The Mannar native’s source of infection is unknown. Of the 403 locally transmitted cases, 55 were reported from Ambalappuzha, 36 from Chettikkad, 34 from Alappuzha, 27 from Thrikkunnapuzha and 26 from Aryad. Panavally (19), Punnapra (15), Pathiyoor (15), Mannar (13) and Pulinkunnu (11) also recorded double-digit contact case count on Saturday. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 3,872, it has been informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/414-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32706794.ece
27 September 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Water level up, but no blue alert||Though the water level in the Idukki reservoir touched the blue alert level, an official announcement was postponed in view of the reduced inflow on Saturday. The water level reached 2,388.18 ft at 4 p.m. The blue alert level for Saturday was 2,388.17 ft. A Kerala State Electricity Board official said there would be no official announcement of the blue alert level on Saturday considering the revised level for Sunday. The inflow was declining and the chances of the water level remaining below the blue alert level for Sunday were high, he said. The official said in case of heavy rainfall on Saturday, the KSEB would issue the blue alert on Sunday. The blue, orange, and red alerts are issued as per the new rule curve announced by the Central Water Commission following the 2018 floods. “The rule curve will change on Sunday,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-up-but-no-blue-alert/article32706907.ece
27 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||81 in Idukki||With 81 persons being infected through local contact, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district touched 107 on Saturday. The source of eight cases could not be traced. They are residents of Upputhara, Kudayathur, Kumily, Munnar, Pallivasal, and Vannappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/81-in-idukki/article32706795.ece
27 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Higher education facilities for tribal students demanded||A group of tribal organisations under the aegis of the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha (AGMS) is gearing up to launch a series of agitations raising a slew of demands, including facilities for higher education for all eligible tribal students. Speaking to mediapersons here on Saturday, M. Geethanandan, State coordinator, Adivasi Gothra Mahasabha, said that 2,009 tribal students in the district were eligible for higher secondary education this year, but only 530 seats are available for them under the 8% reservation for the Scheduled Tribes (ST) quota. The remaining 1,479 tribal students — most of them from the landless Paniya, Adiya, and Kattunaika communities — were unable to get admission this year, Mr. Geethanandan said. Though the issue had been recurring every year, the Education Department was yet to adopt any steps to address it, he said. Hence, the organisation would launch an indefinite agitation from Monday, demanding an increase in the number of seats for Adivasi students immediately, he said. The organisation would also raise demands such as ensuring seats for degree and higher studies to tribal children, exemption of the application fee for degree courses, waiving fee for tribal children in self financing colleges, and ensuring online study materials for tribal children, he said. The organisation would take out a protest march to the mini civil station at Sulthan Bathery on Monday at 10 a.m. and stage a dharna in front of it as a part of the agitation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/higher-education-facilities-for-tribal-students-demanded/article32706840.ece
27 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tribal students confident of cracking CLAT||Nine students from the Kattunayakka community, a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG) in Wayanad, are preparing to crack the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) scheduled on Monday. They come across as a confident lot, courtesy a three-month training session organised by the District Legal Services Authorityand the Integrated Tribal Development Project. The trainees include six girls. “Considering the low representation of tribespeople in the country’s legal system, the DILSA had planned to train 30 students for CLAT,” K. Rajesh, sub judge, Wayanad, told The Hindu . But COVID-19 restrictions hindered the plan. “We had conducted an orientation programme for Plus Two students of Rajeev Gandhi Model Residential School for Kattunayakka children at Kallur in February this year. Some students were keen on legal studies. They were selected for the programme,” Mr. Rajesh said. “At the orientation programme, I listened to a session handled by Mr. Rajesh. His words inspired me,” P.K. Dhanusha, a girl from the Ponkuzhy Kattunayakka settlement inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary said. “The training was really helpful. It has instilled in me much confidence,” she added. A. Harris, district and sessions judge, Wayanad, said, “We are planning to continue the programme in the coming years to bring the marginalised sections to the mainstream.” Exam fee provided The Scheduled Tribes Development Department provided the fee for the examination and would bear all the expenses for their higher studies, K.C. Cheriyan, ITDP Project officer, Wayanad, said. The training programme was conducted at the Model Residential School for tribal children at Kaniyampetta by following the COVID-19 protocol. The faculty of Central University, Kasaragod, Lloyd Law College, Noida, and Yale University in the U.S. trained the children through videoconferencing. K.I. Jayasankar, Assistant Professor, Department of Law, Central University of Kerala, Thiruvalla Campus supervised the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-students-confident-of-cracking-clat/article32706920.ece
27 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rs. 48 lakh seized, two arrested||Excise officials on Saturday arrested two men and seized Rs. 48 lakh from them at the excise check-post at Muthanga on the Kerala-Karnataka border. Those arrested were identified as N.M. Abdul Majeed, 42, of Nadamurikkal House, near Koduvally, and P.Noushad, 44, of Parachal House, near Thamarassery, in Kozhikode district. They were transporting the cash from Gundlupet in Karnataka to Thamarassery on a mini-truck, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-48-lakh-seized-two-arrested/article32706918.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fort Kochi taluk hospital to be COVID-19 centre||With COVID-19 cases soaring in the district, taluk hospitals and other major government hospitals are now gearing up to treat COVID-19 patients. Health officials had asked taluk hospitals to set aside about 20 to 30 beds each to treat category B patients, said a doctor at the Angamaly taluk hospital. Of the 200 beds for category B patients at the second-line treatment centre (SLTC) at Adlux, Angamaly, about 160 are occupied now, she said. With the increase in cases, it becomes necessary to prepare to treat COVID-19 patients at taluk hospitals and other major hospitals in the district too, she said. While the Angamaly taluk hospital does not have enough space to set up a COVID-19 ward in separate building, a section of the ground floor with a separate entrance and about 20 beds would be set aside for COVID-19 patients. An attempt is being made to increase the capacity at the Angamaly SLTC to 250 beds, the doctor said. “Besides the Muvattupuzha General Hospital and the Aluva District Hospital, the taluk hospitals at Perumbavoor, Thripunithura, Angamaly, Palluruthy, and Kothamangalam will set up wards. The Fort Kochi taluk hospital will be entirely converted into a COVID-19 hospital with 150 beds for mostly category B patients. With an 18-bed ICU available at the hospital, category C patients could also be treated at the facility,” said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Patients in isolation For now, beds in taluk hospitals are only being set aside for patients in isolation at home who might suddenly require treatment. Only once all other facilities are exhausted will the separate ward at the taluk hospitals be put to use, he said. An order was received from health authorities to set up an exclusive ward for COVID-19 treatment with continuous oxygen supply available for each bed, along with an ICU and ventilator, said a doctor at the Karuvelipady taluk hospital. “We have approached the Kochi Corporation to help set up a separate ward which could have about 40 beds. Additional staff appointments will also have to be made,” the doctor said. Oxygen therapy Considering oxygen therapy is crucial for category B patients who could be experiencing more severe symptoms, the Muvattupuzha General Hospital is also increasing its oxygen support to set up a COVID-19 ward with about 25 beds, that could begin functioning in about a week, said a doctor at the hospital. The hospital already had an isolation ward where suspected COVID-19 patients were admitted while they awaited test results. The staff from the isolation ward would now handle the new COVID-19 ward, the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-taluk-hospital-to-be-covid-19-centre/article32706905.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Tour packages linking rural locales ‘new normal’||With stakeholders looking up to village and Responsible Tourism (RT) destinations to woo tourists in the wake of the COVID-19 onslaught and subsequent emphasis on hygiene and physical distancing, efforts are on to hew out a tour circuit linking Vaikom, Ambaloor, Valanthakad, Perumbalam, and Kadamakudy. Vaikom has already made waves by being the epicentre of Peoples Participation for Participatory Planning and Empowerment (PEPPER), an RT initiative of the Kerala Tourism. Coincidentally, the theme of World Tourism Day that falls on Monday (September 27) is ‘Tourism and Rural Development’. Even as the world is shifting focus to rural tourism by involving the local community, Kerala has made strides in this regard in the past decade. The slew of global and national recognitions that the State has gained is proof for it, said K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator, State RT Mission. “RT initiatives have two main advantages. The local community will considerably benefit from tourist footfall, while the ecological impact of tourism will be minimal. Schemes like PEPPER are implemented in a panchayat or island. The local body of each region too is roped in for the purpose, following which a tourism resource mapping is done, to ready a directory of traditional artisans, story tellers, and others with expertise in various fields. Guests can directly contact them sans middlemen. Such experiential tourism packages are becoming a global trend, especially in the wake of the pandemic,” he said. With Vaikom less than an hour’s drive from Kochi, a circuit of emerging RT destinations like Ambaloor, Valanthakad, Perumbalam, and Kadamakudy could be developed, tourism sources said. The rural and RT initiatives launched recently gave a boost to tourism in Ernakulam. Valanthakad island, located a stone’s throw away from Kochi in Maradu Municipality, is the latest to join the list. A bridge is being built to establish connectivity with the mainland, while a walkway, floating facilitation centre, and a boat jetty will be constructed as part of a Rs. 90-lakh project of the Kerala Tourism. Kadamakudy island is a high-in-demand destination, especially for domestic tourists, while Ambaloor is set to follow suit. Nedumchira near Perumbavoor, Piravom, Thiruvairanikulam, Ashramam Kadavu, and Sivarathri Kadavu have found place in the list of recently-developed destinations in Ernakulam. Furthermore, the Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) is spearheading efforts to establish a beach circuit, linking beaches in the Goshree islands. All this is aimed at invigorating rural tourism prospects in the district, DTPC sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tour-packages-linking-rural-locales-new-normal/article32706884.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Flyover demolition from tomorrow||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will kick-start work on Monday to scoop out the tarred layer of the crack-ridden Palarivattom flyover, prior to demolishing the deck, girders, and pier caps. The tarred portion must be scooped out before cutting the various layers of concrete using diamond cutters. The dismantled concrete will be crushed at the same place and sent for reuse. Care will be taken to minimise dust when the concrete is cut into layers and subsequently broken. Discussions will be held with Uralunkal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS), the contracting firm, on how to minimise the impact of the demolition process on road users and others. A net curtain will be put up when the breaking takes place, while water will be sprinkled to abate the dust. Unlike the demolition of apartments at Maradu, no explosives or chemicals will be used to dismantle the flyover. It will be a controlled manual dismantling, official sources said. They added that the plan to cut the concrete into specific shapes and to transport them to build a sea wall at Chellanam had been dropped. This is because lorries will not be able to negotiate the narrow roads that lead to the locale. Pillar On whether a timeline has been set to bring down each portion of the flyover, the sources said it was not necessary. “The process can go on parallelly, even as another portion of the structure is reconstructed. Efforts will be made to complete the reconstruction (of the flyover) in eight months, although a nine-month timeline has been fixed. The reconstruction will give the structure a 100-year-life, as compared to less than 20 years if it were to be strengthened using carbon-fibre wrapping. The existing piers (pillars) will be strengthened by providing a concrete jacketing. The pillars will remain intact, even as the layers above are demolished,” they added. A senior ULCCS official said every effort would be made to complete the reconstruction on a war footing. “Despite odds in the wake of the pandemic, we agreed to take up the work, since Metroman E. Sreedharan was keen on having us,” he added. Metro CE to head In the meantime, the DMRC has deputed G. Keshava Chandran, its former chief engineer who oversaw the construction of the Kochi metro’s Kaloor-Pettah stretch, to supervise the reconstruction of the Palarivattom flyover. He is at present general manager (Rail Overbridges) of Kerala Railway Development Corporation Ltd. (KRDCL), which is spearheading the Silverline railway project. He currently works from the agency’s Kochi office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flyover-demolition-from-tomorrow/article32706924.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Protest scenes high-risk zones for police||The recent spate of protest marches organised by opposition political outfits against the State government seem to have dealt a deadly blow to the police force in the city that was already reeling under their frontier role in the fight against the pandemic. Since the protests erupted, an inspector and an assistant sub-inspector at Palarivattom station and a sub-inspector and two civil police officers at the Central station have tested positive for SARS-COV-2, sending in its wake nearly 50 of their colleagues into quarantine, and severely crippling the functioning of both the stations. The infected were part of the police contingent roped in from various stations within Ernakulam sub division for law-and-order maintenance in connection with protests. Among the quarantined was Ernakulam Assistant Commissioner K. Laljy who was in close contact with the infected inspector during three protest marches in as many days. If that wasn’t enough, his driver also turned positive, making him a high-risk primary contact. Discontent is brewing among the force about the unfairness of being made to fight on two fronts simultaneously during the current fluid situation. “These protesters are literally playing with the lives of police personnel. Why is the court not interfering and banning these protests when pandemic cases are surging. In fact, Section 144 should be declared, if need be, against such unlawful assemblies,” fumed a senior police officer. The Kerala Police Association lamented that the protests and consequent health risks sabotaged COVID control activities of the police. Things may soon reach a situation where the police will have to be withdrawn from COVID-related duties in the face of law-and -order challenges. “Even now, only high-risk primary contacts alone among police personnel are being quarantined, while others who have had fleeting contacts with those eventually tested positive continue to be on duty and hence under considerable mental stress,” said N.V. Nishad, district secretary (Kochi city) of the association. He lamented how a majority of protesters openly flouted COVID protocol by not wearing masks and not keeping physical distance, making themselves and police personnel highly vulnerable. “They must realise that police personnel are also human beings and have families back home, and it is traumatic to return home from a protest scene uncertain if they have contracted the virus or not,” Mr. Nishad said.  It is traumatic to return home from a protest scene uncertain whether they have contacted the virus or not N.V. Nishad Kerala Police Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-scenes-high-risk-zones-for-police/article32706890.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kudumbashree to create 5,000 jobs in next 100 days||The Kudumbashree District Mission has embarked on an ambitious 100-day programme to create at least 2,500 micro enterprises and 5,000 jobs by the end of November. The programme christened ‘Immini Balya Onnu’ is part of the State government’s larger 100-day project to help overcome the economic and livelihood challenges posed by the pandemic. Two-pronged approach “We have adopted a two-pronged strategy — self-employment and wage-based employment — to help our members and their dependants overcome the crisis. The idea is to set up at least 2,500 micro enterprises at the rate of at least one in each of the 1,830 Area Development Societies [ADS] in the district,” said Rajeena T.M., assistant district mission coordinator, Kudumbashree. Each Area Development Society will be encouraged to create enterprises depending on their capabilities and the local demand for sustainable income with the help of Kudumbashree’s consultants for micro enterprises. Opportunities At the same time, public sector units, offices, companies, malls, and hospitals will be approached to leverage employment opportunities offered by them. Kudumbashree is already into housekeeping and sanitisation work, and the new campaign will be utilised to push it further across the district. “We have shot off expressions of interest of sorts to various entities, and a few of them have already made enquiries,” said Ms. Rajeena. Contests planned The district mission also plans to run Community Development Society-level contests as part of the campaign to find out the best CDSs in terms of employment generation. Contests will be held separately for urban and rural-level CDSs considering the differences in opportunities and circumstances. “The top three CDSs creating the most number of sustainable micro enterprises will be awarded cash prizes,” said Ms. Rajeena. The circular from the district mission regarding the programme has already been discussed in detail by CDS chairpersons, accountants, and micro enterprises sub-committee conveners. Online meet today It will be followed by block-level project review meetings for three days from Sunday during which doubts relating to the project will be clarified. An online meeting of all ADSs will be held on Sunday. The seven-member committees of ADSs have been asked to discuss the project and frame an action plan for its execution. List of enterprises They are supposed to submit the list of potential micro enterprises within their limits to the Community Development Societies concerned, following which training will be imparted to members through the district mission.  The idea is to set up at least 2,500 micro enterprises at the rate of at least one in each of the 1,830 Area Development Societies in the district Rajeena T.M. Assistant district mission coordinator, Kudumbashree||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-create-5000-jobs-in-next-100-days/article32706888.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Guarding infected accused a challenge||A person accused of child sexual abuse escaped recently from the first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at the Kochi airport convention centre, throwing light on the challenge facing the police in guarding the arrested who test positive for SARS-COV-2. The infected among those arrested by the police and Excise are put up at the FLTC at Kochi airport along with the other infected members of the public. Though police personnel are put on guard duty at the centre, security remains far from foolproof. “We have taken up the matter with the District Disaster Management Authority, citing that it is really tough to keep a tab on the accused who remain mixed with civilians. A possible solution is a separate FLTC for the arrested. With more among the arrested increasingly testing positive since September, the task is getting progressively difficult,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). While the centre has multiple entry and exit points, police personnel are deployed only at the main entrance, which is more than 100 metres away from the facility. “The accused are not always in the sight of the police guards who have to largely depend on information from health and paramedical staff at the centre. We have already petitioned the District Police Chief and now plan to raise it with the District Collector as well,” said M.V. Sanil, district secretary (Ernakulam Rural), Kerala Police Association. Mr. Karthik said the presence of criminals accused of heinous crimes amid them might be disturbing for civilians at the centre as well. At present, those arrested and remanded by the court are taken to a detention centre being run by the Jail Department at Karukutty near Angamaly. They are then tested for SARS-CoV-2, and those returning negative results are sent to jails, while the ones testing positive are shifted to the FLTC at the Kochi airport. Though security is far better, even the detention centre at Karukutty also remains vulnerable as was exposed by the two successive incidents of escape by an accused from there in as many nights suggest. “Unlike the prison fortified by high walls, the detention centre has no such protective walls, and an accused who manages to give the guards the slip can easily flee or take cover in the thick vegetation outside the centre,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guarding-infected-accused-a-challenge/article32706887.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Subhiksha Keralam’ makes steady progress in district||The ‘Subhiksha Keralam’ programme to bring fallow land under vegetable, fruit, tuber, paddy and other crop cultivation has made steady progress in Ernakulam district, with cooperatives and public institutions responding positively to the call to achieve self-sufficiency in food production in the wake of the pandemic. Around 1,200 hectares have been identified in the district for cultivation, while nearly 540 hectares are already under various crops. Primary cooperative societies have led the efforts, with over 1,000 acres under them, while public sector institutions like Traco Cables at Irumbanam too have joined the initiative. Places like Keezhillam, Palliyakkal, Varapetty, Vazhakulam, Vadavukode, Vengola, and Vadakkekara have seen large areas being brought under fresh cultivation. R.M. Ramachandran from Keezhillam said 15 acres in the area had been brought under cultivation under the aegis of a primary cooperative, while Palliyakkal near North Paravur, known for its efforts to cultivate paddy and vegetables, has prepared 25 acres to be brought under the cultivation of cold season vegetables like cabbage. Palliaykkal Service Cooperative Bank is leading the efforts, bringing around 65 acres under vegetable cultivation and 220 acres under pokkali rice cultivation. The efforts had been on even before the call for Subhiksha Keralam programme was made. Around 1.5 acres are under cultivation at Traco Cables, Irumbanam, a public sector undertaking. Paddy has been identified as an important crop under the Subhiksha Keralam project. According to Agriculture Department sources, around 560 hectares have been identified for cultivation. Nearly 190 hectares had already been brought under cultivation, and more area is expected to be added in the winter season. Restrictions on movement of people owing to the pandemic are seen as an opportunity for raising food production, and crops like millets too are being encouraged. Around seven hectares have been brought under millet cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subhiksha-keralam-makes-steady-progress-in-district/article32706893.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Widen bottlenecked junctions: expert||Bottlenecked junctions that abound in Kochi’s arterial roads must be widened and improved as per Indian Roads Congress (IRC) guidelines in order to streamline vehicle flow in the city, B.G. Sreedevi, former Director of NATPAC, has said. Traffic experts must study each junction and suggest corrective measures to smoothen the traffic flow. The IRC norms speak of the need for adequate space for free left turns and other amenities at junctions. This is a cost-effective measure. Roundabouts can be built in junctions which host traffic beyond a certain limit. Busier junctions need a full-fledged signal system while overbridges must be built at junctions which encounter huge queues of vehicles in different directions, Ms Sreedevi said. Such measures, alongside the impending launch of the Rs. 27-crore Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) in the city,  will considerably benefit motorists. Ban on parking at bellmouths of junctions, at U turns and removal of encroachers will further decongest the city and its immediate suburbs. These measures will also help pedestrians safely cross the road at junctions, she said. Experts had repeatedly flagged patchy development work done to widen junctions. They included Rs. 50-lakh worth widening work done by the PWD a decade ago at Edapally Junction and a multi-crore work done by KMRL in and around the junction, where two NHs and the NH Bypass converge. While these works smoothened traffic movement on the northern side of the junction, inadequate space utility on the southern side is hampering streamlined flow of vehicles on the free-left turns from Aluva towards NH Bypass and from NH Bypass towards Palarivattom. Similar issues choke traffic movement at Palarivattom Bypass Junction (which too was partly developed as part of constructing the flyover), Kaloor Junction, Kadavanthra Junction and Madhava Pharmacy Junction and almost all junctions on MG Road. They contribute to considerably slowing down traffic movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/widen-bottlenecked-junctions-expert/article32706897.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Opposition demands vigilance probe against Mayor||The Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the Kochi Corporation will stage a protest at the corporation office on Monday against the findings of the State Performance Audit Officer’s report on the implementation of the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) housing project. Instead of taking action against a contractor who failed to complete the construction of a 12-storey housing tower for the landless at Kalvathy within the contract period, the Mayor returned the contractor’s security deposit, worth Rs. 91.22 lakh, without the corporation council’s approval, said a statement from the LDF. The report, which was prepared after examining the project files and the site itself, finds grave issues in the implementation of the housing scheme, and a vigilance case must be registered against the Mayor, LDF leaders K.J. Antony and V.P. Chandran said in their statement. Meanwhile, Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar has written to the Chief Minister, Minister for Local Self-Governments, and other senior government officials, asking for fresh appointments to the posts of Secretary and Additional Secretary at the corporation. For the past 14 months, either the Regional Joint Director (RJD) or the Additional Secretary has often been given additional charge of the Corporation Secretary, and their services are not always available, impacting the regular functioning of the civic body, a release from the Deputy Mayor’s office said. The Secretary who currently holds charge is also the RJD and is required to discharge local body election-related functions. Meanwhile, the Additional Secretary, who is set to retire in about two months and has taken charge temporarily, but without an official appointment, remains unable to sign several files and bills. While the corporation is willing to pay Rs. 2.5 crore to the contractors who are on strike over non-payment of dues, the cheque has not yet been signed by the Secretary, Mr. Premakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-demands-vigilance-probe-against-mayor/article32706902.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval team repairs emergency shutters of Peechi dam||Responding to a request from the district administration of Thrissur, a diving team from the Southern Naval Command in Kochi carried out repairs to the emergency shutters of the Peechi dam’s sluice gate for five days till Saturday. “One of the check valves, which control the flow of water to the small hydro project, located on the sides of the spillway shutters, had malfunctioned resulting in a gap of four metres in the gate located inside the dam at a depth of 20 metres. The other gates of the dam, therefore, had to be partially opened to stop the rising water levels in the dam. The naval divers undertook diving to clear a big log and other debris at the site, which prevented lowering of the gate,” said a communication from the Navy. The extreme pressure of gushing water had made the task arduous and risky. After continuous diving efforts for the past four days, the Naval diving team carried out various modifications in the gate with the help of the Irrigation dept. and KSEB officials, and successfully lowered the gate fully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-team-repairs-emergency-shutters-of-peechi-dam/article32706886.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam reports 729 new cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in the district remains on an upward spiral with 729 persons testing positive for the virus on Saturday. Of them, 714 persons contracted the disease through local contact. Eleven health workers, 10 of whom were working in private hospitals, have been infected. From Fort Kochi, 42 people have tested positive, besides 28 people from Mattancherry, 30 from Thrikkakara and 32 residents of Kadungalloor. Other new cases of the infection were reported from Rayamangalam, Chengamanad, Thripunithura, Vengola, Choornikkara, Edathala, Kalamassery, Palluruthy, Muvattupuzha, and Kothamangalam. 246 test negative A total of 246 persons tested negative on Saturday. Of the 5,515 COVID-19 positive persons in the district, 2,459 remain in isolation at home. About 22,303 people remain in quarantine. For testing, 2,489 samples were collected from government facilities and 2,717 samples from private ones. District’s strategy District Collector S. Suhas said in an online briefing that the concept of “sharing responsibility” was crucial as part of the strategy to manage the disease. After the State and Centre had allowed relaxations, and after Onam, a spurt in cases was expected, but the situation would now have to be controlled, he said. Strict surveillance of symptomatic people remained key, besides people taking responsibility to ensure they did not get infected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-reports-729-new-cases/article32706903.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||2 held in Malayattoor quarry blast case||A special squad of rural police on Saturday arrested two persons in connection with the explosion of gelatine sticks stocked in a building near a stone quarry in Ellithodu near Malayattoor on Monday. The arrested were identified as Ranjith, 32, and Sandeep aka Ajesh, 34; both from Naduvattam. While the former was one of the managers of the quarry, the latter was entrusted with the responsibility of transporting explosives from the storeroom to the quarry. Special squad The explosion had killed two migrant workers. The District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik had formed the special squad headed by Perumbavooor DySP K. Bijumon to probe the explosion. Since the incident, the police have been inspecting the quarries in the district and have warned of stern action against those found operating in violation of the licence and other norms. Kochi Range Deputy Inspector General Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar had inspected the quarry concerned and presided over a review meeting at Kalady earlier this week. The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) had cancelled the licence of the quarry at Illithodu earlier this week. The licence for possession, sale, and use, which is issued by PESO, was cancelled under the provisions of the Explosives Rules, 2008. A preliminary report filed by the Controller of Explosives, PESO, Kochi, had said that the detonators were stored in an unauthorised building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-held-in-malayattoor-quarry-blast-case/article32706891.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Curbs hit distribution of worksheet to students||The worsening pandemic situation has affected the distribution of worksheets for evaluation of the online learning process among students in lower primary sections in Ernakulam. The Education department had entrusted the Sarva Shiksha Kerala with the task of providing the forms at the doorsteps of the students in view of the pandemic crisis. The worksheets have been distributed as a continuation of the evaluation of the online learning modules offered to the students through the Victers channel and YouTube. With the number of positive cases going up, the block resource persons and representatives of various schools in the district have not been able to initiate the distribution of worksheets. They have not been able to provide them among students in containment zones as entry has been restricted, said senior officials of the Education department. The block resource persons and school authorities have sought the help of Accredited Social Health Activists in distributing the worksheets. They have also requested the cooperation of elected representatives in each ward. The collection of the filled-in worksheets also remains a challenge with the increase in the number of positive cases and restrictions imposed in the containment zones. The worksheets were printed at the Centre for Advanced Printing and Training. It is available in Malayalam, English, Tamil, and Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-hit-distribution-of-worksheet-to-students/article32706900.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Kunjuvayana’ cards to promote reading||The Education Department is planning to distribute multicoloured reading cards along with worksheets for the students in lower primary classes to kindle their interest in reading. The reading enhancement programme titled ‘Kunjuvayana’ focusses on the importance of learning one’s mother tongue. Reading cards in Malayalam, Kannada, and Telugu have been proposed in the academic year 2020-21. The objectives of the project include developing a variety of age- and class-specific reading materials and building an emotional attachment to the materials by involving students, parents, and the community in material development. Teachers are equipped to use different reading strategies through the programme. The cards will be distributed to the school through the block resource centres under Sarva Shiksha Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kunjuvayana-cards-to-promote-reading/article32706925.ece
27 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Nedumbassery traders take to vegetable farming||Around 1,800 traders under the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) in the Nedumbassery zone will take to cold season vegetable farming in a big way from October 2. C.P. Tharian, zonal president of the Samiti, said cabbage, cauliflower and carrot seedlings would be distributed to members of the samiti in Kunnukara, Nedumbassery, Chengamanad, Sreemoolanagaram and Parakkadavu panchayats. Besides, seedlings of Red Lady papaya are being locally produced to be distributed to samiti members in the area, he added. KVVES has entered into agreements with Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Kerala as well as a private agency for supply of cold season vegetable seedlings, Mr. Tharian said. According to him, increasing food production is one of the objectives of the trading community, as the pandemic has derailed normal life. The community also plans to hold an exhibition of farming methods, old agriculture techniques, and implements at Nedumbassery over three days starting October 2, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nedumbassery-traders-take-to-vegetable-farming/article32706894.ece
27 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Restoration of short-distance and MEMU trains sought||Passenger associations have demanded that the Southern Railway restore short-distance passenger and MEMU trains, since the functioning of government offices and those in the private sector are getting back to normality. The latest to raise the demand is All Kerala Railway Users Association, in a letter to the Railway Minister. “All short-distance train services, which were stopped due to COVID-19, must be reintroduced in both Palakkad and Trivandrum divisions, to enable regular commuters to reach their workplaces and other destinations,” said Paul Manvettom, president of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restoration-of-short-distance-and-memu-trains-sought/article32706895.ece
27 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||New high of 589 cases in Kollam||New COVID-19 cases hit an all-time high in the district on Saturday with a total of 589 persons, including eight health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the patients are 571 contact cases, eight NRIs, and two others who had travelled from Karnataka, and West Bengal. Maximum number of cases were reported from Kollam Corporation where 180 persons tested positive. Within the Corporation Thrikkadavur and Saktikulangara reported 16 contact cases on Saturday, while Kavanad has 14 patients. Sooranad (23), Chadayamangalam (20), Thodiyoor (20), Sasthacotta (20), Neendakara (18), Vilakudy (18), Karunagapplly (17), Chavara (16) and Kottarakara (15) are among the places that reported new cases. Health workers Among the health workers who tested positive, six persons are attached to private facilities while the other two have been working at Kollam District Hospital and Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally. The district had reported 503 new patients on Wednesday, while the figure rose to 569 on Friday. The district now has 22,085 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,70,089. While 3,238 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 35,654 primary and 6,471 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Currently 17 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning. While there are 4,403 active cases, the number of recoveries on the day is comparatively low at 188.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-high-of-589-cases-in-kollam/article32706796.ece
27 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS plea on PSC recruitment||Accusing the State government of dragging its feet on the implementation of the 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in forward communities, the Nair Service Society (NSS) on Saturday urged the authorities to quickly implement the norm for recruitment through the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC). In a statement, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said though the Union government had issued a notification for the reservation as early as by January 2019, it took the State government over a year to come up with an order to this effect. “Despite this order, the uncertainty over amending the reservation rules under KS&SSR part 2, 1958, caused further delay in its implementation for PSC recruitment. Though the Commission amended its reservation rules six months later, there is still uncertainty over the reservation for EWS. It is now said that the reservation norm will come into effect only when the State government issues a notification approving the rule amendment, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-plea-on-psc-recruitment/article32706908.ece
27 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||389 cases in Kottayam||The spread of COVID-19 in Kottayam appears to be spiralling out of control with the district reporting 389 new cases on Saturday — the highest single-day hike. Of the new cases, 382 persons, including a health worker at the District General Hospital, contracted the disease through local contact. Those above 60 years of age constituted 17.5% of the total cases. The Arpookkara panchayat, where around 94 persons tested positive, reported the highest number of cases. This included 77 persons — residents and staff — of a charity institution. The Kottayam municipality reported 35 cases, followed by Changanassery with 26 cases. Kangazha, Karukachal, and Vazhappally reported 12 cases each. With 175 recoveries during the day, the district now has 3,355 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/389-cases-in-kottayam/article32706797.ece
27 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active cases cross 5,000-mark in Kozhikode||Active COVID-19 cases from Kozhikode crossed the 5,000-mark on Saturday when 684 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. As many as 5,229 people are undergoing treatment at present, of whom 1,534 are in home isolation. According to the District Medical Officer, the highest number of cases through local transmission continues to be in the Kozhikode Corporation area, where 357 of the total 639 such cases in the district were reported. Beypore recorded 85 cases. Across the district, the source of infection was unknown in 28 people. Eleven health workers are among the newly infected. As many as 414 people were cured of the infection. Three deaths Three more deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. They include a 58-year-old woman from Malappuram and 53-year-old man from Thekkinthottam in Kozhikode who died on Friday and a 70-year-old man from Thooneri in Kozhikode who passed away on Saturday. In Malappuram Giving shudders to the district administration and the public, the number of daily COVID-19 cases crossed 800 in Malappuram on Saturday. As many as 826 people tested positive for the virus in Malappuram, and 756 of them were found to have contracted the disease through direct local contacts. There were 41 cases in which the source of infection could not be identified. There are five health workers among the new cases. While 18 persons came from abroad, six came from other States. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan warned people to maintain utmost vigil and never to lower their guard. There are 4,244 active cases in the district and over 33,000 people are in quarantine. There were 486 recoveries on Saturday. In Palakkad Palakkad district too saw the biggest spike in COVID-19 cases on Saturday when 547 people tested positive for the virus. Officials said 369 of them got the virus through direct local contacts. While 10 persons came from other States, four came from abroad. The source of infection could not be traced in 164 cases. With 230 people recovering on Saturday, the number of active cases stands at 3,073. In Thrissur Thrissur recorded 594 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, while 240 people recovered from the disease. As many as 4,135 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals while 1,411 patients are in home isolation. According to the official release, 589 people contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. So far, 11,392 cases have been confirmed in the district and 7,146 people have recovered. In all, 9,392 people are under observation. In Kannur In Kannur, the number of COVID-19 cases continued to spike, with 435 people testing positive on Saturday. Of them, 376 contracted the disease through contacts with patients. While 40 persons arrived from other States, 19 are health workers. MP tests positive K. Sudhakaran, MP, has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. He announced his condition on social media and requested those who were in contact with him to go into quarantine. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 224 more people were tested positive on Saturday. Of them, 207 contracted the virus through local transmission, while six had returned other States and 11 from abroad. The District Medical Officer said 78 people tested negative on Saturday. There are 4,359 people under observation. In Wayanad As many as 89 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of them, 86 were infected through contact and three had returned from other States. Ninety people have recovered from the disease.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-cases-cross-5000-mark-in-kozhikode/article32706834.ece
27 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New post a recognition for minorities: Abdullakutty||A.P. Abdullakutty, appointed one of the national vice presidents of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has termed his elevation to the post “a sign of recognition of his leadership.” The 53-year-old leader, who joined the Kerala unit of the BJP last year, is currently its vice president in the State. “The recognition is for the minorities in India. It also negates the propaganda that the BJP is anti-Muslim,” Mr. Abdullakutty said. Expelled twice As a member of the CPI (M), he was elected twice from the Kannur parliamentary constituency. However, he was expelled from the party in 2009 for praising the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi for his development initiatives in that State. He then joined the Congress and was elected twice from the Kannur Assembly segment. But he was defeated from Thalassery in the 2016 polls. He was expelled from the Congress for praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a Facebook post ‘for inculcating Gandhian values in governance’. Mr. Abdullakutty said the BJP leadership would decide on his new role — whether to work at the national level or State level. “A huge responsibility has been thrust upon me. Certainly I will do my best,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-post-a-recognition-for-minorities-abdullakutty/article32706906.ece
27 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BSF reviews safety measures at training centre||Senior Border Security Force (BSF) officials reviewed the safety arrangements at the BSF training centre at Areekkarakkunnu near Nadapuram on Saturday where COVID-19 was confirmed in over 200 jawans in antigen tests on Friday. They also inspected the treatment facilities provided for the quarantined patients. Though there was a plan to conduct antigen tests for about 500 more persons including jawans and their family members in the camp on Saturday, it was postponed to Sunday. After the Sunday’s test, symptomatic patients will be admitted to the First Line Treatment Centre at Nadapuram. From other States Health Department sources said COVID-19 was first confirmed in jawans who returned to the camp from other States after their vacation. Considering the critical situation, the Chekkiyad grama panchayat was declared a containment zone. To meet the additional requirements, opening of more FLTCs would be considered in the panchayat, they said. Rapid Response Teams started their efforts to identify the primary contacts of those who were tested positive at the BSF training camp. Sources said a few jawans had recently gone out for shopping in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsf-reviews-safety-measures-at-training-centre/article32706837.ece
27 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CM to open renovated Koyilandy fishing harbour||After months of wait, the renovated Koyilandy fishing harbour in Kozhikode district will be thrown open to fishers on October 1. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the completed project through videoconferencing. The harbour now has improved amenities for safe anchoring of fishing boats. It includes a big hall for auctioning of daily catch, canteen service, comfort stations, spacious parking area, compound wall and entrance gate. Two long breakwaters too have been completed in the area for safe operations. Koyilandy MLA K. Dasan said the development fund sanctioned by both the Union and State governments had been spent for the project. “We have been working for the completion of this project for over 10 years. Responding to the fishers’ plea, it was in 2007 that the work was formally launched,” he said. Remaining work So far, about Rs. 68 crore has been allocated for the completion of various development works at the harbour. Some of the major remaining works include the construction of a sewerage treatment plant and the coastal road. Within a few months, Matsyafed will open its fuel bunks in the area for fishing boats. The reclamation of the required extent of land for the auction hall and canteen was the main hurdle for the timely completion of the work. Local fishermen too opposed the reclamation using soil mined from the harbour area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-renovated-koyilandy-fishing-harbour/article32706835.ece
27 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rape accused nabbed||Mujeeb Rahman, an accused in a major rape case, who recently escaped from an Institutional Quarantine Centre here, was arrested from his hideout at Kadirur on Friday night. It was on September 20 that the man had escaped from the spot by breaking one of the doors of the quarantine centre. The police said Mujeeb was earlier remanded in connection with a rape case in which the victim was a 65-year old woman. He had been a convict in many other theft and drug trafficking cases, they said. The Nadakkavu police said they had constituted a special squad to track the man as he had been at large for a week and involved in a number of crimes. Soon after the escape, he had sought shelter in a remote hillock at Kadirur in Kannur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rape-accused-nabbed/article32706836.ece
27 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Bodies of man, son recovered||The bodies of a 36-year-old man and his seven-year-old son who drowned in the Kadalundipuzha at Kakkad near Vengara were recovered on Saturday. Ismail Kavungal and son Mohammed Shamveel went missing in the river on Friday. A search was conducted by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel with the help of the police, trauma care volunteers and local people. The bodies were fished out from near the Bakkikayam regulator-cum-bridge near Kakkad on Saturday afternoon. Ismail’s other son was saved by locals from drowning on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bodies-of-man-son-recovered/article32706841.ece
27 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||SYS stages protest against ‘neglect’ of airport||The Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS) organised a unique stand-up protest by covering 74 km of the National Highway from Malappuram district border to Kozhikode city on Saturday. The protest was against the alleged attempts “to downgrade and destroy” the Karipur airport. The protesters, raising the banner “We won’t let you clip the wings of Karipur”, formed several links of a human chain by observing the COVID-19 protocol. The protesters gathered at 36 centres along the national highway. SYS State president Sayed Thaha Saqafi and vice president Sayed Mohammed Thurab Saqafi formed the first and last links in Kozhikode and Malappuram respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sys-stages-protest-against-neglect-of-airport/article32706842.ece
27 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||HC appoints observer for Melsanthi selection||The Kerala High Court has appointed retired judge K.Padmanabhan Nair as the observer for the selection of new head priests (Melsanthi ) at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) interviews for selection of new head priests will be held at its headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram on October 5 and 6. A Division Bench comprising C.T. Ravi Kumar and K. Haripal issued an order considering a report filed by M. Manoj, Special Commissioner, Sabarimala, and District Judge, seeking the court’s intervention in the selection to avoid complaints. In his report, the commissioner said that Mr. Nair had overseen the selection of head priests to the temples in 2008 as well. The report also sought to allot marks in the mark list using ballpoint pens and keep them in tamper-proof conditions. A directive was also sought to videograph the proceedings, besides directing the interview board and the TDB to comply with the High Court’s guidelines on conducting the interview. The new Melsanthis, to be appointed for a year, will take charge on the first day of the Malayalam month of Vrischikam. As per the report, 89 applicants had been cleared to attend the interview after Vigilance inquiry. From among the successful candidates, a shortlist will be prepared and the Melsanthis will be selected by drawing lots on October 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-appoints-observer-for-melsanthi-selection/article32706909.ece
27 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||329 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 329 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the new cases, 269 contracted the virus through local contact while 54 persons came from other States. The remaining 14 cases had landed from abroad. Contact source of 32 cases were yet to be identified. With this, the total number of cases rose to 6,991. Of this, 4,876 contracted the virus through local transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/329-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32706798.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital hits the 1,000 mark||The capital crossed the four-figure mark for the first time in COVID-19 daily caseload on Saturday with 1,050 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the last 24 hours. The current surge validated the district-specific projections of active cases by the government that prompted the district administration to evolve an action plan last month. However, the district remained on the edge with authorities unable to forecast if the epidemic would peak in the near future. The worsening crisis threatened to saturate the existing medical facilities, forcing the government to encourage home care of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. The number of active cases reached 9,519, while 373 people tested negative on the day. Among the new cases, 871 have been attributed to local contact, while the source of infection of 152 others was unknown. While three of the newly diagnosed patients came from other States, another person came from abroad. Twenty two health workers were also among those infected. Two more people, who hailed from Aruvikkara and Ottasekharamangalam, succumbed to COVID-19, taking the district’s death toll to 201. Nine police officers attached to the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp in Peroorkada tested positive on the day. Four Fire and Rescue Services personnel attached to the Attingal fire station tested positive, taking the total number of infected personnel there to 13. The fire station has been closed down temporarily. Containment zones The district administration declared containment zones at Chootayil in Kilimanoor grama panchayat; Koduvazhanoor (Valiyavila, Plavila and Meenthangi areas) in Pulimath grama panchayat; Kallikadu in Kallikkadu grama panchayat; Marayamuttom (Vellikuzhi area) in Perumkadavila grama panchayat; Kalumugham in Thirupuram grama panchayat; Vanchiyoor (Cherukulam colony area), Thuruthummoola (Vettikonam area) and Powdikonam in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Containment zones were withdrawn in Chamavila in Balaramapuram grama panchayat; Mylam in Aruvikkara grama panchayat; Nadayara, Muttapalam, Palayamkunnu, Mutthana, Panchayat office and Valiyavila in Chemmaruthy grama panchayat; Thoppuvila in Ottur grama panchayat; Sreekaryam (Ambedkar Nagar), Ulloor (Prasanth Nagar, Neerazhi lane and Panayil), Chellamangalam (Ayyankali Nagar), Akkulam (Ayithadi and Pulayanarkotta areas), Kanjirampara (Thozhuvancode), Valiyavila (SLRA area) and Thuruthummoola (Aduppukoottan para) in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-hits-the-1000-mark/article32706800.ece
27 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) sees bid to unsettle govt.||A meeting of the CPI(M) State committee on Saturday concluded that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had politically weaponised Central law enforcement agencies to destabilise the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala. The conference felt that corporate entities struggling to find a foothold in the State had orchestrated a conspiracy to destabilise the LDF rule. The LDF’s spirited resistance to the move to privatise airports, PSUs, and other strategic national assets had upset the big businesses. They wanted the LDF out of power to promote their interests in Kerala. The BJP was the political arm of the profiteers. The Congress, which played second fiddle to the BJP in Kerala, was their B-team. ‘Frivolous complaint’ CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who chaired the conference, singled out the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for criticism. He said the CBI had attempted to cast LIFE Mission under a pall of suspicion to discredit the government project to provide free housing to the poor. The agency had registered a case against the scheme in an impromptu manner at the instance of the BJP and based on a ‘frivolous complaint’ by a Congress legislator. The CBI had blindsided the government and revealed itself as an appendage of the BJP. It had lost its independence under the BJP. To tackle legally Several non-BJP governments had shut the door on the CBI, including the Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. Kerala would not take such an extreme position. Instead, the CPI(M) would resist the CBI’s ‘trespass’ on federalism legally and politically. The CBI, acting at the instance of the Congress government in the Centre, had attempted to trap Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the SNC-Lavalin case and failed. ‘Fearful of protests’ Mr. Balakrishnan said the BJP was upset that the CPI(M) had spearheaded the national campaign against the patently anti-Muslim Citizenship Amendment Act. It was fearful of the CPI(M)-led campaign against the new law that sought to jeopardise the interests of farmers to help major food crop aggregators. On September 29, the CPI(M) would launch a movement to muster popular support against the ‘anti-democratic and anti-people policies of the Centre.’ The campaign would also expose the Janus-faced politics of the Congress in Kerala.  The CBI had revealed itself as an appendage of the BJP. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-sees-bid-to-unsettle-govt/article32706911.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Resist ‘anti-farmer’ Bills, says Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday underlined the need to put up solid resistance to the new agricultural Bills which, he said, placed Indian farmers at the mercy of corporates. Accusing the Narendra Modi government of serving corporate interests, Mr. Chennithala said the ‘anti-farmer’ Bills virtually gifted farm lands in the country to the corporates and enslaved the farmers. He was addressing a protest meeting organised at Kowdiar here on Saturday as part of the Congress party’s nationwide stir against the Bills. “These Bills will transform Indian farmers into mere serfs of the corporates. The unilateral manner in which the BJP government has attempted to enact these laws will have far-reaching ramifications for the agriculture sector,” Mr. Chennithala said. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, would ultimately entail a decline in agricultural production, facilitate unrestricted entry of genetically modified crops and weaken the public distribution system, he said. Impact on Kerala Entry of genetically modified crops and the move to do away with minimum support prices (MSP) for crops would have grave implications for a State like Kerala, he said. “Farmers will be left at the mercy of the corporates. One Union Minister (Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal) has already quit over the Bills. Protests against the Bills are gaining strength in the north Indian States. There is every need to put up a solid resistance to the Bills,” Mr. Chennithala said, adding that the Modi government had betrayed the people by getting the Bills cleared in the Parliament. March to Raj Bhavan Congress leaders will march to the Raj Bhavan on Monday to submit a signed petition to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan urging President Ram Nath Kovind not to give assent to the Bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resist-anti-farmer-bills-says-chennithala/article32706916.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ensuring water quality across the State||Last year, a water testing facility was set up at a government school in Kattakada here, as part of the award-winning ‘Jalasamrudhi’ project. It received enthusiastic response from the students who brought in well water from their homes for testing. Till very recently, there has been a shortage of water testing facilities in the State. To address this, the Haritha Keralam Mission decided to set up testing facilities in every panchayat in the State. The Local Self Government Department (LSGD) also teamed up with the Education Department in this project, as these water testing labs were to be set up in higher secondary schools attached to the chemistry labs. Kattakada became the pilot for the project. The funds, Rs. 1 lakh per lab, came from the MLA’s local area development funds. A total of 1,034 such labs are now being planned across the State, out of which 17 are functional and administrative sanction has been accorded to 480. “The response has been great. In a school in Kannur, there were as many as 28 water samples from wells brought in on a single day. It is a great practical experience for the students too,” said an official of the Haritha Keralam Mission. Eight parameters are mainly being tested—colour, smell, pH value, acid content, dissolved solid substances, nitrate percentage, ammonium percentage and presence of Coliform bacteria. A software has also been developed with the support of the Indian Institute Of Information Technology and Management to tabulate and analyse all the testing results. The database will be accessible to the local bodies and health workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensuring-water-quality-across-the-state/article32706803.ece
27 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dwelling on power shifts in UDF||The purported power shifts in the United Democratic Front (UDF) was reportedly a talking point in the CPI(M) State committee which convened here on Saturday. The CPI(M) felt that the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was realigning itself to assume a dominant role in the coalition. The League planned to relegate the Congress to a secondary position. The KC(M) split The split in the Kerala Congress (M) had given impetus to the move. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, had returned to State politics to plot the party’s new course of action. He would seek more seats for his party in the coming elections to put the IUML’s representation in the Assembly on a par with the Congress. The CPI(M) felt Mr. Kunhalikutty hoped to achieve dominion over the Congress by wooing fundamentalist forces. An accommodation with the Jamat-e-Islami and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) was in the works. Several speakers reportedly pointed out that the minority community had gravitated towards the CPI(M), given its spirited resistance to the ‘anti-Muslim’ Citizenship Amendment Act. The LDF government had passed a resolution in the Assembly against the Central law. The IUML feared that it was losing ground to the LDF in its home turf in north Kerala, prompting it to turn to fundamentalist outfits. On secular position The IUML had abandoned its secular position on issues such as the conversion of the iconic Hagia Sophia in Istanbul from a historical museum to a mosque. It had defended the change of status that was welcomed by Islamist outfits internationally. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who chaired the meet, told journalists that the IUML would try to ‘swallow’ the Congress. He said Mr. Kunhalikutty had indicated that the BJP was not the main enemy of the IUML in Kerala and had sought an accommodation with the Sangh Parivar.  IUML’s ‘dominant role’ in the UDF was a talking point at the CPI(M) State committee meet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dwelling-on-power-shifts-in-udf/article32706912.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Toddler succumbs to injuries, tests positive for virus||A COVID-19-infected toddler, who was hit by motorcycle after she ran out of her house in Balaramapuram on Friday, succumbed to her injuries on Saturday. The incident had taken place at Kavinpuram around 4 p.m. on Friday when the 15-month-old girl ran out of her house on seeing the gate open. After being knocked down by a motorcycle, she was rushed to a private hospital in Killipalam following which she was referred to another in Chakka. On being diagnosed with COVID-19, the child was transferred to SAT Hospital late Friday. The body has been kept in the mortuary there. The child’s parents and grandfather, who had tested positive earlier, were undergoing home care, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toddler-succumbs-to-injuries-tests-positive-for-virus/article32706801.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NIIST wins CSIR award for innovation||The National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), a CSIR institute at Pappanamcode here, has won the coveted CSIR-Technology Award for best innovation in 2020 for the development of a cost-effective, hand-held Raman spectrometer. Raman spectrometers are increasingly being used for diagnostics and anti-counterfeiting applications, and in this respect, handheld versions of the equipment find huge potential, according to CSIR-NIIST. While systems available in the market today cost between Rs. 10 lakh and above Rs. 1 crore, the hand-held device developed by the NIIST team can be configured at less than Rs. 1 lakh. The present innovation is among the first attempts to indigenise the technology thus contributing to the ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ visions, NIIST director A. Ajayaghosh said. The device was developed by a team headed by Yoosaf Karuvath of the Photosciences and Photonics Section, NIIST. Other members of the team are Kaustabh Kumar Maiti, K. N. Narayanan Unni, Elizabeth Jacob, Robert Philip of NIIST, and Ajay Aggarwal and Rishi Sharma of CSIR-CEERI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niist-wins-csir-award-for-innovation/article32706926.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thrust on rural tourism in post-COVID times||As the 2020 edition of World Tourism Day is being celebrated on Sunday with the theme ‘Tourism and rural development’, the unique role tourism plays in providing opportunities outside big cities and preserving cultural and natural heritage are in focus, states UNWTO (World Tourism Organization). This year’s celebration of the day comes at a time when rural communities struggle with the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and UNWTO member-states and stakeholders look at tourism to drive recovery. For Kerala, the thrust on rural tourism in the wake of UNWTO’s policy is significant as tourism has emerged as the biggest employer and as a lifeline, offering the youth a chance to earn a living without having to migrate either within their countries or abroad. The new form of tourism that will emerge post-COVID-19 will stress on seeking experiences. In this perspective, rural tourism can play a major role in providing unique natural, cultural, and social experiences to travellers in the serene and clean setting of villages. Mixed format “The most sustainable way of developing rural tourism should be a mixed format — retaining and protecting the existing livelihood of the rural population and equipping them to earn extra income through tourism,” says Chief Executive Officer, Intimice Hospitalities, Dileep Kumar P.I. The setting up of Destination Management Organisation in special purpose vehicle (SPV) model proposed in the National Tourism Policy is a welcome development that will further strengthen rural tourism. In the case of Kerala, he says District Tourism Promotion Councils (DTPCs) should undergo a complete transformation to take up that responsibility. The Responsible Tourism Mission can play a major role too. Since rural tourism will be developing around small and medium investors and farmers, government support is crucial, he says. Development through tourism can also keep the rural communities alive. “The potential of rural tourism is yet to be exploited by Kerala Tourism. Local village activities, events, festivals, art forms, and handicrafts should be promoted as foreign tourists are interested in them and in seeing the village life,” says P.J. Varghese, who was the first to commence a village tour for foreign tourists at Ithipuzha in 1992-93. Tours linking these aspects of rural tourism and other destinations can be chalked out and it will check the mass tourism concentrated on beaches, hill stations, and backwaters. “It will help to extend the stay of the visitors and to thereby bring repeat tourists,” he adds. For the first time in the 40-year history of World Tourism Day, the official celebration will be hosted by a group of countries. Nations from the Mercosur bloc (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay, with Chile joining with observer status) will be the joint hosts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrust-on-rural-tourism-in-post-covid-times/article32706928.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Amazon move||In a move to break the language barrier for online shopping and expand e-commerce access ahead of the festive season, Amazon is launchingamazon.inshopping experience in four new Indian languages – Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil and Telugu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amazon-move/article32706967.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Need to expand Civil Services stressed||A State council meeting of the Joint Council of State Service Organisations observed that there was a need to expand the Civil Services in proportion with the increase in population. Now, the ratio of civil servants is 142 out of every 10,000 people. The Civil Services must be strengthened to protect democracy. The State government should take steps towards this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-to-expand-civil-services-stressed/article32706913.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New project for infra development: Isaac||A project for public investment of Rs. 2 lakh crore for developing the basic infrastructure in the State, following the model of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will be implemented, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. He was inaugurating a media get-together organised as part of the 110th anniversary of Swadeshabhimani Ramakrishna Pillai’s banishment from the erstwhile Travancore State. He said a change had to be brought about in the traditional approach to development by trying new methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-project-for-infra-development-isaac/article32706914.ece
27 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CBI probe into Life Mission welcomed||Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala welcomed the CBI probe into the LIFE Mission project saying that it would help bring out the truth. “The CPI(M) should welcome the investigation if it has nothing to hide,” Mr. Chennithala told reporters. The CPI(M) was opposed to a CBI probe since the party feared that it would unearth corruption, he said. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) action against Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, in connection with the Bengaluru drug bust case pointed to the decay that had gripped the CPI(M), Mr. Chennithala said. “It is for the CPI(M) leadership to explain. Mr. Balakrishnan cannot shirk responsibility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbi-probe-into-life-mission-welcomed/article32706917.ece
27 September 2020||Thiruvannathapuram,KERALA||Abusive video: women confront man||After a group of women activists dramatically confronted a man over a viral video with derogatory comments against feminists and women in general, the City police on Saturday evening registered a case against him for outraging the modesty of women. The accused has been identified as Vijay P. Nair, who is from Gandhari Amman Koil in the city. He had allegedly posted videos in his YouTube channel ‘Vtrix Scene’ with derogatory and abusive comments on dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmi, activist Bindu Ammini, and others, and also against poet and activist Sugathakumari, whom he referred to only as Kerala’s first Women’s Commission Chairperson.  Facebook live Bindu Ammini had filed a complaint with the police against him on Saturday morning. In the evening, a group of activists including Ms. Bhagyalakshmi and transgender activist Diya Sana confronted him at his residence near Gandhari Amman Koil Road. During the confrontation, broadcast live through Ms. Sana’s Facebook page, they proceeded to physically assault and pour engine oil on him and seized his laptop and mobile phone. He was later seen apologising to all women he may have voluntarily or involuntarily hurt. The Museum police by evening registered a case against him under Section 509 of the IPC pertaining to the use of word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman and Section 120(O) of the Kerala Police Act pertaining to causing, through any means of communication, a nuisance of himself to any person by repeated or undesirable or anonymous call, letter, writing, message, e-mail, or through a messenger. Another case has been registered in the Thampanoor police station under Section 354 of the IPC, pertaining to assault or criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty. According to the Thampanoor CI, the police had gone to his residence soon after the incident in the evening, but he said that he did not have any complaint. “In the evening, Bhagyalakshmi and others brought to the station the laptop and mobile phone he used to post the videos,” said the CI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abusive-video-women-confront-man/article32706804.ece
27 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Lifetime achievement award for P.K. Warrier||P.K. Warrier, managing trustee of Kottakkal Aryavaidya Sala, has been selected for the first K.P. Namboodiri’s Lifetime Achievement Award. The award, which comprises a cash award of Rs. 2 lakh and a memento, is instituted in memory of K.P. Namboodiri, founder of K.P. Namboodiri’s Ayurvedics. The award will be presented at a function to be held at Kottakkal Aryavaidya Sala headquarters on September 27, according to K. Bhavadasan, managing director of the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lifetime-achievement-award-for-pk-warrier/article32706910.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Anger on the streets||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anger-on-the-streets/article32706839.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Call of duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-of-duty/article32706899.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New ‘lease’ of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-lease-of-life/article32706930.ece
27 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur sees 69% excess rainfall in four months||Unusual scenes are being witnessed in the district during the current monsoon with the majority of natural streams and rivulets overflowing at several places, and check dams and minor irrigation tanks filled to the brim. On the downside of the excess rainfall is the water stagnation in cotton fields in the black soils and groundnut farms in red soils. At several places in Yadiki, Peddavaduguru and Vidapanakal streams were overflowing blocking traffic in these mandals on Saturday. The police intensified vigil for likely flash floods. Several such scenes have become common for the past one week with the district witnessing 48 rain days during the 118 days of 2020-21 southwest monsoon, a phenomenon witnessed last only in 2008, according to Rekulakunta Agriculture Research Station agrometeorologist K. Ashok Kumar. Against an average annual rainfall of 552.4 mm for Anantapur district, during the current rainy season 537 mm was realised in 118 days against an average of 317.5 mm recording an excess of 69.1% for these four months. “It is heartening to see 48 rain days during monsoon and there is a forecast of light to moderate rainfall in the district for the next four days,” Mr. Ashok Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-sees-69-excess-rainfall-in-four-months/article32706518.ece
27 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur leads State in disposing of service requests||Earlier, people at Gotukur, a village in Kudair mandal in the district, used to face umpteen troubles in getting any errand, be it getting pension, taking a certificate or applying for a rice card, done due to lack of public transport to reach the mandal headquarters, 12 km away. But now, thanks to the Village Secretariat in the panchayat, these works can be done without them having to commute to Kudair. This Village Secretariat has disposed of 1,645 service requests since January 26. This is one of the 1,207 such ward and village secretariats that have pushed the district into limelight for having received and disposed of the largest number of requests in the State in less than the stipulated time frame for each type of request. Anantapur district, by disposing of 14,32,324 requests in 239 days, has a better average service request disposal time than the State’s average of 2.64 Service Level Agreement (SLA). The SLA is the average of the total number of services rendered/ number of secretariats/ number of days taken to resolve. Villagers’ plea District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, who made a surprise visit to the Gotukur Secretariat on Saturday, told reporters that except for five applications made for different services, all others were disposed of and all registers were being properly maintained. The villagers asked the Collector to get a two-km black-topped road sanctioned. Child marriage stopped Responding to the Collector, the Mahila Police and Health Assistant gave a detailed report on their efforts to bring awareness on COVID-19 among the villagers and on the progress of the contact tracing of 32 persons, who turned positive so far. The police also informed the Collector of their success in foiling marriages of two minor girls. Another visually impaired 8-year-old child was also being admitted to a special school due to the efforts of the health assistant and the Mahila police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-leads-state-in-disposing-of-service-requests/article32707002.ece
27 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irrigation Advisory Board to meet on September 29||The Irrigation Advisory Board meeting of Anantapur district will be held on September 29 to discuss and finalise the quantum of water to be released to different canals and reservoirs in the district. The meeting, to be chaired by Collector Gandham Chandrudu, will decide on the management of water coming from Tungabhadra High-Level Main Canal, Krishna water through Hundri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) from Pothyreddypadu and Malyala lift schemes in Kurnool district. New small projects and tanks began getting added taking away the assured water of the ayacut under the HLC or the HNSS canals. Even during the current year, there has been pressure on irrigation officials to release water to tanks in a particular constituency or the other and the IAB meeting, which should have taken place ideally before the start of the season, got delayed due to discord among the stakeholders. District In-Charge Minister Botcha Satyanarayana held a meeting with Irrigation engineers and all MLAs in Vijayawada to come to a broad understanding as to how much water is given to which canal. This exercise was done to ensure there is no conflict at the IAB meeting and that the sanctity of the IAB resolutions regarding the allocation of water is maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irrigation-advisory-board-to-meet-on-september-29/article32706521.ece
27 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jumbo foray leaves Kuppam farmers jittery||The presence of over a 100 wild elephants in a single beat of Hosur forest division of Tamil Nadu, a few kilometres away from Kuppam mandal in Chittoor district, is giving the farmers sleepless nights. With the fully grown kharif crops ready for harvesting in the fields all around, the people in the border villages fear for their lives as well as crops. The killing of an Intermediate girl, a farmer’s daughter, at Parthichenu village near Kuppam, while they were on a night vigil by two stray elephants from T.N. forests a few days ago has only worsened their fears. Uncovered border After a hiatus of several months, the man-animal conflict has returned to the Kuppam division, which is flanked by the forests of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Though the menace of crop-raiding elephants from the Koundinya wildlife sanctuary was brought under control with trenches and solar fencing works in Palamaner and parts of Kuppam range, a stretch of about eight kilometres on the Kuppam-T.N. border is left uncovered, exposing it to the herds of wild elephants. Vulnerable stretch Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar, who inspected the border villages, said that an eight km stretch remained completely open to the entry of wild elephants. “Our immediate priority is to prevent both human and crop loss in this region. However, the border delineation itself poses a problem and prevents us from taking prompt action. Tracts of revenue lands of our area are abutting the forests of Tamil Nadu,” he said. The activities related to harvest of tamarind from the forests drove the wild elephants towards Kuppam side, said the officer. “The open stretch on the border is highly vulnerable to jumbo raids,” he remarked. Appeal to T.N. officials The DFO said that apart from renewing appeals to the T.N. counterparts to consider having elephant-proof trenches on the border at their end, higher authorities here would also be urged to dig trenches on the revenue land in Chittoor district. He said one of the wild elephants, believed to be responsible for the killing of the girl, was spotted moving in the T.N. forests close to Parthichenu village. “We also have information about the concentration of one hundred elephants in Hosur division of T.N. The farmers on our side have been cautioned against night vigils in fields, and our field personnel have been put on high alert,” Mr. Ravi Shankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jumbo-foray-leaves-kuppam-farmers-jittery/article32706524.ece
27 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 killed, 2 injured after tractor ploughs into shop||One person was killed on the spot and two others were grievously injured when a tractor jumped the road and ploughed into a roadside petty shop at Theertham village of Baireddipalle mandal on Saturday. According to the police, the tractor on its way to the mandal headquarters suddenly jumped the road and ran amok towards the shop, mowing down an elderly man, and knocking down two others, who were waiting at the spot after ordering tea. The deceased was identified as Nagarajappa (70), and the injured Gowrappa (50) and Achari (45) were rushed to the area hospital at Palamaner. The tractor was seized and its driver Mohammad was taken into custody. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-killed-2-injured-after-tractor-ploughs-into-shop/article32706415.ece
27 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘ends life’ with daughter, son escapes||A 28-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide after tying her two-year-old daughter on her back and jumping into a pond atop a hillock near Utabavulapalle village of Nerabailu Panchayat under Piler Rural police limits. However, her six-year-old son, sensing danger, reportedly escaped from the spot and informed the villagers. According to the police, Krishnaveni took to the extreme step allegedly vexed with life, as her husband refused to give up alcohol addiction. Working in agriculture fields, the family’s economy was said to have dwindled since a few months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Krishnaveni reportedly took her two children to a water body atop a hillock late on Friday evening. When the woman allegedly tried to push her son into the pond, he escaped and ran down to the village and informed the neighbours. When the villagers rushed to the spot, the woman and the daughter were found drowned. Those with suicidal thoughts can dial 100 for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-ends-life-with-daughter-son-escapes/article32706525.ece
27 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati youth shines in NEET||A Tirupati-based youth has bagged the all India first rank in the NEET (Super Speciality) Examination, the results of which were published on Friday. The candidate, U. Sri Rama Raju, who finished his M.S. (General Surgery) at S.V. Medical College this year said that he would pursue M.Ch with speciality in plastic surgery. Another youth, Dharuri Phanith, a B.Tech student from the city, bagged the All India first rank in the ICET exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-youth-shines-in-neet/article32706522.ece
27 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 new SIs, RSIs meet DIG||Fifty trainee sub-inspectors (SIs) and reserve sub-inspectors (RSIs) who completed basic training at the Anantapur Police Training College reported for duty before the Eluru Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao on Saturday. They would be posted in West Godavari, Krishna, Vijayawada city, Rajamahendravaram and East Godavari districts. Addressing them at the district police headquarters, the DIG said the duty of the police is to save the lives of people and protect their property. He told them to respond to complaints promptly and ensure justice to victims. “Be sincere and corrupt-free and win the hearts of the people, he said. West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-new-sis-rsis-meet-dig/article32707012.ece
27 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu driving a wedge between people: Botcha||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is trying to drive a wedge between people in the name of caste and religion for political gain, Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana has alleged. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Satyanarayana advised Mr. Naidu to not encourage agitations and instead opt for public mandate. The State had witnessed the Chief Minister’s visit to Tirumala and his taking part in various religious activities with fervour, he said. Capital issue “Mr. Naidu is opposing the development of the North Andhra region. He is objecting to making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital. On the other hand, the Chief Minister is aiming at developing all the three regions equally,” the Minister said. Challenging the TDP leader to explain the reasons behind opposing the decision to make Visakhapatnam the Executive capital, the Minister alleged that during the TDP term, Mr. Naidu had ignored North Andhra. Claiming that Visakhapatnam had witnessed development during the tenure of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the Minister criticised the TDP leaders for spreading falsehood on the investments in the Port City. Referring to the Amaravati land scam, the Minister asked the TDP leaders to stop going to the court seeking stay orders. “Only those who are guilty fear the law, and they cannot escape the inevitable. I challenge the opposition leaders to come clean by accepting the investigations. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is committed to the welfare of the people. They will not fall for the cheap tricks of Mr. Naidu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-driving-a-wedge-between-people-botcha/article32706986.ece
27 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur police bust massive gutkha racket||The Guntur Rural Police on Saturday busted a massive gutkha racket operating from Tenali. Five lakh gutkha sachets worth Rs. 25 lakh were seized in an operation supervised by Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni. “We will be cracking down on those indulging in illegal activities relating to smuggling of gutkha, non-duty paid liquor and other contraband substances. We will open suspect sheets and invoke the PD Act against repeat offenders,” Mr. Gunni said after producing the accused before the media. In a night raid, Tenali DSP K. Srilakshmi, Tenali CI M. Rajesh Kumar and SI T. Anil Kumar intercepted a truck at Tenali market. The gutkha was allegedly being smuggled from Bengaluru. Police arrested the main accused, identified as Adapala Madhava Rao, who reportedly confessed that the contraband was purchased from Tumkur. The accused loaded the truck with empty barrels and in each barrel, the gutkha packets were loaded. Police also arrested Mohammad Eezad and Mohammad Saleem Uddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-police-bust-massive-gutkha-racket/article32707004.ece
27 September 2020||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco products worth Rs. 12.48 lakh seized in Tuni||Police on Saturday arrested two persons belonging to Telangana State and seized tobacco products worth Rs. 12.48 lakh which they were planning to supply to local traders in Tuni of East Godavari district. “The two persons procured 40 gunny bags of tobacco products from Hyderabad city to supply it to local traders in Tuni town in East Godavari district. The accused have been identified as Syed Ali and Sheik Ameer Feroz of Sangareddi district in Telangana State,” Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao said. Case registered A van bearing registration number TS15 UD 9635 was also seized. The tobacco products were stuffed in gunny bags and transported via Vijayawada-Rajamahendravaram to arrive in Tuni by Saturday morning. The team led by Circle Inspector K. Kishore Babu intercepted the van when the accused entered Tuni town on Saturday morning. Police registered a case and produced the accused in a local court. An investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-products-worth-rs-12-lakh-seized/article32707005.ece
27 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood in Kundu inundates several areas around Nandyal town||Heavy rains in Nallamala forest and hill ranges have flooded several mandals in and around Nandyal town in the district with about 200 people evacuated from low-lying areas and housed in rehabilitation centres. Water was overflowing from four minor irrigation tanks inundating thousands of acres of standing crops and many villages. The floodwater in Kundu river and Pangidi Vaagu and other smaller streams inundated several low-lying areas in Nandyal town, Bandi Atmakur mandal, Atmakur, Mahanandi, Kothapalli, Nandikotkur, Sirivella, Allagadda, and Rudravaram. There were no reports of human loss or property on Saturday. There was a forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall for the district for the next four days. District Collector G. Veerapandian along with Superintendent of Police Fakeerappa Kaginelli and Nandyal Sub-Collector Kalpana Kumari visited the affected areas in Nandyal division and rescued several people in a layout on Mahanandia Road by requisitioning an earthmover and clearing the stagnant water by breaking a boundary wall. They appealed to the people to move out of the low-lying areas and go to safe places if they have one or approach government officials, who had set up rehabilitation centres, where they would be taken care of. Rescued Meanwhile, three Forest Department watchers were rescued from Velugodu area after they were trapped in their area of duty due to flash floods in Pangidi Vaagu, said District Fire Officer Sreenivasa Reddy. The Fire Department personnel used lifebuoys and ropes to reach the trapped personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-in-kundu-inundates-several-areas-around-nandyal-town/article32707001.ece
27 September 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home Minister, DGP, SP praise traffic constable||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita and Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang appreciated traffic constable D. Srinivas, of Hanuman Junction town for discharging duties in heavy rain. A passerby took a photograph of the constable regulating traffic at the busy centre in Hanuman Junction on Friday, and posted it on various social media groups. The Home Minister and the DGP responded and posted comments praising Mr. Srinivas. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu felicitated the traffic constable and presented a cash award for his sincerity in discharging duty. The centre is so busy and traffic has to be regulated all the time, the SP said, and appealed to the staff of other police stations to get inspired from the traffic constable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-minister-dgp-sp-praise-traffic-constable/article32707008.ece
27 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flash floods throw normal life out of gear in Prakasam district||Heavy rain in the district since Friday night has thrown normal life out of gear in several mandals. Reservoirs were filled to the brim while rivulets were in spate in Parchur, Inkollu, Addanki, Santhamagaluru, Madipadu and S.N.Padu mandals. After a long gap, the storage in Cumbum, Asia’s biggest tank, rose to 0.35 tmcft as against the full level of 2.95 tmcft following an inflow of 739 cusecs while the storage level at the Obul Reddy Gundalakamma reservoir rose to 3.61 tmcft as against the full level of 3.86 tmcft following an inflow of 1,192 cusecs, irrigation department sources said. The irrigation authorities let out 9,450 cusecs into the Bay of Bengal anticipating an increase in inflows in the wake of incessant rain in the catchment areas of the reservoir. Vehicular traffic hit Flash floods in Gundalakamma affected vehicular traffic between Giddalur and Nandyal in Kurnool district. Rainwater entered over 200 houses in Giddalur as Sagileru was in spate. The Gundalakamma vagu disrupted vehicular traffic between Anumalapalle and Akiveedu near Racherla. Meanwhile, Prakasam Police launched a rescue operation as a tractor, a lorry, an APSRTC bus, an earth-mover were stranded in flooded rivulets in Raavipadu, near Cumbum, Kothakota and B.Nidumanaru, near N.G. Padu, which left large tracts of farm lands in a sheet of water. A tobacco seedling-laden tractor was also caught in flash floods at Raavipadu. A team of police personnel from Cumbum rescued four farmers caught in the swirling waters. Water from a breached tank entered Chadalavada village, which houses centuries-old famous Raghunayaka temple. About 20 persons were rescued from the stranded vehicles at Kothakota and B.Nidamanaru by a team of police personnel led by Ongole Rural Circle Inspector P.Subba Rao on the arterial East coast highway. Vehicular traffic between Ongole and Chirala was disrupted as water from the breached rivulets flooded the highway. Boy drowns In another incident, an eleven-year-old boy drowned in the Ambadipudi Cheruvu, overflowing due to flash floods, on Saturday. Passers-by jumped into the swollen chervu and took two boys out of the flooded canal. But one of them died while being rushed to hospital, Ballikurava Sub-Inspector M.Sivananchariah said. The district registered an average rainfall of 78.7 mm in the last 24 hours. Racherala recorded a maximum rainfall of 186 mm during the period followed by J.Pangalur(184.4mm), Inkollu(171mm), Chinaganjam(160.8mm), Addanki(148.8mm), Giddalur(148.2 mm), N.G.Padu(146.4 mm), Parchur(121.4mm), Maddipadu(113.8 mm), Karamchedu(110.8mm) and Ongole (43.4 mm).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flash-floods-throw-normal-life-out-of-gear-in-prakasam-district/article32706529.ece
27 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||International rice smuggling racket busted||Prakasam police busted an international rice smuggling racket with the arrest of 31 persons across the district, and seized rice worth over Rs. 1.08 crore on Saturday. Addressing the media, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said that the rice meant for the poor under the Public Distribution System (PDS) had been mobilised in a big way by a network of brokers at a price of Rs. 12 per kg and polished in rice mills. The rice was then exported by them at a rate of around Rs. 20 per kg to Singapore, Malaysia, Dubai and African countries through the ports of Chennai, Krishnapatnam in Nellore district and Jawaharlal Nehru Port near Panvel in Maharashtra. Raids conducted A part of the procured rice was also sold at Rs. 36 per kg in the open market, he said at the end of coordinated raids at 162 PDS rice stock points in the district by police personnel amid heavy rains. The accused included 15 rice brokers and eight exporters. The scam came to light when the Inkollu police seized 1,860 bags of PDS rice during a raid on a rice mill at Valaparla village, near Martur on Friday. Police registered 16 cases against the offenders. SP’s warning More raids would be conducted to bring to book more persons involved in the scam, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/international-rice-smuggling-racket-busted/article32706420.ece
27 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases in Prakasam shoot up once again, 1,220 test positive||There was no sign of the incidence of coronavirus subsiding in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as 13 more persons succumbed to the pandemic taking the combined toll in Prakasam and Nellore districts to 894 in the last 24 hours. With 10 more deaths, the toll rose to 455 in Prakasam district where 1,220 persons tested positive for the disease during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Saturday night. After a brief lull, the new cases started go northwards in Prakasam district. The number of fresh cases shot up by 426 in Prakasam district from 806 in the previous day. In Nellore district, the toll increased marginally to 439 with three more deaths, a health bulletin released by the district administration said. The number of new admissions was more by over 500 than the number of persons getting discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in the two districts during the period. With this, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 98,722 with Nellore district accounting for 52,059 cases and Prakasam district 46,663 cases. As many as 1,169 patients fully recovered from illness during the period with Prakasam district accounting for 689 cured patients and Nellore district for 480 discharged patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-in-prakasam-shoot-up-once-again-1220-test-positive/article32706527.ece
27 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agitation staged opposing nuclear plant at Kovvada||CITU State vice-president and Anti Nuclear Power Plant Committee convener D. Govinda Rao on Saturday urged the Union government to drop the proposal to set up an atomic power plant at Kovvada, near Ranasthalam, in Srikakulam district. Addressing the CITU activists and members of the committee, who staged an agitation at Kovvada, Mr. Govinda Rao said the nuclear project would be a bane of the North Andhra region because of its adverse impact on the ecology. “Should there be an accident, the impact will be felt up to Chhatrapur in neighbouring Odisha and Kakinada in East Godavari district. Almost all the countries, including Germany, are avoiding nuclear power,” Mr. Govinda Rao said. “But, the Indian government is trying to promote nuclear power plants to benefit the U.S.-based companies,” Mr. Govinda Rao alleged. Former Kotapalem sarpanch Sunkari Dhananjay alleged that the NDA government had shifted the project to Andhra Pradesh from Gujarat, where people had agitated against it. CITU leaders Ch. Ammannaidu and N.V. Ramana spoke. The Kovvada atomic power plant is a proposed 6,600 MW facility that is planned to be built over an area of over 2,000 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agitation-staged-opposing-nuclear-plant-at-kovvada/article32706989.ece
27 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bhavanapadu port will help create jobs’||Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju on Saturday said that the Bhavanapadu port would change the economic scenario of Srikakulam district as it would provide direct and indirect employment to many and prevent migration of people from the district. Addressing the media after visiting several places in Vajrapukotturu mandal, Mr. Appala Raju said the Rs. 5,000-crore project would be a great gift to the people of the region. “The government gets little income from this project. But it is being planned to benefit the people of Srikakulam district,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhavanapadu-port-will-help-create-jobs/article32706987.ece
27 September 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma therapy to begin in Vizag||Going by the directions from the State government, plasma therapy or convalescent plasma therapy will soon begin in the city. As of now permission has been given to three blood banks in the city to draw plasma from those patients who have recovered after being affected by the COVID-19 and are convalescing. According to health officials, the blood banks that are authorised are KGH, AS Raja and Apollo. But senior doctors are of the opinion that the policy designed by the State government for collection of plasma, may not suit the present and pressing need for the therapy. According to the policy, the State Health Department will allot a few numbers to the hospitals that are authorised to run the therapy and they have to call the numbers and ask them to come forward to donate or give plasma. At present, there is a huge demand for plasma and restricting the number of donors or volunteers may not be good, said a senior doctor. “We need more donors and especially when there are donors or volunteers waiting in the wings, why restrict them? There is a necessity for rethink,” he said. Moreover, it is learnt that the health officials who tried to call a few numbers, experienced cold response. “Many either said that they are away for a few days or not interested,” said a health official. It is learnt that the State government had designed this policy to keep in check that it does not become a business model for many. The plasma has to be collected from convalescing patients and transfused into the COVID -19 patients. According to P.V. Sudhakar, District COVID Special Officer and Principal Andhra Medical College, the therapy is effective when the collected plasma is infused into moderate cases. According to the ICMR guidelines, it has not reduced the complications or death rate in serious conditions. There is no need for this therapy for mild cases, he said. The plasma collected from convalescing patients is loaded with antibodies and the main aim is to infuse antibodies into a positive case, said Dr. Sudhakar. The district has been seeing a drop in cases from 1,000 per day on an average to about 400, since the first week of this month. But health officials are keeping their fingers crossed and say that it is too early to come to any conclusion. “After Delhi resurgence, we are cautious about the resurgence factor and that is why we are continuing aggressively with our strategy of Test, Trace and Treat,” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plasma-therapy-to-begin-in-vizag/article32707020.ece
27 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-level Shirdi team studies pilgrim facilities at Tirumala||The TTD authorities, by way of a PowerPoint presentation, on Saturday explained a high-level delegation of the Shirdi Samsthan the various initiatives undertaken in extending various services to the pilgrims even during the COVID times. At a high-level meeting chaired by TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy at Annamaiah Bhavan, the delegation was apprised of the modalities and precautionary measures adopted by the management in the maintenance of queue lines, darshan, accommodation, online donations, ‘annadanam’ and tonsuring, in strict adherence to the health advisories of both the Central and State governments. Interestingly, the delegation also enquired about securing a higher rate of interest on its fixed deposits when there was a deep slash in the interest rates offered by banks during the difficult times. Novel scheme Mr. Reddy explained the members of the delegation the way the TTD could successfully carry out the nine-day Brahmotsavams in strict adherence to the shastras as well as COVID restrictions. Mr. Reddy also briefed them about the ‘Gudi ko Gomatha’, a scheme undertaken at the behest of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Apprising them about the ambitious programmer under which a cow would be provided to each temple in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, he urged the Chief Executive Officer of Shirdi temple K. Harischandra Bagate to implement the novel scheme at Shirdi too. He further said that efforts were on to introduce the scheme in Tamil Nadu. Prominent among others who took part in the meeting included TTD EO A.K. Singhal, trustees Sivakumar and Sekhar Reddy, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, JEO P. Basanth Kumar, CVSO Gopinath Jatti, and HoDs of Shirdi temple Somnath and Govind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-level-team-studies-tirumala-pilgrim-facilities/article32706548.ece
27 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarva Bhoopala vahana seva held with fervour||Religious fervour marked the Sarva Bhoopala vahana seva at the Kalyanotsava mandapam inside the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Saturday, the penultimate day of the ongoing Brahmotsavams. Traditionally, Rathotsavam (procession of wooden chariot) is performed on the penultimate day of the annual festival. However, in view of the COVID-19 restrictions, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has come up with the alternative. As part of the celebrations, Lord Malayappa flanked on either side by his two divine consorts was mounted atop the exquisitely decorated vahanam and all the rituals associated with Rathotsavam were observed. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer A.K. Singhal, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy and member trustees were among those who took part in the hour-long festivities in Tirumala. Later in the night, Aswa vahana seva was performed marking the end of vahana sevas related to the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarva-bhoopala-vahana-seva-held-with-fervour/article32706752.ece
27 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Genco to stop performance-linked generation allowance||AP-Genco has decided to stop payment of performance linked generation allowance (PLGA) to its employees from October 1 in view of its precarious financial position that has been aggravated by the COVID-19 crisis. ‘Sacrifice necessary’ Genco MD B. Sreedhar wrote a letter to this effect to the heads of all of its generating stations on Friday saying that the PLGA had become irrelevant. He stated that the Genco had resolved to dispense with the PLGA due to the condition of its plants, the prevailing scenario, and the addition of 10,000 MW of solar power (to exclusively cater to the agriculture sector), which, he said, made the running of the generating stations at higher plant load factors very difficult. “Genco has, therefore, reached the conclusion that stopping the payment of PLGA is in the interest of the organisation and every employee has to make the sacrifice to some extent,” he said. As per the GOs issued in 2002 and 2003, and the recent circulars, the PLGA is to be paid to the employees up to a maximum of 5% on the minimum of the ordinary time scale to encourage them to improve the efficiency of the plants. Opposing the move, the A.P. State Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee staged a demonstration at the Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station, near Vijayawada, wearing black badges. ‘Violation of wage pact’ An office-bearer of the APSEB Engineers’ Association told The Hindu that as per the wage settlement agreed by the (Genco) management and the unions on May 31, 2018, which is in force up to March 31, 2022, the PLGA cannot be stopped. If the Genco proceeds with its “arbitrary decision,” nearly 7,000 regular employees would be impacted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/genco-to-stop-performance-linked-generation-allowance/article32706990.ece
27 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Purandeswari appointed BJP national general secretary||Daggubati Purandeswari has been appointed national general secretary of the BJP six-and-a-half years after she joined the party. She was one of the eight national general secretaries appointed by party president J.P. Nadda on Saturday. She had earlier represented the Congress from the Bapatla and Visakhapatnam Lok Sabha constituencies, and had served as Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, and Human Resource Development. It took Ms. Purandeswari sheer hard work and perseverance to climb up the ladder in the BJP, which she joined in March 2014. The turbulence that had set in the Congress party due to its support to bifurcation prompted her to join the BJP. In due course, Ms. Purandeswari was appointed BJP Mahila Morcha national in-charge. She had since been working in that capacity. She had unsuccessfully contested as BJP candidate in the Rajampet and Visakhapatnam Lok Sabha constituencies. Ms. Purandeswari’s entry into the BJP was facilitated by its senior leader M. Venkaiah Naidu (now Vice-President). BJP A.P. affairs co-incharge Sunil Deodhar was appointed national secretary from Maharashtra. Meanwhile, Y. Satya Kumar, a native of A.P., who was personal secretary to Mr. Venkaiah Naidu till he became the Vice-President and had served the party as in-charge of Kerala in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, was retained as the party’s national secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/purandeswari-appointed-bjp-national-general-secretary/article32706992.ece
27 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,200 volunteers to wean youth from addictions||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that over 1,200 volunteers would be roped in to create awareness among the students about drug abuse and alcohol abuse in the district. Mr. Imtiaz in a meeting with the Nasha Mukt Bharat district committee said that there is a need for a proper action plan to save youth from addiction to alcohol and drugs. He said awareness should be created at the school and college level and over 1,200 would be identified and trained soon for the purpose. He said awareness campaigns should be conducted by officials of police, excise, the board of intermediate, colleges, universities and others. Mr. Imtiaz released a book on youth and drug addiction authored by psychologists T.S.Rao and G. Shankar Rao and brought up by the Akshara Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1200-volunteers-to-wean-youth-from-addictions/article32706999.ece
27 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu on a smear campaign against BJP’||YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy tweeted that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu unleashed a false propaganda that the BJP was against some sections to divert the people’s attention from the massive land scandal in Amaravati. He alleged that Mr. Naidu had got dozens of temples demolished in Vijayawada and he cooked up all sorts of stories on the BJP as part of his wily game plan, suggesting that it was intended to gloss over the defeat suffered in the 2019 elections and his loosening grip on the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-on-a-smear-campaign-against-bjp/article32706993.ece
27 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.El.Ed exam postponed||The Education Department has rejected a plea to permit conduct of the exam in Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) as per the schedule without any postponement. A G.O. released on Saturday said in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, the D.El.Ed 1st year examination, scheduled to commence from September 28, has been postponed till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deled-exam-postponed/article32707006.ece
27 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||42 centres for conduct of PGECET-2020||Andhra Pradesh Post-Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test (APPGECET) convener Prof. K. Srinivasa Rao said that 42 centres have been allotted for the conduct of the APPGECET-2020 examination from September 28 to 30 in Andhra Pradesh and Hyderabad (Telangana). Prof. Srinivasa Rao said that 28,726 candidates would appear for the exams for admission into PG courses in engineering and pharmacy. Addressing a press conference in Visakhapatnam on Saturday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that there will be two sessions per day — 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. He added that 40 centres were allocated in Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Srikakulam, Rajamahendravaram, Ongole, Chirala, Kurnool, Kakinada, Kadapa and Guntur, apart from two in Hyderabad. He said that candidates must bring their hall ticket and identification cards to the examination centre. Candidates will be permitted into the examination hall from 8.30 a.m. for the morning session and from 1.30 p.m. for the afternoon session for identification. Candidates must wear masks, carry their own personal hand sanitiser and transparent water bottle, and maintain physical distancing. Temperature of candidates will be checked at the entry and candidates with COVID-19 symptoms will be seated in a separate exam room. Prof. Srinivasa Rao said that 6,349 candidates applied for the pharmacy entrance, 4,570 for mechanical, 4,736 for electronics, 4,084 for computer science and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/42-centres-for-conduct-of-pgecet-2020/article32706994.ece
27 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||450 new cases take tally to 49,551||The district recorded 450 new COVID-19 infections and five deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the district administration, here on Saturday. The new cases increased the tally to 49,551 and the death toll to 388 in the district. 411 recovered As many as 411 persons undergoing treatment recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the number of discharges or total recoveries in the district to 44,934. This takes the total recoveries to almost 90.6 % in the district. Meanwhile, active cases in the district stand at 4,229, which is around 8.5 %. As on date, there are 718 clusters in the district, which include 54 very active and 24 active ones, and a few more are likely to be denotified in the next few days, said a health official. It may be remembered that already 192 clusters were denotified in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/450-new-cases-take-tally-to-49551/article32707016.ece
27 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Halt illegal transport of granite slabs from forest block: AIARLA||The All India Agricultural and Rural Labour Association (AIARLA) on Saturday demanded that the authorities take steps immediately to halt the illegal transportation of granite slabs from the Cheemalapadu forest block near the Kalyanapulova reservoir in Ravikamatham mandal of Visakhapatnam district. “We urge the District Collector to conduct an inquiry into this illegality,” said P.S. Ajay Kumar, national secretary of AIARLA. He also alleged that on Friday night a police team from Kothakota police station headed by a Sub-Inspector threatened the local adivasis and got three lorry loads of granite transported out of the area. “Since May this year, forest officials had been standing guard to the granite slabs and machinery that were in the custody of the Forest Department. However, since Friday afternoon they have disappeared from the area. The mining company is reportedly carting away the granite without even the requisite documents. We demand that a case be lodged immediately against those doing this ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/halt-illegal-transport-of-granite-slabs-from-forest-block-aiarla/article32707019.ece
27 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains for Civil Services exams||Special trains will be operated between Ichchapuram-Visakhapatnam, Koraput-Visakhapatnam via Rayagada and Koraput-Cuttack via Titlagarh by the East Coast Railway (E Co R) for the convenience of candidates appearing for Civil Services examination, conducted by the Union Public Service Commission. The exam special Ichchapuram-Visakhapatnam train (06831 MEMU passenger special) will leave Ichchapuram at 4 p.m. on October 3 and will reach Visakhapatnam on the same day at 8.15 p.m. In the return direction, the exam special Visakhapatnam- Ichchapuram(06832 MEMU passenger special) will leave Visakhapatnam at 7.30 p.m. on October 4 and will arrive Ichchapuram at 11.30 p.m. on the same day The trains will have stoppages at Sompeta, Palasa, Naupada, Kotabommali, Srikakulam Road, Chipurapalli, Vizianagaram and Kottavalasa. The exam special train Koraput-Visakhapatnam train (05803 passenger special) will leave Koraput on October 3 at 1 p.m. and will reach Visakhapatnam on the same day at 7.55 p.m. In return direction, the exam special train Visakhapatnam – Koraput train(05804 passenger special) will leave Visakhapatnam on October 4 at 9.40 p.m. and will reach Koraput at 4.40 a.m. on the next day. The trains will have stoppages at Damanjhodi, Lakshmipur Road, Tikiri, Singapur Road, Rayagada, Parvatipuram, Bobbili and Vizianagaram.  The exam special train Koraput- Cuttack (05801 passenger special) will leave Koraput at 5 a.m. on October 3 and will reach Cuttack at 9 p.m. on the same day. In the return direction, the Cuttack-Koraput (05802 passenger special) will leave Cuttack at 8.15 p.m on October 4 and will reach Koraput at 12 noon on the next day. These trains will have 12 Second Class coaches and two Second Class-cum-brake vans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-for-civil-services-exams/article32707013.ece
27 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Steps afoot to revamp tourism sector’||COVID-19 has severely affected the tourism industry in the State, and since the cases are declining gradually, steps are being taken to revamp the industry, Minister for Tourism M. Srinivasa Rao has said. Addressing the media here on the eve of the World Tourism Day (September 27), Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that 12 star hotels would come up at various places in the PPP mode. “The department is preparing proposals to develop various projects in the PPP mode,” he stated. “The department has organised many tourism festivals. To attract foreign tourists, the department is mulling more such festivals in the future,” he said. The Minister also said that nine boating control rooms had been set up in the district to monitor boating activities in the beaches and rivers. With the presence of beaches, longest coastal stretch, forests, and hills, the State would attract investments in adventure, temple and eco-tourism projects, he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-afoot-to-revamp-tourism-sector/article32706995.ece
27 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survey on industries to begin soon||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that a survey will be conducted on industries, as part of the Andhra Pradesh Samargra Parisrama Survey (APSPS) 2020, in the district. The survey which would kick-start in the coming few days has been planned to be completed by October 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survey-on-industries-to-begin-soon/article32707017.ece
27 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||VFS to hold meet in memory of SPB tomorrow||The Vizag Film Society (VFS), affiliated to the Federation of Film Societies of India (FFSI), will organise a special meeting to pay tributes to legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away in Chennai on Friday. It will be held at 10.30 a.m. on Monday at AU HRD Centre Library premises by following the COVID-19 precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vfs-to-hold-meet-in-memory-of-spb-tomorrow/article32707021.ece
27 September 2020||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exams sought for management quota students of DIET colleges||Students Federation of India Vizianagaram district president Ch. Venkatesh and general secretary D. Ramu on Saturday urged the government to conduct examinations for management quota students of DIET. In a press release, Mr. Venkatesh and Mr. Ramu said that the students who joined various DIET colleges under management quota were suffering due to the new policy of the government. They said that the then TDP government had allowed the colleges to offer a few seats under management quota but the new orders issued by the YSRCP government prevented them from writing exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exams-sought-for-management-quota-students-of-diet-colleges/article32707003.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||With renewed hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-renewed-hope/article32706534.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bidding adieu||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bidding-adieu/article32707024.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mourning a legend||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mourning-a-legend/article32706997.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lurking danger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lurking-danger/article32707010.ece
27 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoist ‘plot’ foiled||A "plot" by a group of Maoist village committee members to plant landmines targeting police combing parties was foiled by the Aswapuram police with the arrest of a village committee member of the banned outfit and recovery of explosive materials on Saturday, police said. A Maoist village committee member, identified as Madivi Suraiah, 48, a labourer of Gundlamadugu village in Aswapuram mandal, was arrested during a combing operation while moving with explosive materials at Gondigudem village on Saturday morning, according to a police press release. A tiffin box, 10 gelatin sticks, two detonators, 125 metres of fuse wire and two batteries were seized from his possession. He was trying to plant the landmines to kill police at the behest of the Maoist leaders of the Manuguru Area Committee. His arrest brought to light the constitution of village committees by the outlawed outfit in some villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoist-plot-foiled/article32706875.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS mulls preference to ‘local’ IT MSMEs||The Telangana government has decided to accord preference to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the IT and ITeS sector registered in the State and got impacted by COVID-19 in the projects of its departments. A move aimed at helping such entities emerge from the crisis, which hit their revenues and in some cases triggered layoffs, it is likely to be rolled out soon. Towards facilitating the process, the State government has constituted an Advisory Committee with representation from the IT Department, TSTS, Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) and IT industry body Nasscom. While the GO on the committee came on Saturday, work in the direction of helping the home-grown companies had been under way for sometime, IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said. “There is a need for government of Telangana to provide appropriate and timely support to these MSMEs in ways like channelising government IT projects to the competent MSMEs in the State,” the GO said. The State government is also expected to come up with other possible ways of support for the MSMEs to get them ready for the new normal, it said. ‘Clear thinking’ According to Mr. Ranjan, the thinking in the government in this regard is clear. The committee will help with the implementation guidelines. There are an estimated 800 such IT companies in the State but only those impacted by the COVID-19 will be considered. The committee will come up with/modify domestic preference guidelines to ensure that all IT projects awarded by the State government go to companies registered in Telangana. It will also suggest measures for IT MSMEs to take up projects as a consortium; get them a share of works in projects awarded through open tender to large companies; moderate pre-qualification norms; and evolve a mechanism to create visibility of all IT projects/spend by government in the form of a dashboard. The first set of works to be awarded as part of the approach could be those pertaining to the ease of doing business (EoDB) compliance process such as new portals, new dashboard required to be implemented by various departments. On whether any time frame has been fixed to extend the preference, the senior official said it would be an ongoing process till COVID impact recovery was 100%. HYSEA president Bharani Kumar Aroll said though the projects may not be big they still were important for the companies that were moving through the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-mulls-preference-to-local-it-msmes/article32706870.ece
27 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Last rites conducted of youth killed by in-laws||The last rites of Chinta Yoga Hemanth Kumar (28), who was kidnapped and killed by his wife’s relatives on Thursday, were performed at a cremation ground in Chandanagar on Saturday. Though the autopsy was performed at Osmania General Hospital morgue on Friday, his body was preserved for the arrival of his younger brother Chinta Sumanth Kumar, who studies in London. Hemanth was in a relationship with D. Avanthi Reddy for almost four years, and got married on June 11, against her parents’ wish. As a result, they bore a grudge on Hemanth and hatched a conspiracy to kill him with the help of hired assassins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-rites-conducted-of-youth-killed-by-in-laws/article32706857.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dharani uploading may stir up a hornet’s nest in city||Attempts by the State government to streamline property and ownership details by uploading them on to the Dharani portal could give rise to chaos within GHMC purview, if all the issues linked with ownership are not factored in. Officials say data of properties in the city is being obtained from the property tax records of the GHMC, which will be entered into the Dharani portal by the Revenue authorities. As of now, it is not clear if mutation in property tax records will be carried out simultaneously by comparing it with the data obtained from the records of the Registration department. If it is not done, officials will have to deal with a sea of disputes arising out of properties for which ownership is yet to be mutated in the GHMC records. Lack of relevant papers Officials say there are thousands of properties for which mutations are pending in property tax records for the want of relevant documents. “Registration was being done in the name of whoever sought it, without going into the validity of the ownership. Due to this, and several other reasons, there is mismatch between the seller’s name in the registration documents, and the owner’s name in the GHMC property tax records. We are asking the buyers to bring the link documents pertaining to previous ownership for carrying out mutation in GHMC records,” informed an official. There are also cases wherein the ownership has not been mutated for property tax for a long time spanning across multiple transactions. Besides, several property owners have not even bothered to approach GHMC for change of ownership, and assessment for property tax purposes. With government claiming that once entered in Dharani portal, the ownership will be non-negotiable, there could be a scramble among current owners to the corporation office. Clueless GHMC GHMC officials are as yet clueless about the process, as no guidelines have been issued to them so far. Flagging the same issue, CPI(M) City secretary M.Srinivas demanded that the government should give sufficient time for all the property owners to register their ownership, rather than aiming to finish the project within 15 days. The party is also demanding a household survey to resolve such issues, and the draft record of the Dharani website to be placed before the public for verification of ownership, before finalisation. Mobile courts and tribunals should be established to resolve any disputes arising out of mismatch in ownership, Mr.Srinivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dharani-uploading-may-stir-up-a-hornets-nest-in-city/article32706862.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam: Telugu cinema’s golden voice||The news of the passing away of legendary playback singer, music director, voice-over artist and actor S.P. Balasubrahmanyam is akin to a personal loss for many of us, music lovers. There’s an SPB song for every mood, in every popular Indian language, and one holds on to those music memories irrespective of whether one grew up in the 1970s, 80s, 90s or 2000s. One assumed, almost impossibly, that SPB would be amongst us forever, like the popular Telugu singing competition Padutha Theeyaga he began presenting in 1996 on ETV. The music talent hunt show has continued to stay strong, clocking in more than 1,000 episodes to date. Born in Nellore on June 4, 1946, Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam debuted as a playback singer with the Telugu film Sri Sri Sri Maryada Ramanna (1966), with music composed by his mentor S.P. Kodandapani. The initial years saw both S.P. Kodandapani and K.V. Mahadevan take the young singer under their wings. SPB established himself as the voice for the soft-romantic numbers that includes all the new heroes. His rendition of ‘Ye Divilo Virisina Parijathamo’ from Kanne Vayasu (1973) in his boyish husky voice brought him instant popularity. SPB’s ‘Krushi Vunte Manushulu Rushulautaru’ from Adavi Ramudu (1977) and ‘Vandanam Abhivandanam’ from Premabhishekam ( 1981) for NTR and ANR respectively remain a few of the best he had sung for the thespians. His was a voice that carried the melody even as it took on the persona of the actor he was singing for. His incredible voice range and quality never dimmed over the decades. National recognition SPB gradually grew in prominence in Telugu, Tamil and Kannada film music, and the moment of reckoning came with director K Viswanath’s Sankarabharanam (1980) a project he was initially reluctant to take up as he was not trained in Carnatic classical music. Once in, he brought in his nuances, submitting himself to the demands of the classical tunes composed by K.V. Mahadevan. Sankarabharanam fetched SPB his first National Film Award for Best Male Playback Singer. Many national-level recognitions followed in his illustrious career. The 1980s are reminiscent of unforgettable music in K Viswanath films, notably Sagara Sangamam and Swathi Muthyam . SPB and Ilaiyaraaja would go on to cast a collective spell over listeners. ‘Thakita Thadimi’ from Sagara Sangamam , ‘Manasu Palike’ and ‘Suvvi Suvvi’ from Swathi Muthyam will remain among the all-time favourites in Telugu film music. Who can forget ‘Taralirada’ and ‘Nammaku Nammaku’ from K Balachander’s Rudraveena ? Incidentally, Sagara Sangamam and Rudraveena fetched SPB National Awards. In the meantime, the SPB-K Balachander-Ilaiyaraaja and SPB-Ilaiyaraaja-Mani Ratnam combinations that worked magic in Tamil cinema also resonated in Telugu as well.  Prema, Pavithra Bandham, Geethanjali, Annamayya, Tholi Prema … the prolific nature of SPB’s singing would make it impossible to do justice in these pages by recalling all his popular songs. There wasn’t a genre that was untouched by SPB. Remember the foot-tapping ‘Bangaru Kodipetta’ from Gharana Mogudu ? SPB seamlessly cut across generations of composers, and embraced the new wave of music ushered in by A.R. Rahman in the 1990s, beginning with Roja . Director Vasanth presented him as as the unconventional hero in the Tamil film Keladi Kanmani ( O Papa Lali in Telugu), a story that revolved around SPB and Radhika as a mature couple finding love.SPB’s work as a dubbing artist is equally memorable. He lent his voice in Telugu films for actors Kamal Haasan, Rajinikanth, Salman Khan, Girish Karnad, among many others. He was also the Telugu voice for Ben Kingsley in Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi.  SPB’s music and affable humility touched hearts and we shall hold on to those memories, immersing ourselves in the impeccable music he leaves behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sp-balasubrahmanyam-telugu-cinemas-golden-voice/article32706867.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Laxman recalls very, very special association with SPB||It was a bonding which went beyond the boundaries of their passion, music being the common thread. India’s cricketing great V.V.S. Laxman and legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away in Chennai on Friday at the age of 74, shared a long, association of mutual respect. “We all feel empty suddenly with his demise. Despite being a legend in his own way, he was such a humble personality,” Laxman told The Hindu over phone from Dubai, where he is mentoring Sunrisers Hyderabad in the ongoing IPL. “I grew up listening to his evergreen songs and since we first met, our friendship only grew. He was a huge fan of cricket and I am lucky he loved my batting,” Laxman said, adding he had very recently spoken to the music legend. “He was enquiring about Sunrisers and some Indians cricketers. I was also in touch with his brother-in-law, and was glad that SPB’s health was improving. But, unfortunately, he left us.”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/laxman-recalls-very-very-special-association-with-spb/article32706863.ece
27 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. core committee holds discussion||Congress leaders and cadre gave a grand welcome to new AICC incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore, who stressed discipline and unity in the party if they were to succeed as a party. Mr. Manickam arrived at Gandhi Bhavan from the airport in a rally of cars and held a meeting with core committee members of the Telangana Congress. TPCC president, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, working presidents A. Revanth Reddy, Ponnnam Prabhakar and MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, AICC secretaries Bose Raju and Sreenivasan were among who were present. Mr. Tagore said being among the public taking up their issues was of paramount importance and it was not necessary to be on farmers’ side with agitational programmes as planned by the AICC. He said it was time to expose how Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had supported all the Bills of the NDA government but was trying to stay away on the farmers’ bills. Mr. Tagore assured that the core committee meetings would be held twice a month and he was available to all party leaders for suggestions and discussions. Party leaders made suggestions on the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-core-committee-holds-discussion/article32706872.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t take agents’ help to upload details: KTR||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has appealed to property owners in the city not to approach agents seeking uploading of the details of their assets on to the Dharani portal. The entire exercise of uploading will be done free of cost and people do not have to pay a single rupee for it, he said, addressing a video conference on Saturday along with his cabinet colleague Talasani Srinivas Yadav, to discuss the revenue issues in GHMC limits. Interacting with elected public representatives, legislators, colony welfare association representatives, and officials through the video conference, Mr.Rama Rao stated that the Telangana government is focusing on addressing issues related to land and asset ownership rights in urban areas without imposing any financial burden on people. Majority of the land and ownership related issues in the rural areas have been resolved, he said, adding that the government will issue different coloured passbooks for agricultural and non-agricultural lands once the exercise is completed. The idea is to facilitate and address all ownership rights and government does not have any intention to collect any kind of fee from people. The Minister has asked all the elected representatives to actively participate in the exercise to enter all the asset and property details into the Dharani portal during the coming 15 days. Henceforth, all the registrations in the State will take place only through Dharani website, he said. 24.5 lakh properties There are an estimated number of 24.5 lakh properties in the city, a few of them entangled in ownership and other disputes. After discussing related issues in the video conference, the Minister assured that if need be, the Cabinet will meet and discuss before the government takes more decisions. Stating that there shall not be any land and asset transaction issues in future, he said efforts are on to work out a permanent solution. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Principal Secretary, MA & UD Arvind Kumar, and District collectors of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, and Medchal-Malkajgiri participated in the video conference, a press statement informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-take-agents-help-to-upload-details-ktr/article32706861.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT director bags CSIR tech award||CSIR-IICT team led by Director S. Chandrasekhar was awarded the prestigious CSIR Technology Award 2020 for outstanding contributions to affordable healthcare by developing a novel and cost-effective process for the process technology of Favipiravir to combat COVID-19. Other members of the awardwinning team include Ch. Raji Reddy, P. Nagender and Prathama S. Mainkar. The awards were announced during the 79th CSIR Foundation Day celebrations held at Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), New Delhi, in the presence of Union Minister Harsh Vardhan. Cipla partnered with the institute to launch the drug, Ciplenza, in the market in August first week. Dr Chandrasekhar expressed gratitude to Cipla chairman Y.K. Hamied, for joining hands in repurposing Favipiravir to combat the virus. The partnership between IICT and Cipla ensured the drug was available at an affordable price in the Indian market as a result of indigenous raw materials being used in the midst of COVID-related restrictions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-director-bags-csir-tech-award/article32706850.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10 lakh tonnes of urea for rabi||With the sowing of food and commercial crops and vegetables for the kharif almost complete, the State government has started preparations for rabi by requesting the Centre to allot 11 lakh tonnes of urea. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said on Saturday that the Centre had agreed to increase urea allotment to 10 lakh tonnes and to supply 1.2 lakh tonnes of DAP, 1.1 lakh tonnes of potash, 0.5 lakh tonnes of super phosphate and 5.5 lakh tonnes of complex fertilizers – 18.3 lakh tonnes put together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-lakh-tonnes-of-urea-for-rabi/article32706868.ece
27 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TRS has no right to seek votes for MLC polls’||AICC Secretary Challa Vamshichand Reddy said on Saturday that the TRS government that refused to fill up vacancies has no right to seek votes in the graduates’ MLC elections. In a statement here, he said it was ridiculous that the party leaders were trying hard to enrol the membership for the elections after ignoring the same graduates for the last six years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-has-no-right-to-seek-votes-for-mlc-polls/article32706876.ece
27 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water pipeline washed away||The Mission Bhagiratha pipeline that supplies water to most of the Narayanpet district and a couple of mandals of Mahabubnagar district was washed away in the Bandravalli vagu near Lalkota village in the heavy flow of water released from Koilsagar project on Saturday. Superintending Engineer of Mission Bhagirtha P. Venkat Reddy said the pipeline from the Manyamkonda water treatment plant was washed away in the heavy flow of Bandravalli vagu. As a result, drinking water supply to all villages in C.C. Kunta and Devarakadra mandals in Mahabubnagar district and Marikal, Dhanwada, Narayanpet, Damargidda, Utukoor, Narva and Makthal mandals and Narayanpet and Makthal towns of Narayanpet district was stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-pipeline-washed-away/article32706869.ece
27 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH faculty selected for Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar (SSB) Prize for Science and Technology||Surajit Dhara, University of Hyderabad faculty member in the School of Physics, has been selected for the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar prize for Science and Technology 2020. The award is named after the founder-director of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) India, and is given each year for outstanding contributions to science and technology. Mr. Dhara receives this award on the basis of contributions made through work done primarily in India during the last five years in the area of physical sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-faculty-selected-for-shanti-swarup-bhatnagar-ssb-prize-for-science-and-technology/article32706853.ece
27 September 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||12-hour traffic jam on NH 44||Heavy traffic jam was witnessed on National Highway 44 in Medak from Friday night to Saturday afternoon for more than 12 hours. Police had a tough time as vehicle drivers were forced to wait for hours together on Nizamabad- Hyderabad highway. There was water-logging at Ramayampalli railway underbridge at Manoharabad and vehicles were stranded for about four km. After Saturday afternoon, the traffic got cleared as the rain receded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/12-hour-traffic-jam-on-nh-44/article32706874.ece
27 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Overflow from reservoir bund adding to ryots’ woes||Raju and several others of Tukkapur village in Toguta mandal have been facing a serious problem for the last few days. Their septic tanks have filled up with improved ground water levels. Reason? Their village is in the vicinity of Mallannasagar reservoir. And the bund is a few meters away from their houses. The village has two tanks, Somareddy Cheruvu and Dal Cheruvu, from where water used to flow to the Toguta Cheruvu. Also, rain water from the nearby forest reaches Somareddy Cheruvu, then to Dal Cheruvu and from there to Toguta Cheruvu. During the construction of the Mallannasagar bund, the Dal Cheruvu almost got closed. As a result, water that fall in the catchment area get stored in one side of the bund and reach an overflowing level. Fearing the weakening of the bund, officials had spread tarpaulin sheets on the bund to let the water flow. As a result, some of the fields in the outskirts of the village were already submerged. “As much as 1,300 acres out of a total 1,600 acres in the village is already acquired by the government. Only 300 acres remain with farmers. We have lost works at fields. And another pump house is coming up near the village. Villagers are worried and fear the worst,” sarpanch Ch. Chandram told The Hindu . “Some of our fields are submerged in rain water also,” Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/overflow-from-reservoir-bund-adding-to-ryots-woes/article32706878.ece
27 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Akalis desperate to cling to power’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the refusal of the Akali leaders to quit the NDA coalition showed the extent of their desperation to cling to power. “The fact that the Shiromani Akali Dal is holding on to the last vestiges of power at the cost of Punjab and its farmers, despite being publicly humiliated by the alliance partner, the BJP, had exposed the Akali dual standards and total lack of concern for the farming community,” he said. Capt. Amarinder was referring to the BJP’s statement that it had left the task of convincing the farmers on the Bills to the Akalis. “Why else are the Akalis still a part of the anti-farmer and anti-people BJP-led Government at the Centre,” he asked. He added the SAD was trying hard to stay politically afloat. He also accused SAD president Sukhbir Badal of attempting to take credit for successful farmers’ agitation and ‘Bharat-Punjab Bandh’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/akalis-desperate-to-cling-to-power/article32706719.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal assures 24x7 water supply||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the Delhi government was making all efforts to ensure 24x7 water supply to every household in the Capital and end woes revolving around installing water pumps and overhead water tanks to store potable water. The government has decided to hire a consultant who will suggest measures to achieve this goal. The consultant will suggest measures to improve water supply management and no wastage of water in Delhi as the government hopes to bring the water supply in the city at par with standards across the world, he said. Enhance availability Mr. Kejriwal said that to enhance water availability in the Capital, the government was in talks with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and other States where there was sufficient availability of water. “We promised you that just like the AAP government has ensured 24x7 electricity in the last five years, we will also ensure 24x7 clean water in every household in Delhi in the next five years. I am glad to share that we have started this process. In a meeting that was held day before yesterday, we have decided to appoint a consultant in Delhi who will suggest measures to ensure the provision of 24x7 water to every household. The process got a bit delayed due to COVID-19 pandemic, otherwise, the process would have been completed in March or April,” he said at a digital briefing.  “We have to understand why there is a shortage of water in Delhi. If you visit any capital of other nations across the world, London, Tokyo, Paris, you will receive 24x7 supply of clean tap water. In Delhi, the water pressure is low and people have to instal pumps, and if one person installs a pump, it causes problems for their neighbours. Every household has to instal water tanks to store water. We have to bring all of this to an end,” he said. Every day, he said, around 930 million gallons of water is processed in Delhi which means that for every citizen of Delhi, around 176 litres of water are processed. This includes water that is used for all purposes, such as industrial, swimming pools, water for farm fields. In talks with other States On one hand, he said, the government had to enhance the availability of water in Delhi. For this, the Delhi government was in talks with other State governments. On the other hand, the currently available water, which is 930 MGD and 176 litres of water per person was subject to pilfering and leakage among other issues. No accountability “We have to rectify the management of this water and bring it under accountability. For instance, if a water treatment plant treats 100 MGD of water, there should be an accountability of every single drop of this 100 MGD water and not even a single drop should be wasted. As of now, a considerable amount of water gets wasted in Delhi, water management is not correct, and there is no accountability of the system,” he said. “The consultant, we are hiring for water management, will tell us how to rectify the water management system in Delhi and ensure accountability and no wastage of every drop of water in the national capital. Second, we have to bring the latest state-of-the-art technology. There can be no privatisation of water at any cost,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-assures-24x7-water-supply/article32706708.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||CM writes to Javadekar over IARI technique to tackle stubble burning||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar recommending the scaling up of the bio-decomposer technique developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) to deal with the issue of stubble burning in North Indian States. Stating that while he was aware that it may seem late, the Delhi government had recently come in contact with scientists from the IRAI, Pusa, who had presented an innovative decomposer technique to deal with the issue of crop stubble burning after several years of research. “They have created a chemical which when sprayed on fields with crop stubble, ensures speedy bio-decomposition of the stubble and its conversion into fertiliser. Farmers will not need to burn stubble anymore,” he stated. “The scientists believe that burning stubble also damages nutrients in the soil which negatively impacts the fertility of the soil but if this chemical is used, then not only will it lead to lesser use of fertiliser, but also increase its quality and productivity,” he also said. This, Mr. Kejriwal wrote, could be a good solution to the issue of air pollution caused due to stubble burning and that both the Central government and State governments could consider the technique for use.  ‘Cost-effective’ “With the technique developed by the IARI, the expense which farmers would need to bear would be negligible,” the Chief Minister wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-writes-to-javadekar-over-iari-technique-to-tackle-stubble-burning/article32706714.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||79 urban villages to be developed under DDA||The Central government on Friday notified that 79 urban villages in the city will be placed under the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) for maintenance and development purposes. A notification issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs read, “The Central government hereby places, with immediate effect, the areas of the said villages... at the disposal of the Delhi Development Authority for the purpose of development and maintenance of the said areas and for taking such steps as may be required to serve the purpose and development of the areas which shall be done as per the extant Master Plan for Delhi.” With 31 villages under the North Corporation, the areas include Mubarakpur, Pooth Kalan, Jaunti in north-west Delhi, Narela, Pansali, Lampur in north Delhi and Tikri Kalan in west Delhi among other areas. Twenty-nine villages are listed under the South Corporation which include areas like Deoli, Chattarpur, Sultanpur, Asola in south Delhi, Jaitpur, Tajpur, Meethapur in south-east district, Kapashera in south-west district among others. Under the East Corporation, 19 villages are listed and areas included are Mustafabad, Gokulpur, Karawal Nagar, Khajuri Khas in north-east Delhi, Babarpur and Mandoli in Shahdara and Dallupura, Gharoli and Kondali in east Delhi. In a notice dated November 2019, the Delhi government had declared the 79 villages as urban areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/79-urban-villages-to-be-developed-under-dda/article32706712.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three held for abduction, murder over Rs. 4,000||A 35-year-old man who was reported missing was found murdered in a canal in Sonipat, the police said on Saturday, adding that he was killed over non-payment of Rs. 4,000. Three persons have been arrested, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Monika Bhardwaj said that the victim has been identified as Irshad, a resident of Outer Delhi’s Bawana who was reported missing on September 2. The accused have been identified as Bhanu alias Vakil Kumar (31) and his accomplices Pintu Kumar (27) and Anil (26). The police said the matter came to light on September 11 after a complaint was received from the victim’s wife at Narela industrial area police station stating that her husband had been missing since September 2 and he was last seen with Bhanu, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana. The case, parallel to the district probe, was also being investigated by a team of anti-human trafficking of Crime Branch. Meat supplier “After technical surveillance and local enquiry, our team apprehended Bhanu and his two accomplices on September 25 after a tip-off,” Ms. Bhardwaj said. During interrogation, Bhanu, who is a supplier of raw meat, allegedly confessed that he had been constantly reminding Irshad to pay the outstanding amount on account of supply of raw meat that Irshad had bought from him for his meat shop, but Irshad did not pay. To teach Irshad a lesson, Bhanu, on September 2 morning, took Irshad to his poultry farm in Narela where the two accomplices were also present. “Bhanu started beating Irshad with sticks. The three accused left him and went away,” the DCP said, adding that Irshad succumbed to his injuries and died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-held-for-abduction-murder-over-rs-4000/article32706709.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Surge in cases seems to have plateaued: Minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the surge in COVID-19 cases recorded in September “seems to have plateaued” and should show a “rapid fall”. He further said that the fourth sero-prevalence survey, slated to be conducted from October 1, is likely to be delayed as the report of the September survey is to be put before the Delhi High Court by this month-end.  The Hindu had reported on Saturday that the government is planning to defer the fourth serological survey and that the government had not yet decided on the sample size for it. COVID-19 cases have shown a surge since the beginning of this month with 4,473 infections reported on September 16, the highest single-day spike till date. The daily cases in Delhi had breached the 4000-mark for the first time on September 9.  Meanwhile, the condition of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who is suffering from COVID-19 and dengue, has improved, and he was shifted from the ICU to a normal ward on Saturday, officials said. “His vitals have improved following plasma therapy,” said an official.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/surge-in-cases-seems-to-have-plateaued-minister/article32706703.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||St. Stephen’s College to begin interviews from tomorrow||Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s College will begin conducting interviews for various undergraduate programmes from Monday. According to a notice issued by the college, the interview process will continue till October 27. “The list of selected candidates for each course will be announced after the University of Delhi announces its first cut-off. Thereafter, the list of applicants selected for admissions will be announced after the completion of interviews for each discipline,” the notice read. Further it said, “Those whose names appear on the list of applicants selected for admissions will be given three days after the announcement of the list to complete necessary formalities and pay the fees. Those who fail to complete their admission formalities and pay their fees within three days of the announcement of the list of selected applicants will forfeit their claim to admission.” DU is set to announce the first cut-off list on October 12. At 99.25%, BA (Hons) economics saw the highest cut-off in the first list released by the college last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/st-stephens-college-to-begin-interviews-from-tomorrow/article32706711.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Money exchanger robbed||A 40-year-old man was robbed by bike-borne men after being attacked in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera area on Thursday night. The police said that a case has been registered and probe is under way. The police said the victim, identified as Suraj, a resident of Gurugram, has been running a money exchange shop in Kapashera for the last 10 years. The victim allegedly told the police that on Thursday night, after shutting his shop, he was on his way home when two bike-borne men stopped his bike. Suddenly, two more men came on a bike and robbed him. When Mr. Suraj resisted, he was attacked with a sharp object. The accused then escaped with his bag, containing cash and other belongings. Locals rushed the victim to a hospital where he was discharged after treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/money-exchanger-robbed/article32706710.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cyclist hit by van, dies on the spot||A security guard who was riding a bicycle was killed allegedly after a delivery van hit him in south-east Delhi’s Lala Lajpat Rai Marg, the police said on Saturday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said the victim has been identified as Ajay Kumar Singh who was in his early 40’s and resided in South Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. He worked as a security guard at a showroom in Connaught Place. The incident took place around 9 p.m. on Friday near Shamshan Ghat at Lala Lajpat Rai Marg. Singh was on the way to his workplace when the van rammed his cycle, leaving him dead on the spot. Mr. Meena said that the accused driver was apprehended from the spot and a case was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 279 and 304A . The driver has been identified as Satender Singh. Singh is survived by his wife and three children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cyclist-hit-by-van-dies-on-the-spot/article32706704.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. failed to keep pipeline promise: BJP||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s promise of laying pipelines in all residential colonies in the city remains unfulfilled, the Delhi BJP said here on Saturday. “The second term of his government has also started but the promise has not been fulfilled yet by the Kejriwal government,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged. “The Kejriwal government could not get any new resource for water supply in five years. Now everything will be left to private companies. The supply of water for 24 hours is another hollow claim made by the Delhi government,” he alleged. With the Delhi Jal Board not having been able to address issues related to water leakage, people are forced to drink dirty water, he also claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-failed-to-keep-pipeline-promise-bjp/article32706713.ece
27 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Execution the key to ambitious plan for ‘biggest film city’ in U.P.||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s decision to create the country’s “biggest and most beautiful film city” in Gautam Buddh Nagar has evoked mixed response from the stakeholders. While some remember the unfulfilled promises of the existing Film City in Noida, others say if handled well, it could usher in the democratisation of filmmaking space in the country. Old timers say it is a delayed response as the government’s Film Policy of 2018 promoted by providing land and help build the infrastructure. They recall how the attempts of the Samajwadi Party government to establish film cities along the Lucknow-Agra Expressway failed in 2015. They also remind how the existing Film City in Sector 16A of Noida could not fulfil the purpose it was created for in 1988 by the then CM Vir Bahadur Singh. Spread over 100 acres, among the original allottees were big names like Yash Chopra, T.L.V. Prasad, A. Poorna Chandra Rao, F.C. Mehra, Vinod Pande and Tutu Sharma. “They got the land at throwaway prices but sold it due to lack of film culture and absence of supporting infrastructure,” recalled Ravi Sarin, the senior-most line producers in North India. “Today the same problem is in Greater Noida,” he said. Veteran publicist and filmmaker Harish Sharma remembered how the area would become menacing after dark. He cites Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad “which is like a one-stop-shop for filmmaking” as an example to emulate. Welcoming the move, Delhi-based filmmaker Nila Madhab Panda said when he shifted from Odisha to Delhi in 1998, he had high hopes from Noida’s film city. “When I reached, I realised it had become a hub of news channels.” Sandeep Marwah, one of the very few original allottees, describes it as a second phase of the existing film city. “In the early 90s, the region had no culture of filmmaking and Noida had a dubious distinction in terms of crime... Films are shot on multiple locations and filmmakers did use the facilities here... they should realise, infrastructure takes time to take shape.” The brother-in-law of producer Boney Kapoor reminded that the CM’s dream would take at least six-seven years to materialise. “With more and more content required to feed different platforms, it is the need of the hour.” Industry veterans remind how the Bhojpuri film industry had been making 60-70 films a year without any film city in eastern U.P. or Bihar. While Mr. Sarin agreed that more filmmakers were moving to real locations, Mr. Marwah said in the post-pandemic world, studios would become all the more relevant. Aligarh-based filmmaker Suhaib Sherwani said Mumbai was difficult to negotiate, particularly since corporates had taken over the film industry. “The amount of money involved is frightening and discouraging. This is a welcome announcement but a lot will depend upon how it is executed.” Will things change for the better? The September 22 meeting was attended by Anupam Kher, Vivek Agnihotri, Satish Kaushik and Udit Narayan. In a video, Mr. Narayan sand the popular “Mitwa” song of Lagaan to the CM. “There was little left for imagination as to how this project would proceed,” said an industry veteran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/execution-the-key-to-ambitious-plan-for-biggest-film-city-in-up/article32706728.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Have steps been taken to help differently-abled staff commute?’||The Bombay High Court on Saturday asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) if it has made any arrangements for its differently-abled staff to travel to work during the lockdown. A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed by the National Association for the Blind over the BMC not paying its 268 visually-impaired employees full salaries during the lockdown. As per the plea filed through advocate Uday Warunjikar, the BMC initially exempted its differently-abled staff members from reporting to work during the lockdown. On May 21, the BMC issued a circular informing such employees that they were entitled to a special leave without loss of pay. However, on May 26, it issued another circular saying that the leave was not special, but a “permissible leave,” which involved a loss of pay for the days that the employees failed to show up for work. As per the May 26 circular, persons with disabilities will not be exempted from reporting to work. They can, however, seek permissible leave. As per the plea, such permissible leave needs to be sanctioned by senior authorities, and for the days that such leave is not sanctioned, an employee has to undergo a loss of pay. Mr. Warunjikar argued that the permissible leave rule was depriving the physically disabled, particularly the visually impaired, of their salaries as they were unable to commute to work. He also said there existed a Central government resolution that any differently-abled government staffer must not be deprived of his or her pay on account of failure to report to work during the lockdown. While the disabled employees were paid in full between March 23 and May 31 this year, in the subsequent months, the BMC began to make deductions for the days they missed work, the petitioner said. The BMC, however, claimed before the HC that it took “very good care” of its disabled staff. It said around 1,150 differently-abled staff, including the 268 visually-impaired workers,and had started bus services for them. They were also permitted to use local train services in the city, the BMC said. However, the BMC was not bound by the Central government’s circular, it said. Irked over the reply, the high court asked the civic body that if the Central government’s resolutions did not bind the BMC then why did the latter implement some circulars, and not others. ‘Unfortunate stand’ “You can’t say some resolutions of the Central government apply to you while others do not,” the Bench said. The court then asked the BMC to file an affidavit on the travel arrangements it had made for its differently-abled employees.“We are so fortunate that we can see. That we have all limbs and we can move around as we wish to...It is so unfortunate that the corporation has taken this stand,” the Bench said. The court concluded all arguments and reserved its verdict on the plea. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/have-steps-been-taken-to-help-differently-abled-staff-commute/article32706788.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC: prostitution not a criminal offence||Observing that prostitution was not a criminal offence under the law, and that an adult woman had the right to choose her vocation, the Bombay High Court has ordered immediate release of three women sex workers detained at a State corrective institution in Mumbai. In an order passed on Thursday, a Bench of Justice Prithviraj Chavan said prostitution had not been considered a criminal offence under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. Justice Chavan was hearing a plea filed by the three women challenging an order passed by the Metropolitan Magistrate, Mazgaon, that had upheld their detention at a local correctional facility against their will. As per the order, the women, all in their 20s , were picked up by the police in September last year following a raid at a guest house. The middleman was arrested and booked under the Act. The three women were held as “victims” and sent to the correctional facility. Subsequently, the mothers and other legal guardians of the three women approached the magistrate’s court seeking their custody. The magistrate however, declined to give their custody to their guardians. ‘Free to choose vocation’ Justice Chavan, however, set aside the magistrate’s order. He said that the women were “adults,” and “entitled to their fundamental right to move freely and choose their own vocation.” The High Court held that since the women were not being prosecuted under the law, there was no question of continuing their detention at the correctional home. “Even otherwise, the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 does not empower the Magistrate to hold the custody of the victims beyond the period of three weeks without there being any final order to that effect after following due process of law,” the HC said. It said there was nothing on record to show that the petitioners were seducing any person for the purpose of prostitution or that they were running a brothel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-prostitution-not-a-criminal-offence/article32706725.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC refuses to interfere in MU’s decision to conduct exams||The Bombay High Court on Saturday refused to intervene in the Mumbai University’s decision to conduct final year examination for its undergraduate courses from October 1. A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni directed two university students who had petitioned the court, seeking a stay on the examinations, to instead approach the vice-chancellor for any relief that they sought. Following the Supreme Court’s order that final year students can only be promoted based on examinations, the Mumbai University issued a circular announcing the schedule for the third-year final semester examinations. The exams will be conducted virtually between October 1 and October 17. The university’s counsel Rui Rodrigues told the Bench on Saturday that the examinations will be conducted online in a multiple-choice question format. The petitioners, however, argued through their counsel Sharon Patole that the university had announced the exam schedule in haste. Mr. Patole informed theBbench that the format was new, and students and teachers should have been given some training to get accustomed to it. The petitioners also said that the schedule was in breach of the university’s own circular from June this year, whereby it had said that colleges must announce exam schedules at least a month in advance. However, Mr. Rodrigues argued that the university had decided on holding online exams in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and that it had made all arrangements to conduct them smoothly. The Bench then said it could not pass any orders on staying the exams. “You can withdraw this petition and approach the vice-chancellor for relief,” the court said, suggesting that the students concentrate on preparing well for their exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-refuses-to-interfere-in-mus-decision-to-conduct-exams/article32706726.ece
27 September 2020||Mumbai,||Lecture series to mark centenary of discovery of Harappan civilization||To mark the centenary of the discovery of the Harappan civilization at Mohenjo-daro, the India Study Centre Trust in collaboration with the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, Maharashtra, will be organising a 10-day online lecture series from October 5. Over 10 speakers from different parts of the world who are working on different archaeological projects will be sharing their insights during the lecture series. Dr. Mugdha D. Karnik, managing trustee, India Study Centre Trust, said, “The discovery at Mohenjo-daro is one of the most important and characteristic findings in the world. Till then, for the world outside, India was a country without history. Egypt, according to the British, was the centre of study for old civilisations.” She said, “This discovery brought the world’s attention to Indian and an interest in studying its culture, society and past,” Dr. Karnik said the centenary of such a major event in history was not noticed largely because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Dr. Kurush Dalal, director, School of Archaeology, India Study Centre, is the son of archaeologist Dr. Katy Dalal, who worked on the site in Mohenjo-daro. “He brought to our notice that this is the centenary of this discovery,” Dr. Karnik said. The India Study Centre Trust has its core focus in the fields of archaeology, geology and biodiversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lecture-series-to-mark-centenary-of-discovery-of-harappan-civilization/article32706723.ece
27 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Phishing scam busted; 1 held||The Navi Mumbai Police’s cyber cell has busted a phishing gang that operated from Jharkhand. Roopanjali Barua (72) filed a complaint with the Kharghar police on June 6. She said she had trouble using the Dmart app and called a customer care number she found online. The number belonged to the gang and they transferred Rs. 1.08 lakh from her account after obtaining her account details and OTP number. “The gang’s bank account was traced to Kunjbona in Jharkhand, with transactions of Rs. 4.5 crore in nine months,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, Pravin Patil, said. A team headed by assistant police inspector Vishal Mane went to Jharkhand and nabbed Sakel Aajam Aayub Ansari (20). The team seized five point of sale (POS) machines, one fingerprint access device, three mobile phones, two registers, 35 debit cards, 15 swipe machines and Rs. 1.54 lakh in cash. The team said the gang leader, Irshad Ansari (21), is in the custody of the Jharkhand Police in a robbery case. He and three accomplices put up their number online and targeted people. “Sakel ran a shop in Kunjbona where he converted e-wallet money into cash and kept around 2% as commission. Irshad transferred money to Sakel’s e-wallet or bank account and then took the cash from him,” Mr. Mane said. The team is waiting to get the custody of Irshad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/phishing-scam-busted-1-held/article32706724.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The land of peaks, streams and disputes||Seven decades after it took control of the region, Pakistan is moving to grant full statehood to Gilgit-Baltistan, which appears as the northernmost part of the country in its official map. The scenic region, which was featured in Hollywood thrillers like Vertical Limit (2000), was part of the erstwhile princely state of Jammu and Kashmir and is claimed by India. During the first Indo-Pak war of October 1947, Pakistan occupied 78,114 sq km of the land of Jammu and Kashmir, including the ‘Northern Areas’. The Northern Areas is the other name of Gilgit-Baltistan that Pakistan has used for administrative reasons because it was a disputed territory. But that is likely to change as an assembly election on November 15 will pave the way for fuller political rights for the roughly 1.2 million residents of the region, which will become the fifth State of Pakistan after Sindh, Punjab, Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The political nature of Gilgit-Baltistan has been directionless from the beginning. Pakistan initially governed the region directly from the central authority after it was separated from ‘Azad Jammu and Kashmir’ on April 28, 1949. On March 2, 1963, Pakistan gave away 5,180 sq km of the region to China, despite local protests. Under Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, the name of the region was changed to the Federally Administered Northern Areas (FANA). Pakistan passed the Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self Governance Order in 2009, which granted “self-rule” to the ‘Northern Areas’. There were protests in the area at that time from people who demanded an executive form of government based on international resolutions. The local situation altered considerably with Pakistan signing an agreement with China for mega infrastructure and hydel power projects in September 2009. With the agreements arrived Chinese investments and heavy machinery, which found both support and opposition from the locals. On January 17, 2019, a seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court of Pakistan, led by Chief Justice Mian Saqib Nisar, took up the constitutional status of Gilgit-Baltistan. The purpose of the court’s intervention was to determine the extent of political rights that could be enjoyed by the people of the ‘Northern Areas’. Over the years, the region has acquired a government and a council, which gave it ade factostatus of a province of Pakistan, but the constitutional status of the region remained vague without explicit statehood. The Supreme Court allowed Islamabad to amend a 2018 administrative order to hold general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including empowering the Prime Minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects. Sense of alienation One of the main reasons for the rebellion in the region in 1947 was the sense of alienation that the population felt towards the Dogra rulers of Srinagar, who operated under the protection of the British government. Under the post-1947 special administrative arrangement, local councils worked to meet economic, social and educational development of the region. Irrigation channels, protective bunds, roads and pony tracks were built during the early years of Pakistan. According to Banat Gul Afridi, a bureaucrat who wrote an authoritative account of life in Baltistan, a post office was added between 1948 and 1958 when the bloodless coup of General Ayub Khan took place in Pakistan. Radio, telegraph and telephone stations were added in the next decade. One of the most mountainous regions in the world that is rich with mines of gold, emerald and strategically important minerals, and is known for its extraordinary scenic beauty, diversity and ancient communities and languages, Gilgit-Baltistan is largely an underdeveloped region. It’s home to K-2, the second tallest mountain in the world. Tourism remains restricted by many factors, including military hostility, though the region has some of the ancient Buddhist sculptures and rock edicts. It is also home to an old Shia community, which often finds itself subjected to persecution in Pakistan’s urban centres. At present, a Governor and an elected Chief Minister rule the region, which is divided into Gilgit, Skardu, Diamer, Astore, Ghanche, Ghizer and Hunza-Nagar. The region is known for high altitude dams because of both local and Islamabad-driven initiatives. Mountain streams and rivers are often harvested for local community needs. The tradition of building dams and bunds dates back to the reign of Balti King Ali Sher Khan Anchan of 1580-1624, who built the famous bund at Satpara Lake, which helps in watering Skardu. The water-rich region’s biggest hydroelectricity project is the Diamer-Bhasha dam, which was launched in July 2020. Indian protest Following Pakistan’s announcement of holding the legislative election in Gilgit-Baltistan, India reiterated its territorial sovereignty over the region with the Ministry of External Affairs stating that the Pakistani move to change the status of the region will “have no legal basis whatsoever”. India has consistently opposed Pakistan’s activities in Gilgit-Baltistan. It also opposed the announcement of the commencement of the Diamer-Bhasha dam in July. There have been local and international concerns as reports suggest priceless Buddhist heritage will be lost once the dam is built. India has objected to the use of Gilgit-Baltistan to build and operate the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which cuts through the region before heading to the Arabian Sea coastline of Balochistan’s Gwadar port. Beginning with the August 5, 2019 decision by India to withdraw the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, a number of developments have taken place on both sides of the Line of Control. Senior leaders like Defence Minister Rajnath Singh declared that the decision will pave the way for reclaiming Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (including Gilgit-Baltistan). India launched a new political map last November, which showed the Gilgit-Baltistan region as part of the new Union Territory of Ladakh. In response, Pakistan laid claim to Ladakh and the whole of Jammu and Kashmir in its map. An election and full statehood for Gilgit-Baltistan will likely infuriate India, which will perceive it as a step to deny reclaiming PoK ever in the future. Gilgit-Baltistan is important for Pakistan as it is the gateway for the CPEC. But for India, the region represents the continuity with the past of Jammu and Kashmir, which included Gilgit-Baltistan at the time of Partition of 1947. Significantly, the ongoing stand-off with China at the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh has a Gilgit-Baltistan connection as the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road of India is viewed as a tactical roadway to access the Karakoram Pass, which provides China crucial access to Gilgit-Baltistan and Pakistan. Full statehood for the region may give Pakistan a political and legal upper hand and strengthen China’s position in the region, but Gilgit-Baltistan will continue to remain one of the hotspots in the tense India-Pakistan relations.  In focus  Pakistan initially governed Gilgit-Baltistan directly from the central authority after it was separated from ‘Azad Jammu and Kashmir’ on April 28, 1949  On March 2, 1963, Pakistan gave away 5,180 sq km of the region to China, despite local protests  Under Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, the name of the region was changed to the Federally Administered Northern Areas. Now, the region is set to become Pakistan’s fifth state    One of the most mountainous regions in the world that is is known for its scenic beauty, diversity and ancient communities, G-B is largely an underdeveloped region||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-land-of-peaks-streams-and-disputes/article32706387.ece
27 September 2020||Washington,||‘Trump to nominate Judge Barrett to SC’||U.S. President Donald Trump is set to unveil his Supreme Court nominee on Saturday, barely five weeks out from the November 3 presidential election, with media in the U.S. reporting that he has chosen conservative judge Amy Coney Barrett for the job. If the 48-year-old law professor is indeed nominated and confirmed, her appointment would consolidate a conservative majority in the country’s top court. Citing sources close to the process, various media outlets, including The New York Times and CNN, said Mr. Trump would put forward the 48-year-old judge. “We are going to be announcing somebody great,” the U.S. President said in Virginia on a whirlwind three-state campaign tour Friday. “Tomorrow [Saturday] I think is going to be a big day!” he added, as the crowd roared with approval. The President did not name his nominee but earlier said his decision was made. Ms. Barrett was “outstanding” he said. Media reports noted the mercurial Trump could still change his mind before the official announcement, expected at 5 p.m. (2100 GMT) on Saturday. Democrats opposed Democratic opponents, led by presidential candidate Joe Biden, have demanded that Republicans back off on replacing Ruth Bader Ginsburg — a liberal icon — until after the November 3 election. Leaders of the Republican majority in the Senate, which is tasked with confirming Supreme Court nominees, said they have enough support to hold a vote on the nomination either before the election or at worst during the “lame duck” session between the election and the inauguration of the next President in January. “We will certainly do that this year,” Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell said. If Ms. Barrett is confirmed, the Supreme Court would have a 6-3 conservative majority. Ms. Barrett was only appointed to the bench for the first time in 2017. A deeply conservative Catholic, she is considered hostile to abortion rights -- a key issue for many Republicans. The left-leaning government watchdog group Accountable U.S. was unimpressed with the reported choice. “Barrett has proven time and again that protecting businesses— not people — is her top priority,” said group president Kyle Herrig. Full bench In 2018, the mother of seven was on the shortlist presented by Mr. Trump for a seat vacated by the retirement of justice Anthony Kennedy, a position ultimately filled by Brett Kavanaugh after a ferocious confirmation battle. For Mr. Trump, nominating a conservative judge to the Supreme Court is a way to fire up his base heading into November’s election. But at Friday’s whirlwind campaign outings, the President also looked beyond his core supporters and in Florida — where the Latino vote is all-important — said his Democratic challenger Joe Biden has been “very bad to Hispanics.” “I’m a wall between the American dream and chaos,” he said. Later in Georgia, he insisted that as President he had exceeded his promises for African Americans. “I did more for the black community in 47 months... than Joe Biden did in 47 years,” he said, repeatedly swiping at Biden’s legislative record in co-sponsoring 1990s tough-on-crime legislation that many experts say resulted in high incarceration rates for black Americans. Mr. Biden himself did no in-person campaigning Friday, but travelled from his home in Delaware to Washington for a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol, where Ginsburg lay in state — the first woman and Jewish person to do so. Ginsburg’s last wish, reportedly relayed to her granddaughter, was for her seat to be decided by whoever wins the next election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-to-nominate-judge-barrett-to-sc/article32706403.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A party for the Rajapaksas||When former President Mahinda Rajapaksa lost the 2015 election, after his Cabinet colleague Maithripala Sirisena joined hands with rival Ranil Wickremesinghe in an unexpected alliance, his next moves were far from certain. In five years, not only is Mr. Rajapaksa back in power as he vowed, as the country’s Premier, but his new party has bulldozed Sri Lanka’s political terrain almost entirely, decimating the country’s two main national parties — the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) to which Mr. Rajapaksa belonged, and the United National Party (UNP). The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Front), in less than four years after it was founded, has firmly established itself as the party of the people, mainly the majority Sinhala-Buddhist community, and its icons — the Rajapaksa brothers — as the country’s leaders. While the party’s rise has been quick, its making was marked by an early start, consistent organising, and a series of well-calibrated political manoeuvres. The SLPP’s political origins can be traced to a weakening SLFP. When the Sirisena-led SLFP faction was in government, the remainder of the former United People’s Freedom Alliance, sat in Opposition, led by Mr. Rajapaksa with like-minded allies. Calling themselves the ‘Joint Opposition’, they became the most vocal critics of the cohabitation government led by Mr. Sirisena and Mr. Wickremesinghe. Meanwhile, Basil Rajapaksa, the brain behind the SLPP, had begun the spadework for a new vehicle for the Rajapaksa brand. Out on bail in a case of alleged misappropriation of public funds, the former Minister and younger brother of Mahinda Rajapaksa, wasted no time in building a new party. Their third brother Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who was Defence Secretary in Mahinda Rajapaksa’s government, began attracting professionals and intellectuals, with a stated mission of influencing “the moral and material development of Sri Lanka”. Electoral test The first electoral test for the SLPP came in February 2018, when Sri Lanka held its local authority elections. The Mahinda Rajapaksa-backed SLPP secured a win. The party’s pohottuwa (lotus bud) symbol — designed in maroon colour to match with Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa’s characteristic scarf — made a huge impression. The Joint Opposition had by now fully morphed into the SLPP. The going was very good for the SLPP, at least for eight months until Mr. Sirisena shocked the country with his dramatic move — sacking PM Wickremesinghe, appointing Mahinda Rajapaksa in his place, and prematurely dissolving Parliament. For 52 days, Mr. Rajapaksa was the purported Prime Minister. The momentum from the SLPP’s February poll victory was adversely impacted by that, as some of his own supporters were displeased with their leader choosing expedience over the law. The Supreme Court deemed Mr. Sirisena’s move illegal, and Mr. Rajapaksa resigned. Though he and the party had lost some sheen since February 2018, he gained more. The following months saw a complete breakdown in governance — culminating in the security lapse ahead of the Easter terror attacks — and laid the red carpet for the SLPP. Except, the 19th Amendment — a 2015 legislation — prevented Mahinda Rajapaksa from contesting the presidential polls for the third time. The brothers put their might behind Gotabaya Rajapaksa, a former Lieutenant Colonel, pledging national security to a country terrified after a terrorist attack, along with development and prosperity. The promise of a strong leader, coupled with a provocative, nationalist rhetoric, did the trick. In November 2019, opposition candidate Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa secured 52.25 % of the mandate and was elected President. Following the landslide win in the August parliamentary polls, one of the first things President Rajapaksa ordered was the tabling of the 20th Amendment Bill in Parliament, which not only envisions an even stronger executive presidency, but reduces the Prime Minister to a ceremonial position. Today, the politically and electorally secure SLPP appeals most to the Sinhala-Buddhist constituency. On the SLPP’s future role, Mr. Basil Rajapksa famously remarked that he would like to model the party on the Chinese Communist Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party in India, the “best two” examples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-party-for-the-rajapaksas/article32706389.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The cop who loves the limelight||On September 22, the day Bihar’s Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey took voluntary retirement from the service, a two minutes and 19 seconds music video about him was released. In the video, singer Deepak Thakur, a Big Boss-12 contestant, described him as “Bihar’s Robinhood” and “ Janata ka hero”. With the panegyric lyrics in the background, Mr. Pandey is seen as a super cop in tough gait. The release of the video was not coincidental. It was launched at a time when Mr. Pandey was planning to enter politics. With Bihar going to the polls next month, Mr. Pandey, who met Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday at the Janata Dal (United) party office in Patna, is likely to contest on the JD(U) ticket. The 59-year-old 1987 batch IPS officer, with over 7,00,000 followers on his Facebook account, has always been an officer hogging headlines, for right or wrong reasons. His love for devotional songs, his rustic mannerisms and theatrical delivery of statements, always appearing with a tikka on his forehead, all attracted local media attention. In his 34 years of career, Mr. Pandey had been the Superintendent of Police of several districts and donned higher posts in different zones and at the State headquarters. His career, however, was not devoid of controversies. In 2012, after a 12-year-old girl was abducted from Muzaffarpur, the girl’s father accused 11 persons, including Mr. Pandey, who was then Inspector General of Tirhut zone in which Muzaffarpur district falls. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is currently investigating the case. Sushant Singh case Of late, he was featured by national media for the statements he made on the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The late actor was from Patna and on the complaint of his father K.K. Singh, a case was registered against his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and five others at the Rajiv Nagar police station in Bihar’s capital. A team of four police officers was sent to Mumbai to probe the case and later, a young IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, too, reached there, only to be quarantined by municipal officials in Mumbai. Mr. Pandey slammed the Mumbai police for not cooperating with the Bihar police in the case. He even made a controversial statement about Ms. Chakraborty, saying she had no aukat (stature) to make any comment on Chief Minister Kumar. Later, leaders of Maharashtra’s ruling party Shiv Sena slammed Mr. Pandey for his comments, which set the course for a verbal dual between the two State governments. The Supreme Court settled the spat by ordering the CBI to investigate the case. Mr. Pandey lost no time in terming the Supreme Court’s decision as Bihar’s victory. A day after his retirement, he said that whatever he had said about Sushant Singh Rajput’s case was upheld by the top court. Asked whether he would be joining politics, Mr. Pandey shot back, asking if it was a crime “for a poor farmer’s son who has had 34 years of unblemished career” in police services to contest elections. “Given an opportunity, I’d plunge into politics but only to serve the people,” he said. He also said in a video that he had an offer to join either a corporate house with a Rs. 2 crore annual package or hold a constitutional post for another three years. Mr. Pandey also heaped praise on Chief Minister Kumar who, he said, had given complete freedom to the Police Department to tackle crime and maintain peace and communal harmony in the State. Interestingly, Mr. Kumar, in March 2019, had asked Mr. Pandey at a public function to focus more on policing than giving statements to the media. Earlier VRS This is not the first time Mr. Pandey has taken voluntary retirement from service. In 2009, he had opted for VRS to contest the Lok Sabha poll but when failed to get a ticket, he controversially rejoined the police service after nine months. Some senior officials had admitted in private that Mr. Pandey’s reinstatement was against service rules but with the backing of the government, the issue died down. Mr. Pandey was back in action and on January 31, 2019, he was appointed the DGP. He was to retire on February 28, 2021. Now, having voluntarily retired from service, the top cop seems to be aiming higher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-cop-who-loves-the-limelight/article32706391.ece
27 September 2020||Washington,||India calls Imran Khan’s UN speech an ‘incessant rant’||In exercising India’s ‘Right of Reply’ to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s remarks during the UN General Assembly debate on Friday, Indian diplomat Mijito Vinito called Mr. Khan’s remarks “an incessant rant”. India also said the only dispute in Kashmir is related to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and called on Pakistan to vacate it. The response said Mr. Khan had “no reasonable suggestion to offer the world” and his speech was about “lies, misinformation, war mongering and malice.” “The words used today at this great Assembly by the leader of Pakistan demean the very essence of the UN. For a nation that is deeply buried in medievalism, it is understandable that the tenets of a modern civilized society such as peace, dialogue and diplomacy are far-fetched,” Mr. Vinito, First Secretary at India’s UN mission, said. Mr. Khan, in his speech earlier on Friday, had talked about India’s treatment of its minorities, legislative changes to Jammu and Kashmir, Indian troop presence there, etc. Mr. Vinito had left the General Assembly hall as Mr. Khan’s video address began, as a gesture of India’s protestations against it. “There will be no durable peace and stability in South Asia until the Jammu and Kashmir dispute is resolved on the basis of international legitimacy. Kashmir has been rightly described as a nuclear flashpoint,” Mr. Khan had said. “The Security Council must prevent a disaster conflict and secure the implementation of its own resolutions, as it did in the case of East Timor,” he had said. “I want to make it clear that any attempt by the fascist, totalitarian, RSS-led Indian Government to aggress against Pakistan will be met by a nation that that will fight for its freedom to the end,” Mr. Khan had said. Integral part Mr. Vinito said in India’s response: “Let me assert here loud and clear. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India. The rules and legislations brought in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir are strictly internal affairs of India.” “The only dispute left in Kashmir relates to that part of Kashmir that is still under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to vacate all those areas that it is in illegal occupation of.” [In September 2019, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had said India expects to have physical jurisdiction over PoK]. “This is the country that has systematically cleansed its minorities, including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs and others, through the abuse of its blasphemy laws and through forced religious conversions,” Mr. Vinito said. During his speech, Mr. Khan had talked about Islamophobia around the world, but also made a specific reference to India having “state-sponsored” Islamophobia. “The RSS founding fathers were inspired by the Nazis and they adopted their concepts of racial purity and supremacy. While the Nazis hate was directed at the Jews, the RSS directs it towards the Muslims and to a lesser extent, the Christians. They believe that India is exclusively for Hindus and others are not equal citizens. The secularism of Gandhi and Nehru has been replaced by the dream of creating a Hindu rashtra...” Mr. Khan had said in his speech. He also referred to the fact that Muslims were killed in 2002 in Gujarat when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s was the State’s Chief Minister. “For someone who professes to be a champion of Islam, this is also a country that has encouraged killing of fellow Muslims merely because they belonged to a different sect, or to a different region in Pakistan, and through sponsoring terrorist attacks against its neighbours,” Mr. Vinito said, responding to Mr. Khan’s speech. The Indian diplomat also highlighted the Pakistan deep state’s “unrelenting political and financial support” to terror organisations. He also referred to Mr. Khan referring to 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden as a martyr earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-calls-imran-khans-un-speech-an-incessant-rant/article32706400.ece
27 September 2020||Geneva,||WHO warns 2 million virus deaths possible||Coronavirus deaths could more than double to two million without collective action against the pandemic, the World Health Organization has warned, as Australia’s Prime Minister urged any nation that develops a vaccine to share it with the world. The number of cases worldwide has soared past 32 million, with deaths approaching one million, the global economy devastated, and major cultural and sports events disrupted. Olympics on schedule But despite the pandemic showing no signs of slowing, Japan’s new Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga struck a defiant note on Friday, saying his country was determined to hold the postponed Tokyo Olympics in 2021. “One million is a terrible number and we need to reflect on that before we start considering a second million,” the WHO’s emergencies director Michael Ryan told reporters on Friday when asked how high the death toll could go. “Are we prepared collectively to do what it takes to avoid that number? “If we don’t take those actions... yes, we will be looking at that number and sadly much higher.” The pandemic has spurred worldwide efforts to develop a vaccine to help defeat COVID-19, as well as efforts to try to ensure fair and widespread distribution. “Whoever finds the vaccine must share it... This is a global responsibility and it’s a moral responsibility,” Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Friday in a message to the virtual UN General Assembly. “Some might see short-term advantage or even profit, but I assure you... humanity will have a very long memory and be a very, very severe judge.” Without a vaccine or effective treatment, social distancing and lockdowns remain among the few options for governments to curb the spread of the virus, making large gatherings like spectator sports and music concerts highly risky. Brazil has postponed Rio de Janeiro’s carnival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-warns-2-million-virus-deaths-possible/article32706408.ece
27 September 2020||Washington,||Trump sets terms for a smooth transition||President Donald Trump said on Friday night that he would welcome “a smooth, beautiful transition” of power after the election in November but that he would lose only if Democrats cheated — and that “we’re not going to stand for it” if they did. Mr. Trump’s comments to cheering supporters at an outdoor rally in Newport News, Virginia, were his latest intimation that he might mount an unprecedented effort to stay in power after an electoral defeat and lead the nation into uncharted waters at a moment marked by civil strife. “I want a smooth, beautiful transition,” the President said. “But they don’t add the other part: But it’s got to be an honest vote.” “This is a disaster waiting to happen,” he added. The comments came after Mr. Trump had baselessly claimed that the use of mail-in ballots was a formula for a fraud-ridden result. He also warned that some States might be unable to report a decisive outcome on election night because they would be awaiting mail-in ballots, which can arrive after Election Day, on November 3, so long as they are postmarked no later than it. “I could be leading, and then they’ll just keep getting ballots and ballots and ballots and ballots,” Mr. Trump complained. “They’re talking about five, six, seven States that have this problem. So if we’re waiting for one state, does that mean the whole nation, the whole world is going to wait for one state?” Mr. Trump said the huge volume of mail-in ballots was “very hard to watch,” adding that “that’s the only way we’re going to lose, is if there’s mischief.” Democrats concede that an expected record-setting use of mail-in ballots could lead to inconclusive results on election night, but they fear that Mr. Trump could take an early lead from in-person voting and then try to claim that any votes counted later are somehow invalid. Experts say it is unclear, however, that mail-in ballots will favour his Democratic opponent Joe Biden.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-sets-terms-for-a-smooth-transition/article32706405.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||As ties with India plunge, Chinese scholar calls for hard-line ‘reset’||A prominent Chinese strategic affairs expert, who recently carried out a “survey” along the India-China border, has warned of the prospect of worsening relations with India, and called for “a reset of China’s India strategy” to deal with a fundamentally changed relationship. The comments made by Liu Zongyi, a scholar at the Shanghai Institute of International Studies (SIIS) and fellow at the Renmin University in Beijing, in an interview with a Chinese website, have been widely circulated in China this past week, adding to a growing chorus of voices in China’s strategic community that have seen this summer’s border tensions as marking a turning point in the relationship and heralding a period of increased confrontation. Some of those voices have explained China’s actions along the border since May, when Beijing deployed a large number of troops and sought to unilaterally redraw the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in several areas, as a response to India, which was, in their view, “emboldened” by its growing closeness with the U.S. and drifting towards a “de facto alliance” that, they suggest, had reduced Beijing’s incentives to preserve ties. “There are many practical ways to deal with this situation; however, the key lies in the fact that we have to determine our stance. Presently, India and the U.S. have formed a de facto military alliance. Under the current situation, we must re-assess our understanding of the U.S.-India alliance and reset our India strategy,” Mr. Liu said in the interview to Guancha or ‘Observer’, a popular news portal. Long-term ambitions Hemant Adlakha, professor of Chinese at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and an expert on the Chinese media who translated the September 21 interview, said “this was the first time a Chinese commentary admits openly that China decided to act ‘tough’ and details its long-term strategic ambitions vis-à-vis India”. The interview, he said, was significant in terms of its signalling to the Chinese public about the future direction of relations, as it was published in an “influential and mainstream media outlet highly popular with intellectuals and professionals” unlike outlets like the Global Times that are intended for an international audience. That Mr. Liu had recently visited the border areas for the “survey” suggested it was possibly sanctioned by the authorities, he said. In the interview, Mr. Liu, who often appears in the Chinese media as an expert on India, repeated the Chinese government’s claims that the border tensions this summer were triggered by India — claims that the Indian government has strongly rebutted, pointing to China’s unprecedented mobilisation of forces and transgressions along the LAC since May, in violation of multiple border agreements. He said India had occupied “commanding heights” at various points along the LAC and upgraded infrastructure at an accelerated pace since 2014, suggesting China’s moves this summer were aimed as a counter. He said he had visited Yadong in Tibet, in the Sikkim sector of the border, but did not go near Pangong Lake in Ladakh. ‘Indian control’ “India has continuously encroached on our territory and occupied the commanding heights. As a result, at several strategic points, many commanding height positions all along the Sino-Indian border are under Indian control,” he said. “This summer, when China took tough countermeasures in the Pangong Lake and in the Galwan Valley, India accused us of aggression. India has been acting in this manner for decades, and the West has always turned a blind eye. And now, when China decided to act a bit tough, all are blaming us.” He said India had drawn a lesson from the Doklam stand-off in 2017 that China “would not dare to return fire and settle for a peaceful solution”. “The method it adopted has been to continuously implement a ‘forward policy’ or ‘offensive defensive” policy on the border and then put pressure on China,” he said, “with the hope that China will cave in”. His message to the Chinese public was that relations were, even before the May tensions, on a downward trajectory as seen in India’s moves in April to tighten curbs on investment from China. And following the flare-up on the border, he argued, that is all the more clear. “We may still continue to pursue the line of thinking that the main pressure we are facing is from the U.S. and not India,” he said. “But the fact is, India and the U.S. today have become a single entity. In some respects, it is India which is leading the U.S., and is becoming a leading anti-China force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-ties-with-india-plunge-chinese-scholar-calls-for-hard-line-reset/article32706397.ece
27 September 2020||LA PAZ,||Morales looms large in Bolivia’s October election||Even in exile, Evo Morales looms over Bolivia’s election next month. National rifts that contributed to chaos in Bolivia in 2019 threaten to destabilise the October 18 vote and its aftermath nearly one year after Mr. Morales, Bolivia’s first Indigenous President from the Aymara group, was forced to resign following disputed vote results, protests, violence and a military call for him to go. The country is divided mainly along ethnic, regional and socioeconomic lines, and between those who applaud Mr. Morales as a voice for the historically poor and disenfranchised and those who say he became increasingly corrupt and authoritarian during 14 years in power. The interim government that replaced him has also been accused of undermining Bolivia’s democratic institutions, including the judiciary. In a speech to the virtual U.N. General Assembly on Wednesday, interim President Jeanine ĭũez accused neighbouring Argentina, where Mr. Morales is in self-exile, of systematic and abusive harassment of Bolivia’s institutions and supporting a “violent conspiracy” led by the former President. The party that Mr. Morales founded, Movement for Socialism( MAS) controls the Congress and is a powerful contender. Its presidential candidate, Luis Arce, is a former Economy Minister who oversaw a nationalisation programme when Mr. Morales was president. Several polls indicate the Movement for Socialism would lead in the round of voting next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/morales-looms-large-in-bolivias-october-election/article32706398.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||PM pitches for greater role in United Nations||“India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of the vaccines.” Mr. Modi highlighted some of India’s contribution to the UN and said that it was a basis for Indians wanting an “expanded role” in the organization. “When we were strong, we were never a threat to the world; when we were weak, we never become a burden on the world,” Mr. Modi said. He said the idea of Vasudhaiva kutumbakam [the world as one family] was in resonance with the UN’s founding ideals and said Indian troops had participated in about 50 UN peacekeeping missions. “Today every Indian, while seeing the contribution of India in the United Nations, aspires for India’s expanded role in the United Nations.” He spoke of India’s foreign policy as being driven by the interests of “the whole [of] humankind and not about its own vested interests.” Mr. Modi specifically mentioned India’s “Neighbourhood First Policy”, the “Act East Policy” and its views towards the Indo-Pacific Region. Presumably in a message to the United States as well as China, Mr. Modi said, “Any gesture of friendship by India towards one country is not directed against any third country.” “When India strengthens its development partnership, it is not with any mala fide intent of making the partner country dependent or hapless,” he said. This was presumably an oblique reference to China’s model of infrastructure financing in the Indo-Pacific which has led to several countries falling into debt-traps with Beijing. Mr. Modi thanked member states for trusting India with a non-permanent seat at the Security Council starting January 2020 and said India will bring its developmental experience to the job. He outlined his administration’s official record in areas such as financial inclusion, health care and targets to eradicate tuberculosis (by 2025) and other development goals. Mr. Modi also mentioned that India had 26 weeks of paid maternity leave and was promoting the rights of transgendered persons. “In its journey towards progress, India wants to learn from the world as well as share its own experiences with the world,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pm-pitches-for-greater-role-in-united-nations/article32706432.ece
27 September 2020||Kano,||Nigeria convoy attack toll rises to 30||The death toll from a jihadist attack on the convoy of the regional Governor in northeast Nigeria has risen to 30, security sources said Saturday. Sources had earlier said that a convoy transporting Borno governor Babagana Umara Zulum came under attack from insurgents on Friday near the town of Baga on the shores of Lake Chad. “The tally has increased to 30 as many bodies were picked in the surrounding areas after the attack,” a source said. The IS-affiliated ISWAP maintains most of its camps on islands in Lake Chad and the region is known as a bastion for the jihadists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigeria-convoy-attack-toll-rises-to-30/article32706401.ece
27 September 2020||Paris,||Paris, Sept 26, 2020 (AFP) -||A Pakistan-born teenager has admitted to stabbing two people outside the former Paris offices ofCharlie Hebdoto avenge the republication of cartoons of Prophet Mohammed by the magazine, said investigators on Saturday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/paris-sept-26-2020-afp/article32706402.ece
27 September 2020||London,||London, Sept 26, 2020 (AFP) -||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday urged world leaders to “unite and turn our fire” against COVID-19 as he announced a “five-point” plan to tackle future pandemics during an address to the UN General Assembly.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-sept-26-2020-afp/article32706407.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CAG moots probe over cess accounting dodge||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has mooted an investigation against the Central government’s accounting officials for incorrectly recording Rs. 10,250 crore of cess receipts from additional excise duties on petrol and diesel, as non-tax receipts for the exchequer in 2018-19. This was done through a journal entry made after the end of the financial year, which the CAG said was done ‘primarily for the purpose of artificially inflating revenue receipts of the year’. The national auditor also dismissed the finance ministry’s explanation and rebuttals on the matter as ‘untenable.’ Cess collections from petrol and diesel are to be routed to the Central Road Fund (CRF), created by the Parliament as a dedicated non-lapsable Reserve Fund to be used only for designated purposes. The CRF was replaced with a Central Road and Infrastructure Fund (CRIF) through amendments introduced in the Union Budget for 2018-19. ‘Understating deficit’ “An amount of Rs. 10,250 crore was transferred from receipts in the Central Road Fund and accounted as non-tax Receipts during 2018-19 through a Journal Entry (JE) after the close of the year,” the CAG noted in its financial audit of the Union government’s accounts for that year. The national auditor termed the journal entry as a violation of accounting procedure. “This not only had the effect of understating deficit, but also made funds to this extent available for expenditure for other than designated purposes, which was contrary to the will of the Parliament,” the apex auditor observed. In response to the audit red-flag, the Finance Ministry had argued that the idle balance in the CRF was transferred to the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI) with the approval of the Finance Minister ‘consequent to redesignation of the fund’ from CRF to CRIF. “Such write-backs had been done in the past also, based on recommendations of the Standing Committee on Finance (16th Lok Sabha) for transferring unutilised funds / idle funds in the public account to the CFI,” it said. Reply ‘untenable’ Terming the Ministry’s reply as ‘untenable’, the CAG asserted that the issue had nothing to do with the redesignation of the Fund and the transfer of balances from the earlier Fund to the newly designated Fund. “The reference to precedents is either not relevant or cannot be used to justify wrong practices. The Standing Committee recommendation was in the context of closing idle Funds and transferring unutilised balances back to the CFI. The Central Road Fund/ CRIF is not an idle fund. Further, the stipulated accounting procedure for transferring idle Fund balances back to the CFI does not require inflating the revenue receipts for the year as the JE has done,” the CAG stressed in its audit report. “It is evident that the purpose of the JE was primarily for the purpose of artificially inflating revenue receipts of the year. This merits further investigation for appropriate action against the concerned accounting authorities who authorised the JE,” the national auditor concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cag-moots-probe-over-cess-accounting-dodge/article32706377.ece
27 September 2020||Chennai,||‘Life, health insurance seeing surge’||The value of health and term insurance policies that Policybazaar.com sold online saw a significant spike during the pandemic. “There were two phases. In March and April, there was higher sales of policies than earlier for term insurance,” said Sarbvir Singh, CEO, Policybazaar.com. “People tended to think more about mortality and the like,” he added. “The interest [value of business] was almost double that seen pre-COVID.” In health insurance, it took a little longer, he said. “It started in May-June. The value of business was about 2-2.5 times what it was pre-COVID. And for our term business right now, it would be about one-and-a-half times the value sold pre-COVID.” These figures refer to quarterly premium collected after the pandemic set in, compared with a year earlier. Asked if this was an inflection point, he said the challenge now for the sector was to deal with loss of jobs or pay cuts that people in the target profile might suffer. “We have one positive force in our business — more and more people are buying online. And, we are practically 90% of the online business. “We deal mostly with the salaried and self- employed, who are in the Rs. 5-10 lakh annual salary range. If their incomes are impacted by the overall economy, that would have some degree of pressure on payments.” ‘Top-ups seeing interest’ In health insurance, the company has seen a rise in interest for top-up policies. “Top-ups provide tremendous value at the price at which they are available,” he said. “If a Rs. 5 lakh policy costs you, say, Rs. 12,000 for a family, we said for Rs. 15-16,000, we should be able to give them base cover of Rs. 5 lakh plus Rs. 95 lakh super top-up. As our claims ratio was lower than the overall average, we were able to convince insurers to give our customers that kind of pricing.” He said that customers were now inclined to take term policies lasting beyond the retirement age. “Buyers tend to ask themselves what they get in return if they spend a lump sum yearly. “The choice of outer age limit has been rising. We see sales of policies lasting till age 85 or 99. The average age at which policies expired was 65, say, five years ago; now people are choosing to keep life policies active till they reach age 75.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/life-health-insurance-seeing-surge/article32706383.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian IT will rebound to 8-10% growth by next year, says Soota||The Ashok Soota -led Happiest Minds Technologies made its debut on the stock exchanges recently, with shares listing at a premium of 123% over the issue price of Rs. 166. A second innings of sorts for the 77-year-old former Wipro executive and co-founder of Mindtree, which went public in 2007 under his leadership, Mr. Soota started Happiest Minds in 2011, at age 68. In an interview, he spoke about entrepreneurship, evolution of the technology industry, the digital focus of Happiest Minds, its IPO and outlook for the industry. Excerpts:  What is the key to success in tech entrepreneurship? To stay on the leading edge of technology and offer integrated, complete solutions that are cloud-based, powered by artificial intelligence and automation and which can be put to multiple uses. These are critical. How has the sector evolved over the last 30 years? Technology evolves continuously with solutions getting richer. For example, many of the earlier e-commerce ventures failed because of weak technology infrastructure. Once bandwidth and communication capacity improved exponentially, a boom followed. The key thing, therefore, is to create new business models with technology and not just be focussed on the technology itself. Also, technology is invariably the first sector to bounce out of recessions because it, in fact, provides the tools to ride out of crises. In the current world, with work-from-home emerging as a new norm, there is a spurt in demand for security, deployable across multiple work environments. This is a great area for Happiest Minds to explore. ‘Digital’ wasn’t yet the mantra when you started Happiest Minds, was it? Happiest Minds was born in the digital era and, therefore, it was a logical step for us to focus only on new digital solutions. This helped us dramatically improve customer experience, productivity and to create new business models. Digital today accounts for 97% of our business when it is 30% to 50% for larger listed tech firms in India. This is what has enabled us to grow at a CAGR of 20% plus compared with the industry range of 8% to 10%. How do you view Happiest Minds’ debut performance in the stock market? The response to our IPO is gratifying but there are two areas of concern. First, with such oversubscription, many potential investors got left out. Second, we now have additional responsibility of meeting the expectations of our new investors. I should add that apart from our digital focus, what has helped is a market favourable to IT stocks and the depreciation of the rupee. What would be the 5 key things Happiest Minds would be doing in the next 5 years? First, we must step back and take a look at the landscape. We have a system of a five-year vision. Our most recent Vision statement targeted an IPO in FY23... we have done that two years ahead. Now, we need to set fresh goals for ourselves. This exercise will take a few months of deliberation with our teams and will reflect in our new Vision. Also, an IPO is a great opportunity to demonstrate the higher levels of corporate governance in an organisation. This is an area in which I have taken a lot of pride at all the companies I have led. What, in your view, is the tech industry outlook in a pandemic-hit marketplace? Whenever there is a recession, the first sector that bounces back is technology services. Already, a couple of companies have stated that they would come back to FY20 levels by the end of this year. Also, there is a lot of new demand for technology, which will accelerate growth. I visualise that a fair proportion of people will continue to work from home and spur demand for e-commerce and security. The drive for growth of education technology will further accelerate. Another key area of major growth is e-Health. The overall outlook for the industry is certainly optimistic. I believe the Indian IT industry will get back to its growth rates of 8% to 10% from next year.  An IPO is a great opportunity to demonstrate higher levels of corporate governance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-it-will-rebound-to-8-10-growth-by-next-year-says-soota/article32706380.ece
27 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Woodland to step into new markets: Singh||Apparel and footwear brand Woodland is exploring more international markets to grow the business following a foray into Canada and South Africa in the last couple of months, said Harkirat Singh, Managing Director of the brand’s owner Aero Club. “New markets have always been on the radar,” said Mr. Singh. “We also plan to further strengthen our international offices (and operations) in Hong Kong, Dubai and Moscow,” he said. International revenue, which currently accounts for 20% of the total, is set to increase as overseas markets open up after the COVID-19 related shutdowns, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/woodland-to-step-into-new-markets-singh/article32706381.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Temporary retention of GST cess is not diversion’||Finance Ministry sources have countered CAG’s audit finding of Central government wrongly retaining Rs. 47,272 crore of GST compensation cess meant for States, saying temporary retention cannot be termed as a diversion. Days after the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) flagged that the Centre, in first two years of the GST implementation, wrongly retained GST compensation cess that was meant to be used specifically to compensate States for loss of revenue, Ministry sources said compensation due for the year 2017-18 and 2018-19 was fully paid to States. Time taken in reconciliation of compensation receipts can’t be termed as diversion of GST cess fund when the dues to States were fully released by the Central government, they said. Sources said that in 2017-18, Rs. 62,611 crore was collected, out of which the government released full compensation dues of Rs. 41,146 crore to the States and Union Territories. In 2018-19, an amount of Rs. 95,081 crore was collected, out of which Rs. 69,275 crore was paid as full compensation. They said an amount of Rs. 47,271 crore collected in 2017-18 and 2018-19 had remained unutilised for reconciliation post full payment of GST compensation dues. For 2019-20, the Central government released Rs. 1,65,302 crore as GST compensation against a cess collection of Rs. 95,444 crore which it could do with the unutilised cess of Rs. 47,271 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/temporary-retention-of-gst-cess-is-not-diversion/article32706384.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||PSU to PSU stake sale just moves funds to govt., says CAG||The strategic sale of four public sector units to other public sector entities in 2018-19 by the Central government has been sharply criticised by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India in an audit, tabled in Parliament. “Such disinvestments only resulted in transfer of resources already with the public sector to the government and did not lead to any change in the stake of the public sector / government in the disinvested PSU,” the CAG noted, indicating its displeasure at such transactions. It may be recalled that the Centre had earlier sold oil major HPCL to another PSU ONGC and resorted to similar transactions in order to meet disinvestment targets in recent years. In 2018-19, the government raised Rs. 72,620 crore from disinvestment, which included the strategic sales of the Rural Electrification Corporation, Dredging Corporation(DCI), HSCC (India) and National Projects Construction Corporation. While REC was sold to Power Finance Corporation, DCI was sold to a consortium of Port Trusts.  The CAG also criticised the Centre’s claim as disinvestment receipts of almost Rs. 12,500 crore from the sale of shares by the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI), an entity created to deal with the erstwhile UTI’s assets and liabilities. “Neither SUUTI nor its assets, liabilities are depicted in the Union Government Finance Accounts,” the CAG noted, adding receipts from it were wrongly booked as capital receipts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/psu-to-psu-stake-sale-just-moves-funds-to-govt-says-cag/article32706378.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Knight Riders too hot for Sunrisers||A classy half-century from Shubman Gill (70 not out, 62b, 5x4, 2x6) guided Kolkata Knight Riders to a seven-wicket win over Sunrisers Hyderabad and helped it register its first victory of IPL 2020 at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi, on Saturday. Knight Riders’ 143-run chase got off to a rocky start when Sunil Narine fell for a duck off the second ball from left-arm pacer Khaleel Ahmed. But Gill and Nitish Rana added a quick 37 for the second wicket. The former was the more aggressive of the two, hitting Khaleel for a hat-trick of fours in the fourth over. Natarajan, Rashid strike T. Natarajan, however, had Rana caught behind before he could inflict further damage. When Rashid Khan (one for 25) trapped captain Dinesh Karthik for a duck, Knight Riders was in a spot of bother. However, Gill and Eoin Morgan (42 not out, 29b, 3x4, 2x6) allayed fears of a meltdown by adding 92 for the fourth wicket and taking Kolkata past the finish line with two overs to spare. Earlier, Knight Riders kept Sunrisers in check with some tight bowling on a pitch that gradually slowed down. It took a half-century from Manish Pandey (51, 38b, 3x4, 2x6) to guide the side to 142 for four. Knight Riders’ expensive recruit Pat Cummins, who endured a rough evening with the ball against Mumbai Indians, made amends, keeping the openers on the backfoot from the start. He was rewarded for his attacking line and length when he cleaned up Jonny Bairstow with an off-cutter. The Aussie pacer bowled three of his four overs in the PowerPlay, conceding just 11 in those. David Warner, meanwhile, played well within himself, and showed flashes of aggression by clubbing two fours and a six to take Sunrisers to 40 for one in six overs. Pandey joined Warner after Bairstow’s dismissal, and the two took a few overs to settle down. Varun gets Warner But just when they looked to switch gears, leg-spinner Varun Chakravarthy dismissed the dangerous Warner (36, 30b, 2x4, 1x6) after the first strategic time-out. The left-hander’s attempted flick ballooned back to the bowler. Pandey and Wriddhiman Saha then carried out the repair work with a 62-run third-wicket partnership, but the Hyderabad side was up against some tight bowling from Varun and Narine. Saha brought up the 50-run stand with a six over deep mid-wicket off the last ball of Varun’s spell (4-0-25-1). Shortly after, Andre Russell got rid of Pandey, putting an end to Sunrisers’ hopes of a late flourish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-riders-too-hot-for-sunrisers/article32706492.ece
27 September 2020||Paris,||Tetchy Djokovic, rusty Nadal head field||Novak Djokovic will renew his love-hate relationship with Roland Garros in the knowledge that it is himself rather than seemingly unsettled 12-time champion Rafael Nadal who could pose the greatest threat to winning a second Paris title and 18th Grand Slam crown. The only man to beat Djokovic in 2020 is Djokovic after the Serb’s sensational disqualification from the US Open. The 33-year-old arrives in the French capital with a 31-1 record this year after his New York brain-fade was followed by a record 36th Masters title in Rome. Ring rustiness Roger Federer will miss the French Open as he rehabs his injured knee while Nadal has played just three matches since February, a ring-rustiness evident in his quarterfinal exit in Rome. “It’s Nadal,” insisted the World No. 1 when pushed on who is the favourite. “You just can’t put anybody in front of him.” Nadal, meanwhile, is eyeing a 13th French Open. Since his title-winning debut in 2005, the Spaniard has only lost twice at Roland Garros in 95 matches — to Robin Soderling in 2009 and Djokovic in 2015. Cold and damp Nadal cut an unsettled figure at a pre-tournament press conference on Friday where he admitted the cold and damp conditions forced him to face his “most difficult ever Roland Garros”. He is also unhappy about using a new brand of ball. “For the health of the players, the ball is super heavy and becomes dangerous for the elbow and for the shoulders,” he said. Former champion Simona Halep arrives as the player to beat in a women’s draw missing title-holder Ashleigh Barty and recent US Open winner Naomi Osaka, two of the world’s top three. Serena Williams can never be discounted as she launches another bid for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam singles crown, but Roland Garros is the American’s least successful Major despite her wins in 2002, 2013 and 2015. Garbine Muguruza, who defeated Williams in the 2016 final, is another contender while fellow former world number one Victoria Azarenka is hoping to take the momentum from her run to the US Open final into Paris. Last year’s runner-up Marketa Vondrousova will again target a deep run in Paris having rediscovered some form at last week’s Italian Open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tetchy-djokovic-rusty-nadal-head-field/article32706540.ece
27 September 2020||Madrid,||Koeman says Messi’s commitment has been an example for everyone||Barcelona coach Ronald Koeman has said he has no concerns about Lionel Messi ahead of the team’s first LaLiga game of the season on Sunday, after the Argentinian took another swipe at the club over the departure of Luis Suarez. Koeman was also keen to point out it was not solely his decision to let Suarez join Atletico Madrid, with the Dutchman insisting he is not the “bad guy in the movie”. Messi criticised how Suarez was pushed out as Barca tries to reduce their wage bill, saying “you deserved a goodbye for what you are” before adding: “But at this point nothing surprises me anymore”. Barcelona plays Villarreal on Sunday at Camp Nou and Messi is expected to start, having reintegrated with the squad since claiming he was denied a transfer this summer. Koeman said in a press conference on Saturday he was not worried about Messi, despite his captain’s latest show of frustration. “It is normal for a player to be a bit sad when a friend of his leaves after the years that they have had together, it is part of football,” said Koeman. Leading by example “But the most important thing for me is how he has been. In training and in games, I think Leo has been an example for everyone, in his commitment to the club and to the team. I have no doubts about Leo in this regard.” Suarez scored 198 goals for Barcelona to become their third highest goalscorer in history but the 33-year-old was deemed expendable after the team's disastrous end to last season. Koeman was reported to have held a direct and short telephone conversation with Suarez about his future but Barca’s new coach claims the decision was not only his. “At first it was like I was the bad guy in the movie,” said Koeman. “It’s not like that because from the first day or after my call with Luis I showed respect for the player and the person he is. “He trained to the maximum from the first day and I always told him it could be difficult for him to play but if he stayed he would be one of the squad and could work like the others. “That’s what I told the club too but these are decisions made by the club. Before signing the contract the club was thinking about changing things and I have tried to support those decisions. But it was not only my decision as a manager, they are decisions of the club as well.”  It is normal for a player to be a bit sad when a friend of his leaves after the years that they have had together... it is part of football||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/koeman-says-messis-commitment-has-been-an-example-for-everyone/article32706678.ece
27 September 2020||Chennai,||We are a bit muddled right now: Fleming||After its second straight defeat on Friday, Chennai Super Kings (CSK) head coach Stephen Fleming felt the team was a bit muddled and needed to do some soul-searching. “We are a bit muddled right now, trying to find a balance that allows us to be competitive,” said Fleming. Commenting on the team’s issues while chasing, he said: “Without Rayudu and Raina in our batting line-up, we are trying to find the right combination. Our performance today was on the weak side in terms of our intent, but Delhi bowled very well. “We are trying to give players opportunities early on so that we know what we have as the tournament goes on. “We have got time to review what we are doing and rectify our issues, which are quite a few.” The former New Zealand skipper also felt that the team’s spinners have not done a good job so far. Area of concern “The style of play CSK has developed over the last 12 years has been heavily based on spin. “What we are trying to do is find a different personality as a side, but spin still plays a part. We are struggling to adjust and find the right pace to bowl through the middle overs. “So spin has gone from being a strength to an area of concern,” said the 47-year-old, who has guided the team to three titles. “There is a lot of soul-searching that needs to be done from coaching as well as strategy point of view.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-a-bit-muddled-right-now-fleming/article32706479.ece
27 September 2020||BRIGHTON,||United pulls off a last-gasp win||Manchester United beat Brighton 3-2 away in the Premier League on Saturday after an incredible finale in which Bruno Fernandes struck the winning goal from the penalty spot in the 10th minute of stoppage time. Neal Maupay had given away the penalty with a handball, which led to a VAR review, after referee Chris Kavanagh had blown the full-time whistle. Superb solo goal A brilliant solo strike from Marcus Rashford had given United the lead in the 55th minute after Rashford and Mason Greenwood had goals ruled out for offside and Brighton had seen a penalty decision overturned by a VAR review. Brighton took the lead when Maupay coolly slotted in a penalty in the 40th minute after a foul by Fernandes. But the visitors levelled with an own goal from Brighton defender Lewis Dunk, who tried to prevent Harry Maguire from reaching a Nemanja Matic pass following a free kick but instead sent the ball into the net.  The results:   Premier League: Brighton 2 (Maupay 40-pen, March 90+5) lost to Manchester United 3 (Dunk 43-og, Rashford 55, Fernandes 90+10); Crystal Palace 1 (Kouyate 26) lost to Everton 2 (Calvert-Lewin 10, Richarlison 40-pen).   LaLiga: Alaves 0 drew with Getafe 0; Valencia 1 (Wass 38) drew with Huesca 1 (Siovas 63).   Serie A: Torino 2 (Belotti 10, 43) lost to Atalanta 4 (Gomez 12, Muriel 21, Hateboer 42, Marten de Roon 54).   Bundesliga: Borussia Monchengladbach 1 (Thuram 56) drew with Union Berlin 1 (Schlotterbeck 79); Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Demirbay 20) drew with RB Leipzig 1 (Forsberg 14).   Mainz 05 1 (Quaison 13) lost to Stuttgart 4 (Wamangituka 45, Didavi 61, Klimowicz 80, Kalajdzic 86); Augsburg 2 (Uduokhai 40, Caligiuri 54) bt Borussia Dortmund 0; Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Edmundsson 78) bt Cologne 0; Hertha Berlin 1 (Hinteregger 78-og) lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 3 (Silva 30, Dost 37, Rode 70).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-pulls-off-a-last-gasp-win/article32706484.ece
27 September 2020||Dubai,||Return to basics helped: Shaw||Young opener Prithvi Shaw, who starred in Delhi Capitals’ victory over Chennai Super Kings on Friday, says his plan was to play along the ground and avoid “silly mistakes” after failing to make an impact in the first match. Shaw was dismissed for five in DC’s campaign-opener against Kings XI Punjab, but the 20-year-old made amends with a fluent 64 off 43 balls on Friday. “My plan was to play my natural game but play the shots along the ground, last game we saw there were some silly mistakes and it was not working for me or the team,” Shaw told skipper Shreyas Iyer in a video posted on the IPL website. “CSK has some good pace bowlers, I was able to time the ball and find some gaps. As the spinners came on, even if we are 40 for no loss, it doesn’t matter, I knew me and Shikhar Dhawan could pace our innings after the PowerPlay,” he said. Shreyas was delighted by Capitals’ performance. “As captain, it’s a nice feeling, when you start by winning your first two matches. Now we need to capitalise on the momentum.” The six-day quarantine before the tournament, had been quite challenging, Shreyas said. “The first six days were very challenging, I thought they would pass quickly, but it felt like a month, seriously,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/return-to-basics-helped-shaw/article32706500.ece
27 September 2020||SHARJAH,||Big hitters face off in six-friendly Sharjah||Rajasthan Royals’ Sanju Samson will like to continue his dream form while the presence of Jos Buttler will give it a big boost as the side takes on Kings XI Punjab in what promises to be yet another six-hitting contest. Coming into the match after morale-boosting victories, both teams would look to build a winning momentum after starting the tournament as ‘underdogs’. Buttler is expected to open alongside Yashashvi Jaiswal while Steve Smith may take David Miller’s position in the batting order. Tom Curran and Jofra Archer could complete the four-player overseas quota. As regards bowling, Royals defended their 216 run target easily with Archer bowling brilliantly at the death and leg-spinner Rahul Tewatia (three for 37) inflicting damage at the top of the order. Replace Unadkat? It will be interesting to see if Smith decides to try out rookie Kartik Tyagi or the seasoned Varun Aaron in Jaydev Unadkat’s place. Kings XI captain K.L. Rahul, who plundered a record 132 not out against Royal Challengers Bangalore, would like to continue in the same vein on a ground which has short boundaries. Australian all-rounder Glenn Maxwell would look to make amends after a low score against RCB. In the bowling department, Mohammed Shami and West Indian Sheldon Cottrell have led the pace-bowling department well. Leg-spinners Ravi Bishnoi and M. Ashwin have caught the eye with three wickets apiece against RCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-hitters-face-off-in-six-friendly-sharjah/article32706482.ece
27 September 2020||SOCHI,||Hamilton takes pole||Runaway Formula One series leader Lewis Hamilton emerged from a “horrible” red-flagged qualifying session at Sochi on Saturday with a stunning pole position for Sunday’s Russian Grand Prix. The six-time champion clocked a best lap in one minute and 31.304 seconds to outpace Max Verstappen of Red Bull by half a second. Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas was third-quickest with Sergio Perez of Racing Point sharing the second row. Hamilton is bidding to claim his fifth win at the Sochi track where Mercedes has dominated winning all six races since 2014. If he translates pole into victory, the Briton will equal Michael Schumacher’s career record of 91 GP wins. Vettel crashes Saturday’s second session was interrupted for 10 minutes after Sebastian Vettel crashed in his Ferrari. Replays showed that the German driver, in his final season with Ferrari, clipped a kerb at Turn Four and lost control as he smacked into the barriers. He escaped unhurt. The red flags came out with Hamilton in a perilous 15th place with just over two minutes remaining. He said: “It was one of the worst qualifying sessions. It was horrible — heart in your mouth. I wanted to stay out and do a banker but they said come in and get new tyres and then the red flag came out. “It was a risk, we got through but I am starting on softs which is not good.” “Undoubtedly I am likely to get dragged past tomorrow, it will make it hard to win the race.” Once Q2 eventually resumed, Hamilton managed to put in the fourth quickest time to get through to the top 10 shoot-out but missing from it were both Ferraris with Vettel’s teammate Charles Leclerc knocked out in 11th place.  Biggest crowd Sunday’s race is due to be watched by the biggest sporting crowd in the COVID-19 era with 30,000 fans allowed to attend.  The grid: Row 1: Hamilton (Mercedes), Verstappen (Red Bull); Row 2: Bottas (Mercedes), Perez (Racing Point); Row 3: Ricciardo (Renault), Sainz (McLaren); Row 4: Ocon (Renault), Norris (McLaren); Row 5: Gasly (AlphaTauri), Albon (Red Bull); Row 6: Leclerc (Ferrari), Kvyat (AlphaTauri); Row 7: Stroll (Racing Point), Russell (Williams); Row 8: Vettel (Ferrari), Grosjean (Haas); Row 9: Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), Magnussen (Haas); Row 10: Latifi (Williams); Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo) .   It was one of the worst qualifying sessions. It was horrible — heart in your mouth Hamilton||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-takes-pole/article32706536.ece
27 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Patience key to resumption of sporting activities’||Patience is the key for the Indian national hockey teams that are yet to get back to optimal training. The players reassembled for the national camps in early August but with six men testing positive for COVID-19, the quarantine period and SAI restrictions, the players — both men and women — began proper training only last week. And the coaches are in no hurry to rush them on. Managing expectations “One of the most important things is to manage expectations. They will not come back at their old levels immediately. It is important to accept things as they are and give yourself and your players that time. “I know the NFL has had 26 hamstring and six ACL injuries in two weeks. “ We have to be careful, not rush in too soon because you really need to have patience,” women’s chief coach Sjoerd Marijne said during a Hockey India webinar on Saturday on resumption of activities. Goalkeeper Savita agreed, adding that training during lockdown was not at the same level as before. “We did some activities in the hostel also. “There were light sessions with Janneke (Schopman) and Wayne (Lombard) on agility, reflexes, footwork, eye contact etc.,” she explained. Marijne also insisted that restarting camps was necessary for players’ fitness. “We need all the time we can get. It takes time to get back to the levels we were at. You go up very quickly but it also breaks down really fast and in lockdown, you can’t move much. “Playing hockey is not the same as doing exercises in your room, which makes it harder to come back to old levels of fitness, without injuries. “Others like Netherlands are already playing every week and if we don’t do it now, we will get further behind those countries,” he said. Used to restrictions P.R. Sreejesh admitted the restrictions were initially a struggle but were now routine. “We were like free birds suddenly put in cages when COVID first struck, forced to follow guidelines we had never known before. “The Pro League games were fantastic and now we are without competition for almost 6-7 months. “We had to do everything consciously early on but now masks and sanitisers are part of the routine and everyone’s mentally prepared to adjust to the existing situation,” he said.  It is important to accept things as they are and give yourself and your players that time — Sjoerd Marijne||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/patience-key-to-resumption-of-sporting-activities/article32706675.ece
27 September 2020||MUMBAI/HYDERABAD,||Neetu to head women’s selection committee||Former India left-arm spinner Neetu David was appointed the chairperson of the BCCI senior women’s selection committee on Saturday. After inviting applications in January, the BCCI hierarchy did away with the interview process. According to a BCCI insider, the office-bearers preferred to appoint the five members based on their experience in international cricket. “It’s not mandatory to conduct interviews,” he said. Fresh challenges Reacting to the news of her appointment, the 43-year-old Neetu said: “It is an honour, but comes with fresh challenges. We will work as per the guidelines of the BCCI and try to come up with the best combination. “I hope to live up to the expectations,” she said. “Well, we have a lot of young talent around and our desire will be to scout and groom them with a long-term perspective with the help of seniors,” Neetu said. “We would like to continue the good work of the previous selection panel.”   The former India left-arm spinner said the new role was a “huge responsibility.” “I sincerely hope that we live up to the expectations. The biggest challenge will be to see India scale the summit in world cricket.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neetu-to-head-womens-selection-committee/article32706494.ece
27 September 2020||BRISBANE,||Australia pips New Zealand||World champion Australia beat New Zealand by 17 runs in Saturday’s opening Women’s T20 clash here. With the visitors closing in on Australia's 138, Megan Schutt (4/23) claimed the vital wickets of Katey Martin and Suzie Bates in the 18th over to derail the chase. Australia had earlier reached 138 for six, thanks to a superb 41-ball 61 by Ashleigh Gardner, who smashed six 4s and three 6s.  The scores:   Australia 138/6 in 20 overs (Ashleigh Gardner 61, Sophie Devine 3/18) bt New Zealand 121/7 in 20 overs (Suzie Bates 33, Devine 29; Megan Schutt 4/23, Delissa Kimminice 2/24) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-pips-new-zealand/article32706671.ece
27 September 2020||PRESS TRUST OF INDIA,||Shubhankar stays, Bhullar exits||Shubhankar Sharma made the cut at the Dubai Duty Free Irish Open golf with a four over total 144 on Friday. Shubhankat was tied 47th. However, Gaganjeet Bhullar, making a return after more than six months, missed the cut with rounds of 75 and 78. Aaron Rai, of Indian descent born in England, carded a level par 70 to take the clubhouse lead, when play was suspended due to darkness. Lahiri, Atwal make cut At Punta Cana (Dominican Republic), Anirban Lahiri and Arjun Atwal made the cut in the Corales Puntacana Championship on Friday. Lahiri and Atwal were placed T-54.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shubhankar-stays-bhullar-exits/article32706676.ece
27 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Positive cases in HI camp a concern: Reid||The six positive COVID-19 cases which hit Hockey India’s camp for Tokyo Olympics-bound players at SAI Centre here underlined the serious nature of the pandemic. Indian men’s head coach Graham Reid explained that the developments posed a big test for all concerned. “This is new territory for all of us. It was important for them to understand how serious this disease can be. It’s very easy to think that we are all fine. The tough part for youngsters is that they are often asymptomatic. That makes it difficult to detect the disease. Thankfully, not much damage is done. We will get back to full training in the next five weeks,” Reid said in a webinar on Saturday. The six affected players — captain Manpreet Singh, Jaskaran Singh, Surender Kumar, Varun Kumar, Krishna Pathak and Mandeep Singh — have recovered well, Reid said. The decision to call for a camp was called into question, given that there are no tournaments lined up in the near future. Indian women’s head coach Sjoerd Marijne dismissed this argument, citing the example of decorated swimmer Michael Phelps to make his point. “Michael Phelps is a guy who won a lot of medals. He is working every day of the year. You cannot start working just a year before the Olympics. It is the same with us. We need all the time we can get. Coming back to the level we were six months ago takes time,” Marijne said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/positive-cases-in-hi-camp-a-concern-reid/article32706539.ece
27 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,||‘There’s a great vibe around the team’||A fortnight ago, Stuart Broad called Jos Buttler England’s greatest-ever white-ball cricketer. The Rajasthan Royals management must have been pleased to hear that. He is available for Sunday’s fixture against Kings XI Punjab. “(It was great to) get a win on the board; the team played fantastically well in the first game,” said Buttler. “It was an outstanding batting performance and a fantastic bowling performance in tough bowling conditions.” He said he was excited to play his first game. “It was great to be back in training with the boys,” he said. “There’s a great vibe around the team so I’m really looking forward to taking the field.” He said the atmosphere and energy around the squad was fantastic. “We are expecting a really tough match against Kings XI,” he said. “(It is) a fantastic team. K.L. Rahul was in exceptional form the other night against RCB, so he will be a key wicket as always. “I think we’ll see another potentially high-scoring game at Sharjah with small boundaries and the dew factor coming in.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/theres-a-great-vibe-around-the-team/article32706498.ece
27 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Jhingan joins ATKMB||ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) announced the signing of central defender Sandesh Jhingan on Saturday on a five-year contract. Jhingan, who received the Arjuna Award earlier thus year, made his move to the Indian Super League champion from Kerala Blasters, where he spent six seasons. After injuries kept Jhingan away from action for much of the previous season, the 27-year-old defender will be eager to get back on the field for the Kolkata giant. Lot of friends “I am delighted to have joined ATK Mohun Bagan. I had a detailed chat with the coach and the owners and I admire their vision and I am very happy that they felt that I could be a part of the family. I have a lot of friends already there in the team and I am looking forward to join them and start working together,” Jhingan said in a statement released by the club. Jhingan will join the likes of Pritam Kotal, Spain’s Tiri and Ireland's Carl McHugh, as the reigning champion looks to bolster its defence ahead of the new season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jhingan-joins-atkmb/article32706535.ece
27 September 2020||Paris,||Verdasco out after positive COVID test||Former Top 10 player Fernando Verdasco said he has been dropped from the French Open because of what he believes is a false positive result on a coronavirus test. The 36-year-old from Spain had played in 67 consecutive Grand Slam tournaments until missing this year’s U.S. Open. Verdasco wrote on Friday on Twitter — two days before play begins at Roland Garros — that he had COVID-19 in August and did not have symptoms. He said that was followed by negative results until he tested positive this week. Verdasco said he asked for another test, but French Open organisers refused. He said he took other, unofficial tests on his own that came up negative. “It makes me sad and feeling absolutely frustrated,” Verdasco wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verdasco-out-after-positive-covid-test/article32706538.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||ISL: MEA nod for eight Brazilians||Nine overseas recruits — eight from Brazil and one from Fiji — are set to become the first foreign professional sportsmen to arrive in India, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, for the Indian Super League (ISL) football. The next edition will kick off in November across three venues in Goa, signalling the resumption of top-flight sporting activity in the country post the coronavirus-forced lockdown. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has granted permission to 10 foreigners — nine players and one coaching staff — to join their respective clubs for pre-season in Goa. Clearance It has been learnt that they have also got clearance to travel to India from their respective governments also. Odisha FC trio Marcelinho, Diego Mauricio and Rogerio Ramos (goalkeeping coach), along with two each of Bengaluru FC and Chennaiyin FC and one each of Hyderabad FC and Jamshedpur FC will leave Brazil to arrive in Goa early next month via London, thanks to India’s ‘air bubble’ with the United Kingdom. Similarly, ATK Mohun Bagan’s Roy Krishna has already left his native Fiji to undergo a two-week quarantine in New Zealand and needs to test negative thrice before reaching India.  The next edition will kick off in November across three venues in Goa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-mea-nod-for-eight-brazilians/article32706582.ece
27 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Hamsa to hold charge as KSWA secretary||The Kerala State Wrestling Association (KSWA) AGM, held in Thrissur recently, decided to entrust the duties of secretary to joint-secretary K. Hamsa. Last month, the KSWA’s SGM had dismissed secretary S. Anil Vasan and banned him from all wrestling-related activities. The Wrestling Federation of India had also removed Anil Vasan from its executive committee. The AGM also decided to give insurance cover to all participants at various State championships conducted by the association this season. The AGM also reconstituted the technical, coaching and ethic committees.  Technical committee: Chairman: V.R. Giridhar. Convenor: K. Biju. Members: K. Usman, T.S. Aneesh and Jeri Sebastian.   Coaching committee: Chairman: T.C.Manoj. Convenor: Stebin Joseph. Members: C.S. Arun Dev, Rambha Shahoo and J. Rakesh.   Ethics committee: Chairman: P. Krishna Kumar. Convenor: Titus Lucose. Members: Sajan M. Cyriac, V.N. Shabeer and K.K. Krishna Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamsa-to-hold-charge-as-kswa-secretary/article32706831.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 07:49 IST,||Sudoku - September 27, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-27-2020/article32707070.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||In search of darkness||K.R. Praveen is keen to keep under wraps the intrigue that drives his upcoming film Thami . The reason is understandable, at least going by its taut, give-nothing-away trailer that points to an apparent ‘murder investigation’. “There’s a death in a family. Even as they mourn, there happens to another ‘death’ shrouded in mystery. We get to see what really happened,” says Praveen. “The entire film happens in a day’s time, with flashbacks throwing light on the backstories. The movie also has a women-oriented message,” he adds. The film stars Shine Tom Chacko in the lead. The title, Thami , ups the curiosity quotient and Praveen, formerly an ad filmmaker, explains why he was particular about retaining it. “It means ‘darkness’, and I felt that this in one word encapsulates the crux of the movie on a symbolic level,” he says. But the filmmaker from Thiruvananthapuram quickly adds that, “The treatment, however, is not fully as dark as it sounds. It is essentially a drama thriller, interspersed with several elements of romance and relationships with a murder mystery at its heart.” Scripted by Praveen himself, Thami was shot for a theatre release but the makers are now planning to release it on an OTT platform, though an official announcement is awaited. It was originally slated for a summer release in theatres and was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The film was shot predominantly at Urallur in Koilandy, Kozhikode, and in Malappuram districts, and Mangaluru. Praveen says cinematography by Santhosh C. Pillai posed a unique challenge. “We zoomed in on an old-style house in Urallur as the principal setting for the action scenes. So the tight interiors proved tricky as regards camera-work and lighting,” says the 34-year-old, adding that he steered clear of the “cinematic gimmicks” and attempted to keep the flick “rather realistic”.  Thami is also the first Mollywood movie to release a 3D poster, with its first-look poster back in late 2018 when production started rolling. Apart from Shine, others playing key roles include Sohan Seenulal, late actor Sasi Kalinga, Sunil Sukhada, Disney James, Geethi Sangeetha (who is in Lijo Jose Pellisery’s Churuli ) among others. ‘Invaluable feedback’ The film also features many newcomers. Although not his last appearance in movies, Thami is perhaps among the final film of Sasi Kalinga to come out. Praveen reminisces about the relationship he shared with the veteran actor. “His feedback was invaluable,” he says.  Reel and real  Praveen lists Bollywood filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani, Tamil filmmaker Mani Ratnam and Hollywood actor-director Mel Gibson as his inspirations. He is also fond of works by veteran filmmaker and scenarist K G George in Malayalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-search-of-darkness/article32706760.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Master mentor||When S.P. Balasubrahmanyam sang ‘En Kadhale’ (from the film Duet ) in last year’s semi-finals epsiode of Super Singer reality show on Star Vijay, everyone was astonished. The man was 73 and still singing like a dream, with every note and swara falling in place impeccably. “I cannot forget that,” recalls singer Shweta Mohan, who was part of the judges panel alongside names like Anuradha Sriram, Unnikrishnan and Benny Dayal. “It was sheer bliss and we were all in awe. As much as his presence is intimidating for the sheer volume of work he has done, he carried himself as though he has done nothing,” she adds. SPB, as the singer was fondly known, was always respected but his other exceptional quality was the way in which he guided other aspiring musicians during his time at talent hunts and reality shows. ‘Mukkuthi’ Murugan knows that well. The singer from Dharmapuri district, who won the Super Singer title last season, enthralled the late singer by not only rendering ‘Oru Kuttu Kiliyaga’ (from the film Padikkadhavan ) but also simultaneously drawing a sketch of SPB and Malaysia Vasudevan. “Even before we got on stage, he called all of us aside, blessed us, and asked us to treat him as a friend,” says Murugan, who also showed his other art works to the singer. “He kept saying, ‘Don’t think of this as a competition, enjoy singing’,” he adds. One of Murugan's lifetime dreams also came true during the show when he sang‘Ennama Kannu’ ( Mr Bharath ) with SPB on stage. “I was looking forward to sharing the stage again with him,” rues Murugan. SPB’s association with music talent hunt shows goes a long way: he has been associated with Super Singer since its inception in 2006. “Every time we started a new season, we would keep him posted,” says a Star Vijay spokesperson, adding, “He was always enthusiastic about spending time and listening to the contestants. He kept track of every singer, however junior they were, and kept encouraging them on to greater heights.”  As much as his presence is intimidating for the sheer volume of work he has done, he carried himself as though he has done nothing Shweta Mohan Singer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/master-mentor/article32706763.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Fast tracking to normalcy||The ongoing drug scandal has cast a pall of gloom over the Kannada film industry and most celebrities have retreated to their homes. There is, however, a ray of hope emanating from the sets of Phantom in Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad. Written and directed by Anup Bhandari (of RangiTaranga fame), Phantom has Kichcha Sudeep in the lead. While the director refuses to divulge details of a film he calls “a dream project”, he does, however, offer us glimpses of what is happening on set. The techie-turned-director, who is also a music composer and lyricist, talks about the film. Edited excerpts from an interview: When did you resume shooting? We started in June. We have been working non-stop. We are done with a major portion of the shoot in a forest. In the studio or on location?  It was all in the studio. We created a massive forest on two floors in Annapoorna Studios in Bengaluru. We are done with that portion. Now, we have created another set in Ramoji Film City, where we just completed a 10-day night shoot. We are building a new set that will be ready soon, and the shoot will resume. How has the shooting experience been with social distancing norms?  Initially it was tough. There is always a fear lurking when we are working in a group. We have to be extra careful. The health guidelines and protocols were followed before every shoot. Now we are used to it and sail through the procedures making sure we are all safe. I believe it is important to get back to a normal life now. Do you think theatres will open by the time Phantom is ready?  Definitely. I am pretty sure that theatres will be up and running. We are done with 50% of the shoot. There is still a lot to be done. By then, I believe things should be back to normal in the country. What is Phantom about?  The film spans multiple genres. I describe it as an action-adventure-thriller. It is an original story I wrote. The film is produced by Shalini Arts, Jack Manju’s production house. He is one of the biggest distributors in the Kannada film industry and Sudeep’s manager. Are you not composing the music?  I am involved with Ajneesh Lokanath, the composer, at every step. I wanted him to score the music as he is currently one of the best in the industry. I also felt it will be a refreshing change to have him composing music for my film. What is Sudeep’s role in the film?  Sudeep plays Vikrant Drona, a rugged character. Vikrant is mysterious and no one can figure out what he does and why he does certain things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/fast-tracking-to-normalcy/article32706757.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||My fish better||An Italian couple I know get into a fight every time they throw a dinner. The wife will tell the husband to go and buy salame from her home region because the antipasti, the starters, have to be perfect. The husband, hailing from another region, will sarcastically ask why he should get the mediocre salame produced in the wife’s home area and insist on getting the ones from his own region, which, as everyone knows, makes the best salame in all of Italy. This deadly insult to the salame beloved of her mother, grandmother and all her ancestors will make the wife take off on the culinary vandalism inflicted on Italy by the philistines populating her husband’s home region — ‘...it amazes me they know how to open their mouths and put food into it!’ At this point, any neutral bystander usually starts to slide the kitchen knives and heavy vessels out of sight. I’ve seen other Italians argue intensely about the provenance of the best pesto and gnocchi, the French get sharp about different cheeses and wine, the English and Irish brewing killer stares over the life-and-death matter of whisky, and the Germans rising into high dudgeon over competing claims of bread and beer from different parts of their country. Raging firefight Back home, the food arguments are equally epic. There is one South Indian friend, a great mimic, who has a whole stand-up comedy routine about utthapams: he goes into different Southy accents, each describing the ‘correct’ utthapam while deriding all the impostor recipes from other States. Come to Bengal and you enter a constantly raging firefight of arguments about fish. There is the great ilish divide, where Ghotis from the west put the ilish from the Ganga on a pedestal while sneering at the ilish found in the Padma; in return Bangals from the east and Bangladeshis revere the queen of Padma — ‘what do Ghotis know of ilish? You can’t call that thing that swims in sewage and factory effluents by the sacred name of ilish!’ There is also the argument about how to cook the ilish: Ghotis claim that Bangals fry it and add too many spices, while the best way to respect the delicate piscatrious empress is to just slide it raw into rice that’s cooking and gently let it steam. Within Bangladesh too, there are arguments over, say, katol fish and rui fish, one wide, the other narrow, with people from eastern districts, votaries of rui, shaking their heads at the people from the western districts and their strange preference for katol. A Bengali will say about Bengalis from a different area: ‘They don’t know fish, we do.’ Wrong taste Now, if anybody knows their freshwater fish, it’s Bengalis, just as Italians know their salame . So what exactly is happening when two people or two groups of people argue about something that is unnis-bees, 19/20 in taste? Suddenly, I’m reminded of a friend who is deeply into Hindustani classical music. ‘You know, I’ve tried to like Carnatic, but I just can’t stand it,’ he once confessed. ‘The raag starts and it’s very familiar, but then they sing it wrong!’ I’m also reminded of the first time I drank tea at a roadside stall in Maharashtra and nearly spat it out. It was familiar, as in it was clearly related to the roadside tea in Calcutta, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Bombay, but it tasted wrong . If you try food from a completely different culture, it’s possible you’ll find it alien. It’s also possible that you’ll fall head over heels in love with it as a whole, while missing out on the nuances, at least at first. So an Indian who becomes infatuated with Japanese food, say, may not be able to discern the subtle differences between the rice from Niigata and Yamagata prefectures while wolfing down everything Nipponese; and a Japanese who falls in love with Indian food may not be able to make out the difference between Karnataka-style sambhar and the type from Tamil Nadu. The problem comes not from something that’s radically outside your experience but from something that is familiar yet betrays the expectations of your taste buds (or, in the case of music, your ears), something in which just one or two small components are changed from what you’ve previously experienced. The Italian couple, for instance, love Indian food and whenever they visit India it’s like watching two gluttonous love birds. From my side, whenever I’ve seen them start to argue about their salame, I’ve jumped in and begged them to get different varieties from both their regions.  There is one South Indian friend who has a whole stand-up comedy routine about utthapams: he goes into different Southy accents, each describing the ‘correct’ utthapam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/my-fish-better/article32706359.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Out, damned bot||The 2014 Maharashtra Assembly elections were just around the corner. Arjun Sharma*, a student in Mumbai, was looking for some quick money when a friend approached him with a lucrative offer. The job required Sharma to create several seemingly authentic Twitter accounts. “I created profiles and made them look real. For instance, to act as a cricket lover, I would make cricket-related posts and use a relevant profile picture,” he says. Within weeks, he was handling some 15 accounts he had created. He worked with a few other people. “A guy gave us fodder for daily posts,” he says. The accounts actively posted content about social and civic issues, and were directed against BJP and its candidate Ashish Shelar, who was then contesting against Congress’ Baba Siddique for the Bandra West seat. Shelar won by over 25,000 votes. Sharma was paid in cash for his stint. Six years on, organised misinformation is more than just a digital issue. It is an extension of our very society, reflecting its lopsided keel. Even as social media posits itself as a democratic tool, it is worth questioning if its reach is indeed egalitarian, as those with massive resources robotically flood the medium with propaganda, leaving only an insignificant slice free for independent voices. When it comes to policy implementation by social media platforms, the concept of fostering equal speech — moving beyond just free speech — gets muddled, says Raheel Khursheed, former head of News, Politics and Government for Twitter India. Those with more resources enjoy the power to steer the online discourse, while the individual voice, even if free, gets buried in the noise. Society’s worst In the new Netflix documentary, The Social Dilemma , Tristan Harris, ethicist, computer scientist and former Google employee, articulates a fundamental issue — the existential threat to society isn’t technology itself, but its ability to bring out the worst in society. Changing this challenges the very business model of the platforms, which is focussed on monetisation of information. Actually, says Harris in the film, “It’s a disinformation-for-profit business model.” “If I want to manipulate an election, I can now go into a conspiracy theory group on Facebook, and find people who believe the world is completely flat... and I can tell Facebook (to) give me 1,000 users like that.”  A study done by Devesh Kumar, professional coder and developer, is telling. In September 2019, he started mapping replies to some popular tweets and categorised them into three types — tweets by the user’s followers or other verified accounts, tweets by popular troll accounts, and tweets by unknown accounts. The third group interested him the most. Through scraping tools like Twint and Twitter’s own API, he prepared a database of 2.3 lakh accounts with heavy political content. He found that 89% of the accounts were created in 2013, between June and July, less than a year before the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Some 74% of these accounts had about 5,000 posts, with one tweet per 20 minutes on an average; 18% of accounts had tweeted more than 60,000 times with one tweet every eight minutes on an average. Networks to manipulate Kumar’s second study sheds light on information manipulation. Tweet speed — the total number of tweets / account age — is key here. A political account that tweets 600-700 times in less than a day appears unnatural, says Kumar. His research underscored what he calls ‘seed accounts’— profiles that swamp the platform with specific content through their networks to manipulate information. Of the 1,22,023 accounts analysed for Congress-related content, 147 — or 0.1% of accounts — fell in the category of seed accounts. For BJP-related content, of the 2,71,579 accounts studied, 7% fell in the same category. While seed accounts for Congress worked in a linear manner, the BJP’s were branched and functioned in clusters, providing more penetration. Some were even region-specific. While most suspected seed accounts of the BJP were followed by prominent party leaders, this was hardly seen with Congress accounts, says Kumar. This research is hardly representative of the complete picture, but it throws up questions about the very fabric of social media. Take the case of the Deepika Padukone-starrer Chhapaak . Released two days after the actor’s much-publicised visit to Jawaharlal Nehru University to express solidarity with students there protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the movie’s fate was foreshadowed by a huge backlash. Soon after Deepika’s visit, #BoycottChhapaak started trending on Twitter, accusing the filmmakers of giving the acid attacker of Laxmi Agarwal, on whom the movie is based, a ‘false’ Hindu identity. Alt News  exposed the fake claim and carried a report that said: “Several accounts that spread misinformation about the film were anonymous. The followers of these users range from a few hundred to several thousand, and together their reach is significant.” As per the report, over 80 of the Twitter users, who shared targeted misinformation about the movie, were followed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Pratik Sinha, founder of Alt News, says that the target of bot accounts on social media platforms are often individuals. “They typically delegitimise the individual. When such accounts are followed by the Prime Minister, the issue becomes far more serious.” A 2018 study by BBC , titled  ‘Duty, Identity, Credibility: Fake news and the ordinary citizen in India’, found that right-leaning messages on Twitter were disseminated in a much more organised manner. The political messaging by these accounts appeared to focus on an anti-minority stance, an inflated sense of Hindu power and supremacy, a pride in the Vedic age and traditions, or India’s superiority over the West. Twitter is not the only platform rife with targeted misinformation. A survey by Social Media Matters and Institute for Governance, Policies, and Politics, published in April 2019, found that over 50% of the Indian population received fake news over various social media platforms ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election — with Facebook and WhatsApp leading as the mediums of circulation. About 41% of respondents in the survey came across misinformation as ‘hurtful comments about a particular community’. Is it correct to term such organised groups as ‘bots’? Well, the term is often misinterpreted. A bot account may not necessarily mean that it is operated via a computer programme. It may also refer to accounts that are part of a syndicate of profiles, operated by real people who publish targeted content. Kumar points to an interesting Twitter trend: “A lot of political trends start between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m. when activity remains light on Twitter, so a base network is created to set the tone for the day, and it can then become organic.” ‘Share’ psychology While research into bot accounts and dissemination of targeted content remains deeply incomplete due to its complex nature, what also eludes scholars is the psychology behind what people share, and why, in politically charged societies. A survey published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , indicates that moral-emotional words in messages increased their dissemination by a factor of 20% for each additional word. According to social psychologist Jonathan Haidt, moral-emotional feelings can be categorised into four families: the ‘other-condemning’ family (contempt, anger, disgust), the ‘self-conscious’ family’ (shame, embarrassment, guilt), the ‘other suffering’ family (compassion and sympathy), and the ‘other-praising’ family (gratitude, awe, and elevation). Of the tweets analysed by Kumar between September and December 2019, words like ‘Pakistan’, ‘Pak’ and ‘Islamic Republic of Pakistan’ figured in 33% of them. Other popular words were ‘Hindustan’, ‘Hindutva’, ‘NaMo’, ‘Narendra Modi’, ‘Shri Ram’, and ‘Ram Mandir’. From January 1 to August 31 this year, words targeting Islam formed the bulk of 30% of the accounts analysed. Terms linked to PM Modi took up 20%, those in support of CAA and NRC formed 14% and Ayodhya and Babri Masjid-related words figured in 11% of the tweets studied. Sinha says messages with images and videos get huge traction on social media. The Misinformation Review by the Harvard Kennedy School analysed politically-oriented WhatsApp groups in India in the period before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. It found that 10% of images circulated on WhatsApp were known misinformation. Far from its rallying cry of being a democratic tool, social media now seems like a well-oiled machine roaring away for those who wield the most power in real societies. Do more resources, then, warrant more control over the space? More importantly, are organisations doing enough to re-empower the individual? According to the latest Twitter Transparency Report for July-December 2019, the platform saw a 52% increase in global spam reports compared to the last reporting period. Far from benign Khursheed says that between 2014 and now, Twitter has moved far from its benign existence in India. “It is very different now in terms of its reach, capability, and how many people use the platform,” he says. But the problems in the space, in India, need to be tackled with a focused lens, he says. “In the Indian context, the tendency is to treat it as a monolith. Take the case of Europe. Every country, like Italy, Spain and France has an individual team. In India, even though it is so diverse, there is a single team sitting in Delhi. My key criticism of social media platforms is that while they tend to think global, they are incredibly obsessed with their headquarters, which are in San Francisco, and even policy changes cater to those markets,” says Khursheed. In response to a query, Twitter told The Hindu , “By using technology and human review in concert, Twitter proactively tackles attempts at platform manipulation and mitigates them at scale by actioning millions of accounts each week for violating our policies in this area.” Facebook was unavailable for comment. On June 26 this year, the shares of both Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. plunged over 7% after consumer goods company Unilever joined a host of other giants in boycotting advertising on the platforms due to their inaction on hate speech. “The issue of hate speech in India started way, way, before the U.S.,” Khursheed points out. “If our regular society is not equitable and broad-based, how can we expect social media to not reflect those iniquities?” India cannot afford to sweep the digital problem under the carpet any longer. An egalitarian society cannot exist in isolation, it needs to be enabled by the very people it seeks to represent. The same holds true for social media. It is, after all, an extension of our physical world. Or, at least, that is what it promises to be.  (*Name changed on request .)  The concept of fostering equal speech, moving beyond just free speech, gets muddled. Those with more resources steer the online discourse, while the individual voice, even if free, gets buried in the noise||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/out-damned-bot/article32706327.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The old fool of La Mancha||Miguel de Cervantes wrote a book about a mentally-ill old man who abandons his routines, acquires an equally aimless disciple, roams the countryside acting out his delusions, thrashing people as frequently as he gets thrashed, even slaughtering seven sheep at one point, before he finally returns home, broken in health but with sanity restored in some measure, and dies soon after, attended by the disciple who has come to love the old man. It’s a comedy in the same sense that bear-baiting is good fun for children. It is fair to say almost no one has read this book. The story we have read is from a book Cervantes never wrote. This story is of a kind-hearted, impoverished old Spanish gent from La Mancha who has read too many chivalric romances. “Too many” in the sense that his screws have come loose, as his endearing, matter-of-fact, peasant sidekick often points out to him. But Don Quixote (immersed in the reading, we’ve forgotten his real name is Alonso Quijano) has lost his mental balance with such style, such magnificence, we come to see that in an unjust world, sanity is actually a kind of compliance with evil. Don Quixote inspires us — we who are trapped in our cubicles and car payments and caterpillar lives — to also trust in our imaginations, our dreams, our apparent delusions, and to finally take wing. “ Yo sé quién soy, ” says Don Quixote at one point. I know who I am. So would we if only we were suitably mad. Encyclopedia of cruelty Which is the actual Don Quixote ? The book that Cervantes wrote but almost no one has encountered or the book almost all us have encountered but Cervantes never wrote? Nabokov, who was a great reader in the sense that he used his own eyes to read and not someone else’s, thought it was the first. He found Don Quixote “a veritable encyclopedia of cruelty”. Nabokov’s own novels allow the reader to experience that terrifying all-too-human pleasure — and in Cervantes’ novel, he saw the cruelty of an age that laughed at dwarves, roasted heretics at the stake, and admired honour killing. Cervantes’ Spain makes the Taliban’s Afghanistan seem a Nordic utopia. It’s into this world the book was born. Its parent was only a tiny bit more than the sum of his times. But that epsilon of excess was enough. In the fortunate destiny of a handful of books, readers made his book their own. Some of these readers have been novelists, playwrights, poets and movie-makers. There is Ratan Nath Dhar Sarshar’s novel Fasana-e-Azad , Borges’ short story ‘Pierre Menard’, Dale Wasserman’s musical Man of La Mancha , Graham Greene’s novel Monsignor Quixote , Kathy Acker’s experimental fiction Don Quixote , Libba Bray’s dark comedy Going Bovine , Coetzee’s allegorical trilogy ending with The Death of Jesus , Salman Rushdie’s metafiction Quichotte , and many, many others. A day will come, no doubt, when a critic will assert that one cannot claim to have read Don Quixote if it hasn’t been read in the original Klingon. Glorious tediousness Cervantes wrote other books. The author of El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha also wrote Viaje del Parnaso , Novelas ejemplares and Trabajos De Persiles Y Sigismunda : Historia Setentrional . Naturally, nobody except Cervantes scholars and a few showoffs — they call themselves Cervantistas — care about these works. As far as the larger world is concerned, Cervantes is the author of Don Quixote and that is that. Actually, there’s no need to read this book either. Everyone knows the story’s highlights. The tilt at the windmills, the freeing of the prisoners, the confusion of the village woman with Dulcinea: it comes as a surprise when we recall that we have never actually read the two volumes. The number itself comes as a surprise. There are two books? Yes. Part II was published some 10 years after the first. The sequel is generally considered better than the first by those whose job it is to generally consider such things. That suggests the author was surprised by the success of his earlier slapdash effort. In Part II, there’s a clear effort to please the reader; Nabokov of course disapproved. However, Part II is as tedious as Part I. Great books have a certain obligation to be tedious. The Old Testament has the First and Second Chronicles. The Ramayana has the Uttara Kanda. Moby Dick has all those bloody chapters on the whaling industry, including the most-skipped chapter in all of literature in any language since the invention of speech, namely: “Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in Stone; in Mountains; in Stars”.  Don Quixote is a great book and it diligently discharges its obligation to be tedious. It spans 900 pages, give or take a hundred pages. It has enough bad poems to make us ache, like Aurangzeb allegedly did, that if only all poetic necks were one neck, then poetry could be executed with one stroke. Cervantes had apparently never heard of Chekhov’s gun, so beloved of MFA programs everywhere. He introduced characters and incidents for no reason other than, well, as Nabokov put it, “a secret sense of writing, the harmonizing intuition of the artist.” That’s an excuse, not an explanation. Where retellings often go wrong is in trying to cure the story of its tediousness. Inevitably, the retelling becomes more logical, the scenes deliberately pointless, the digressions deliberately planted. The author is inspired, and unfortunately it shows. We learn that a copy, no matter how original, cannot hide the fact that it is an inspiration. Don Quixote wasn’t inspired by Don Quixote . Mad enough Strangely, one of the more intriguing interpretations is not from a full-time littérateur but a management theorist. The late James March, who taught at Stanford’s Graduate School of Business, a guru’s guru and one of the founders of organisational science, turned the familiar interpretation of a charming, slightly comic, idealistic Don Quixote into a philosophy, perhaps even theory, of how one should make decisions in a world filled with misrecognition and unpredictability. In a much-cited essay, ‘The Technology of Foolishness’ (1971), he outlined the need for a model of decision-making that didn’t confuse rationality with logic. Don Quixote was his model, and in a series of talks and papers, March tried to develop this idea. “Quixote reminds us,” March wrote, in one such effort, “that if we trust only when trust is warranted, love only when love is returned, learn only when learning is valuable, we abandon an essential feature of our humanness.” I suspect Cervantes’ Don Quixote didn’t set out to remind us of any such thing. But it does not matter. March’s Quixote is Quixote too. Like all great books, Don Quixote forever remains one reader short of completion. And like all great books, it’s mad enough to believe in our humanity, in us, the reader. Author ofHalf Of What I Say, the writer has a collection of short stories forthcoming from Hachette..  Don Quixote (immersed in the reading, we’ve forgotten his real name is Alonso Quijano) has lost his mental balance with such style, such magnificence, we come to see that in an unjust world, sanity is actually a kind of compliance with evil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-old-fool-of-la-mancha/article32706332.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Beware of the behemoth||Ever since AlphaGo, a computer programme, defeated a human at a game of pure intuition, the excitement around artificial intelligence (AI) has grown, only to be offset by a corresponding sense of foreboding — the more relevant voices have worried that AI is still rather on the dumb side and that it might be dangerous if it were to rule our lives, that it can’t differentiate between a shopping cart and a mobile bassinet unless told specifically. So, when you pick up a book titled The Machine Is Learning by an author who writes cautionary tales about society and its ails, you hope it might elucidate the intrinsic pitfalls of burgeoning AI. Good and bad news: Tanuj Solanki’s novel cautions us against AI by making a villain of it. Remorseless engine But not in the way you’d think — it doesn’t envisage killer robots who do the bidding of a megalomaniac. Rather, the villain is a faceless institution — we get a glimpse into AI’s technical dynamics in the context of a life insurance firm that acquires and uses big data to nourish the corporate that we all unquestioningly serve. It’s an Orwellian behemoth, indomitable because it has “countless options”, and against whom you can fight for only as long as you are deluding yourself. The book also fuses the logistical and developmental issues around AI with a bunch of highly engaging questions on moral philosophy and private ethics. In the end, this is both satisfying and disappointing, because while it roils with internal struggle, it also boils the whole thing down to a simple whose-side-are-you-on type proposition where sentimentality wins the argument by training its guns on the usual suspect, the remorseless engine of Capitalism, with AI as its main henchman. Tanuj Solanki fleshes out a character from the veritable world he built with Diwali in Muzaffarnagar , that compendium of interconnected short stories about kids from a claustrophobic town. In Diwali , Saransh Malik was a throwaway fake name blurted out in the face of physical danger. In TMIL , Saransh Malik is brought to life, serving as a crucible for the interplay between ambition and accountability. As the book progresses, we watch his character ripen through interaction with the two polarities that mould his outlook and spur his actions. Noir-ish bleakness Each character in this novel is an organic manifestation of a worldview and constantly at risk of being reduced to a caricature as such. But in Solanki’s skilled hands, they retain their internal consistency while performing their archetypical roles. It is a treat to read existential questions masquerading as informal banter between two people who met on Tinder. Solanki’s impressive novel works so well because ultimately it is about people. The smarter machines get, the more they are bound to eat into domains held or handled by humans. The supposed efficiencies that technology breeds can obviate human labour — companies, prime movers of the economy, grow by streamlining themselves and eliminating redundant costs, and human labour seems the obvious deadweight. And that’s the big dilemmatic issue the book anchors itself on. The story has a noir-ish bleakness built up by the narrator’s unvarnished stream of consciousness, which can be as sharp and cynical as it can be bluntly matter of fact. The book’s real effort lies in ferrying the protagonist, a dedicated cog in the machine, from a situation where his intelligence is being employed in the service of the machine to one where his self-reflexivity allows him to become conscious of the effect of his individual actions and break the chain. His actions threaten to disrupt his career, and jeopardise the very machine he has been helping build. But at least he is free, once again, to think.  The Machine is Learning Tanuj Solanki Macmillan  Rs. 499    It is a treat to read existential questions masquerading as informal banter between two people who met on Tinder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/beware-of-the-behemoth/article32706336.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Tying Islam to global politics||On July 10, soon after Turkey’s highest administrative court, the Council of State, annulled a 1934 cabinet decree that had converted Hagia Sophia into a museum, President Erdogan delivered a celebratory speech to defend what he called the country’s “historical and legal rights” over the Christian cathedral. Deviating from his earlier stance wherein he had invoked his country’s sovereign rights to reconvert the Hagia Sophia into a mosque, he declared that the reconversion was the strongest answer ever given to the brutal attacks against Islamic symbols and values across the world. A couple of weeks later, the imam who delivered the first Friday sermon in Hagia Sophia jubilantly revealed that its reopening as a mosque proves that the monotheistic civilisation of Islam “continues to rise in spite of all obstacles.”  This begs the question of how Islam (or pan-Islamism) could irrupt into what was (supposedly) a secular legal decision rooted in Turkey’s “sovereign rights”. For those seeking an authoritative answer The Many Faces of Political Islam by Mohammed Ayoob and Danielle N. Lussier couldn’t have come at a better time. This scholarly work tries to makes sense of nearly all aspects of Islamist politics, not just of the Turkish kind. In simple terms, ‘political Islam’ can be defined as the use of Islam for political mobilisation. Complex perception The authors, while acknowledging that political Islam being a multidimensional concept defies a universal definition, point out that its many faces (violent and nonviolent) are the manifestation of nation-specific agendas pursued by Islamist movements and “the constraints imposed by the operational context”. For instance, groups that perceive a regime they are opposed to as legitimate would rather resort to nonviolent, electoral tactics than a violent revolution. Interestingly, the same operational context argumentation could be used to explain the huge difference between the brutally violent attempt by ISIS to establish a transnational Caliphate and Erdogan’s pan-Islamic neo-Ottomanism — symbolised by the un-Islamic takeover of Hagia Sophia — although the ultimate aim in both cases is to bring the global Muslim community ( ummah ) under a single Islamic leader to liberate it from Western subjugation. But if, as rightly argued by Ayoob and Lussier, multiple voices and competing visions make it extremely difficult for the divided and diverse ummah to accept a single set of spokespersons, it would be almost impossible for any Islamist patriarch to forcibly take over the leadership of the Muslim world. This was proved right by the results of an interesting survey published last month in The Washington Post by Harvard University scholars Tarek Masoud and Aytug Sasmaz.  Divided view The survey, conducted in March 2019 across Turkey’s 12 geographic regions, found that 59% of the respondents agreed with the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to abolish the Ottoman Caliphate in 1924. Only 14% considered it a “bad decision”. And when asked if it was time to bring it back about 43% of Turks said they “definitely disagree,” 18% said they “somewhat disagree,” 9% said they “somewhat agree,” and 8% said they “definitely agree.” In other words, even within Turkey there is hardly any support for the restoration of the Caliphate. What about self-proclaimed Islamic states such as Saudi Arabia and Iran? The authors consider their cases sui generis . These models cannot be replicated anywhere else because of the unique circumstances that led to their creation. The ideologically diverse nature of the worldwide ummah will not permit the rise of any “mullah-led mobilisation” of the Iranian kind, or the establishment of an exemplar of monarchy defined by an ulema-state nexus. Yet, Ayoob and Lussier reject the idea that Islamism and democracy are incompatible. Citing the examples of Indonesia, Tunisia and Turkey, they argue that in these countries political parties based on “Islamic principles” played an important role in the democratisation process. However, the colonial legacy and the policies followed by the dominant powers to extend their strategic and economic gains achieved during the colonial era disrupted democracy in Muslim nations and contributed to the rise of political Islam. To the credit of Ayoob and Lussier, historian Elizabeth F. Thompson confirms this thesis in her latest book How the West Stole Democracy from the Arabs . In sum, it must be said that The Many Faces of Political Islam has immensely succeeded in its endeavour “to provide students and lay readers a comprehensive and comprehensible introduction” to political Islam. The reviewer is an independent researcher and Secretary General of Islamic Forum for the Promotion of Moderate Thought.  The Many Faces of Political Islam: Religion and Politics in Muslim Societies Mohammed Ayoob, Danielle N. Lussier University of Michigan Press  Rs. 1,418 (Kindle price)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tying-islam-to-global-politics/article32706345.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||That sinking feeling||It catches you unawares. There’s the Kolkata you have always known, with its rows of hideous highrises, the red-painted buildings from an older era, the Howrah Bridge, the blue-white railings, the mesh of overhead wires blocking the sky. If they all look battered and crumbling, well, that is how Kolkata is. Then you realise with a start that the rot has gone deeper than ever before — the roads are under putrid green water, the trams are ghost ships disintegrating in sheds, the railway platforms are submerged and the last trains have left, never to return. Crows circle over this wasteland, cawing menacingly, a crocodile slips under the scum at the erstwhile Gariahat crossing, snakes slither, catfish swim. This is the Kolkata of the future as imagined by the short animation film, Wade . Climate change has returned the city to the swamps it was reclaimed from and the well-heeled have fled to drier grounds. Atmosphere of menace The people left behind are a straggly set of migrants from the Sundarbans, which is now a few scattered islands floating like dead leaves in a ravenous sea. Rising sea levels have displaced not just the human inhabitants but also animals. In Wade, a terrifying encounter takes place between two groups of climate change migrants — humans and tigers — in a ravaged Park Street. The wide-eyed humans and animals, the background score of swamp sounds mixed with a grating metallic roar, the absence of dialogues, and the visuals of a broken city create an atmosphere of menace, which is compounded by the realisation that this might not just be a dystopic vision after all. Around 17 million people were displaced by natural disasters in 2018; and, according to a World Bank study, 143 million people could be rendered homeless by climate change-related catastrophes by 2050 in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and South Asia. The Ghoramara island in the Sundarbans is sinking steadily as a result of climate change. If global temperatures continue to rise at the current rate, coastal cities like Kolkata might well be under water in 30 years’ time.  Wade is the creation of Ghost Animation, a collective of young animators, artists and filmmakers from all over India, based in Kolkata. Their signature style is 2D animation, drawn by hand, frame by frame.“Every frame is a unique drawing made from scratch, and we love the flavour that brings to the story,”  say  Upamanyu Bhattacharyya and Kalp Sanghvi, who make up the team along with  Gaurav Wakankar, Isha Mangalmurti, Shaheen Sheriff and Anwaar Alam. These days, one usually doesn’t associate Kolkata with skilled young professionals. But, Sanghvi says, “Kolkata has been very good for us, and we’ve had no trouble bringing some very good talent to the city to work with us.” Shell of Park Street Their closeness to Kolkata is apparent in Wade : the visuals will move any viewer but will probably leave a Kolkatan devastated. The film has that effect because it recreates the city not just through the recognisable Howrah Bridge or Victoria Memorial but also through smaller details like the pamphlet-plastered electricity boxes on South Kolkata roads, the ubiquitous graffiti, the blue mosaic on a Metro station wall. This familiarity lends plausibility to the unfamiliar future, making it scarier. For instance, Park Street, where the main action takes place, still retains the pink Flurys banner, the Stephen Court building, the McDonald’s logo. Explaining why they chose to set the action in Park Street, Bhattacharyya says, “Because it’s recognisable and because most people of a certain level of privilege have had good times there. We felt that all the decadence and luxuries that Park Street embodies are surviving on borrowed time, and soon it’ll be a shell,” adding, “People who have seen the future of Park Street as depicted in Wade have described it as akin to ‘watching a good friend suffer.’” Ghost Animation films usually tend to be more about ordinary people. In a West Bengal tourism film, toddy-tappers atop palm trees and the Darjeeling toy train make up dazzling kaleidoscopic patterns, accompanied by footages of the Maidan football players and schoolgirls balancing themselves on railway tracks. In Wade , the landed rich have vanished altogether, leaving the migrants to fight it out in a space still echoing with the revelry of heedless days. Us vs. them Wall graffiti declaring ‘Send back! Save Kolkata from climate change refugees’ speaks of a time when city dwellers had closed ranks to keep out the newly-arrived. “Society is not accepting of people fleeing situations of distress. Today, our borders are more rigid and we have a sharper sense of ‘us vs. them’ than ever before,” says Sanghvi. The ‘them’ include the fauna, the most powerless of them all: Ghost Animation’s short film, Kinara — The Edge , made for the Wildlife Trust of India, also featuring tigers, is a chilling story of how humans evict animals from their own hunting grounds and kill them when they return looking for food. Expectedly, Wade is getting a lot of attention internationally, having been selected at nearly 40 global festivals, including the 2020 Annecy International Animated Film Festival (held in June), where it won the City of Annecy Award. The story of Wade continues to grow: the team is currently working on an anthology of comic short stories further exploring the Wade universe, delving into how people ignored the climate crisis while the city still looked ‘normal’ and how life gradually changed for the worse. Ominous? Yes, but it might just wake us up.  InWade, the landed rich of Kolkata have vanished altogether, leaving the migrants to fight it out in a space still echoing with the revelry of heedless days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/that-sinking-feeling/article32706363.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Wealth as an idea and not as a crutch||One of the undoubted qualities author Chetan Bhagat possesses is the habit of using his eyes. That is to say, he relates to his material directly, rather than through that word salad of readymade doctrines which makes the intellectual discourse about India so fatiguing to engage with. Therefore, though he may lack profundity, he is at least always tilting in the right direction; a clear thinker, if not a deep thinker, in a milieu where so much deep thought seems to exist for its own obscure sake. For a writer must love his material, and love begins with a gaze, not a concept. For this reason, I wish to dig deeper into an issue Bhagat has complained of in his recent newspaper columns, namely, the absence of ambition or aspiration in Indian society, including among its young people. We know that India’s supposed dynamism is constantly touted. But Bhagat avers that “Indians are less aspirational than we think”; and that the glaring need for our economic betterment has not induced any corresponding drive towards it. In this understanding, the country’s period of high economic growth appears to have been just a phase; happenstance, rather than any decision of the collective will, which, on its own strength, sinks perhaps to the notorious ‘Hindu rate of growth’. In fact, Bhagat warns that with the prevailing mindset, “Our standard of living also won’t rise further. Our youth will remain in low-end jobs. We will become a nation of clerks, support staff and low-level employees.” But is he not simply describing what has been the abiding Indian reality for as long as anyone can remember? Spiritual preoccupations Why is this so? Here Bhagat’s explanatory powers are overwhelmed, and he falls back on another stock myth — that Indian society is non-materialistic, and more interested in ideological and spiritual matters (“ensuring past Hindu injustices get sorted, solving Bollywood cases, making temples, nationalism”), which therefore have come to occupy us, to the detriment of economic growth. He cites this trait with bemusement, not approval, deviating from the traditional boast of ‘simple living, high thinking.’ But he also plainly prefers to look no further, instead passing the buck to a convenient scapegoat, ‘the youth’. “ They need to keep asking questions — why isn’t there more growth? [emphasis added]” However, if we wish to take a step forward, particularly in this moment of crisis, we must roll up our sleeves and excavate the traumatic reality that lies concealed at this site. To begin with, let us keep using our eyes. It will then be obvious that a distaste for material things is nowhere present in the common ruck of Indian society. Quite the opposite; hence the blight of corruption and greed. Note that the generally petty scale of this is irrelevant to the point at hand, which is the love of money. As another writer has said, in the same context: “The intensity of the thirst is not indicated by the size of the drink.” But once we have noted this, let us turn our attention to what is special about it. It will not enlighten us to merely bemoan greed, which is human and universal. Let us instead dwell on the pettiness; that will make it personal. And then something fascinating emerges. I quote Nirad C. Chaudhuri, again, from The Continent of Circe (1965): Counting paisas “The American industrialist, even when he is aware of no other motivation except acquisition of money, is the old European Conquistador in a new incarnation. He is the Genghiz Khan of the age of economics. But the Hindu money-maker can never be anything but his paisa-counting sordid self. He is the worshipper of money in the absolute manner. [emphasis added]” Discounting the writer’s tone of irritation, we have here the insight, that the pettiness of Indian greed follows from its ‘absolute-ness’, that is the concrete, tactile, material nature of the attachment. On the other hand, the amassing of wealth on the scale of Western capitalists is possible only via some idealisation of wealth — be it through the doctrines of the free market, or the individual pursuit of happiness, or, indeed, some ideal of the social good — which enables the money-maker to take his eyes off the stuff itself, that his imagination may have some play. So then, it is positively not any tendency to become spiritual or ideological that gets in the way of our material growth. Rather, the opposite is the case, that being so utterly rapt by material things, we are unable to gain the imaginative distance from them, which alone enables a proper scaling-up of plans and desires. However, the human mind cannot avoid the realm of spirit and imagination, but must necessarily populate it with something. In our case, given such an excessively concrete materialism, what is likely to be found there? Exactly what we do find there; the counter-weight of a total escapism. So the cataracts of mythological and conspiratorial chatter that we witness in our society disprove rather than prove the proposition that we love the life of the mind. Fear and paralysis Now let us return to Bhagat’s query, as to how Indians might be induced to care more about material wellbeing. The answer is that they care far too much, to the point of fear and paralysis. The way out of this paralysis — surely the most pressing national task we face in the wake of COVID-19 — is to begin caring about ideas pertaining to these things, or in other words, to care about real ideas. Incidentally, this is a compelling reason to reopen places of worship, and also cinemas and theatres, and to relate to them afresh. Many wealthy countries were quick to open these sectors, perhaps evincing the awareness (however vague in this day) that ideas help to overcome fears, and to impart courage and spur healthy activity, including economic activity. One hopes that India will find its way to some such thought. But that we have abandoned our supposedly dearest pursuits (religion and cinema) so fast and so far, points to a pre-existing malaise in our relationship with ideas. And the road to riches passes only through this realm of ideas. Finally, in affirmation of Bhagat, it must be recognised that we are in a crisis, at a ‘sink or sail’ juncture. If we do not grasp a saving idea, we can only become fodder for a deadly one. If we do not find some existential vision to overcome our present paralysis, it may be that, in the near future, we will yield value only as objects of experiment, for some Silicon Valley billionaire. The writer is a novelist, who manages the Writing Centre at FLAME University, Pune.  That we have abandoned our supposedly dearest pursuits (religion and cinema) so fast and so far, points to a pre-existing malaise in our relationship with ideas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/wealth-as-an-idea-and-not-as-a-crutch/article32706293.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Nobody went hungry in Shahjahanabad||Memory is a strange thing; it thrills you and it traps you within its confines. As the world languishes in the grip of the pandemic, I often turn to memories of flavours and food from a childhood in the walled city of Shahjahanabad, now called. Old Delhi, to comfort and nourish me. While the imposing walls and minarets of the Jama Masjid are memorable, what really endures is the recollection of the food that was sold in small halwai shops and street carts, and the kindness of the people there. Life in the walled city was a treat for all ages, and our food habits intermixed to create what we often refer to as the Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb — a cultural melting pot that’s now in decline. Every day was a feast, and empathy and sharing were just as abundant as the food. We all gave because we were taught to share if we could — because no one should go hungry. Mathi halwa, a blend of sweet and savoury that came from a small shop tucked in an even smaller lane, was a staple breakfast item. Unusual? Perhaps for the straitjacketed palette, but not in Shahjahanabad, where flavours mingled with ease. We rarely ever ate lunch without matri kulcha, a spicy mix of boiled peas with onions and potato. It was especially fun to have during the summers, when most people avoided hot food. Even today, you’ll see it being sold out of little tin boxes on the backs of bicycles around the city — spicy, tasty, affordable fare feeding the hungry. Gourmet chaat Then, there was the evergreen Dilli ki chaat for any time of day. There was a chaat to suit every kind of taste, and different shops boasted of specialities such as pani puri, papri chat and matri chola. A more obscure delicacy was palak ke patte ki chaat, made from spinach leaves — now served in gourmet restaurants as fusion cuisine. Evening also brought the famous satpura samosas, which were twisted seven times (hence satpura as the halwai explained) around the border, as well as aloo tikki, which was stuffed with potato but also with finely chopped nuts fried crisply to tempt you and give you instant cholesterol. The sauce could be eaten on its own — it was that breathtaking. Was it clean on the dusty, narrow lanes? We weren’t really bothered. Everything delicious on those streets was clean enough for us. Giani ice cream may be a famous brand today, but in those days it was just a small shop where we went every other day to get our fill of kulfi. And in our Punjabi homes, most celebrations were always accompanied by kebabs from Karim’s — also a household name now, but back then, simply the go-to place for good meat and kebabs. We were voracious mutton-eaters, unlike today’s chicken-obsessed generation. The mutton would be cooked for hours over an angeethi (brazier), with the masala soaking into the meat just so, making it tender beyond compare. Fading echoes The city and its affluence migrated south and we went with it, and the Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb began to dwindle. An occasional lunch or dinner outside might remind us of that taste, yet the air-conditioned malls could never quite reproduce the smells and tastes of the city of our childhood.  During this pandemic, which forces us to turn inwards, I often cook these dishes and street food from memory, in order to refresh that memory for myself and for my children who think everything can be ordered. I am marginally successful but it heals me and delights them. Together we rediscover the tastes I once knew well. I speak to them of food and hunger. I remind them of gratitude as millions go hungry. Taste is a privilege. As a feminist, I never thought I would say it, but cooking and feeding is almost a meditation now. Once more, all I desire is to walk down the tiny bylanes of Shahjahanabad and eat the food there. My children — a set of three ultra-modernists — have no reference to this life. The food I serve them is a watered-down version of what we once ate. I remind them that the streets of Shahjahanabad once resembled the cobbled streets of Rome, that it is the seat of unnumbered saints and that, as the saying goes, no one goes hungry there. They look at me in gratitude but mostly disbelief. To them, I am now a spinner of stories. Memory, indeed, is a dangerous thing. The Delhi-based feminist from the 1960s is a food enthusiast and historian.  The mutton would be cooked for hours over anangeethi(brazier), with the masala soaking into the meat just so, making it tender beyond compare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nobody-went-hungry-in-shahjahanabad/article32706296.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Revealing mysteries of the woods in the Western Ghats||A career in government could leave an enthusiastic professional disappointed at the hurdles to creative expression and enterprise, and having to live under the shadow of political and administrative compulsions. But happy endings are possible. What it takes to succeed is a strong belief system, clean hands, plain perseverance and a good measure of luck. That is the story narrated by S. Shyam Sunder, who began his career as a forester after training in Geology. An astonishing sequence of events led him to a job in the Forest Service in the 1950s and with many twists and turns, concluded with his elevation as the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests for Karnataka. Away from public view Forest officers in India work in locations that are away from public view, and perceptive accounts of how they go about their job are rare. Several officers like to keep the mysteries of the woods to themselves, especially when the prying individuals are journalists and researchers. It is equally true that others love partnerships to expand forests and conservation. So when someone is ready to tell a forester’s story, breezily peppered with anecdotes and portraits of people high and low in the system, it is bound to be a refreshing book. Simple logic Shyam Sunder, a nephew of litterateur Shivarama Karanth, lays bare all his efforts in this memoir: from picking the most promising trees for planting, monitoring and setting new regulations on the commercial use of forest produce including timber (sometimes levelling the field for villagers vis-a-vis wealthy contractors), keeping avaricious politicians from distributing good forests as patronage, and often ensuring that “development” projects do not devastate the environment, notably the surviving evergreen forests of the Western Ghats. As a young forest professional, he trained not just in Dehradun’s Indian Forest College, but in France, Ivory Coast and Latin America. Transforming extractive forestry into a socially beneficial enterprise is a demanding goal, considering that the British-era view of the forest was primarily that of an economic resource, seemingly inexhaustible, to be exploited for fuel, furniture, railway sleepers and construction material for everything, including ships that fought wars. Of course, extraction inevitably touched such destructive lows that Karnataka, in the final days of wooden railway sleepers, was ready to offer money to the Union government for wood, but had no more trees to offer. King cobra and a jumbo A forester cannot spend life in the woods without encountering diverse wildlife. In Shimoga, Shyam Sunder describes a near-encounter with a king cobra hidden in a tree stump, and a life-saving manoeuvre executed by a colleague, Gaviaiah, who dived and pushed the officer to the ground, away from the snake. In Kollegal, a tusker confrontation on a narrow hillside road during a family trip left everyone shaken. The jumbo decided to retreat down a slope, rather than charge at his jeep. Throughout the many absorbing accounts of life as a forester, the author comes across as candid and humble, buoyed by a zest for life and relationships. This memoir weaving past and present is richly detailed, enlivened by a vivid recollection of places, people and shared moments.  Reliving the Memories of an Indian Forester: Memoir of S. Shyam Sunder  Edited by Shivsharan Someshwar Manipal Universal Press  Rs. 450    Throughout the many absorbing accounts of life as a forester, the author comes across as candid and humble, buoyed by a zest for life and relationships||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/revealing-mysteries-of-the-woods-in-the-western-ghats/article32706349.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Google celebrates its birthday on September 27, although no one really knows the exact date when it was founded. Started by two Stanford college friends, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, in 1998, it is a multi-billion dollar enterprise now. The name comes from a simple misunderstanding when they were searching for another, actual, word that existed in academia and meant a particular number. What word is that and what number does it denote? 2Google donated five million dollars to obtain drones for a programme by the World Wildlife Fund, and in 2019 launched a pilot programme in Nepal to try them out. The money was given as part of the first round of Google’s Global Giving Awards and will go toward a tagging system and analytical software to be used across huge landscapes. Which illegal activity is Google helping to fight using these drones? 3Gmail was launched by Google on April 1, 2004, which led many to believe it was an April Fool’s joke. Before this service the term ‘G-mail’ already existed from as early as 1998. This was used online by fans of a certain fictional obese cat, and the original G-mail was known as “e-mail with cattitude”. What does the G stand for in the original G-mail? 4When Page and Brin built the first server rack for Google at Stanford, they were looking for a cabinet to house it that was easy to assemble and disassemble. The server contained ten 4GB hard disks and two cooling fans. What colourful and bountifully found system did they use to build the server stack? 5In May 2010, Google put up a playable interactive Google Doodle as a tribute to an iconic video game that pits the player against four ghosts in a maze. A study discovered that so many people played the game that it caused an estimated $120,483,800 loss in productivity in just one day. It is also estimated that the full version led to a loss of 4.8 million man-hours of productivity worldwide. Which is this that you can still play on the Google page? 6On Google Earth, one can use the keyboard shortcuts to explore the world in a unique way. If you were to go to ‘Menu->Tools->’, you would see an option to select a particular entity. This entity is usually an artificial device that recreates the environment to train the controller of a particular type of transport vehicle. Using this, one can visually experience the terrain as one of these people would. What system is this that is also available as a game from Microsoft? 7Jay Wilbur, of the Natural Arch and Bridge Society, spotted a natural bridge spanning over a river on Google Earth. Before this moment, few people had ever seen this natural phenomenon. Locally known as Xian Ren Qiao (Immortal People Bridge), it is a meandering natural bridge carved through limestone karst by the Buliu River. In 2016, a team of experts went to the spot, measured the 400-foot span and confirmed the record. What world record does this bridge hold? 8In 2005 when Google launched Google Earth 5, they also made available to the world 3D undersea terrain. One of the most popular locations to check this out is -41.7325° N, 49.9469° W. Previously this place could only be reached with special permission, and the original site was discovered by a secret United States Navy investigation of two wrecked nuclear submarines. What historical relic would you find at this location on Google Earth’s 3D buildings setting? 9Halo Trust is a non-profit organisation in Kosovo that has teamed up with Google to use Google Earth and Google Maps to locate and remove a certain deadly issue. The issue exists because of a conflict that took place in 1998-1999. Many villagers and animals had lost their lives, and to prevent further losses they identify where the issues are and mark them on Google Maps. This helps experts remove the source of danger. What dangerous item is Google helping track in Kosovo? 10When you press the number 3 in Google street mode, you are presented with a red-cyan view. What does this enable that, if you have the right equipment, should give a more in-depth experience? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article32706365.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from Doon||A coucal calls loudly outside my window, and I leave the comforts of my pallid, pristine room. Past the blue door and windows that contradict the whitewashed walls, I step out into my wide sit-out overlooking the courtyard where an imposing mango tree adds to the beauty of this quiet morning. It’s hard to believe I’m in the heart of the buzzing town of Dehradun, but I’m grateful for chancing upon this oasis that is the Mango Courtyard. It’s not just this bed and breakfast though; in my multiple years of visiting Doon, the list of my discoveries of the surprisingly quiet pockets this unassuming town has to offer, has only grown. Dehradun clock tower Growing up in Nainital in Uttarakhand, Dehradun was just another town in my state’s backyard. Ironically, it was a longer drive to get there than New Delhi. My earliest memories of Doon are a road trip with my father and his brother in a blue ambassador my uncle drove back then, and me lined up with my cousins in the backseat screaming ‘the Dehradun clock tower!’ repeatedly in unison, while driving past the famed landmark. As an adult, my first long stay in Doon was marked by the harrowing episode of my passport renewal, a chore for which one had to travel all the way to the state capital until only recently. The red tapism left a bitter taste in my mouth that couldn’t be sweetened even by the sumptuous goodies of Doon’s famous Ellora bakery, and I almost always bypassed the place since to head to the hills of Mussorie, or beyond. It took a chance meeting with the delight that is Ruskin Bond, that made me give his hometown another shot. In A Town called Dehra , Bond reminisces about his childhood in the British town, which often features in his writing. I’ve picked my copy at the English Book Depot, one of the oldest bookstores here and another hidden gem of Doon, tucked behind a coffee shop. I also lap up some of the nostalgia spilled over from the past when I walk across the rambling campus of the Forest Research Institute where my father often trained in the 70s. An overnight halt a few years later in the outskirts at the Lacchiwala forest rest house also acted as a catalyst — the quaint dak bungalow in the thick of a sal tree forest was straight out of a Bond book that aided in the slow metamorphoses of my impression of Doon blossoming from one of a traffic laden city, to one packed with stories and old world charm. Brimming with new found acceptance, I return to Doon for a week-long stay, in search of study material I need for a long form story I’m working on. I spend afternoons at the library on Old Survey road, the street where Bond grew up at his maternal grandmother’s house. Old parade ground Sauntering down the road, I cross over and walk past the 1878 Doon club and the old parade ground, a small park, then back to my retreat. The cozy sitting-cum-dining is abuzz with guests; a father who is coaching his son for his upcoming exams, and educators who teach across Doon and Mussorie’s well-known schools. My host Ruchi grew up in Doon, while her American co-host Kaylen fell in love with the town (and India) and made it her home. There is little of the essence of Garhwal I find in the town’s residents though, much like there is little of the culture of Kumaon in people from Nainital. They are unique products of their ecosphere of boarding schools, bakeries and the pahadi -anglo life, but it is also the common thread that binds us across popular hill stations. Before I leave this time, there is one last place on my list. The Mindrolling monastery in Clement Town was established in 1965 after the repeated destruction of the original one in Tibet, complete with a massive Padmasambhava statue, a peace pagoda, clever signboards, and a sprawling campus. Strolling around the township outside, I watch women in traditional chupas , grandpas rotating prayer wheels, and kids playing on the street. I sit on a roadside bench and ask ‘auntie’ for a plate of steaming momos and thukpa and watch the world go by, a refreshing change from the animated, upmarket cafes that line Rajpur road, the commercial lifeline of the town. Two worlds Called Dehra by the older generations and Doon by the new lot, I’m not sure which of the two this world falls in. But it’s very much an inherent part of the town that recharged me in my only weekend getaway during the drudgery of this lockdown. In his book, Bond mentions a wild flower ‘Blue Mint’, which grew in ditches and open spaces across his beloved Dehra. Increasing human population hasn’t supressed it, and it remains his association with the town. ‘I have known it since I was a boy, and as long as it’s there I shall know that a part of me still lives in Dehra.’ I try finding my association with Doon, and what keeps springing back to my memory is something blue too — the ambassador from that trip with my uncle. Both are long gone, but I return to relive that sweetness which still lingers in Dehradun’s old lanes. Born and brought up in the Himalayas, the writer is an adventurer who derives great joy from napping under the mountain sun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-doon/article32706374.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Of belonging, strength and refuge||About a decade ago, I was part of an exercise group of women from villages near Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore, who suffered from headache, tension, backache and general depression. The idea behind the weekly exercise programme started by the hospital’s low-cost effective care unit was to give the women time for physical exercise and a chance to meet others with similar difficulties, to share their stories and find strength and friendship. At first, the women were stiff and unsure of what their bodies could do. But, with encouragement, they worked hard at touching their toes, twisting their waists and doing some basic yoga asanas. For the first time, they realised that they had waists, hips and legs and that they could sway to music. They learnt to relax and reshape their bodies. The stiffness, aches and pains gave way to a lightness of being, joy at new friendships and an eagerness to experience new ideas. Sharing and caring Apart from the exercises, we also had a time of sharing and caring. We heard about what had happened in each other’s lives the past week. Domestic violence and family relationships were the big issues. The women began to counsel each other and came up with ideas and solutions for many problems. We also shared the joys — the birth of a baby, a child who had passed the 10th standard exams, and weddings. We began celebrating birthdays — a string of jasmine and a box of sweets to take home was given to the birthday ladies as we sang “happy birthday”. As new friendships were born, old prejudices died; new understanding and fresh insights into relationships were gained. The group became a place for belonging, strength and refuge. I had just read My Grandfather’s Blessings by Rachel Remen. In her book, Dr. Remen describes how a volunteer bereavement group that made little red hearts for grieving children lifted a little child’s broken spirit. Red hearts I searched our little town for red velvet. I brought the material to our group and asked if they would like to make little hearts out of it to give away to those who were admitted in the wards alone and in pain. With great joy, we cut out little hearts. The women took them home to stuff and sew and brought them back the next week. They had made about 50 red hearts of all sizes. Then the women went to each ward and gave these little hearts away, explaining to each person they gave it to that they had made it specially for them so that they would know that someone was praying for them for healing. The patients were delighted. Many of them had had operations. The soft velvet hearts fitted so snugly into their palms. For many, it was the most beautiful thing they had ever held. A couple of women came over to see what it was all about. “Can I have one too,” one of them asked. I nodded, “Who is it for?” “It’s for a little boy who is in the bed next to my daughter,” she replied. “His mother can only come in the evenings, so I look after him.” I was touched by her compassion. The other woman said, “I’m going to give my heart away to whoever needs it.” That phrase has stayed with me ever since. I wonder who needs my heart today! ushajesudasan@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/of-belonging-strength-and-refuge/article32706318.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||A to Z of Tharoor’s rich lexicon||A recent exchange on Twitter was full of droll humour. In a chat between authors, Shashi Tharoor commended Chetan Bhagat’s latest newspaper column. The praise was to the point, Bhagat thanked Tharoor but requested an appreciation loaded with ‘big words’, the kind the latter is famous or notorious for, depending on which side of the fan spectrum you occupy with regard to the former UN diplomat turned politician. Tharoor took up the challenge, lived up to the cliché associated with him — the prophet of monumental words that whistle past our cerebrums. Words like rodomontade were used and Bhagat was in instant vocabulary-heaven! And as for rodomontade, if you want to know the meaning, tuck into Tharoor’s book Tharoorosaurus , a 319-page tome that starts with agathokakological and ends with zugzwang! Multiple worlds Before you scratch your heads and wonder about these complex utterances while living in a simpler WhatsApp universe where abbreviations and emojis rule, give the book a chance and it grows on you. For those who love English, a language that is constantly drawing inspiration from a multitude of its global siblings, Tharoor’s latest embrace of the written word, has much to savour. He deals with the ‘big word’ cliché associated with him, has a self-deprecatory laugh and illuminates English constructions either difficult like floccinaucinihilipilification or more familiar like nerd or pandemic. Despite his modest disclosure — ‘I am neither a trained linguist nor philologist, and I have no pretensions to being a qualified English teacher either’, this book reveals a language’s varied cultural roots and offers a glimpse into the author’s multiple worlds — literature, politics, diplomacy, culture and sport, especially cricket. Tharoor uses a wide-eyed deep-dive that helps us relish the word, understand its nuances and feel less intimidated if we encounter it again. There is a hat-tip to William Shakespeare — ‘His written vocabulary, Dickson tells us, consisted of 17,245 words, many of which he simply made up for his plays’, but this book isn’t entirely about literature. It liberally draws from the globe around us, juxtaposes the past with current realities, makes some friendly jabs at rival politicians and ideologies but never loses focus upon the specific word being dealt with and its multiple connotations. Epic connections Tharoor isn’t a man to be pigeon-holed into one slot, there is much more to him than a strutting of exhaustive vocabulary. As a writer of fiction, in the past he dished out The Great Indian Novel that juxtaposed the epic Mahabharata with Indian politics laced with a terrific use of imagination and the pointed gaze. And this was much before another splendid author Mohammed Hanif startled us with his fictional take on contrarian history in A Case of Exploding Mangoes . And in non-fiction, Tharoor delivers his observations with sophistication. Yet, think Tharoor and you whisper words he spouts like farrago but he has made his peace with that perception. Tharoorosaurus is him tossing his head back, gently smiling and shining a light on words ranging from the complex to the simple.  Tharoorosaurus Shashi Tharoor Penguin/Viking  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-to-z-of-tharoors-rich-lexicon/article32706351.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Snatching victory||Today’s deal is from the World Championships in 2011. The full auction is not available — just the first three bids. We’ve guessed at the rest. Forgive us if you don’t like our bidding, but we had to get to slam somehow. Slam looked nearly impossible when dummy came down. East had to have a heart, so that he couldn’t ruff the opening lead, and it had to be the 10 so declarer could avoid a second heart loser. South played dummy’s ace at trick one and was both relieved that East followed and disappointed that he didn’t follow with the 10. South drew trumps in three rounds as West discarded one heart and one spade. South cashed the king and queen of clubs before crossing to dummy with the ace of spades. He discarded a heart on the ace of clubs, then cashed the king of spades and led another spade. East played the queen and declarer had a brainstorm. Instead of ruffing, South discarded a heart. East, on lead with only black cards remaining, had to lead one. The resulting ruff-sluff allowed South to discard his remaining heart and ruff in dummy. Making six! Declarer gets high marks for his enterprising play, but the defense could have done better. West should keep all his spades, discarding two low hearts when declarer drew trumps. This would allow East to make the fine play of ducking his queen of spades later and giving South no winning option in the play. No brainstorm, no slam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/snatching-victory/article32706368.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Elementary, dear Kamalam||Respected Madam/Sir,  Whether you are married or single or some in-between situation? Whatever is convenient for you is ok for me. My what goes. But if you are in some above situation then you are well knowing that other person can have good and bad points. Nobody is perfect except maybe Suhasini. But if you ask Mani Ratnam then one hundred percent he will say she is doing this and that irritations. Maybe she is always putting remote control here and there. Or folding newspaper as if lungi from washing machine. Or maybe doing Hindu crossword with ballpoint pen instead of pencil like any decent persons. Whether any perfect people are there? Never. Maybe you are thinking what about Mrs. Mathrubootham? Whether she is perfect? Mostly she is perfect. But sometimes, very rarely, maybe less than five times in 12 months, very very rarely, I am not even complaining, just an observation, I didn’t want to say, I am only saying because you are asking, sometimes very rarely she is getting very much agitated about small small items. Two days back I had one idea. Inspiration is coming through my body like anything. Hair is standing up. I got up from sofa like hair on neck and went to the dining room where Kamalam is sitting with calculator and notebooks. I said, Kamalam! I have one idea! She said, you first come here. Five hundred rupees is missing. My head is exploding. I cannot find it anywhere. Madam/ Sir, once every two weeks Kamalam is sitting and doing full accounts. Detail means even 50p coins being counted. I said, Kamalam I will immediately help you find the missing money but shall I first tell you my one idea? She said, no. First find five hundred rupees then idea. Did you have secret ras malai in Ganga Sweets? Did you put secret biryani dinner with Mohammed Usman at 5.30 p.m.? I said, Kamalam, after Corona, secret biryani with Usman is postponed indefinitely. Ok, she said, you put one investigation and tell me where is the money? Once more I said Kamalam please first listen to my amazing new idea? No chance, first money then idea. Madam/ Sir, for three hours I checked everything. Bills, receipts, online bank account, all the purses. Inside sofa, behind sofa, inside pant pocket, inside shorts pocket, checked. Any sign of Rs. 500? Not even dust. Finally, I went to dining room where Mrs. M is sitting quietly. I said, Kamalam I have done full and complete investigation. No sign of money. Shall I put idea now? She put one brand new copy of Lionel Davidson superhit novel The Night of Wenceslas in front of me. This book is on shelf inside toilet. Did you buy it? I said, yes. When? I purchased it online and gave cash on demand to delivery boy. Did you take receipt? No, I thought what I will do with receipt? So only I didn’t take. She looked at me silently for 10 minutes like biryani master looking at chicken. Then she said, ok what is the idea? I quickly said I have forgotten and I disappeared. Madam/ Sir, what was my idea? It was to write one detective novel for the first time. Hero of book is one retired bank employee living in Chennai in housing complex and solving all crimes and problems for colony people. No problem is too big or small for hero. If I told this idea to Mrs. Mathrubootham, can you imagine the laughing and laughing? So I did one silence is golden item and went back to the living room.  Yours in exasperation   Detective J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/elementary-dear-kamalam/article32706372.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Don’t break the ground rules||It used to be a never-ending war of words between my friend’s young daughter and her grandmother, with the old lady trying to pass on her ideas of socio-cultural value-based living and the girl hating to be conditioned to follow the rules of the previous generation and believing in rewiring the social mores of her community. Conditioned upbringing that influences one’s mindset and thought process to operate in a guided pattern is generally not welcomed. Great thinkers and enlightened personalities have always stressed the need to break free of conditioned upbringing that tries to instil archaic and defunct values of the previous generations. Current and upcoming generations are being motivated to develop a discriminative intellect to look at the world through a wider lens, through perspectives based on independent, conscious and rational thinking. We, however, tend to miss the fact that at the most fundamental level, our rules of life are constructed on a set of moral and ethical indices. Life on earth is innocuously designed to follow certain common values of humaneness, behaviour, etiquette and integrated responses that conform to a conditioned pattern. This basic conditioning is the result of millions of years of striving to achieve a semblance of peace and harmony. This conditioned pattern is the criteria to strike a rapport with fellow beings and live in an integrated environment. While this can be called universal conditioning, lying unobtrusively at the substratum of survival, which no one can transgress, violate or transcend without destroying themselves in the process, then the question arises as to how and where are we supposed to transcend and break free of a conditioned pattern of living? A great thinker said, “There should neither be a compulsion to break the rules of the past nor a compulsion to follow them.” So it is to be decided by the individual and it is her prerogative; each one has to decide on the level, degree and extent of conditioned pattern of living that will suit a peaceful, organised life within the precincts of socio-cultural norms, and take care not to compromise on individualistic beliefs, ideals and principles. newshara@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dont-break-the-ground-rules/article32706316.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Moonflower Murders||Anthony Horowitz  Century Rs. 699 Retired publisher Susan Ryeland is running a small hotel on a Greek island. Even as she begins to miss her literary life in London, she learns of a woman who went missing a few hours after reading a crime novel that Susan once edited. Susan must return to London to solve the mystery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/moonflower-murders/article32706334.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||To Sleep in a Sea of Stars||Christopher Paolini  Tor Rs. 750 In this sci-fi novel, Kira Navárez finds an alien relic during a routine survey project on an uncolonised planet. The relic starts a war among the stars, and Kira is launched into a galaxy-spanning odyssey of discovery. Events push her to the limits of what it means to be human.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/to-sleep-in-a-sea-of-stars/article32706338.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||My Best Friend’s Son’s Wedding||Zarreen Khan  HarperCollins Rs. 299 Forty-something socialite, Minty Sood, a single mother of a 22-year-old boy, is ready for her second marriage when her son proposes to his girlfriend. Now Minty has to toggle between being bride-to-be and mom-in-law-to-be, while handling the intimidating mother of her son’s fiancee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/my-best-friends-sons-wedding/article32706340.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Man Who Learnt to Fly But Could Not Land||Thachom Poyil Rajeevan,   trs P.J. Mathew  Hachette India Rs. 450 As patriotic fervour grips India, Narayanan Kottoor, from a landed family in British Malabar, takes to writing as a tool of social change. The novel follows his struggles to realise himself as a writer and an individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-man-who-learnt-to-fly-but-could-not-land/article32706342.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Realpolitik||Mamta Chitnis Sen  Sage  Rs. 495 An artist and writer dissects the Indian political party system and its working machinery. She documents the journeys of party workers from key political parties, their strategies, fundraising techniques, emotional investments and so forth. Each section analyses various levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/realpolitik/article32706347.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Gangster on the Run||Puja Changoiwala  HarperCollins  Rs. 399 Rahul Jadhav took the name ‘Bhiku’ after a character from the filmSatya. He captured his don’s attention after gaining notoriety as a tech-literate criminal. After his arrest in 2007, Jadhav became an ultra-marathoner. He has covered over 3000 km and aims to break records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gangster-on-the-run/article32706353.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Future of the Indian Education System||Narendra Jadhav  Council for Social Development/Konark Publishers  Rs. 900 A Rajya Sabha MP decodes the National Education Policy, 2020, and analyses its pros and cons in detail. He explores how India’s demographic dividend may be harnessed in the light of the NEP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/future-of-the-indian-education-system/article32706355.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Why I Am Not A Hindu Woman||Wandana Sonalkar  Women Unlimited  Rs. 350 In this book, a feminist scholar and activist, born female and upper caste in Maharashtra, outlines why she disowned her religious identity. Based on experience, and on textual and empirical evidence, Sonalkar reiterates that discrimination and inequality have been internalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/why-i-am-not-a-hindu-woman/article32706357.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3118||Across  1 Eat rice, get convoluted modern device (1-9) 6 Revolutionary plans to send annoying messages (4) 9 Advanced highly rated holding company (10) 10 Measure that’s used to exercise prisoners (4) 11 Dish, bland, pig and duck purée (5,7) 15 Thin stole (7) 16 Restroom mostly refreshed for Spanish performers (7) 17 Saves, regrets holding keyboard key (7) 19 Primarily, remote oceanic section, some skirting East Antarctica? (4,3) 20 Nicholas II’s preferred way to serve vodka? (5,7) 23 Voice in maëlstrom regularly lost (4) 24 Styledá laTitian etc, for starters? (10) 25 Maëlstrom’s exciting in East End (4) 26 Sculptor’sKing And His Victim Eating Duck(5,5)  Down  1 Observe onset of flipping apocalypse (4) 2 Part of bike, aluminium chain (4) 3 Play with plaything? (1,5,5) 4 Shown European, persuaded Tory to leave (7) 5 Take trick before east voided and boast (7) 7 Quiet deceiver concealing silver: is master revealing theft? (10) 8 Hot old oven on cliff somewhere in Africa (10) 12 Somewhere in Africa, challenges Everyman to leave meat containing hint of aniseed (3,2,6) 13 Large creature and small creature’s whitish, says Spooner (5,5) 14 Tailored dean’s suits by yourself (10) 18 Dash hurriedly with temperature dropping, dash to and fro (7) 19 One standing on leaf? Tea leaf? (7) 21 A month in Spain (and part of Ireland) (4) 22 Kelly’s inheritance? (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3118/article32706371.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Time’s 100||Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana has made it toTimemagazine’s list of the world’s 100 most influential people this year. The list also features Bilkis, 82, who had become the face of the Shaheen Bagh protests held earlier this year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also on theTimelist, which says, “Almost all of India’s Prime Ministers have come from the nearly 80% of the population that is Hindu, only Modi has governed as if no one else matters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/times-100/article32706298.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers protest||Farmers across the country, especially in Punjab and Haryana, protested against the passage of three Bills in Parliament that they fear will destroy the Minimum Support Price system and leave them at the mercy of big corporate groups. Farmers’ groups called a Bharat Bandh for one day, while the Congress launched a “mass movement” to protest against the Bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/farmers-protest/article32706300.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Voting wrongs||Eight Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended for disruptive behaviour after deputy chairman Harivansh refused to hold a division vote on the agriculture Bills. In response, Opposition parties boycotted both houses. This allowed the government to pass 15 Bills in two days, including contentious labour laws.The monsoon session was then ended early and both houses adjourned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/voting-wrongs/article32706302.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Sister sleuth||Sherlock Holmes’s teenage sister solves mysteries in director Harry Bradbeer’s film adaptation of Nancy Springer’s book series.Enola Holmes, now on Netflix, stars Millie Bobby Brown ofStranger Thingsfame as the title character, who is on the hunt for her missing mother, while Henry Cavill and Sam Claflin play big brothers Sherlock and Mycroft, respectively. With largely positive reviews from critics, it’s set to kick off a franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sister-sleuth/article32706304.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Court politics||Following the death of U.S. Supreme Court Justice and liberal icon Ruth Bader Ginsburg, aged 87, President Donald Trump and the Republican Party rushed to find a conservative candidate to fill her seat before the elections on November 3. They ignored Democratic objections that this would violate precedent. Trump pledged to nominate a woman and was expected to reveal his pick within days as this went to print.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/court-politics/article32706306.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||IPL 13||The 13th season of the Indian Premier League kicked off in the U.A.E., and will go on until November 10. No audience was physically present due to COVID-19 precautions, but 20 crore viewers — reportedly the highest-ever opening-day viewership for any sporting league in any country — tuned in to watch the first match, in which Chennai Super Kings defeated Mumbai Indians, the defending champions, by five wickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ipl-13/article32706308.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Riot act||The Delhi Police filed a chargesheet alleging a conspiracy behind February’s riots. It is based on the activity of several WhatsApp groups of students and activists. Of the 21 arrested, 15 were accused, with charges against the rest to follow. Former Union Minister Salman Khurshid (above) was among those named as having given ‘provocative’ speeches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/riot-act/article32706310.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Pioneer pilot||Flight Lieutenant Shivangi Singh (right) is set to become IAF’s first female Rafale pilot. Now doing conversion training — she currently flies the MiG-21 — the Varanasi native will soon join the Ambala-based No. 17 squadron, where she will fly the Rafale. Singh is one of 10 women commissioned as fighter pilots through a programme launched in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pioneer-pilot/article32706312.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Taj opens||After six months of being closed, the Taj Mahal reopened to tourists with strict protocols in place. Tourists must book tickets online, enter the monument after thermal tests, maintain physical distance and wear masks. While selfies are allowed, group selfies are not. The Taj, which used to receive up to 70,000 visitors a day, saw less than 300 people book tickets on the first day of reopening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/taj-opens/article32706314.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Human challenge trials will help us design better treatments, vaccines than we can now’||In January, London will begin the world’s first human challenge trial, the Financial Times reported. The trial will be run by hVivo, a spinout from Queen Mary University of London that was bought earlier this year by a Dublin-based pharmaceutical research organisation, while Imperial College London is the academic partner. Participants will be vaccinated with a candidate vaccine and then wilfully exposed to novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) a month or so later. Over 38,000 people from 166 countries have already volunteered to participate in such studies.   Human challenge trials have been performed safely in tens of thousands of people in the last 50 years and have helped accelerate the development of vaccines against typhoid and cholera. Such a study was also conducted for Zika virus. The yellow fever experiments conducted in the early 1900s helped prove that mosquitoes transmit the virus causing yellow fever. The human-challenge studies have generally been used for testing less deadly diseases such as influenza, dengue, typhoid, cholera and malaria.   In May the WHO approved human challenge trials and NIH too is developing two viral strains through Colorado State University that can be used in human challenge trials.   Dr. Gagandeep Kang,Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore in an email to The Hindu explains why despite the many challenges it is worthwhile conducting human challenge trials for SARS-CoV-2.  At a time when nearly six vaccines are already in a Phase-3 trial stage, and when the virus is spreading wildly in many countries, including India, what specific advantage will come by carrying out a human challenge trial? Testing of a vaccine is one reason to do human challenge studies, but not the only reason. Frequently, studies are done to understand infection and disease — one such example is of the norovirus infection studies, where human infection was the only way to study the disease for 30 years, since there were no animal models. In the case of SARS-CoV-2, there are many things we do not understand about the virus, the infectious dose, the kinetics of the immune response, susceptibility to disease and correlates of protection, which we could learn from human challenge, and that would help us design better treatments and vaccines than we can now. Though a less virulent strain will be used for such a trial, what measures will be taken to ensure that the developed strain causes only mild infection/disease?  At the moment, I have no idea how anyone will ensure that the strain will be less virulent. The circulating SARS-CoV-2 causes a significant proportion of asymptomatic infections, and you cannot be milder than that. The mild infection/disease seems, in current understanding, to depend more on the host than on the virus. I was part of a group that helped develop the ethics guidance for human challenge studies with WHO, and our thinking was that the highest bar for safety in the absence of a definitive treatment, would be to include only young healthy people who have a minimal chance of developing severe disease, but recognise that minimal does not mean zero. Many published studies and experiences in many countries show that even young, healthy people can suffer from severe disease that requires hospitalisation and many may even die. Many studies also show that recovered patients suffer from complications of the heart and lungs. So how safe is it to test a vaccine even in a young population? Absolutely, we know that with SARS-CoV-2 even though severe disease and complications are very rare in young people they do occur, so there is no question that there is a risk of severe disease and even death. So the question is should we wait until we have a definitive treatment — like the anti-malarials that are used in the controlled human malaria model that is now almost a requirement for all malaria vaccine candidates? On the other hand, we know that with influenza infections, even healthy people have a risk of viral myocarditis, and yet we have many countries that have established influenza human challenge studies. The risks may be small but they exist, the benefits are not to the person who participates in the study (unless by participating they get the vaccine ahead of others) but really are benefits to society. This is a challenge, and ethicists and vaccinologists have argued both for and against doing human challenge with SARS-CoV-2. There are apparently tens of thousands of people who have come forward to say that they want to participate in such studies for the good of society, so we could equally ask, should we stop them from contributing as long as they understand the risks and investigators make sure that the highest quality clinical care is provided? Can a human challenge trial that only studies young, healthy participants be representative of the older population and those with comorbidities who are at grave risk of developing serious disease and even die?  No, no CHIM [controlled human infection model] study represents every facet of infection or illness in the human population. Similarly, no clinical trial is representative of populations not included in the trial — this is why we know so little about safety of drugs in pregnancy! Can a trial carried out in a few hundred participants be sufficient to know the safety and efficacy of the vaccine? If a human challenge trial is only to select the best vaccines that progress to a larger, conventional Phase-3 trial, can the normal trial process not achieve the same objective without subjecting participants to unknown risks? As above, CHIMs are not done only for evaluation of vaccines, and certainly do not replace Phase-3 efficacy studies. If a CHIM is used for down-selection, you will be progressing a vaccine or not based on a few hundred people in a short time frame, whereas taking the same candidate to a full Phase-3 will require, given the size of current trials, at least 30,000 people, who may participate in a trial for a vaccine that may or may not work. Remdesivir is to be used as a ‘rescue remedy’ to prevent participants from progressing to serious illness. But has remdesivir shown substantial mortality benefit to be called a ‘rescue remedy’?  No, it has not, but is there anything better? While I do not think we are ready for SARS-CoV-2 human challenge studies in India, since we have no experience with such studies, the investigators at Imperial and Oxford have a lot of experience with such studies. Given that there are people who are ready to volunteer and as long as they are appropriately informed and understand completely the risks and benefits, I expect the investigators to do what they have always done, which is to be very, very careful and put the safety of participants first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/human-challenge-trials-will-help-us-design-better-treatments-vaccines-than-we-can-now/article32706477.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Studies document in-flight transmission of coronavirus||The risk of in-flight transmission of novel coronavirus among passengers is considered to be low. But three studies published recently show that the virus can spread to other passengers. In one study, the researchers found one symptomatic passenger seated in business class had transmitted SARS-CoV-2 virus to at least 15 other passengers during a direct flight from London to Hanoi in early March. While 12 passengers were seated in business class, two other passengers and one flight attendant were in economy class. In-depth study Though no genome sequencing study was undertaken, the researchers from the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology in Hai Ba Trung District, Hanoi, Vietnam undertook in-depth epidemiological upstream and downstream investigations, quarantining the passengers and laboratory testing to support their hypothesis of spread during the 10-hour flight. The results were published in Emerging Infectious Diseases.  “Our interviews did not reveal that any of the additional persons with flight-associated cases had been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 before or after the flight during their incubation periods other than having taken the same flight as the index case,” they write. Also, in early March, only 23 COVID-19 cases had been recorded in UK and as of March 1, only 16 cases of COVID-19 had been reported in Vietnam thus reducing the chances of local transmission after arrival; there was no evidence of community transmission in Vietnam in early March. “The most likely route of transmission during the flight is aerosol or droplet transmission from index case, particularly for persons seated in business class,” they write. In early march, the use of face masks was not mandatory on aeroplanes or at airports. Besides thermal imaging, current guidelines recommend only the use of face masks with no additional measures to increase physical distance on board, such as blocking the middle seats. While masks can cut the risk of transmission, the absence of physical distancing, especially in economy class may increase the risk of virus spread. “Our findings challenge these recommendations. Transmission on flight was clustered in business class, where seats are already more widely spaced than in economy class, and infection spread much further than the existing two-row or two-metres rule recommended for COVID-19 prevention on airplanes,” they note. They also note limitations of thermal imaging and self-declaration of symptoms. They also note that it has been “hypothesised that a combination of environmental factors on airplanes (humidity, temperature, air flow) can prolong the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in flight cabins”. Genome sequencing Another study, also published in Emerging Infectious Diseases, found probable in-flight transmission of the virus from one or two passengers to two crew members in a 15-hour flight from Boston to Hong Kong on March 9. All the passengers were not tested. The two passengers, who are a married couple, did not have symptoms at the time of flight but developed symptoms a day after landing. In this study the researchers carried out genome sequencing and found that all the four persons had a sequence that was identical and unique and belonged to a clade not previously known in Hong Kong. “This strongly suggests that the virus can be transmitted during air travel,” the researchers from the University of Hong Kong and National Institute for Medical Research, Mwanza, Tanzania say. “SARS-CoV-2 test results have been positive for hundreds of flight attendants and pilots; at least 2 have died,” they write. “Our results demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 can be transmitted on airplanes. To prevent transmission of the virus during travel, infection control measures must continue.” Proximity effects A third study published in Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease carried out an epidemiological analysis to demonstrate probable in-flight transmission of the virus in five passengers. The researchers who were based in Athens, Greece, performed contact tracing on 2,224 passengers and 110 crew members on 18 international flights arriving to or leaving from Greece from February 26 to March 9. The researchers were able to find 21 index cases and 891 close contacts. Of the 891, four passengers and one crew member tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/studies-document-in-flight-transmission-of-coronavirus/article32706465.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Using cloud computing for better flood inundation mapping||The Kerala rains of July-August 2018 caused substantial loss of lives and property and left major cities flooded for days. Maps showing where flooding may occur or flood inundation maps can help in better flood risk preparedness. Using openly accessible satellite data and a cloud computing platform, an international team has now developed a powerful tool for a near real-time mapping of flood extent. The paper published in PLOS ONE notes the new flood inundation maps showed an accuracy of over 94%. Space-based sensors known as synthetic aperture radar (SAR) have been used widely for monitoring and mapping of flood-water inundation. SAR is capable of acquiring data in all-weather condition, making it useful for mapping and monitoring flood inundation areas. Copernicus programme These sensors operate on the constellation of two SAR satellites belonging to the Copernicus Programme launched by the European Space Agency. The data from the satellites was utilised on a cloud-based platform known as Google Earth Engine (GEE) for the rapid processing of big data. The GEE also has publicly made available numerous satellite image collections and has functions for image processing and analysis. The team studied water inundation maps from 2015 and their analysis was clearly able to show the areas submerged underwater in 2018. “Once you have the data, it just takes a few minutes as you can apply machine learning and computer vision techniques to quickly generate the water inundation maps. This can help swiftly deploying the rescue team and rescue operations can be started immediately,” explains Varun Tiwari, Remote Sensing and Geoinformation Analyst from the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, an intergovernmental organisation based in Kathmandu, Nepal. He is the first and corresponding author of the work. Future floods The team also analysed the rainfall data from 1981 to 2018 and were able to predict the major reasons behind this flood. “The monsoon season of Kerala has seen an increasing rainfall trend and this has played a major role. This also depicts that more floods are likely to happen in the near future,” adds Tiwari. “Other studies have also pointed out that the flooding event would have not taken place if the capacity of the major six reservoirs would have been 34% more.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/using-cloud-computing-for-better-flood-inundation-mapping/article32706464.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Field study adds five amphibians to Madhya Pradesh’s fauna list||A study conducted by researchers from Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, on amphibians in the central Indian Panna Tiger Reserve has come up with a list of five species hitherto undocumented in this region. The researchers, apart from compiling an entire amphibian inventory of this region, have recorded a call library of eleven species and also have obtained molecular confirmation (through DNA) of the cryptic species – a term used to refer to species that appear the same but show up a difference when their DNA is examined. Cryptic species “We need multiple techniques to correctly identify [cryptic species]… So there may be two very similar looking frogs. In the field we may mistakenly think they are one, but they may have completely different ‘calls’ or they be very different genetically,” explains Abhijit Das from Wildlife Institute of India who led the research and is an author of the paper published in Zootaxa.  Of the five species that the group has added to the faunal list of Madhya Pradesh are the dwarf toad found in peninsular India; Odisha paddy frog, an inhabitant of eastern India; wrinkled cricket frog, earlier observed in Karnataka; Pierre’s cricket frog, seen in Nepal, Bhutan and Assam; and western burrowing frog, earlier seen in western India. Vishal Kumar Prasad, another author of the paper, conducted the field surveys with a team. Since Central India is dry, amphibians are spotted only during the monsoons (late June to early August). In this window, the team spent 86 days over two years to study the area. “We used to locate breeding aggregation of frogs following their ‘chorus’. Then we sit quietly at least 1 metre away from the frog with our call recording devices and make effort to record their complete call,” says Dr Das. Sometimes they had to repeat the measurements as the frogs were very tricky to identify. First acoustic data Among the achievements of the group is recording the advertisement calls of the western burrowing frog for the first time. This frog was identified for the first time in 2017 from populations in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka. “We have recorded 30 calls from three males which becomes the first acoustic data for this species,” says Dr. Das.  Among the total of 15 species studied by the group, 12 are frogs and three are toads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/field-study-adds-five-amphibians-to-madhya-pradeshs-fauna-list/article32706469.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Animals and seasons||How do animals adapt when seasons change? Adapting to seasonal changes is crucial for survival, and many animals migrate, grow a winter coat or adjust their body temperatures to cope up. Recently, researchers from Universities of Edinburgh and Manchester found a biological switch that may be playing a major role. The study ( Nature Communications, August 2020) shows how the brains of mammals respond to changes in day lengths. The researchers studied sheep brain tissue across time to understand the activity of different genes. They point to a gene known as BMAL2, which helps in synchronising their rhythms of life to the seasonal habitats. This gene has also been reported in birds and reptiles. According to the researchers, the results constitute a blueprint for circadian-based seasonal timekeeping in vertebrates. Explaining the work, Prof. Andrew Loudon from the Centre for Biological Timing at the University of Manchester, who led the team that studied how sheep adapts to seasonal changes, said in a release: “The genetic ‘flip-flop’ timer we have identified is key to functions such as fertility as sheep transition between winter and summer. We speculate that this genetic timer is likely to be fundamental to yearly changes in many species.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/animals-and-seasons/article32706467.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||The fight over Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s replacement||The story so far: U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to nominate Amy Coney Barrett, a 48-year-old circuit judge, to succeed Ruth Bader Ginsburg as justice on the Supreme Court, according to the U.S. media at the time of going to print. Ginsburg died on September 18, at 87. Ms. Barrett is the third justice that Mr. Trump nominates to the Supreme Court. What happens next? The Senate has to confirm her nomination after a hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. The leadership of the Republican Party, which has a 53-47 majority in the Senate, has said a vote will be scheduled before the U.S. elections on November 3. The current Senate will be alive several weeks after the elections, however. Why is there a controversy? In February 2016, the Republican-majority Senate refused to vote on Barack Obama’s nominee to the Supreme Court, Merrick Garland, arguing that no President should appoint a justice in an election year. The same leadership has now made a U-turn. It now argues that the situation this year is different because the White House and the Senate are both under the same party’s control. Democrats say this is hypocrisy. Democrats also believe the confirmation process will be hurried. Republicans claim there have been faster confirmations in the past. Why do parties seek control of the judiciary? Ginsburg was a liberal icon. The conservatives had a 5-4 majority until now on the nine-member Bench. With a new conservative judge, the balance will tilt conservative 6-3. The U.S. is deeply divided over several questions of justice and liberty that are winding their way to the highest court for adjudication. Appointments are for life and a justice would be able to influence the course of the nation for several decades. There are two contending visions for the judiciary at play for long. The Originalists argue that the meaning of the constitutional text is fixed at the time of its framing. Living constitutionalists says it is a dynamic document. Originalists practise judicial restraint, while the living constitutionalists push the boundaries of judicial activism. One must, however, be aware that this classification is not a neat binary. “In my own judicial career, I’ve written many originalist rulings with so-called ‘liberal’ results,” Neil M. Gorsuch, Mr. Trump’s first nominee to the Supreme Court, writes in his book. Ms. Barrett, a devout Catholic, is an Originalist, and could have conservative views on abortion. Feminists and LGBTQ groups oppose her. How will this affect the presidential election? Mr. Trump had made a public pact with conservative voters who were initially sceptical of him that he would fill the judiciary with their allies, and he has kept this promise in the first term. The new vacancy is likely to be the singular issue for a lot of voters on both sides of the divide. Of the 792 active federal judges in the U.S., a quarter are Mr. Trump’s appointees. Democrats say one Supreme Court appointment was stolen from them during the Obama presidency. They have opened a new debate on expanding the number of justices. The confirmation of the justice has a more immediate political implication, as both parties are gearing up for an intense legal battle over this year’s election outcomes. Mr. Trump and his allies are openly challenging the unprecedented expansion of postal ballots this year. There is a possibility that outcomes in many jurisdictions will not be decided on election day. New rules regarding ballots are bound to generate a volley of election cases. The chances of the Supreme Court picking the winner of the Presidential contest are high this year.  The conservatives had a 5-4 majority until now on the nine-member Bench. With a new conservative judge, the balance will tilt conservative 6-3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-fight-over-ruth-bader-ginsburgs-replacement/article32706393.ece
27 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Farmers extend ‘rail roko’ protest in Punjab by 3 days||Farmers in Punjab continued their ‘rail roko’ agitation at several places on Saturday in protest against the farm-related Bills passed by the Parliament recently. The movement of trains in the State remained suspended in the wake of the agitation, which was extended by three days till September 29. Earlier, farmers had decided to block trains from September 24 to 26.  Bharat bandh Protests were witnessed in neighbouring Haryana with the farmers taking to the streets and blocking roads. Demonstrations were also reported from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal as part of the ‘Bharat bandh’ call given by several farmer unions. In Punjab, the call for ‘rail roko’ agitation was given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee after which 20 trains were partially cancelled and five short-terminated till September 26 by the Railways. Squatting on rails tracks, agitating farmers shouted slogans against the BJP-led Union government and demanded roll-back of the farm Bills which they described as ‘black laws’. In Amritsar, a group of protesting farmers went shirtless to express their anger. “We took off our ‘kurtas’ and shirts to make the government hear our voice,” said KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher over the phone. Farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) blocked rail tracks in nine districts. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said the rail tracks were blocked at Mansa, Barnala, Nabha (Patiala), Chhahjli (Sangrur), Rampura (Bathinda), Ajitwal (Moga), Kotkapura (Faridkot), Gidderbaha (Muktsar), Jalalabad (Fazilka). He said elders, women, youth and children also participated in the protests. Farmers would force the government with protests to withdraw the farm Bills, he said, adding that the legislations will only benefit big corporates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-extend-rail-roko-protest-in-punjab-by-3-days/article32706717.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||In-situ housing for Princess Park residents||The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) will provide in-situ housing to affected people of Princess Park area near India Gate on account of the construction of National War Museum by the Ministry of Defence. A decision regarding this was taken at a meeting of the Board chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. As per a survey carried out by DUSIB, 203 families live in the area. On eligibility determination as per Delhi Slum & JJ Relocation and Rehabilitation Policy, 2015, (now Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana), they will be allotted houses at Dwarka till houses at Dev Nagar near Karol Bagh are constructed that will take nearly 18 months, the government said. The Delhi government has decided to construct 784 houses at Dev Nagar near Karol Bagh at a cost of Rs. 102 crore for in-situ housing purpose. These will have two rooms, a kitchen, bath and toilet with amenities like parking space, parks and community halls. The buildings will be multi-storied (stilt plus 14 stories) with lifts, fire staircases, etc. Meanwhile, the residents of the Princess Park area will be shifted to houses constructed by the DUSIB at Sector 16-B, Dwarka, and they will have the option to shift to the newly constructed housing premises in Dev Nagar, Karol Bagh later. Slum dwellers from 150 jhuggis at Dev Nagar will also be shifted to Dwarka to facilitate the construction of 784 houses. After allocating houses to inhabitants of Princess Park and Dev Nagar, the remaining houses will be used for in-situ rehabilitation of jhuggis nearby, the government also said.  After allocating houses to people of Princess Park and Dev Nagar, the rest will be used for in-situ rehabilitation of jhuggis nearby Delhi government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-situ-housing-for-princess-park-residents/article32706699.ece
27 September 2020||New Delhi,||CPWD fined Rs. 5 lakh for flouting pollution control norms||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has taken action against 31 ready mix concrete (RMC) plants and four large construction sites across the city for violating air pollution control rules and imposed fines ranging from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh. Construction and demolition work have been stopped at the sites for causing dust pollution and not installing an anti-smog gun to control air pollution. According to the DPCC, the Central Public Works Department was engaged in carrying out construction work for office of Central Reserve Police Force at CGO Complex without taking dust control measures and without installation of anti-smog gun. The construction has been stopped and the CPWD has been asked to deposit environmental compensation of Rs. 5 lakh, it said. “At 31 RMCs it was observed that the steps taken by them to minimise dust emission are deficient. Accordingly, action has been initiated against all of them. At 11 of the 31 plants, violations were more serious and accordingly, closure directions have been issued to stop operations. But at all 31 plants, notices to impose penalty ranging from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh have been issued. During inspection, the DPCC found a number of deficiencies at these 31 plants,” an official statement said. The DPCC found that building materials, such as aggregates, sand, cement, etc. were not fully covered and wind breaking walls of specified height were not in place. Also, in some cases, the working area as well as the vehicle tracks were not concrete/asphaltic concrete paved resulting in dust generation due to movement of vehicles, it said. 13 teams formed The DPCC has constituted 13 teams for night patrolling in industrial areas of the city in order to have a check on black smoke-emitting industries as well as to spot illegal dumping of waste, according to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cpwd-fined-rs-5-lakh-for-flouting-pollution-control-norms/article32706698.ece
27 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Mahoba man shot with his own pistol’||A businessman from Mahoba, who died a week after he was found with a bullet wound in the neck in his car, was shot with his own pistol and from close range, said a Special Investigation Team probing the case. While the SIT report suggested that Indrakant Tripathi may have shot himself, the probe team reached the conclusion without interrogating the suspended IPS officer Mani Lal Patidar, who was named as an accused by the victim’s family. Mr. Patidar has not been able to turn up for questioning as he was COVID-19 positive, his lawyer informed the SIT, said ADG Prayagraj Prem Prakash. “He (Mr. Patidar) has been summoned. We also communicated with his headquarters to contact him. But neither he is taking calls nor is his location traced,” Mr. Prakash said. The police have said the evidence collected so far does not point to murder. However, the “circumstances in which the incident took place” are still being investigated, said Mr. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mahoba-man-shot-with-his-own-pistol/article32706720.ece
27 September 2020||September 27 2020 00:00 IST,||Changes in labour laws||The story so far: Three Codes on labour law were passed by Parliament this week, amid strident criticism and vociferous protests by many trade unions. Hailed by industry as a much-needed reform and rationalisation of labour laws, the Codes on industrial relations, social security, occupational safety, health and working conditions amalgamate and replace several diverse laws on the subject. Last year, a separate Code on Wages was enacted. The Codes enacted now are modified versions of the Industrial Relations Code Bill introduced in 2019. Among these, the Industrial Relations Code is touted as one that would energise industry and spur economic activity, as it aims to free employees from the constraints of earlier labour laws. What are the main features of the Industrial Relations Code? The Industrial Relations Code combines the features of three erstwhile laws — the Trade Unions Act, 1926, the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It defines ‘workers’ to include, besides all persons employed in a skilled or unskilled, manual, technical, operational and clerical capacity, supervisory staff drawing up to Rs. 18,000 a month as salary. It introduces ‘fixed term employment’, giving employers the flexibility to hire workers based on requirement through a written contract. Fixed term employees should be treated on a par with permanent workers in terms of hours of work, wages, allowances and other benefits, including statutory benefits such as gratuity. The Code says any establishment that employs 300 or more workers must prepare standing orders relating to classification of workers, manner of intimating to them periods and hours of work, holidays, pay days etc, shifts, attendance, conditions for leave, termination of employment, or suspension, besides the means available for redress of grievances. Earlier, the 2019 Bill applied this to units with 100 employees or more. The threshold has been raised to 300 in the 2020 Code. It confers on the ‘appropriate Government’, that is the Centre or the State governments, the power to exempt, with or without conditions, any industrial establishment or class of industrial establishments from all or any of the provisions of the Code, if it is satisfied that adequate provisions exist to fulfil its objectives. What does it say on trade unions? Where there is more than one trade union in an establishment, the sole negotiating union status will be given to the one that has 51% of the employees as its members. It has been brought down from the 75% requirement in the 2019 version. Where no union qualifies under this criterion, the employer must constitute a ‘negotiating council’ consisting of representatives drawn from the various unions, with only those with at least 20% of employees as its members. What are the provisions on lay-off and closure? The provisions that require the prior permission of the government for lay-off, retrenchment and closure are made applicable to only establishments that had employed 300 or more workers on an average per working day in the preceding 12 months. The Code also allows the government to raise this threshold by notification. A lay-off would be deemed illegal if it is effected without permission or is done despite refusal of permission, but it will not be so if the employee had been offered alternative employment that does not require any special skill or cause undue hardship. The Code prescribes notice period, or payment in lieu of notice period, and prior government permission before retrenchment of anyone who has been in continuous service for a year or more. Such a prior permission requirement is in place also for closure of a unit, with the application to be filed 90 days prior to the intended closure. How does the new Code affect the right to strike? The Code prohibits strikes and lock-outs in all industrial establishments without notice. No unit shall go on strike in breach of contract without giving notice 60 days before the strike, or within 14 days of giving such a notice, or before the expiry of any date given in the notice for the strike. Further, there should be no strike during any conciliation proceedings, or within seven days of the conclusion of such proceedings; or during proceedings before an industrial tribunal or 60 days after their conclusion or during arbitration proceedings. Similar restrictions have been given on the employer from announcing a lock-out. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, had placed such restrictions on announcing strikes only in respect of public utility services. However, the present Code extends it to all establishments. Even the Standing Committee on Labour had favoured limiting these provisions to public utilities.  It introduces ‘fixed term employment’, giving employers the flexibility to hire workers based on requirement through a written contract. Fixed term employees should be treated on a par with permanent workers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/changes-in-labour-laws/article32706395.ece
27 September 2020||Guwahati,||Tantrik’s ashram raided in Assam paper leak case||Three more persons were arrested on Saturday in connection with the police recruitment question paper leak scam taking the number of those nabbed to 13, while the sleuths probing the case raided an ashram of a tantrik in the city. The Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) said two persons were arrested from Guwahati and Tinsukia. A source said the sleuths have raided the ashram of one ‘Dipak Baba’ in north Guwahati but he tantrik had already fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tantriks-ashram-raided-in-assam-paper-leak-case/article32706718.ece
27 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan’s new policy to focus on rural tourism||Tourism and rural development, which is the theme of this year’s World Tourism Day being celebrated on Sunday, will be the focus of the Rajasthan government’s new tourism policy during the COVID-19 pandemic. The policy has a vision for utilising the tourism sector’s ability to support economic development of rural areas. The theme set by the U.N. World Tourism Organisation would complement the State government’ efforts to create innovative tourism products and generate new opportunities in the rural areas, Alok Gupta, Principal Secretary (Tourism), said here on Saturday. The focus would be on lesser-known tourist destinations, he said. As the tourism sector has been worst hit by the pandemic, the policy seeks to promote new investments for development of more tourist venues. “In addition to strengthening infrastructure and improving connectivity, the policy has laid emphasis on safety and security of tourists,” Mr. Gupta said. Promoting local craft and cuisine has also been made part of the new policy, as the sector is set to be promoted as a means to improving rural economy. The State government has already declared reimbursement of the State’s share in GST to hotels and restaurants, made renewal of bar licences easier and relaxed motor vehicle tax for vehicles of more than 22-person capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthans-new-policy-to-focus-on-rural-tourism/article32706722.ece
27 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Situation tense in Dungarpur||The situation in Rajastan’s Dungapur district remained tense on Saturday, as the unruly tribal youth continued to occupy a stretch of the National Highway-8. The protesters torched vehicles and vandalised a petrol pump and some shops. The police said over 550 persons had been booked and 34 arrested. Internet services in selected areas of three neighbouring tribal-dominated districts of Udaipur, Banswara and Pratapgarh were suspended and prohibitory orders clamped. Talks were held with the representatives of protesters at Parsad village in Udaipur, but they were inconclusive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/situation-tense-in-dungarpur/article32706721.ece
