28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India still far from herd immunity, says Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday cautioned that the Indian Council of Medical Research’s first COVID-19 sero-survey should not create a sense of complacency among the people with regard to the virus. Speaking in his social media interaction, Samvaad-3, Dr. Vardhan said indications from the upcoming second sero-survey “are that India is far from having achieved any kind of herd immunity”. He said people should continue to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The first sero-survey from May had revealed a nationwide prevalence of novel coronavirus infection of only 0.73%. In a reversal, the Minister said the Health Ministry has advised against the wide usage of investigational therapies such as Remdesivir and plasma therapies. “Private hospitals have also been advised against routine use of these investigational therapies,” he said. The Minister said a panel of experts was studying the emerging evidence that COVID-19 not only impacts a patient’s lungs but other organ systems too. Dr. Vardhan said States/UTs have been directed to lower the prices of COVID-19 tests, adding that the Ministry had asked them to engage private laboratories. 60 lakh infections India’s caseload crossed 60 lakh, with 80,901 fresh infections being reported on Sunday. The tally stood at 60,71,396, while the toll climbed to 95,573 with 1,100 new deaths. The total recoveries stood at 50,10,374. On the disparity in setting up only one AIIMS for the entire northeast, Dr. Vardhan said the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana scheme was aimed at correcting the regional imbalances in healthcare. “Other than setting up new AIIMS, the scheme also aims to upgrade the existing medical infrastructure in a phased manner. Under different phases, the Centre will establish new medical colleges attached with existing district and referral hospitals in Dhubri, Nagaon, North Lakhimpur, Diphu, Kokrajhar districts in Assam, Churachandpur in Manipur and West Garo Hills District in Meghalaya among others,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-still-far-from-herd-immunity-says-vardhan/article32710706.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No respite as cases go up in State||State’s COVID-19 case graph continued its exponential rise on Sunday too with 7,445 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours when 54,493 samples were tested. The number of recoveries also went up to 3,391. With disease transmission intensifying, the test positivity rate (proportion of people who test positive amongst all tested) jumped from 11.9 to 13.6. The cumulative case burden rose to 1,75,384. As total recoveries reached 1,17,921, the number of active cases at present is 56,709. Of these, the number of critically ill patients in ICUs is 380, with 92 patients on ventilator support. 21 more deaths The death toll rose to 677, with 21 more deaths added to the official list. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for six of these deaths; Kozhikode four; two each from Kannur, Palakkad and Ernakulam; and one each from Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur and Kasaragod. Ninety five per cent of the new cases reported on Sunday – 7,077 out of the 7,445 new cases – are locally acquired infections. This includes infections reported in 97 health-care workers, 19 of which are in Thiruvananthapuram, 17 in Kannur and the rest scattered across all districts. As cases in northern Kerala surged, Thiruvananthapuram fell to the fourth place as far as the daily case burden is concerned. Kozhikode recorded the highest number of cases at 956 cases, Ernakulam 924, Malappuram 915, Thiruvananthapuram 853, Kollam 690, Thrissur 573, Palakkad 488, Alappuzha 476, Kottayam 426, Kannur 332, Pathanamthitta 263, Kasaragod 252, Wayanad 172 and Idukki 125. Active cases in all districts have gone up, with Thiruvananthapuram inching closer to the 10,000 mark. The district has the highest number of active cases at 9,928, followed by Ernakulam 6,107 cases, Kozhikode 5,968 cases, Kollam 4,825, Malappuram 4,760. Excepting Wayanad and Idukki, all other districts have over 2,000 active cases. The number of hotspots at present is 655.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-respite-as-cases-go-up-in-state/article32710926.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||A soldier-turned-politician bids adieu||Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh passed away on Sunday morning after a long illness at the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi. He was 82. He is survived by wife and two sons, including former Barmer MP Manvendra Singh. Hospital officials said he had been admitted on June 25 and was being treated for sepsis and multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and effects of a severe head injury sustained earlier. He suffered a cardiac arrest this morning. Storied career A veteran leader who held the positions of Finance, Defence and External Affairs Minister in the Union governments headed by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Mr. Singh’s career was storied and eventful, reflecting much of India’s strategic turns in the 1990s and early 2000s. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the former Union Minister, tweeting: “Jaswant Singhji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. During Atalji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise.”  Mr. Singh, a former Army man had dabbled in politics in his native Rajasthan in the 1960s after leaving the Army, but came into the limelight in 1980, being elected to the Rajya Sabha by the newly formed BJP, which had shed its old Jan Sangh avatar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-soldier-turned-politician-bids-adieu/article32710708.ece
28 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Flood surge in the Krishna continues||With the Krishna in spate following heavy inflows, the flood situation is likely to intensify at Prakasam Barrage here by Monday. The first flood warning was issued at around 11.30 a.m. when the discharge at the barrage crossed 3.96 lakh cusecs. By 7 p.m., as the inflows increased to 5.37 lakh cusecs, the authorities let out 5.32 lakh cusecs. With the inflows reaching 5.63 lakh cusecs by 8 p.m., the authorities started discharging 5.58 lakh cusecs. At 9.45 p.m., a second flood warning was issued as the discharge crossed 5.69 lakh cusecs. Meanwhile, the Krishna administration and the A.P. State Disaster Management Authority sounded a high alert in the areas upstream and downstream of the barrage. Officials estimate that the inflows may cross seven lakh cusecs by the early hours of Monday. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz asked the officials to be on high alert. Disaster Management Authority Commissioner K. Kanna Babu asked the officials to make safety arrangements near power poles, open drains, roads and other danger spots in the flood-prone areas. He also asked people to be cautious. Several families in the low-lying areas of Krishnalanka, Ramalingeswara Nagar, Bhavanipuram, Yanamalakuduru, and Penamaluru were shifted to the relief centres. Special Correspondent in Nellore writes: Many living downstream of Somasila reservoir were worried following fresh floods in the Penna. The reservoir recorded an inflow of 1.35 lakh cusecs, following which 1.12 lakh cusecs was let out by lifting 10 gates after alerting people in mandals of Anantasagaram, Chejerla, Kalavai and Sangam to move to safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-surge-in-the-krishna-continues/article32710703.ece
28 September 2020||Kolkata,||WB Governor, CM in another letter war||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee have again written stinging letters to each other on law and order and the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi. The two letters that have come to the fore over the past 48 hours mark a new low in the relations between Raj Bhavan and the government. Ms. Banerjee in a letter dated September 26 described the Governor’s remarks on law and order as “unwarranted excesses”. “I was extremely upset, anguished and disillusioned on reading your captioned letter and the address to the DGP which was placed before me, as well as to see your Twitter post regarding the same. Your aspersions sadly consist of uncorroborated judgements and insinuations against the State police and the State government,” she wrote in the nine-page letter to the Governor. The Chief Minister raised concern about the Governor’s “inquiry into criminal investigation in connection with a particular accused A. Singh [BJP MP Arjun Singh] and seeking reports regarding the investigation processes from the DGP”. She said such an inquiry “not only amounts to interference in the day-to-day administration of the State government but also gives rise to serious suspicions of interference in and influencing ongoing investigations”. The Governor has sent the note to the DGP and asked him to appear before him. “DGP @WBPolice did not appear as requested-third time in a row-can’t be overlooked. DGP does not want to explain affairs @MamataOfficial CM writes instead, on his behalf. Is this what constitutionalism envisages? Is CM being rightfully counselled? Would respond to CM.” the Governor had tweeted on Saturday. On Sunday, Mr. Dhankhar shot a letter to the Chief Minister why the State wants to be an ‘intermediary’ in the “transfer of funds under the PM-Kisan scheme”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wb-governor-cm-in-another-letter-war/article32710903.ece
28 September 2020||MANGALURU,||27 tourism projects approved for Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Sunday that 27 tourism infrastructure development projects estimated at Rs. 17.34 crore have been given approval to be taken up in the district for the current financial year. Of this, Rs. 9.10 crore has been released for completing some projects. Speaking at the World Tourism Day celebration on Tannirbavi beach, the Deputy Commissioner said that the fund has been released for building walking tracks and toilets at Tannirbavi, Sasihitlu, Surathkal and other beaches and for life-saving school activities on Tannirbavi beach. The approved projects included developing approach roads to beaches on the 36-km coastline in the district and other beach development works. Dr. Rajendra said that the government has sanctioned Rs. 4.83 crore for the integrated development of Snana Ghatta (bathing place) on the banks of the Netravathi near Dharmasthala. Works related to this will be taken up with due procedure. He said that approvals have been given for six persons to begin water sports activities on the banks of the Netravathi and the Phalguni (also called Gurupura). The Tourism Department has deployed six Pravasi Mitras to guide tourists on the beaches. Pilikula authority The Deputy Commissioner said that the government has approved the constitution of a Pilikula Development Authority. As no budgetary provision has been made for the authority for the current financial year, it is likely to get Rs. 5 crore in the interim budget or in the next budget.  Dr. Rajendra and Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation Akshy Sridhar planted some saplings on the beach on the occasion. They also launched a 15-day beach cleaning activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/27-tourism-projects-approved-for-dakshina-kannada/article32710880.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Security stepped up for CM||The Tamil Nadu police have stepped up security arrangements for Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami following a specific intelligence input perceiving an ‘enhanced’ threat to the VVIP from fundamentalists, Tamil chauvinists and disgruntled elements. Mr. Palaniswami is protected by a ‘Z-Plus’ scale of security, which is handled by the core cell of the Security Branch CID and the local police. His residence/place of stay, office and convoy is protected by armed guards round the clock. According to police sources, an alert was issued late on Sunday, indicating an enhanced threat to the Chief Minister in view of the “prevailing law and order situation” and calling for enhanced security arrangements, including anti-sabotage checks and strict access-control measures. The intelligence input came a day ahead of the ruling AIADMK’s executive committee meeting, which is expected to be stormy in the backdrop of differences among some senior functionaries over the selection of the Chief Minister candidate of the AIADMK ahead of the Assembly election, sources said. The police have been put on high alert in recent days after intelligence agencies came across credible information pointing to threats to leaders of the BJP and Hindu organisations like the Hindu Munnani and the RSS. “Alerts were sent to police units across the State that some extremist elements had planned to target senior leaders of Hindu organisations. Security has also been beefed up at Israeli establishments, particularly the Jewish settlement at Vattakanal near Kodaikanal in Dindigul district," a senior police official said. The threat to Israeli nationals had increased after the assassination of Iranian Revolutionary Guards commander Qasem Soleimani in a U.S. drone strike in Baghdad, Iraq, on March 3. The recent issues along the Indo-China and Indo-Pakistan borders and India’s close defence relationship with Israel could provoke Pakistan-sponsored terror groups in India to target Israeli diplomats, tourists, etc., the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/security-stepped-up-for-cm/article32710771.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,||AIADMK to discuss key issues at today’s meet||The AIADMK’s executive committee is scheduled to meet on Monday in the backdrop of several issues facing the ruling party, with schisms between the two camps — one by Chief Minister and party’s co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and another by Deputy CM and party’s coordinator O. Panneerselvam — showing up in party gatherings recently. The meeting scheduled to commence at 9.45 a.m. in the party headquarters on Avvai Shanmugam Salai here is the first of the party’s executive committee since the issue of naming a Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assembly polls cropped up a few weeks ago. Three years ago the party decided to constitute an 11-member steering committee. It was among the points agreed upon during the merger of these factions, but is yet to take shape. It may be taken up for discussion at the meeting. Sasikala’s release Though the news reports about the possible date of release of V.K. Sasikala, (since expelled from the party) in January would not be officially discussed, it is likely to be a factor in deciding the internal affairs of the ruling party. Posters appeared in various parts of the State in the past few weeks lobbying either for Mr. Palaniswami or Mr. Panneerselvam as the Chief Minister candidate for the 2021 elections threw wide open the differences within the party. The party has since gagged party men and functionaries from discussing party affairs in public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-to-discuss-key-issues-at-todays-meet/article32710783.ece
28 September 2020||Pune,||Scrap all reservation if Marathas don’t get quota: BJP MP Bhosale||Warning that the intense displeasure prevailing amongst the Maratha community could spiral out of control, Bharatiya Janata Party MP Udayanraje Bhosale on Sunday said if the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government failed to get the Maratha quota law implemented in the State, then reservation for all communities ought to be scrapped. Mr. Bhosale, a direct descendant of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji and influential community leader from Satara, called for a merit-based approach. “Very often, students from the Maratha community fail to secure admission despite getting good grades as their fellow students, despite getting lower marks, get through by availing of reservation benefits… this is unfair and a major source of the frustration currently prevailing among Maratha community youth,” said Mr. Bhosale. Maratha leaders led by Shiv Sangram chief Vinayak Mete conferred with Mr. Bhosale, at his residence in Satara to discuss the impasse over the implementation of the Maratha quota law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scrap-all-reservation-if-marathas-dont-get-quota-bjp-mp-bhosale/article32711253.ece
28 September 2020||Chennai,||All eyes on AIADMK meet amid ‘Sasikala factor’||All eyes are on the meeting of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s executive, scheduled for Monday, to see how the party is going to resolve the current round of power struggle between the camps led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. While Mr. Palaniswami’s supporters want him to be projected as the chief ministerial candidate in the coming Assembly election, the other group feels that preference should be given to organisational matters, with an equal representation to members of the Panneerselvam camp. The issue of chief ministerial candidate could be decided after the Assembly election. These points were broadly articulated by members of the camp — Electricity Minister and Namakkal strongman of the party P. Thangamani of the Palaniswami group, and former MLAs and organisation secretaries J.C.D. Prabhakar and P.H. Manoj Pandian of the Panneerselvam group — at a meeting of senior functionaries held at the party headquarters about 10 days ago. Mr. Panneerselvam himself reiterated his demand that an 11-member steering committee be formed at the earliest as this was one of the points of convergence between the two camps at the time of reconciliation three years ago. However, Mr. Palaniswami did not concur with him as the idea, according to him, would not be workable. The power tussle is acquiring a different dimension with the possible return of the party’s former interim general secretary, V.K. Sasikala, to Tamil Nadu in the near future. Efforts are on to get her freed ahead of the probable date of release from a Bengaluru jail — January 27, 2021. An office-bearer of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) says the Palaniswami camp wants to settle the issue of chief ministerial candidate before Ms. Sasikala comes out of prison, notwithstanding the fact that Mr. Panneerselvam had to resign as Chief Minister in February 2017 so that she could succeed him. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran’s visit to New Delhi a week ago was said to have been made to explore legal options to obtain Ms. Sasikala’s early release, the office-bearer explained. He added that there were chances of his party getting closer to the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is being perceived in certain quarters as one that is keen on bringing the AIADMK and the AMMK under one umbrella, as it did in the case of the Palaniswami and Panneerselvam factions in August-September 2017. Regardless of the outcome of the efforts to obtain Ms. Sasikala’s early release, several office-bearers of the ruling party, belonging to both camps, feel that disunity between the two leaders would be internecine at this point of time, when the Assembly election is seven or eight months away. While not being oblivious to the drubbing received at the hands of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its allies in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, they recall that the overall margin of victory between their party and the DMK-led combine in the 2016 Assembly election, even when the late Jayalalithaa was at the helm, was around one percentage point. In several constituencies, the difference in terms of votes was in three digit figures. On the Sasikala factor, a senior Minister said that instead of trying to be in the denial mode, the party should have a plan ready to tackle its likely impact. A few other functionaries said it was not an impossible task for Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam to thrash out their differences even now and present a united face.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-eyes-on-aiadmk-meet-amid-sasikala-factor/article32710785.ece
28 September 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal reports 3,185 new COVID-19 cases; fatality count climbs to 4,781||West Bengal on Sunday reported 3,185 new COVID-19 cases taking its total infections to 2,47,425. The State recorded 60 more deaths pushing its death toll to 4,781. The total number of active cases remains at 25,723 and the discharge rate is 87.67%. Of the 60 deaths, Kolkata reported 17 deaths, taking its fatality toll to 1,669. While South 24 Parganas district recorded 10 deaths, Howrah reported nine fatalities and North 24 Parganas saw five patients succumbing to the virus. In terms of infections, North 24 Pargana district reported 670 cases while Kolkata recorded 615 cases. West Bengal has tested 43,618 samples in the last 24 hours taking the total number of samples tested thus far to 30.98 lakh. Of the total mortalities in the State due to COVID-19, 85.2% (4,075) patients had co-morbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-reports-3185-new-covid-19-cases-fatality-count-climbs-to-4781/article32710900.ece
28 September 2020||Madurai,||Water released for irrigation of single crop areas in three districts||Water was released for irrigation of 1.05 lakh acres of ayacut of single crop areas in Madurai, Sivaganga and Dindigul districts on Sunday. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, along with Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay, released water from Kallandhiri regulator to irrigate 85,563 acres of ayacut in the single crop areas of Periyar Main Canal. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, along with Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi released water for irrigating 19,439 acres of ayacut of Tirumangalam Main Canal. Water will be released for 120 days for irrigation of single crop areas in Vadipatti, Madurai North, Melur, Tirumangalam and Usilampatti blocks in Madurai district, Nilakottai in Dindigul district and Tirupattur in Sivaganga district. The quantum of water to be released will be based on quantum of rainfall and storage in the dam. Nursery preparation on Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said many farmers of single crop areas had already started nursery preparation. “We are asking farmers to cultivate medium and long duration paddy varieties. The farmers have also been encouraged to raise nursery and undertake cultivation through System of Rice Intensification, as it gives higher yield,” he said. All inputs, including seeds and fertilizers, are available at sufficient quantities at the agriculture extension centres, he added. M. Murugan, president of Periyar Single Crop Farmers’ Association, said the water was released around 10 days behind schedule. “Officials informed the farmers about the date of release of water in advance and this helped farmers to prepare nurseries,” he said. But many farmers who had harvested banana and sugarcane during the lockdown period had suffered huge losses. “These farmers are struggling to raise paddy, as the labour and input costs have also risen. Hence, the officials must ensure that these farmers can easily get loans and start cultivation of paddy,” he said. R. Palani, a farmer from Poruppu Mettupatti village of Usilampatti taluk, said it must be ensured that water reaches the tail-end areas too. Water was released from Vaigai dam on August 31 to irrigate 45,041 acres of ayacut of the double crop areas in Madurai and Dindigul districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-released-for-irrigation-of-single-crop-areas-in-three-districts/article32711239.ece
28 September 2020||Tiruchi,||Periyar statue defaced in Tiruchi||A statue of Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar was defaced at Samathuvapuram in Inamkulathur village near Tiruchi by unidentified persons in the early hours of Sunday, triggering tension in the village. The bust of the leader, installed on a pedestal, was found sprayed with saffron coloured paint and a garland of footwear was placed around it, said police sources. Locals conveyed the matter to the police personnel. Police teams immediately rushed to the village and removed the paint and the footwear garland, with the help of locals. As news spread, members of the DMK, DK and other outfits urged the police personnel to take action against the culprits. Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, T. Jeyachandran, who personally supervised the situation in the village, told The Hindu that three special teams had been constituted to nab the culprits. The spot where the act was committed did not have any surveillance cameras, said the sources. However, the police teams were involved in the task of sifting through video grabs generated from the surveillance cameras installed in a nearby petrol bunk, Mr. Jeyachandran said. The Inamkulathur police have registered a case under IPC sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 504 (intentional insult with intention to provoke breach of the peace) based on a complaint lodged by the DMK Manikandam union secretary Karuppaiah. Meanwhile, a group of members of the DYFI and the Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front staged a demonstration near the Central bus stand here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/periyar-statue-defaced-in-tiruchi/article32710815.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The long road to Eden Gardens, retraced||Kolkata’s Eden Gardens, India’s oldest cricketing ground, came about as the third-time-lucky effort of fans in 1864, after two attempts to have a good venue for the sport failed, because it was seen as an encroachment, and due to objections raised by the British Army at Fort William. That story emerges from colonial documents at the Directorate of State Archives, West Bengal, with other interesting facts on the history of cricket in India. A documentary has been made on this piece of sporting history. The first cricket club outside Britain was the Calcutta Cricket Club founded in 1792, and the first match was played 12 years later between the Etonians, senior civil servants and other company officials. Sumit Ghosh, the Archivist at the State Archives, says the match was played in front of Government House which is the Raj Bhawan of the present day on January 18 and 19, 1804. “In 1825 the club got a plot of land on the Maidan between Government House and Fort William to be used as a cricket ground,” he told The Hindu.  In 1841, the club was permitted to enclose the ground with a fence. But the Army at Fort William, described the club as an “encroacher” and in 1853, the Chief Magistrate of Calcutta wrote to Cecil Beadon, Secretary to the Government of Bengal, on this act of “forceful occupation”. Mr. Ghosh says Cricket Club of Calcutta authorities then looked for an alternative ground and at Rs. 1,000, found a new one, fenced it and made it playable. To their dismay they realised that a new road into Fort William was being built, which would cut into the ground. The Club officials appealed but their pleas were rejected. Used as pasture The road to Eden Gardens is traced in a documentary titled Edener Itikatha (History of Eden Gardens) by Mr. Ghosh. “There is so much of recorded history but so little known to common people walking past these grounds. It is important that people know that in the mid-19th century, the vast Maidan was also used as pasture,” he adds. The Archives say Matabooddin Sirkar, a native took the land on lease for one year from February 1, 1854, to January 31, 1855, at a rent of Rs. 500. That contract allowed horse, cow, goat, sheep, donkey to graze, but not pig and buffalo. Archivist Sarmistha De, who has worked on the area, says“State Archives from the mid-19th century show that Maidan was a zone of contention between the British military and British civil society. While the military thought it should mainly be for their purposes and monitoring of Fort William area, another section was actively considering it as a recreation zone with cricket as a part of that”. After two failed attempts, in 1864, land was laid out for a ground for Calcutta Cricket Club in the extended part of Eden Gardens. Eden Gardens made its first appearance during the time of Governor-General Lord Auckland (1836-42). Originally ‘The Auckland Circus Gardens’, the area south of Baboo Ghat changed to ‘Eden Gardens’. The Archives say Baboo Rajchunder Doss, husband of Rani Rashmoni gifted this land after Lord Auckland and his sisters Emily Eden and Fanny Eden helped him save his third daughter from a deadly disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-long-road-to-eden-gardens-retraced/article32710741.ece
28 September 2020||Patna,||Bihar Cong. chief booked for flouting virus norms||Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha and several other party leaders were booked for violating COVID-19 regulations on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leaders Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav and Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) (JAP-L) leader Rajesh Ranjan, alias Pappu Yadav, along with 150 others, were booked on similar charges. Officials said that an FIR has been lodged against Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha and other party leaders, including Akhilesh Singh and Ajay Kapoor, for violating COVID-19 rules as a large number of party workers and people had gathered outside the Patna airport on Saturday to welcome senior party leaders. The First Information Report has been registered at the Patna airport police station by special executive magistrate Mohammad Shafiullah Khan under Sections 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligence act likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life) and provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act, 2005. RJD leaders booked On Saturday, the RJD leaders were booked for taking out a protest march in Patna over the contentious farm Bills and flouting COVID-19 norms. The three were booked on Friday along with 150 others and an FIR against them was lodged at the Kotwali police station on the basis of a magistrate deputed to monitor the situation. Several farmers’ organisations and Opposition parties such as the RJD and JAP(L) had participated in the nationwide protests over the new farm Bills on Friday. Mr. Tejashwi rode a tractor leading the protest and his elder brother Mr. Tej Pratap was seen sitting atop the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-cong-chief-booked-for-flouting-virus-norms/article32710861.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Common Law Admission Test today||The Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020, for admissions into 22 national law schools across the country, will be held on Monday. A total of 78,000 candidates have registered for the test. Due to the bandh on Monday, CLAT authorities have written to Chief Secretaries of different districts to ensure that candidates who have to appear for CLAT do not have to undergo any hardship. Many candidates aspiring for seats in the National Law School of India University wrote the National Law Aptitude Test – which was a separate entrance test earlier this month. As the test was later quashed by the Supreme Court, the candidates now will have to once again appear for CLAT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/common-law-admission-test-today/article32710734.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,||CM urges farmers to drop bandh plan||Appealing to farmers’ organisations to drop the bandh call, Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa on Sunday urged the farmers’ leaders not to cause “unnecessary confusion” over amendments to farm Acts. “Farmers’ leaders should understand the objectives of the changes brought to the Acts and not create unnecessary confusion,” the Chief Minister told presspersons here on Sunday. “Our government’s stand and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision is in favour of farmers’ welfare. The decision has been made to double the income of farmers and their demand of several years has been been met,” he added.  Meanwhile, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said, “Arrangements have been made to allow normal functioning of government offices, hospitals, and businesses, while taxi and bus services will be normal.” He also warned of strict police action against those indulging in violence or trying to disrupt life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsy-urges-farmers-to-drop-bandh-plan/article32710732.ece
28 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s total case tally inches towards 13.50 lakh||Maharashtra reported 18,056 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday to take the State’s total tally to 13,39,232 of whom 2,73,228 are active ones. With 380 more deaths, the death toll has climbed to 35,571. As many as 13,565 patients were discharged, taking the cumulative recoveries to 10,30,015. “Of a total 65,65,649 laboratory samples tested thus far, 13,39,232 (20.40%) have returned positive with more than 90,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 76.91%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate was currently 2.66%. Pune reported nearly 3,000 cases to take its total tally to 2,85,534 while 46 deaths saw its death toll reach 5,670. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases stands at 42,300. Mumbai reported 2,163 cases to take its total tally to 1,98,846 of whom 26,716 are active. As many as 44 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 8,794. Nagpur district reported 19 deaths to take its death toll to 1,961. Another jump of more than 1,200 cases took the district’s total case tally to 74,825 of whom 16,619 are active. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 30 fatalities to take its death toll to 892. A big surge of 807 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 35,156 of whom 8,601 are active. Sangli reported more than 650 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 36,648 of whom 9,970 are active. With 31 deaths, the death toll has touched 1,120. Kolhapur reported 24 deaths as its death toll rose to 1,301. More than 400 cases took its total tally to 42,311 of whom 8,288 are active. In north Maharashtra, the surge continued in Nashik district which reported more than 1,200 cases as its total tally reached 72,926 of whom 16,484 are active. With eight deaths, the district’s fatality count has climbed to 1,261. Jalgaon reported more than 350 cases and 10 deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 46,627.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-total-case-tally-inches-towards-1350-lakh/article32711252.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,||With field work hit, researchers struggle to finish projects||It’s not just students who are feeling the impact of COVID-19 with academic schedules in disarray. Social science researchers in universities and institutes are unable to carry out field research or conduct in-person detailed assessments and interviews vital to their work. Some universities told The Hindu that research has halted and many departments are also seeing cuts in research grants. S. Japhet, Vice-Chancellor, Bengaluru Central University, acknowledged that research work has been “immensely affected” during the pandemic. “Our students and staff are unable to obtain primary sources of data and the secondary data is not properly documented in India. Many of our faculty members are also not very well versed with technology,” he said. B.C. Mylarappa, Dean, Department of Social Sciences, Bangalore University, reported a similar trend. Many of their research scholars are from rural areas and do not have access to online resources because of which they are unable to make any headway. This has had a debilitating effect on the mental health of researchers, say psychologists. There have been many number of cases of ‘researcher burnout’ where those affected are battling anxiety. The burnout cycle begins with heightened and prolonged stress, and it decreases interest in work. Researchers at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) have come out with a paper, ‘Researcher burnout: An overlooked aspect in mental health research in times of COVID 19’, which has been accepted to be published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry . An account of the challenges experienced by around 15 researchers, working in the field of behavioural research during COVID-19, has been taken into account in this paper. Manoj Kumar Sharma, additional professor at NIMHANS, stated that researchers need to consider making pragmatic decisions to re-prioritise their ongoing work. “Decisions can be made by evaluating situations in terms of risk benefit ratios of continuing with their field visits, interviews, assessing the risk of the pandemic at their study site, optimising staff functioning and seeking local and national guidance from health departments to minimise risk to both participants and study teams,” he said. He suggested that they could approach research funding agencies and ethics committees to take permission for revision of study protocols and allow for data collection using online applications. Dr. Sharma acknowledged that online mediums have been criticised for low response rates, and privacy and confidentiality issues. However, Harini Nagendra, Professor at Azim Premji University, said that many social scientists and researchers were trying to reorient their research work from what used to be largely academic research to providing inputs that can lead to advocacy in a crisis like this. Interestingly, she found that they were submitting more well-researched studies and papers during the pandemic as they had more time. However, she pointed out that this trend was skewed, with more men sending their pending research than women. “Women are probably struggling more during their pandemic with domestic chores and the online education of their children,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-field-work-hit-researchers-struggle-to-finish-projects/article32710739.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting fit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/getting-fit/article32710860.ece
28 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||NEKRTC bus services to Telangana from today||The North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) has planned to re-start bus services to Telangana on Monday. In a press release, Managing Director of NEKRTC M. Kurma Rao said that the frequency of bus services would depend upon demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nekrtc-bus-services-to-telangana-from-today/article32710875.ece
28 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Tourism vision document for Udupi||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Sunday that the district administration is preparing a vision document for the promotion of tourism, and the draft is in the final stages. Speaking at the World Tourism Day celebration on Malpe beach, he said that Udupi attracted tourists, both cultural and religious. Once the vision document is ready, it will be sent to the government for grants. He said that Padubidri beach in the district is awaiting Blue Flag international eco label certification. An independent national jury has recommended it for the certification among eight beaches in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tourism-vision-document-for-udupi/article32710877.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||So near yet so far||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/so-near-yet-so-far/article32711269.ece
28 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,||3 teenagers booked under POCSO Act||The police have registered a case under the POCSO Act against three teenagers for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl and for uploading a video of the act on the internet. The Gurubarapalli police are investigating. According to the police, a Class XI student from a government school here was in relationship with his junior from the same school. Earlier this month, the teenager reportedly lured the girl with false promises and took her to an isolated place near Pedapanur. The teenager along with his friend had allegedly sexually assaulted her and filmed the incident, the police said. The boys had shown the video to another friend and he allegedly published the video on the internet. The video went viral and had come to the notice of the victim’s parents. Based on complaint of the victim’s parents, the police have arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-teenagers-booked-under-pocso-act/article32710793.ece
28 September 2020||Patna,||Former Bihar police chief joins JD(U)||Former Bihar Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey on Sunday joined the ruling Janata Dal (United). He is likely to contest the Assembly poll on a JD(U) ticket from Buxar. “I was called by the CM and asked to join the party…whatever the party asks me to do, I will do. I don’t understand politics,” he told mediapersons. “I’m a simple person working for the downtrodden sections of society,” he added. Mr. Pandey joined the party in the presence of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is also the JD(U) president, and other leaders such as Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lalan Singh, Vijay Chaudhury and Ashok Chaudhury. Mr. Pandey, a 1987 batch IPS officer, had recently taken voluntary retirement from service. He was to retire in February 2021. In 2009 too, he had taken VRS to contest the Lok Sabha poll, but after he failed to get the ticket, he was controversially reinstated after nine months. Mr. Pandey had recently hit the headlines because of the statements he made about the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Bihar is scheduled to go to poll in three phases from October 28 and the counting will be held on November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-bihar-police-chief-joins-jdu/article32710704.ece
28 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Fear of violence in Agency areas||Fear of further escalation of confrontation between the police and Maoists looms large over border areas of Bhadrachalam Agency ahead of the Telangana bandh called by CPI (Maoist) on Monday in protest against recent “killing” of eight of its cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fear-of-violence-in-agency-areas/article32711149.ece
28 September 2020||MYSURU,||Temples to be nominated for heritage site status||The Belur, Halebid, and Somanathapura temples will be nominated for seeking the UNESCO World Heritage Site status and the final dossier is set for submission ahead of the September 30 deadline. Belur and Halebid have been under the tentative list for the last six years, and it was decided at a recent meeting to include the 12th century Keshava temple at Somanathapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temples-to-be-nominated-for-heritage-site-status/article32710737.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,||A rural recipe to boost tourism in State||Ahead of World Tourism Day, the State government has unveiled the Karnataka Tourism Policy 2020-25 that envisages greater participation of local communities in tourism activities. The core theme is agri and rural tourism with the objective of promoting not just agricultural activities, but also all aspects of rural life, including local cuisine, culture, tradition, and arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-rural-recipe-to-boost-tourism-in-state/article32710738.ece
28 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘NE rebel groups’ issues will be settled by 2024’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the Centre would settle by 2024 the issues of the northeastern extremist groups that have remained out of the peace process. “Several peace initiatives in the northeast were taken in the past six years under Modiji’s government. Hundreds of extremists laid down arms after agreements with eight groups,” Mr. Shah said during a virtual conference on “Destination North East-2020”, a four-day event for highlighting the region’s potential in eco-tourism, culture, heritage and business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ne-rebel-groups-issues-will-be-settled-by-2024/article32710902.ece
28 September 2020||Guwahati,||Police recruitment board chief resigns||Retired IPS officer Pradeep Kumar on Sunday resigned as chairman of the State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) taking moral responsibility for the anomalies in the process of the recruitment of sub-inspectors in the Assam Police. The State police have so far arrested 13 people for leaking the question paper for recruiting sub-inspectors to 597 vacant posts and conducting a “written test” for 50 applicants at a guesthouse in Guwahati on September 19, a day before the scheduled date of the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-recruitment-board-chief-resigns/article32710901.ece
28 September 2020||new delhi,||Delhi reports 3,292 new COVID cases, 42 deaths||The Capital recorded 3,292 fresh COVID-19 cases, 42 deaths and 3,739 recoveries in the past 24 hours, accord- ing to a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. A total of 51,416 tests were conducted during the period with a positivity rate of 4.4%. The death rate based on the last 10 days stands at 0.98%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-3292-new-covid-cases-42-deaths/article32710863.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||Actor seeks bar on news linking her to drug case||Actor Rakul Preet Singh has moved the Delhi High Court seeking to bar the media from running any news linking her to the case of alleged drug link of movie stars till the time the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) completes its probe and files a report before the court. In her application, the 29-year-old actor has accused the media of "simply running fake news".||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/actor-seeks-bar-on-news-linking-her-to-drug-case/article32710864.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,||AIADMK executive committee meeting today||The AIADMK’s executive committee is scheduled to meet on Monday in the backdrop of several issues, including schisms between the camps led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-executive-committee-meeting-today/article32710773.ece
28 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,||Job racket: five held in Ramanathapuram||The District Crime Branch police have arrested five persons, including an assistant with the office of Chief Educational Office, Ramanathapuram, K. Kannan, 47, and an assistant in Rural Development department, M. Kesavan, 45, for a job racket in the Department of Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/job-racket-five-held-in-ramanathapuram/article32711243.ece
28 September 2020||BELAGAVI,||VTU, NITK decide to collaborate in TEL||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) and National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, Surathkal, will collaborate in implementing Technology Enabled Learning (TEL) through Virtual Labs in all the affiliated institutions of the university. Virtual Labs is a free-to-access online repository for students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vtu-nitk-decide-to-collaborate-in-tel/article32710881.ece
28 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kshitij Ravi Prasad sent to NCB custody till October 3||A Mumbai court on Sunday remanded Kshitij Ravi Prasad, who was earlier hired as an executive producer by a firm of filmmaker Karan Johar, in the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) custody till October 3. Mr. Prasad was arrested by the NCB on Saturday after questioning in a drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. He was produced before a magistrate court via videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kshitij-ravi-prasad-sent-to-ncb-custody-till-october-3/article32711250.ece
28 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘No intention of joining hands with Sena again’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said his meeting with Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday afternoon was not political in nature. Mr. Fadnavis said his party will not bring down the MVA government, but will wait for it to crumble under its own weight. The meeting created a flutter in political circles in the State, with claims that the MVA government’s stability would be under threat if the Sena and the BJP join hands again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-intention-of-joining-hands-with-sena-again/article32711251.ece
28 September 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu records 5,791 new cases, 80 deaths||The COVID-19 tally in Tamil Nadu rose to 5,80,808, with 5,791 fresh cases on Sunday, while the death toll mounted to 9,313 with 80 more succumbing to the virus. A total of 5,706 people were discharged from hospitals as the cumulative recoveries touched 5,25,154. Chennai recorded 1,280 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-records-5791-new-cases-80-deaths/article32710774.ece
28 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,||Centre to grant Rs. 700 cr. to Puducherry, says CM||Traders heaved a sigh of relief with wholesale vegetable shops reopening at Koyambedu on Sunday. Around 200 shops reopened with a simple ceremony after several months of closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/koyambedu-wholesale-market-reopens/article32710775.ece
28 September 2020||Tirunelveli,||Five deaths in five southern districts||COVID-19 has claimed five more lives in the five southern districts on Sunday. While two deaths have been reported in Tirunelveli district, one each has been reported in Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-deaths-in-five-southern-districts/article32711242.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s curve unchanged with 7,445 more cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph pointed north on Sunday, with 7,445 new cases. The State tested 54,493 samples. The number of recoveries reported on the day also went up to 3,391. The test positivity rate jumped from 11.9% to 13.6%. As total recoveries reached 1,17,921, the number of active cases at present in the State is 56,709. Of these, the number of critically ill patients in ICUs was 380, with 92 of them on ventilator support. The Health Department added 21 more deaths. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for six deaths, Kozhikode four, two each from Kannur, Palakkad, Ernakulam and one each from Kollam, Alapuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur and Kasaragod. On Sunday, 95% new cases were locally acquired infections, with the source unknown in 561 cases. This included infections among 97 healthcare workers, 19 of them in Thiruvananthapuram and 17 in Kannur. Cases in north Kerala surged and Thiruvananthapuram fell to fourth place in daily case burden. Kozhikode recorded the highest number at 956 cases, Ernakulam 924, Malappuram 915, Thiruvananthapuram 853, Kollam 690, Thrissur 573, and Palakkad 488 cases.  Death toll up by 45 in A.P. Andhra Pradesh reported 6,923 new infections. The death toll rose by 45 on Sunday. Also, 76,416 samples were tested and 9.06% returned positive. The positivity rate of 56 lakh tests conducted so far was 12.07%. Although less than 7,000 new infections were reported, East Godavari witnessed over a 1,000, and West Godavari had close to 1,000 cases. The new cases and fatalities in various districts were: East Godavari (1,006 & 4), West Godavari (929 & 4), Prakasam (659 & 8), Chittoor (577 & 2), Guntur (535 & 5), Nellore (506 & 3), Srikakulam (503), Anantapur (480 & 3), Kadapa (472 & 3), Vizianagaram (376 & 1), Krishna (333 & 6), Visakhapatnam (318 & 3) and Kurnool (229 & 3).  In Telangana Telangana reported 1,967 cases on Saturday and conducted around 50,000 tests. This included 297 cases from Greater Hyderabad, 152 from Karimnagar, 147 from Rangareddy, 137 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 105 from Nalgonda, and 89 from Warangal Urban. Nine more COVID-19 patients died. Testing was around 53,000 to 59,000 samples between September 21 and 25.  Over 5,700 cases in T.N. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,791 fresh cases on Sunday and the tally of those testing positive till date rose to 5,80,808. On the same day 5,706 persons were discharged from various health facilities and care centres after treatment. As on date the number of those discharged after treatment is 5,25,154. A total of 46,341 persons were undergoing treatment, either in the hospital or in their respective homes.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keralas-curve-unchanged-with-7445-more-cases/article32710642.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||Tense LAC makes Ladakhi team call off election boycott||A delegation from Ladakh of former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Ministers and MPs said on Sunday that they were withdrawing their call for a boycott of the upcoming elections to the district autonomous councils in the wake of the lurking danger on the China border, adding that they could not let “non-tribals” exploit the newly created Union Territory. Sticking to their demand for inclusion of Ladakh in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang said that a year after the creation of the Union Territory, the youth were dissatisfied and not a single recruitment has been done by the administration. He, however, added that their demands had been partially met. The delegation decided to call off the boycott on an assurance from the Centre that “Government of India is open to discuss protection available under the Sixth Schedule... while looking into issues related to Ladakhi people.” Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, who met the delegation including Skyabje Thiksey Khampo Rinpochey, the head of the Thiksay monastery in Ladakh, said on Sunday, “The delegation was assured that all issues related to language, demography, ethnicity, land and jobs will be considered positively/ taken care of.” Further dialogue “A dialogue between a larger Ladakhi delegation comprising representatives from Leh and Kargil districts under the aegis of Peoples Movement for Constitutional safeguard under Sixth Schedule and Union Home Ministry would commence after 15 days of the culmination of the LAHDC and Leh elections. Any decision reached in this connection would be in consultation with the representatives from Leh and Kargil,” Mr. Rijiju said at a press conference along with members of the delegation. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy will be travelling to Leh on Monday to meet the other Ladakhi leaders. “In Ladakh, 97% people are tribals. Our population is 3 lakh and there is a lot of barren land. If we are not given protection, then in next 10 years, we will be a minority. We are tribals, we are weaker sections and non-tribals exploit us, this is why in Northeast a non-tribal cannot buy or sell land,” said Chering Dorjay Lakrook, former Minister and president of the BJP’s Ladakh unit. Asked if the assurances were similar to that provided to undivided Jammu & Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution that was read down last year, Mr. Rijiju said, “Do not bring Kashmir into this.” He earlier said the autonomous councils in northeast existed within the State. The delegation had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday. The Sixth Schedule protects tribal populations and provides autonomy to the communities through creation of autonomous development councils which can frame laws on land, public health, agriculture and so on. As of now, 10 autonomous councils exist in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram. The People’s Movement, a group comprising all political parties and the influential Buddhist Association, had announced earlier this week that no one will file nominations for the October 16 council elections. Help during LAC standoff Mr. Chhewang said that since 1947, the people of Ladakh had protected India’s border and during the ongoing stand-off with the China at Ladakh, it was the local people who supplied essential items to the Army at difficult altitudes. “We are not demanding a price for what we have done for India all these years... We fear that Ladakhi youth should not go in a direction like that in Kashmir. When we were part of J&K, we had protection under Article 35A and 370 of the Constitution. If Sixth Schedule is implemented, it will give us protection under the Constitution,” Mr. Chhewang said, adding that they will reconsider future course of action if the Centre did not act on its words. “We were assured that the autonomous councils in the UT will be empowered ...The basic law to be implemented after amending the provisions was not done, the power of the councils was curtailed... Earlier they could appoint people in provincial and divisional cadre posts, not a single appointment has taken place,” Mr. Chhewang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tense-lac-makes-ladakhi-team-call-off-election-boycott/article32710651.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers can now break free of APMC shackles, says PM||Less than 24 hours after the oldest ally in the NDA, the Shiromani Akali Dal, announced a parting of ways over the three farm Bills passed last week by Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the benefits of the Bills in his monthly radio broadcast, Mann ki Baat . Mr. Modi highlighted instances of farmers breaking free from restrictions imposed by the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Acts in various States to trade their crops freely and profitably. The Prime Minister’s remarks come after a stormy monsoon session of Parliament where the Bills aimed at reforming trade in agricultural produce were cleared, sparking protests in various parts of the country by farmers groups and Opposition parties. Referring to the Bills, Mr. Modi said, “Farmers now have the power to sell their produce anywhere and to anyone and they have the freedom to grow any crop and to sell it at a price best suited to them.” Theni example He recalled instances during the lockdown where farmers in Theni in Tamil Nadu got together and pooled in crops of fruits and vegetables to sell as packages in Chennai. He also spoke of one Ismail Bhai of Banaskantha of Gujarat, whose family was wary of his undertaking agriculture as a largely non-remunerative activity. However, because Gujarat ended the APMC system for fruits and vegetables, Ismail Bhai is earning a good profit from his potato crop, Mr. Modi said. Farmers are the basis of the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat , he added. He also highlighted the power of story telling in disseminating values to the younger generation and spoke of story telling groups in Bengaluru. In the coming weeks, he said, India will be marking the anniversaries related to leaders associated with the freedom struggle and contemporary India. “October 2 marks the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. If we had followed Gandhiji’s path, we would already be atmanirbhar (self reliant),” he said. He mentioned the contributions of revolutionary Bhagat Singh and made a laudable reference to the late Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindhia of Gwalior, recalling her maternal touch towards himself and many BJP workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-can-now-break-free-of-apmc-shackles-says-pm/article32710681.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala Minister hints at lockdown||Kerala is trying its best to prevent another lockdown, however, if COVID-19 transmission continues to surge as has been happening in the past few days, the State may not have other options, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Ms. Shylaja said that the State was facing crucial days ahead as far as the COVID-19 situation was concerned and that the State would have to pay a heavy price if people continued to let go of all vigil against the disease. The State had managed to keep disease transmission down all these months, however, after people let go of all vigil during the Onam season, followed by the violent political protests on the streets, the test positivity had gone up to 12% now. However, if people maintained more vigil and observed all COVID-19 safety protocols strictly in the coming days, disease transmission could be held down, she said. Kerala’s strategies for COVID-19 containment was strongly backed by science and despite the inherent vulnerabilities of the State — a high proportion of the elderly, high density of population and a high proportion of people with co-morbidities — it has managed to keep the case fatality rate at 0.39 %. Focus on elderly However, more care was needed to keep the elderly safe at home and prevent the infection reaching them. Maximum number of COVID-19 cases were reported amongst those between 20 and 40 years of age. This meant that the younger population, who were moving around, should follow all precautions strictly so that they did not carry the infection back to their parents and other elders at home, Ms. Shylaja said. About 80% of those who died in Kerala had co-morbidities and age-wise, 72 % of the deaths had occurred amongst those above 70 years of age. However, 28% of the deaths had occurred amongst the younger age group. Ms. Shylaja said that COVID-19 was not a disease to be taken lightly and that the disease affected individuals differently. She appealed to people to follow all instructions of the Health Department and to maintain utmost vigil so that cases did not surge and overwhelm the health system’s capacity. She claimed that the State had adequately prepared itself as far as hospital beds and critical care facilities were concerned. But if the daily case burden continued to rise, the health system would not be able to cope as creating additional infrastructure and finding human resources to manage it would become impossible. Unlikely to go soon She appealed to the public to take additional care, to avoid crowding at all costs and to ensure that the use of masks and physical distancing was maintained strictly. Till a vaccine or cure was available, this vigil should continue as COVID-19 would not disappear any time soon, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-minister-hints-at-lockdown/article32710631.ece
28 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SAD asks parties to fight for farmers||A day after pulling out of the National Democratic Alliance, the Shiromani Akali Dal on Sunday called upon all political parties and organisations to close ranks for a united fight to protect the interests of farmers, farm labour and farm produce traders in the country, especially in Punjab. “We are ready to join or follow any struggle in the overall interests of the farmers, farm labour, Arhatiyas and other farm produce traders,” said Sukhbir Singh Badal, president, Shiromani Akali Dal, addressing a rally in Ropar. He also addressed rallies in Hoshiarpur and Phagwara. “Anything like the new farm Bills, which increase the uncertainty over the fate of the farmers’ produce can have disastrous implications not only for the economy but also for social stability. The farmers’ plight affects the entire economy. Therefore what we are fighting for is to protect the national interests,” he said. ‘Peaceful struggle’ “We must not flinch from the ideals of keeping our struggle for people’s rights absolutely peaceful and democratic. I must caution against attempts to defame our struggle by disturbing peace but that should only strengthen our resolve to safeguard the age-old values of Punjabi fraternity and the path of peaceful democratic struggle,” said Mr. Badal. He asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to bring an ordinance to declare the whole State a Mandi (Principal Marketing Yard) to save farmers from the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. ‘Kisan March’ Mr. Badal said the party would hold ‘Kisan March’ on October 1, which would commence from all three religious ‘Takht Sahibs’ in Punjab and culminate at Mohali. “We will submit a memorandum to Punjab Governor for the President of India, urging him not to sign the three anti-farmer Bills and send back to Parliament for reconsideration,” he said. Mr. Badal said, “The SAD is essentially a farmers party. The BJP leadership was not ready to heed our repeated pleas against the anti-farmer Bills. Nor were they listening to our objections to the exclusion of Punjabi as official language in Jammu and Kashmir. After that, it was meaningless to stay on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-asks-parties-to-fight-for-farmers/article32710670.ece
28 September 2020||BENGALURU,||Invisible killer threatens country’s sandalwood forests||India’s sandalwood trees, the country’s pride — particularly of Karnataka — are facing a serious threat with the return of the destructive Sandalwood Spike Disease (SSD). The infection has resurfaced in the aromatic tree’s natural habitats in Karnataka and Kerala. According to a study by scientists R. Sundararaj and R. Raja Rishi of the Bengaluru-based Institute of Wood Science & Technology (IWST), the natural population of sandalwood in Marayoor of Kerala and various reserve forests in Karnataka, including MM Hills, are heavily infected with SSD for which there is no cure as of now. Presently, there is no option but to cut down and remove the infected tree to prevent the spread of the disease, caused by phytoplasma — bacterial parasites of plant tissues — which are transmitted by insect vectors. With between 1 and 5% of sandalwood trees lost every year due to the disease, scientists warn that it could wipe out the entire natural population if measures are not taken to prevent its spread. Also, they fear that any delay in arresting the trend may result in the disease spreading to cultivated sandalwood trees. SSD has been one of the major causes for the decline in sandalwood production in the country for over a century. The disease was first reported in Kodagu in 1899. More than a million sandalwood trees were removed in the Kodagu and Mysuru region between 1903 and 1916, prompting the Maharaja of Mysuru to announce a reward in 1907 of Rs. 10,000 for anyone finding a remedy. Later 98,734 trees were extracted during 1917-1925 in Salem also due to SSD. Such was the impact of this disease in Karnataka that the growing stock had been reduced to 25% of its initial level between 1980 and 2000. The devastating impact in natural habitats resulted in sandalwood being classified as “vulnerable” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 1998. The present rapid spread of the infection is largely due to restrictions on green felling in forests, which has allowed vectors to spread the disease to healthy trees, says the IWST study. Dr. Sundararaj observes that presently it is very difficult to identify the symptoms of SSD. “It can be noticed only when the tree gets completely affected,” he says. In an effort to combat the killer disease, the IWST will join hands with the Pune-based National Centre for Cell Sciences for a three-year study, initiated by the Union Ministry of Ayush with a financial allocation of Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/invisible-killer-threatens-countrys-sandalwood-forests/article32710636.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) hiding facts in LIFE case, alleges BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran on Sunday said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) had attempted to pull the wool over the eyes of the public by challenging the CBI probe into the foreign contribution angle on the controversial LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal to construct 140 dwellings for the poor in Thrissur. He said the CPI(M) had deceptively eclipsed the fact that the Pinarayi Vijayan government had requested a CBI inquiry in a similar case involving a foreign entity and a religious charity in Kerala in 2016. The petitioner in the case had complained that the charity had accepted a contribution of Rs. 2.30 crore from the foreign entity without adhering to the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation), Act, 2010.  The State government then said that the CBI was the competent agency to investigate the transaction and not the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB), given the international ramifications of the case.  ‘Party crying foul’ Now, fearing that the CBI inquiry would reach the offices of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen, the CPI(M) had started crying foul. He said foreign funds had flowed into Kerala after Mr. Vijayan’s former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar and gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh escorted Ministers to the UAE. The government had channelled a portion of the funds to the CPI(M). Mr. Surendran said CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had a moral obligation to state the truth about his son’s finances.  Kummanam’s poser Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should explain how the financial support of Red Crescent directly reached the Life Mission Housing project in Thrissur, BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekharan has said. The aid projects of such agencies reach countries through Red Cross and that too after following all due procedures. In these circumstances, the State government should explain how the support of Red Crescent reached the mission projects, he said. Mr. Rajasekharan said he was fully satisfied with the party reorganisation announced on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-hiding-facts-in-life-case-alleges-bjp/article32711186.ece
28 September 2020||PALAKKAD,||Job-loss prompts youths to turn to ganja business||The recent arrest of five youngsters in Malappuram while trying to smuggle in a bulk load of ganja from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh has thrown light on a dangerous shift of unemployed people to drug peddling. They were part of a gang of eight persons who returned from the Gulf region after losing their jobs during the COVID-19 lockdown. As a means to tide over the crisis, they apparently turned to the risky business of ganja peddling by procuring large quantities from Andhra Pradesh and transporting it in goods vehicles to the State for distribution among the wholesalers. As much as 318 kg of ganja was seized from them. A few days prior to it, 66 kg of ganja was seized from a lorry on the Palakkad district border. In the recent ganja seizures in Kollam and Kochi, those involved were found to have lost their jobs because of COVID-19. Excise and police officials, quoting intelligence reports, said that more youngsters were found to have turned to smuggling of gold and drugs during the lockdown. Intelligence reports indicate that huge quantities of ganja reached the Kerala border in Tamil Nadu in the last couple of months. The regular movement of ganja from Andhra Pradesh to Kerala through Tamil Nadu has nearly stopped with the suspension of public transport during the lockdown. But new hands, especially those who lost jobs during the lockdown, have entered the business, who are ready to take higher risks for a larger and quick profit. If one kg of quality ganja can be procured for about Rs. 10,000 in Rajahmundry and Visakhapatnam, the rate becomes Rs. 600 for a packet of four g at the retail level. Checking goes down Checking of vehicles by the police and motor vehicle authorities has considerably gone down. Fear of contracting COVID-19 is always there among the officers. “We always exercise caution while checking vehicles,” said S. Mansoor Ali, excise inspector who was among a squad that seized 66 kg of ganja from Nadupuni border last week. The lockdown forced ganja farmers in Andhra and Odisha to stock up the yield, tempting daring youngsters from Kerala to go there and smuggle it in big vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/job-loss-prompts-youths-to-turn-to-ganja-business/article32711188.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Diplomacy was Jaswant Singh’s ‘Call to Honour’||Jaswant Singh was guided by a view of “India’s destiny”, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Sunday, paying tribute to the former External Affairs Minister. “His long view of events was borne from his erudition and understanding of political complexities. If you were to ask, which of my predecessors had influenced me the most, that would be Jaswant Singh,” Dr. Jaishankar told The Hindu , speaking of Mr. Singh’s tenure from 1998 to 2002, an eventful period in Indian foreign policy. Acid test Within the first three months of his tenure, Mr. Singh’s most important task was cut out at Pokhran, after India’s nuclear tests in May 1998 — that of restoring India’s ties with the world, particularly the U.S. and Japan, who reacted very strongly to the Vajpayee government’s decision. Mr. Jaishankar, who was India’s Deputy Chief of Mission in Tokyo at the time, recalls how Mr. Singh led a difficult mission to Japan in 1999, after the Hashimoto government had frozen all ties for a period of three years, and along with the U.S., announced a slew of economic sanctions. “Mr. Singh was directly responsible for the return to normalcy [in ties] starting from his 1999 visit,” Mr. Jaishankar recalled. “In particular, he saw that the key to global acceptance of India’s nuclear status was to gain U.S. acceptance, which he pursued through personal diplomacy.” Mr. Singh, formerly a Major in the Army belonging to the Central India Horses cavalry regiment, built strong friendships by striking a personal chord. His former private secretary in the Finance Ministry, V. Srinivas, recalls that his motto was “trust the man, not the paper”. When U.S. President Bill Clinton visited India in 2000, Mr. Singh arranged a visit to his home State of Rajasthan, where Mr. Clinton saw tigers and played Holi with villagers. With his counterpart in the U.S. (General) Colin Powell, Mr. Singh shared the greeting, “from one soldier to another”. In his talks with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, Mr. Singh quite bluntly said the U.S. style of “checklist diplomacy”, based on ticking off a list of specific agreements, clashed terribly with the Indian style of building a mutual understanding, where specifics could be discussed later. He was candid enough to admit later that the clash accounted for many disagreements over the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and other Indo-U.S. issues. Another relationship he worked to restore post-Pokhran was with Gulf countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, through a visit in 2001, when Prince Saud presented him with four Arabian horses. He also became the first Indian Foreign Minister to visit both Israel and Palestine during his tenure. Even in his most difficult task, that of dealing with Pakistan despite the onslaught of some of the worst terror attacks at the time, the Kargil war, and the military mobilisation during Operation Parakram, Mr. Singh managed to strike a rapport with each of his interlocutors, including President Pervez Musharraf. “He was not a romantic or nostalgic about ties with Pakistan, but his view was that if India wanted to grow in the world, it would have to deal with its neighbour, and keep trying,” said retired diplomat TCA Raghavan, one of his closest aides.  Each day in office ended only after Mr. Singh had recorded his impressions in a diary. Writing about his most difficult assignment of travelling to Kandahar on December 31, 1999, with three terrorists on board, including Masood Azhar, who were then exchanged for the release of 175 Indian captives aboard flight IC-814, Mr. Singh described a young mother who was a hostage, who grabbed his neck and berated him for having “betrayed” them during the week-long hijacking ordeal. In his memoirs, Mr. Singh said “navigating the decidedly stormy diplomatic seas,” was his ‘Call to Honour’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diplomacy-was-jaswant-singhs-call-to-honour/article32710656.ece
28 September 2020||Srinagar,||Infiltration bid foiled along IB, says BSF||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday said it had foiled an infiltration bid along the International Border (IB) and pushed back at least five militants in Jammu’s Samba sector. A BSF spokesman said that alert troops of the BSF spotted the infiltrators on the intervening night of September 26 from the Pakistan side. “The group of heavily armed five terrorists tried to enter the Indian territory but was engaged, where they reached taking advantage of thick vegetation,” said the spokesman. The spokesman said the BSF troops had challenged the infiltrators to stop, at which they started firing on the BSF party with Pakistan Ranger posts, also giving fire support to them. “The BSF alert troops fired on the infiltrators in a coordinated manner. However, the infiltrators managed to flee back to Pakistan territory,” he said, adding, “This is the second attempt of infiltration through the Samba sector by the terrorist group after September 14-15.” Two militants killed "Two LeT militants have been killed in the operation launched on Sunday in Awantipora's Samboora," Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . The militants were killed in a joint operation of the Army, the police and the CRPF, which was launched after a “specific tip-off about the hiding militants”. Despite the Internet restrictions and multi-pronged operations launched against militants, the Valley has witnessed almost an equal number of militant recruitment this year in comparison to last year. The killings on Sunday pushed the toll of militants killed this year to 172. According to police data, 130 youth joined the militant ranks in the first nine months of this year, compared to 140 in 2019 and 201 in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infiltration-bid-foiled-along-ib-says-bsf/article32710660.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Maharashtra still leads COVID-19 tally’||Maharashtra continues to lead the COVID-19 tally for new cases, highest number of deaths and recoveries in the past 24 hours, according to the Health Ministry on Sunday. The Ministry said, “88,600 cases have been reported in the last 24 hours in the country. 10 States/UTs account for 77% of them with Maharashtra leading this tally. It has contributed more than 20,000 cases followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with more than more than 8,000 and 7,000 cases respectively.” Over 92,000 recover It said India has reported 92,043 recoveries in the last 24 hours with 76% of them being found in 10 States/UTs. “Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 23,000 of them followed by Andhra Pradesh with more than 9,000 cases.” The country has also registered 1,124 deaths with 10 States/UTs accounting for 84% of them. Maharashtra reported over 38% at 430 followed by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu at 86 and 85 respectively, said the Ministry. The World Health Organisation is now advocating for COVID-self care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-still-leads-covid-19-tally/article32710664.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||India, Japan navies match skills in northern Arabian Sea||The 4th edition of the biennial India and Japan naval exercise is under way in the borth Arabian Sea, the Navy said. This is the first exercise following the conclusion of the mutual logistics support agreement early this month. The maritime cooperation has significantly increased between the two sides with focus on information sharing and Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) and Indo-Pacific. “JIMEX-20 will showcase high degree of inter-operability and joint operational skills through conduct of a multitude of advanced exercises, across the spectrum of maritime operations,” the Navy said in a statement. Multi-faceted tactical exercises involving weapon firings, cross-deck helicopter operations and complex surface, anti-submarine and air warfare drills will consolidate coordination developed by the two navies, it said. Stating that naval cooperation has increased in scope and complexity over the years, the Navy said advanced level of operations and exercises planned during JIMEX-20 are indicative of “the continued upswing in Indo-Japanese defence relations and continued efforts by both governments to work closely for a more secure, open and inclusive global commons, in accordance with international regulations.” The three-day war games which began on Saturday are being conducted in a “non-contact at-sea-only format”, in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. The Navy has deployed indigenous stealth destroyer INS Chennai, stealth frigate INS Tarkash and fleet Tanker Deepak while the Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) has deployed Kaga, an Izumo Class Helicopter Destroyer and Ikazuchi, a guided missile destroyer. The P8I long-range maritime patrol aircraft, integral helicopters and fighter aircraft will also participate, the Navy said. The two countries have made steady progress in MDA based on the implementing arrangement for deeper cooperation signed between the two navies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-japan-navies-match-skills-in-northern-arabian-sea/article32710666.ece
28 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. urges NDA allies to oppose contentious Bills||Congress leaders on Sunday appealed to the coalition partners of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to stand against the agriculture sector Bills “to raise the voice of farmers and the poor”. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar held a joint video press conference, and asked all parties which support the BJP to “hear the voice of the poor, the farmers and self. Don’t shut your voice ... you should convey it to the BJP that the anger is simmering across the country, and it would be only the BJP that would be responsible for any consequences. Farmers and poor are raising their voice, but the BJP is not willing to listen.” Ms. Selja said that in Haryana, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), which is in alliance with the BJP, should quit the government and stand in support of farmers protesting against the agriculture Bills. “Dushyant Chautala should introspect about the unholy alliance that his party has done with the BJP, and how the farmers are being mistreated. The JJP, which claims to speak for farmers, should quit the BJP government in Haryana. If the government will continue to work this way, then our farmers and labourers will keep suffering. Injustice is being done to farmers, ‘arhtiyas’ [commission agents] and labourers through these Bills,” she said. Ms. Selja said, “The BJP has strangled the democracy by using its conservative majority. Our farmers, arhtiyas, labourers are the backbone of the agricultural sector, but they are suffering the most today. The government wants to end the relationship of farmers and arhtiyas, and want to turn the farmers as labourers on their land through contract farming.” Ms. Selja said the Congress had been agitating against these laws. “Hundreds of farmers’ organisations are on the road across the country, but this government is not paying heed to the voices of these people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-urges-nda-allies-to-oppose-contentious-bills/article32710679.ece
28 September 2020||Patna,||Bihar Cong. president booked for violating COVID-19 norms||The Congress’s Bihar president Madan Mohan Jha and several other party leaders were booked for violating COVID-19 regulations on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leaders Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav and Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) (JAP-L) leader Rajesh Ranjan, alias Pappu Yadav, along with 150 others, were booked on similar charges. Officials said that an FIR has been lodged against Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha and other party leaders, including Akhilesh Singh and Ajay Kapoor, for violating COVID-19 rules as a large number of party workers and people had gathered outside the Patna airport on Saturday to welcome senior party leaders. The FIR has been registered at the Patna airport police station by special executive magistrate Mohammad Shafiullah Khan under Sections 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligence act likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life) and provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act, 2005.  RJD leaders protest On Saturday, the RJD leaders were booked for taking out a protest march in Patna over the contentious farm Bills and flouting COVID-19 norms. The three were booked on Friday along with 150 others and an FIR against them was lodged at the Kotwali police station on the basis of a magistrate deputed to monitor the situation. Several farmers’ organisations and Opposition parties such as the RJD and JAP(L) had participated in the nationwide protests over the new farm Bills on Friday. Mr. Tejashwi rode a tractor leading the protest and his elder brother Mr. Tej Pratap was seen sitting atop the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-cong-president-booked-for-violating-covid-19-norms/article32710662.ece
28 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal on ‘course correction’ in Punjab, say political analysts||The decision of the Shiromani Akali Dal to come out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) amid farmers’ protests over the new farm sector Bills is being seen as “course correction” that could help the party regain its voter base across Punjab. The SAD, which initially supported the agriculture-related ordinances but later took a U-turn and decided to vote against the farm Bills in Parliament, had been under pressure to quit the NDA not just from the Opposition parties but even from within as many senior leaders cautioned the top leadership over possible backlash that the party would have to face in the 2022 Assembly election against the backdrop of the ongoing farmer’s agitation. Political analysts believe the SAD’ s decision to pull out of the NDA may help it manage its fast losing farmers constituency, however, how and to what extent it will help the SAD win over the farmers and farm labourers is too early to count. “Historically, two issues had been at core for the Shiromani Akali Dal. First, the party in mid-sixties had taken a position surrounding federalism — they evolved regional agenda surrounding ‘Punjabi Suba’ movement and demanded more rights for States. Second, Punjab predominantly being agrarian society, the Akali Dal started articulating the interests of agriculture sector and farmers. Now, any regional party that leaves its local agenda goes into oblivion and the Akali Dal was facing that problem,” said Pramod Kumar, director of the Institute for Development and Communication, Chandigarh. Ronki Ram, Shaheed Bhaghat Singh Chair Professor of political science at Panjab University, points out that the decision of the SAD to come out of the NDA may help it to manage its fast losing farmers constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akali-dal-on-course-correction-in-punjab-say-political-analysts/article32710677.ece
28 September 2020||Guwahati,||BJP betrayed us, says Manipur ally NPP||The National People’s Party (NPP) has described the sacking of two of its Ministers from the Nongthombam Biren government in Manipur Cabinet as “betrayal” by the BJP. On Thursday, Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh, who heads a BJP-led coalition government, dropped six Ministers — three from the BJP, two from the NPP and one from the Lok Janshakti Party. Five others were inducted in their place. All four Manipur NPP legislators met their national president and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma in Guwahati on Saturday. The four – Deputy Chief Minister Yumnam Joykumar, Minister Letpao Haokip, and sacked Ministers L. Jayentakumar and N. Kayisii – flew to Guwahati from Manipur capital Imphal in the evening while Mr. Sangma drove down from Meghalaya capital Shillong. They had another round of meeting on Sunday. “We are not happy with the reshuffle [of the Manipur Ministry]. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had made a commitment to us but it was not fulfilled. The BJP betrayed us,” one of the four MLAs said on Sunday, declining to be quoted. The MLA said a decision on whether to continue with or leave the alliance in Manipur would be taken soon. The five included two who had defected from the Congress to the BJP in August. They are Oinam Lukhoi and Okram Henry, nephew of former CM Okram Ibobi. The NPP’s Manipur unit had a couple of days ago indicated that it would withdraw support to the BJP if any of their MLAs were targeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-betrayed-us-says-manipur-ally-npp/article32710866.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||Actor slams media’s ‘slander campaign’||Actor Rakul Preet Singh moved the Delhi High Court seeking to bar the media from running any news linking her with the case of alleged drug use by movie stars till the time the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) completes the probe and files report before the court. In her application, the 29-year-old actor alleged the media of “simply running fake news” which are not based on “true, correct and verified facts”. Ms. Singh said the media’s slander campaign against her had “irreparably damaged her reputation, dignity and clean image, and flagrantly violated her privacy and right to be left alone”. The actor said she “does not take drugs at all, is a teetotaller and non-smoker, and is into fitness, yoga and meditation”. She has claimed that after she left the NCB office, following summons to assist in the investigation, the media continued their slander campaign of attributing statements to her which she never made to the NCB. “The media reported that the petitioner [Ms. Singh] has supposedly confessed to the NCB that ‘Rhea Chakraborty would get drugs sent to her house’ or that ‘Rhea wanted to take back her drugs’. The petitioner denies that she made any such statement,” her application stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-slams-medias-slander-campaign/article32710654.ece
28 September 2020||Jaipur,||Situation in Dungarpur improves, NH-8 cleared||The situation improved in Rajasthan’s Dungarpur district on Sunday after the Udaipur-Ahmedabad highway, which was blocked by the candidates of a recruitment exam for three days, was cleared after a meeting between a delegation of the protesters and public representatives and officials. Tribal Area Development Minister Arjun Singh Bamniya was also part of the meeting. The protesters were demanding that 1,167 vacant general quota seats be filled from the Scheduled Tribes category. “The situation by and large remained peaceful today. The highway in Dungarpur is clear for traffic movement now,” Inspector General of Police (Udaipur range) Binita Thakur said. However, incidents of stone-pelting took place in Rishabhdev and Jhadol area of adjoining Udaipur district, Ms. Thakur said. “Police forces are trying to control the situation there also,” she said. The police control room said that stones and other obstacles on the highway in Dungarpur are being removed so that traffic movement can be resumed. Several torched vehicles, stones and boulders are there on a 20-km stretch of the highway. “Traffic will resume on the highway by tomorrow. After the meeting, which was held in a positive manner today, we conducted a march on the highway to review the situation. Now the things are under control in Dungarpur,” said former Udaipur MP. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot too reviewed the situation and held discussions with the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/situation-in-dungarpur-improves-nh-8-cleared/article32710868.ece
28 September 2020||Srinagar,||Kargil leaders demand pre-August 5 status||Top leaders of Kargil, including two influential seminaries of the Imam Khomeini Memorial Trust and the Islamia School Kargil, on Sunday distanced themselves from the demand of Sixth Schedule status, even as a prominent Shia leader from Kashmir also made efforts to build a consensus around it. Sheikh Nazeer Muhamadi, ISK president, described the Ministry of Home Affairs promise to discuss the granting of the Sixth Schedule status to the 13-month old Union Territory of Ladakh “a mere acceptance of demand from Leh district”. “We never demanded Sixth Schedule status ever since the UT was carved. The ISK has always opposed creation of Ladakh as a UT. We want the pre-August 5 status,” he said. Sheikh Muhammad Sadiq Rajyee, IKMT president, also seconded Mr. Muhamadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kargil-leaders-demand-pre-august-5-status/article32710865.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||India still far from herd immunity, says Vardhan||The tally stood at 60,71,396, while the toll climbed to 95,573 with 1,100 new deaths. The total recoveries stood at 50,10,374. On the disparity in setting up only one AIIMS for the entire northeast, Dr. Vardhan said the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana scheme was aimed at correcting the regional imbalances in healthcare. “Other than setting up new AIIMS, the scheme also aims to upgrade the existing medical infrastructure in a phased manner. Under different phases, the Centre will establish new medical colleges attached with existing district and referral hospitals in Dhubri, Nagaon, North Lakhimpur, Diphu, Kokrajhar districts in Assam, Churachandpur in Manipur and West Garo Hills District in Meghalaya among others,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-still-far-from-herd-immunity-says-vardhan/article32711152.ece
28 September 2020||Guwahati,||BJP betrayed us, says Manipur ally NPP||The National People’s Party (NPP) has described the sacking of two of its Ministers from the Manipur Cabinet as “betrayal” by the BJP. On Thursday, Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh, who heads a BJP-led coalition government, dropped six Ministers — three from the BJP, two from the NPP and one from the Lok Janshakti Party. All four Manipur NPP legislators met their national president and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma in Guwahati on Saturday and Sunday. “We are not happy with the reshuffle,” one of the four MLAs said on Sunday. The MLA said a decision on whether to continue with or leave the alliance in Manipur would be taken soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-betrayed-us-says-manipur-ally-npp/article32710646.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||A soldier-turned-politician bids adieu||He remained a Member of Parliament from 1980 to 2014, being elected to the Rajya Sabha five times — in 1980, 1986, 1998, 1999, 2004 — and four times to the Lok Sabha — in 1990, 1991, 1996, 2009. Suave and well versed in language and diplomatese, he soon found a place as the BJP’s go-to man for strategic affairs as well as finance, while also serving for a spell as deputy chairperson of the Planning Commission. He was also the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha between 2004-2009. Mr. Singh, who was a close personal friend of former Prime Minister Vajpayee and Deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani, was seen as not being an RSS man, and the organisation is said to have ensured that his name did not figure as Finance Minister in the first Vajpayee government. He was nevertheless entrusted with many sensitive assignments on behalf of the NDA government, including negotiating with the United States for the easing of sanctions when India tested a nuclear device at Pokhran in 1998, which U.S. representative Strobe Talbot has written about in his book Engaging India: Democracy, Diplomacy and the Bomb.  Kandahar episode His career, however, was also marred by controversy; first when he was in government during the 1999 Kandahar hijacking. Mr Singh had escorted three terrorists — Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, Masood Azhar and Mushtaq Ahmad Zargar — to Kandahar in exchange for the 175 passengers of the hijacked flight IC 814 who were being held hostage by Pakistan-backed terrorists. While that controversy created a lasting debate on how to deal with such situations in the future and beefing up security at Indian airports, Mr. Singh was caught in another row when the BJP lost the election in 2009. In a letter to senior party leaders just before they met in Shimla for a review, he demanded a serious enquiry into the causes of the defeat. This caused panic in the party’s ranks. Later, Mr. Singh’s book on Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah, Jinnah: India, Partition, Independence, was considered sympathetic to the late leader and led to his expulsion from the party. Despite being elected to the Lok Sabha in 2009 from Darjeeling, he remained on the sidelines for a while till he was brought back into the party by then president Nitin Gadkari. In 2014, however, his desire to contest the Lok Sabha election on a BJP ticket from Barmer was thwarted and he fought as a rebel candidate against the party’s candidate Sona Ram Choudhary. He was defeated and this led to a bitter parting from the BJP. In August 2014, he suffered a fall at his home in Delhi and had been in poor health since. Prime Minister Modi visited the ailing leader and a half-way house of goodwill emerged. On Sunday morning, Mr. Singh breathed his last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-soldier-turned-politician-bids-adieu/article32710639.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Case filed against three Kerala women activists||The Thampanoor police on Sunday registered a case against three women activists, including dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmi, who had on Saturday attacked a man who had posted a viral video with derogatory and abusive comments against women. The police had earlier registered a case against the man, one Vijay P. Nair residing near Gandhari Amman Koil in the capital, for outraging the modesty of women. Though he had initially told the police that he did not have any complaint, he later lodged a complaint with the Thampanoor police. The police have registered a case under IPC sections 323 (for voluntarily causing hurt), 294(b) (for singing, reciting or uttering any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 506 (for criminal intimidation), 392 (for robbery), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). “We have registered a case against three women based on his complaint, which was filed late Saturday. He said he could identify only Bhagyalakshmi among the three,” said the Thampanoor CI. Mr. Nair had allegedly posted videos on his YouTube channel ‘Vtrix Scene’ with derogatory and abusive comments on Bhagyalakshmi, activist Bindu Ammini, and poet Sugathakumari. This video and others of a similar nature that he had posted in recent weeks have gone viral with lakhs of views. The three women activists had confronted and attacked him at his residence on Saturday. Minister’s support The derogatory videos and the dramatic response from the activists have fuelled a heated debate in the State, with many supporting the women on social media, and a few condemning the action even while supporting their cause. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja came out in Bhagyalakshmi’s support saying that she appreciated her and others for reacting to such a vulgar attack against women. The correctness of the response can be discussed later, she said. The Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) condemned the police for registering cases against the activists, saying that it was wrong to equate the man’s action and the women’s reaction. In a statement, FEFKA said the women’s act can only be seen as a helpless outburst after facing constant insults and attacks in cyber and public spaces. M.C. Josephine, State Women’s Commission chairperson, also expressed solidarity with the activists, saying that loopholes in cyber laws had led to such outbursts. Case against director Meanwhile, another case has been filed against film producer and director Santhivila Dinesh for allegedly posting derogatory comments about Bhagyalakshmi and others on social media. The cases have been charged under section 354 A and 509 of the IPC and section 120 (O) of the Kerala Police Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-filed-against-three-kerala-women-activists/article32710632.ece
28 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘NE rebel groups’ issues will be settled by 2024’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the Centre would settle by 2024 the issues of the northeastern extremist groups that have remained out of the peace process. “Several peace initiatives in the northeast were taken in the past six years under Modiji’s government. Hundreds of extremists laid down arms after agreements with eight groups,” Mr. Shah said during a virtual conference on “Destination North East-2020”, a four-day event for highlighting the region’s potential in eco-tourism, culture, heritage and business. “The issues of the remaining groups will be settled by 2024 by taking along the Chief Ministers of the region,” he added.  Mr. Shah said the Centre’s focus on developing the region was evident from the 250% increase in the allocation of funds by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region compared to the tenure of the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ne-rebel-groups-issues-will-be-settled-by-2024/article32710652.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Former Bihar police chief joins JD(U)||“I’m a simple person who has spent his time working for the downtrodden sections of society,” he added. Mr. Pandey joined the party in the presence of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is also the JD(U) president, and other leaders such as Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lalan Singh, Vijay Chaudhury and Ashok Chaudhury. Voluntary retirement Mr. Pandey, a 1987-batch IPS officer, had recently taken voluntary retirement from service. He was to retire in February 2021. In 2009 too, he had taken VRS to contest the Lok Sabha poll, but after he failed to get the ticket, he was controversially reinstated after nine months. Mr. Pandey had recently hit the headlines because of the statements he made about the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Earlier on Saturday, he had reached the JD(U) party office to meet Mr. Kumar, but later he said it was not a political meet and he had come to “thank” Mr. Kumar for the freedom he had given him to work as a DGP in the State. Bihar is scheduled to go to poll in three phases from October 28 and the counting will be held on November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-bihar-police-chief-joins-jdu/article32710638.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Void in national life: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday, in her condolence letter to Manvendra Singh, said the demise of his father Jaswant Singh “leaves a void in our national and public life that cannot be filled”. “I mourn the loss of a noble human being and a most dedicated and distinguished public servant,’’ she said. Ms. Gandhi added that Mr. Singh lived his life with utmost honour and integrity, whether as an Army officer, a politician or a Cabinet Minister who held the crucial portfolio of External Affairs, Defence and Finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/void-in-national-life-sonia/article32710644.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||CSIR launches healthcare supply chain portal||CSIR Director General Shekar C. Mande said the aim of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research is to improve the socio-economic status of people, and partner with the industry to develop technologies that reach the market for the betterment of society. A national healthcare supply chain portal (www.aarogyapath.in) has been launched to provide information on the requirement of healthcare essentials.  Another app called ‘Kishan Sabha’ was launched to connect farmers to supply chain and freight transportation. Lockdown innovations Dr, Mande was addressing the staff of all the CSIR labs across the country on the occasion of the 79th Foundation Day on Saturday. Earlier, Union Minister for Science & Technology Harsh Vardhan lauded the efforts of the scientists for their indigenous innovations during the current pandemic like ventilators, diagnostics kits, surveillance, drugs, PPEs, masks etc. Technologies for all these was developed in six months from the initial phase of national lockdown. Institute journey Back in Hyderabad, former CSIR-IICT Director and Padma Bhushan A.V. Rama Rao was the chief guest at IICT where he elaborated the journey of the institute from a Regional Research Laboratory to the present state of internationally reputed institute for chemistry and chemical technologies. Through the journey, the laboratory was committed to the welfare of the society, and in line with the mandate, produced many process technologies for various drugs. The institute partnered with the industry to reach the people with affordable healthcare solutions. Not only drugs, the institute has aided the agriculture sector through pheromone and other related technologies. CSIR-IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar said the institute in committed to work to take forward the vision of CSIR towards a completely self-reliant India or ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Awards for children of its staff members for their performance in board examinations were announced. The entire celebration was held online this year due to COVID-19 restrictions, a press release informed on Sunday.  improve the socio-economic status of people, and partner with the industry to develop technologies that reach the market for the betterment of society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/csir-launches-healthcare-supply-chain-portal/article32711159.ece
28 September 2020||IMPHAL,||Assam govt. to consider Manipuri in language list||The Assam government will translate into action the Manipuri language demands, as per the assurances given by Assam Education and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, during a meeting in Silchar, Assam, on September 26. Mr. Sarma sought some time to look into the demand of inclusion of Manipuri in the list of associate languages of Assam. He said the government would like to examine the mechanism of such a demand in other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-govt-to-consider-manipuri-in-language-list/article32710658.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Manickam Tagore stirs enthusiasm in party men||New AICC incharge for Telangana Congress Manickam Tagore seems to have brought a lot of enthusiasm given the participation of party leaders in the meetings and the response to the serious day-long business. During a series of meetings with senior party leaders and later District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents, Mr. Tagore instilled some kind of confidence that was clearly lacking in the party. The Gandhi Bhavan, party headquarters, was once again brimming with activity. Mr. Tagore chose to specifically understand the dynamics within the party and at the same time ensuring that the organisational structure got its due to express its views during the meetings. He stressed the unity and discipline yet again saying views of everyone needed to be respected, according to senior leaders. Mr. Tagore felt TRS was not invincible and people needed to be convinced how its takeover of the system and control over all the institutions within the State would be detrimental to people. The corruption of the party and undemocratically attracting the opposition MLAs to its fold needed to be exposed continuously at all levels, he argued. The day-long meetings attended by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, working presidents A. Revanth Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar and Kusum Kumar, former PCC presidents former Ministers and DCC presidents discussed at length party’s preparation for Dubbak byelections and the Graduate MLC elections apart from the corporation elections in GHMC, Warangal and Khammam. Mr. Tagore suggested that all the 146 villages in Dubbak would have incharges for the elections with senior leaders heading them. Similar strategies would be adopted for the GHMC and other elections. Opposition to the farmers’ bills would continue for a month starting from the two crore signature campaign from October 2. He said 70 leaders would take responsibility of 10 mandals each covering all the 700 mandals. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that a team of senior leaders led by Mr. Tagore would represent to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday against the farmers Bills. He said constituency-wise meetings would be held on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tagore-stirs-enthusiasm-in-party-men/article32711179.ece
28 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Political compulsion, says BJP||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Sunday dubbed the termination of alliance by the Shiromani Akali Dal a “last resort move” due to its political compulsion, and accused the Opposition parties, including the SAD, of spreading misinformation on the Minimum Support Price. At the party’s core committee meeting, Mr. Sharma said it was unfortunate that the SAD was accusing the BJP of not keeping the alliance on board with the agriculture sector Bills. “The party defended the ordinances and stated on record that the visionary Bills will uplift the economic interests of farmers,” said Mr. Sharma. However, the Akali Dal made a U-turn and snapped the ties with the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/political-compulsion-says-bjp/article32710867.ece
28 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,||KC(M) leader C.F. Thomas passes away||Senior Kerala Congress (M) leader and nine-time MLA from Changanassery C.F. Thomas passed away at a private hospital in Thiruvalla on Sunday. He was 81. Mr. Thomas was under treatment for prolonged illness and breathed his last at around 9.45 a.m. His mortal remains will be laid to rest at the cemetery of the St. Mary’s Metropolitan Cathedral, Changanassery, after keeping for the public to pay homage at the Parish Hall on Monday morning. Mr. Thomas leaves behind his wife Kunjamma, son Saiju, daughters Sini and Anu. Since 1980 Mr. Thomas contested the election from the Changanassery Assembly constituency for the first time in 1980 and has won a record nine times, including the previous elections in 2016. He had served as Rural Development Minister during the tenure of the United Democratic Front governments led by A.K. Antony and Oommen Chandy between 2001and 2006. Born to C.T. Francis and Annamma Francis in 1939, Mr. Thomas had entered politics through the Kerala Students Union in 1956 and later went on to join the Kerala Congress during its formation in 1964. He held positions, including KC(M) chairman and deputy chairman during his more than six decades long political career. He had also worked as a teacher at St. Berchman’s Higher Secondary School, Changanassery, for a brief period Regarded as a strong loyalist of KC(M) founder leader K.M. Mani, Mr. Thomas stood by the P.J. Joseph faction after Mani’s death. Condolences Several political leaders, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, BJP president K. Surendran, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy, Kerala Congress (M) leaders P.J. Joseph and Jose K. Mani, and Nair Service Society general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair condoled the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcm-leader-cf-thomas-passes-away/article32710628.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Sea of faces||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sea-of-faces/article32710634.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Bangladesh for friendly ties with all’||Bangladesh wishes to maintain friendly ties with all countries, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said on Sunday. During an interaction with the outgoing Indian High Commissioner in Dhaka, Ms. Hasina suggested that neighbouring countries should consider using airports located in areas like Sylhet. “We always think that better cooperation is needed with the neighbouring countries, for the development of the people of the region as our foreign policy is ‘friendship to all and malice towards none’,” she said during her meeting with Riva Ganguly Das. The comments offer a window to the foreign policy of the country which has been in news after China intensified its outreach in the backdrop of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-for-friendly-ties-with-all/article32710667.ece
28 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Conviction in Babri case would show justice is alive’||Conviction for the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, the judgment for which would be declared by a Special CBI court judge here on September 30, though delayed, would offer solace that “justice is still alive” in the country, says Haji Mehboob, a witness. Mr. Mehboob was also one of the original litigants in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi title dispute. “If they [accused] get punished, I will have solace that justice is still alive in India. Nothing else,” Mr. Mehboob told The Hindu . Almost 28 years after a mob of “karsevaks” demolished the Mughal-era mosque in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, a CBI court would pronounce judgment in the case in which several top BJP and VHP leaders are accused of criminal conspiracy and other charges. The Special CBI court in 2017 framed charges under criminal conspiracy against senior BJP leader L.K. Advani and several other accused — most of them linked to the Sangh Parivar. The move came after the Supreme Court had used its extraordinary constitutional powers under Article 142 to restore the criminal conspiracy charges framed against Mr. Advani and others, overruling the Allahabad High Court judgment dropping the charges against him and several others in 2001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conviction-in-babri-case-would-show-justice-is-alive/article32710668.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||President gives assent to farm Bills||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to three contentious farm Bills that have triggered farmer protests, especially in Punjab and Haryana. According to a gazette notification, the President gave assent to three Bills: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The President’s assent to these Bills comes amid the Opposition criticising the manner in which they were passed in Parliament. Even NDA’s oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has parted ways on the issue of these farm Bills as farmers in Punjab and Haryana intensify protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-gives-assent-to-farm-bills/article32710682.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,||MLCs meet Yediyurappa||A day after the legislature session ended, BJP members of the Legislative Council met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday and discussed the elections to seats that have fallen vacant, among other issues. BJP spokesperson and MLC N. Ravi Kumar said they had sought a separate meeting with the CM at the recent BJP Legislature Party meeting as several matters pending discussion. Talks focused on the elections to four graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies and elections to local bodies due soon. They also raised the issue of the legislators’ fund that the CM said would be released soon. After many complained of being ignored as the Ministers visiting their districts did not even invite them to meetings, Mr. Yediyurappa assured them that this would be addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mlcs-meet-yediyurappa/article32710742.ece
28 September 2020||Bhopal,||Congress announces 9 candidates for M.P. bypoll||The Congress on Sunday released its second list of nine candidates for the byelection in Madhya Pradesh, featuring two former BJP leaders who had switched over recently. Mukul Wasnik, All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of M.P., released the list after the approval of party president Sonia Gandhi. On September 11, the party had announced names of 15 candidates, including those in the fray for the 11 reserved seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-announces-9-candidates-for-mp-bypoll/article32710649.ece
28 September 2020||Kalaburagi,||Seven die in road accident in Kalaburagi district||Seven persons, including a pregnant woman, were killed when their vehicle rammed into a truck near Savalagi village in Kalaburagi district, early on Sunday. The dead were identified as Irfan Begum, 25, who was pregnant, Rubia Begum, 52, Abedabi Begum, 54, Jayatjunabi, 60, Mohammad Ali, 38, their family friend Shaukat Ali, 29, and driver Mohammad Muneer, 28. All the victims were residents of Noorani Mohalla and Magadumpur areas in Aland town. Shabana Bi, who was critically injured, was taken to a hospital in Kalaburagi. They were on their way to Kalaburagi to admit Irfan Begum in a hospital after she developed labour pain. Doctors at Aland advised the family to take the woman to a better health facility in Kalaburagi. The family called their friend Muneer who picked them up and began driving towards Kalaburagi at about 3.30 a.m. At one point, the driver lost control over the vehicle and rammed into a truck that was parked for repair near Savalagi Cross on Wagdhari–Ribbanpalli highway. Seven persons in the passenger vehicle died on the spot. Police Commissioner N. Sathishkumar, Deputy Commissioners of Police Kishore Babu and Shrikanth Kattimani, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Sudha Adi, and inspector Shanthinath rushed to the spot. After the post-mortem, the bodies were handed over to relatives. The last rites of the dead were held at Aland. A case has been registered at the traffic police station. Irfan Begum married Mohammad Shafi, an engineer employed in Qatar, a year ago. Shafi had recently returned to Qatar after attending a family function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-die-in-road-accident-in-kalaburagi-district/article32710621.ece
28 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Four elephants killed in Assam||Two elephants were electrocuted and two run over by a train within 24 hours in Assam. Forest officials said a goods train hit a female elephant and her calf in Assam’s Hojai district around 1.15 a.m. on Sunday. On Saturday, two elephants were electrocuted after they came in contact with a live wire on the periphery of the Rani Reserve Forest near Guwahati in Kamrup district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-elephants-killed-in-assam/article32710645.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,||Behanan quits as UDF convener||United Democratic Front (UDF) convener Benny Behanan has stepped down from the post. Mr. Behanan told media persons here on Sunday that the resignation letter was sent to the party leadership. Mr. Behanan’s resignation comes in the wake of opposition raised by some party leaders of him holding two posts simultaneously. Incidentally, Mr. Behanan, who was appointed as the convener of the Congress-led political alliance in the State, was subsequently elected to Parliament from the Chalakudy constituency. Mr. Behanan said the allegations that he had developed differences of opinion with senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy had pained him. The decision to step down was taken in the interest of the party and the UDF. There were no complaints about the way in which the affairs of the front were managed during his one year in office, he said. Mr. Behanan said the ongoing probe by around 10 agencies, including the Central agencies, against the government and its Ministers was a blot on society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/behanan-quits-as-udf-convener/article32710624.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Today’s bandh likely to impact life||The Karnataka bandh, called by a wide coalition of farmers’ groups, labour, Dalit, and Kannada organisations on Monday against two farm-related Bills passed by the Legislative Assembly, is likely to hit life across the State. Transport is expected to be partially hit with various private bus, cabs, autorickshaws, and airport taxi associations extending their support to the bandh. Most of them are expected to not function. However, buses of government run transport organisations are largely expected to ply as the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) have officially said that there would be services as usual. But sources said that there would be a ‘wait-and-watch’ approach depending on the situation and intensity of the protests. BMRCL officials also said metro services will operate as usual, but they will take a final call depending on the situation on Monday. Narayana Gowda of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike threatened to lay siege to metro and railway stations, and bus stands and stage rail and bus roko, and also block highways. Namma Chalakara Trade Union president Somashekar said, “We have approached all the cab drivers part of Ola and Uber to take part in the bandh and support farmers. All drivers, including autorickshaw ones, are supporting the bandh.”  However, while hotel and restaurant associations have extended “moral support” to the bandh, hotels and restaurants will remain open.  Retail markets are expected to be largely shut, while street vendors have announced that they will not work on Monday. Meanwhile, emergency services, primarily healthcare and ambulance services, will not be disturbed and pharmacies will remain open.  Kurubur Shantakumar, of the Rajya Raitha Sanghatanegala Okkoota, said that there will be a huge procession from Town Hall to Mysore Bank Circle in Bengaluru, and also across the State. “We have also planned a bike and car rally from Sumanahalli junction to Town Hall via Nayandahalli, Magadi Road, K.R. Market in the morning before the protest,” he said. Meanwhile, elaborate security arrangements have been made to ensure law and order in the city, with 64 platoons of the reserve police along with city police being deployed. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said, “No one have approached us seeking permission for rallies and if anyone tries to conduct rallies, actions as per law will be taken against them and we will detain them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/todays-bandh-likely-to-impact-life/article32710620.ece
28 September 2020||KOLLAM,||Faith intact, albeit with less grandeur||Instead of the massive confluence of faith and culture, Oachira Parabrahma Temple saw a miniscule gathering on Sunday as the annual Kettukazhcha was held with rituals only. The Kettukazhcha, the carnival that parades the biggest bull effigies in Asia, is held on Irupathettam Onam to celebrate the harvest festival. The renowned car festival draws thousands from all parts. Last year, nearly 200 cars representing various Karas (areas) in Karunagappally, Karthikappally and Mavelikara taluks participated in the festival. Vishwaprajapathi Kalabhairavan, a car paraded in the jam-packed Padanilam (rally ground) last year, was 65 feet tall and was accompanied by others in varying heights making the pageant an impressive spectacle. But this time, the temple committee decided to observe the festival with just the basic rituals and ceremonies. Nobody was given permission to bring cars to temple and there was only a single pair of bulls. Every year, preparations for the festival begin much in advance. All the participating Karas will be in a celebratory mood for a month. The cars come in all sizes, each displaying two bulls in red and white adorned with pieces of decoration . The bulls symbolise Lord Shiva’s vehicle Nandi. The festival is also a celebration of the agrarian culture and hence called ‘Kannukaali Onam’ (Onam for cattle). This year, there was just the lone car of the temple committee at the Padanilam and all the rituals ended with Deeparadhana (prayer with lights) and Ezhunnallathu (procession). “The Karas approached us but we could not permit them. The temple was closed for six months, but devotees will be allowed from Monday,” said temple committee president Sreedharan Pillai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faith-intact-albeit-with-less-grandeur/article32711259.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doctors criticise govt. for not making code on pharma firms mandatory||The Alliance of Doctors for Ethical Health Care has expressed disappointment over the recent reply of Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Sadanada Gowda, in Parliament that there is no decision yet to make the Uniform Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices (UCPMP) mandatory. “The UCPMP should be made mandatory to bring fairness in marketing of the drugs as the industry has failed to comply with the code on a voluntary basis,” said the group in its release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-criticise-govt-for-not-making-code-on-pharma-firms-mandatory/article32710657.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,791 fresh cases take State’s tally to 5,80,808||With the State recording 5,791 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, the overall tally touched 5,80,808. As many as 5,706 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 5,25,154. A total of 46,341 persons are currently undergoing treatment. Chennai recorded 1,280 new cases, crossing the 1,000-mark for the fourth consecutive day. As many as 936 persons were discharged. The district currently has 10,656 active cases. It recorded 19 deaths in the last 24 hours. Cases continued to rise in the western districts on Sunday. Coimbatore reported 596 new cases, while 378 persons tested positive for the infection in Salem. Tiruppur recorded 282 cases and eight deaths. The disease burden remains high in Chennai’s neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. Chengalpattu recorded 296 fresh cases and two deaths. As many as 202 persons tested positive in Tiruvallur, which also recorded two deaths. In Kancheepuram, 196 persons tested positive for the infection and two succumbed to it. Cuddalore had recorded 256 fresh infections and five deaths since Saturday, according to the bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. The State recorded 80 deaths, taking the toll to 9,313. Among those whose deaths were recorded on Sunday, three persons had no co-morbid conditions. A 30-year-old woman from Karur, who was admitted to the government medical college hospital there on September 21, tested positive for the infection the next day. She died on Saturday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 78-year-old woman from Chennai, whose RT-PCR test result revealed that she had COVID-19, was admitted to a private hospital in the city on September 11. She was a diabetic and hypertensive, and had been admitted with complaints of fever for seven days, cough for three days and breathing difficulty for four days. She died on Saturday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. 13 deaths in U.T. Puducherry recorded 13 COVID-19 deaths and 372 fresh cases from 4,623 tests on Sunday. The capital accounted for 10 deaths and Karaikal three as the cumulative toll went up to 513. The patients, including four women, were in the age group of 30-81, Director of Health S. Mohan Kumar said in a release. The case fatality rate was 1.94% and the recovery rate 78.21%. The distribution of fresh cases was 270 in Puducherry, 72 in Karaikal, 11 in Yanam and 19 in Mahe. The active cases aggregated 5,239, including 3,423 patients in home quarantine and the cumulative case load was 26,400, while 20,648 patients have recovered so far. The Health Department has so far tested 1,71,561 samples, of which 1,41,679 were negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5791-fresh-cases-take-states-tally-to-580808/article32710813.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor patronage may force Chennai Metro to reduce frequency of trains||Chennai Metro Rail is likely to change the frequency of trains soon in the 45-km network as the number of passengers travelling is still low. When the train services resumed on September 7, commuters could board a train in the peak hours once in five minutes and once every seven minutes during the non-peak hours. Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) is mulling to reduce the frequency and make trains available every seven minutes in the peak hours and every 14 minutes in the non-peak hours, according to sources. “Another option we have been thinking of is to continue to run trains once every five minutes in peak hours and once in every 14 minutes during the rest of the day. The reason is we have seen that during the non-peak hours, there is barely any traffic and trains are going back and forth with too few a passenger,” an official said. There are about 18,000-20,000 passengers taking the Metro trains in the weekdays and this number falls to 10,000 on Sundays. This despite the fact that there is 50% discount on Sunday and 20% discount for QR code tickets on weekdays. Work from home effect? “Obviously, a majority of people who travel in our trains are working professionals. So, the traffic will be less now because most office goers are working from home and many have apprehensions on taking public transport. When the workforce is back, we are hoping that the traffic reaches one lakh figure as before lockdown. If traffic gets better over months, we will certainly have more number of services,” the official said. At present, Chennai Metro runs close to 450 trips a day. With the reduction in frequency, the number of trips may fall, thereby bringing down the expenditure, the sources added. Sources said plans were afoot to analyse the traffic pattern every hour of the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-patronage-may-force-chennai-metro-to-reduce-frequency-of-trains/article32710777.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu wholesale market reopens||Traders heaved a sigh of relief with wholesale vegetable shops reopening at Koyambedu on Sunday. Around 200 shops reopened with a simple ceremony after several months of closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Koyambedu had become a cluster from where the pandemic spread because of crowding and the failure to comply with distancing norms by those at the market and those who shopped there. By mid-May, the count of cases from the cluster was about 3,000. From early May, shops were shifted from Koyambedu to a temporary market at Thirumazhisai, about 50 km from the city. The shops in the new location were spread out with designated spaces for off-loading vegetables. On Sunday, traders who had complained about inadequate facilities at Tirumazhisai were happy because they believed their livelihood was restored at Koyambedu. D. Rajasekaran, president of the Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Committee, said traders should follow the stipulations laid down by the market management committee. A.M. Vikramaraja, president of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, said the next on the agenda was to reopen the semi-wholesale shops that sold vegetables to small traders.  The shops in the new location were spread out with sufficient distance between them and designated spaces for off-loading vegetables. On Sunday, when the vegetable shops returned to Koyambedu, traders who had complained about inadequate facilities at Tirumazhisai were happy because they believed their livelihood was restored. D. Rajasekaran, president of the Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Committee, said traders should follow the stipulations laid down by the market management committee. They should not unload goods outside their shops or in open spaces in the market. A.M. Vikramaraja, president of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, said the next on the agenda was to reopen the semi-wholesale shops that sold vegetables to small traders. “Moving the vegetable market back to Koyambedu would lead to a reduction in prices, and this would help consumers,” he said. Traders have also been demanding the reopening of flower and fruit markets in the Koyambedu complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-wholesale-market-reopens/article32710790.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM springs a surprise on T.N. storyteller||Telling stories that bring about a change is what Srividya Veeraraghavan, the mother of a 10-year-old, loves to do. Having been used to telling stories at various libraries in and around Ashok Nagar and Villivakkam, the lockdown opened a new avenue for her - her Facebook page called Story Train Chennai. \“I have been doing live sessions every Wednesday and also sending stories as voice messages to friends and family. I wanted them to share these stories with others since I believe stories have the power to change,” she said. Though Sunday morning began quite normally, she didn’t expect her name would be mentioned by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann Ki Baat series. Mr. Modi said she told stories from Indian epics. “It came as a huge surprise to me and a big honour for my work of the past five years to be recognised by the PM himself,” she said. Ms. Veeraraghavan said though from her childhood books have always been her best companions, it was her mother Seethalakshmi who told her stories and created in the the love for telling them. She goes to schools and corporates giving programmes that would suit the audiences. “I quit my job in a private company and have taken this as my full time passion. My audiences make me tell stories. For adults, I mix stories from my own life and from books that I read. I am usually invited for employee engagement,” she said. As a person who loves to hear and tell stories, she always tells audience to take back stories to more people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-springs-a-surprise-on-tn-storyteller/article32710792.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students face a tough JEE (Advanced)||The Joint Engineering Entrance (Advanced) held on Sunday turned out to be more challenging than anticipated by the students. Over 1.60 lakh students had registered for the examination which contains two papers. K. Shyamsundar, a State Board student who attended the exam, said he found Physics to be the toughest. He had prepared for the exam for the past two years only through online coaching sessions. “Students found the paper was way tougher than what it was in the last five years,” said B. Pavan Kumar, deputy director of FIIT-JEE, which runs integrated programmes for competitive exams. It came as a shock to the students as usually one of the three subjects — Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry — would be relatively easy. According to him, many students found all three subjects tough, with Chemistry being relatively easy. Unlike previous years, the students had to solve all problems. Usually the papers contain around five or six tough questions. But this time, 12 of the 18 questions were of the numerical type, which the teachers said was ‘descriptive’ instead of ‘objective’. It did not help that the questions were also lengthy. The Indian Institute of Technology — Delhi conducted the test whose scores will be used for admission to the 21 IITs and some Central government funded institutions as well. Those who had cleared the JEE (Main) are eligible to sit for the JEE (Advanced) test, provided they have the required cut-off. The results will be declared on October 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-face-a-tough-jee-advanced/article32710794.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools in State weigh options to call students back to campus||With online classes resuming from Monday after a week’s break, schools are weighing their options with regard to calling students of Classes 10, 11 and 12 to campus from October 1. A recent government order passed to this effect had stated that a proposal submitted by the School Education Department for permitting students of Classes 10 to 12 to visit campus for guidance sessions had been accepted by the State government. From October 1, schools are permitted to have students and teachers on campus, in batches, and have been asked to adhere to a host of safety measures, in view of COVID-19. “Since parents and students might be hesitant to come to school for clearing doubts, we are considering giving students the option of coming to school and writing the mid-term exams, scheduled for October. For students who do not wish to come to school, we can hold it online, as planned,” said Ashok Shankar, secretary, CBSE Schools’ Management Association. He said that many schools were expecting parents to be hesitant to send their students to schools, even for short sessions. “This is why online classes will continue as per schedule,” he added. To address the concerns that parents might have, schools have already started sending them survey forms to get an idea of the queries they might be having. They have also been reaching out to them through virtual meetings. “We’ve already encouraged teachers to speak to parents of senior school students in particular, and make them aware of the safety precautions we will be putting in place, such as enforcing of physical distancing norms and making mask wearing compulsory,” said N. Vijayan, senior principal, Zion Group of Schools. Mr. Vijayan said the number of batches the students are to be divided into and a schedule for those wishing to come to school for clearing doubts would be decided based on the response from students and parents over the next two days. “These sessions can also be live-streamed as part of their online classes,” he added. With the State government setting a limit on the number of online sessions a school can hold in a day, teachers said they were becoming anxious about completing portions for classes that had to take up the board exam next year. “For those students in particular, these guidance sessions will be useful, and these can effectively supplement their online classes. The decision, however, ultimately rests on the parents,” the principal of a school in Chennai said. The State government has also specified that students can come to school only after they get a consent form signed by their parents or guardians. Clarity on syllabus Government schools, however, are still awaiting clarity and further instructions. Patric Raymond, president of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Association, said that so far, government schoolchildren had access to classes only through Kalvi TV. “Since there are no full-fledged online classes, guidance sessions might not be very useful at this stage. We first want clarity on the syllabus reduction proposed by the government and the academic schedule for the rest of the year,” he said. Many teachers like him also stressed on the need to reach out and speak to the parents and students, in advance, before any sort of activity on campus begins, since schools have remained shut since March.  These guidance sessions will be useful particularly for students taking the board exam next year Principal Chennai school||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-in-state-weigh-options-to-call-students-back-to-campus/article32710808.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Disability brings out the activist in her||M. Karpagam, a visually impaired lawyer practising at the Madras High Court, has been selected for this year’s NCPEDP-Mphasis Javed Abidi Universal Design Award in the public policy and advocacy category. She is the first visually impaired woman advocate who is actively practising, including arguing her cases, in the High Court, she says. Her journey has been fraught with challenges. Ms. Karpagam was born with congenital glaucoma in both eyes. Her family moved from their native village near Ponneri in Tiruvallur district to Chennai for her treatment and education. She is passionate about the rights of the disabled. She has filed several public interest litigation petitions, including those on accessibility in temples for the disabled and more recently on the need for shelter for the mentally challenged persons during the COVID-19 pandemic and the accountability in the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). The court sought a report on the status of the mentally challenged persons from the Commissioner for the Differently Abled. It ordered the government to update the CMPRF portal within eight weeks. She specialises in public interest litigation to protect the rights of persons with disability. “All the rights are given in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, but nothing is implemented. I take it up in their interest and see how I can protect their rights,” she says. Ms. Karpagam has a degree in biomedical engineering from Anna University. It was a struggle to get the disability certificate from government doctors, she recalls. She had a cut-off of 197.25 but could not pursue medicine owing to her disability. Admission to Anna University was initially withheld for want of a certificate of disability from a government doctor. “I was reduced to tears by the doctor who told me to opt for liberal arts instead of STEM as I could not read. On seeing my condition, some of the other doctors said they would certify me,” Ms. Karpagam says. She graduated from Anna University with a GPA of 8/10. She completed LLB (Honours) from the School of Excellence in Law, Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University, with a gold medal in 2018. On her decision to take up law, she says, “Every person who goes for disability certificate has a problem as there are no uniform methods of certification. I want a system under which students can get their disability certificate with dignity.” The award will be presented virtually on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disability-brings-out-the-activist-in-her/article32710789.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK shifts focus to ‘Adi Dravidar’ identity||After taking up larger pan-India, pan-Tamil issues such as State rights, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi appears to be pivoting towards issues surrounding its primary support base — Adi Dravidars and Paraiyars — in politics and other spheres in Tamil Nadu. The idea was put forward at a recent webinar on Rettaimalai Srinivasan, conducted by the party and presided over by its leader Thol. Thirumavalavan. The party’s general secretary and Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar was part of the webinar. Expanding on the principle, in an interview with The Hindu , Mr. Ravikumar demanded that around 60 castes that come under the Scheduled Caste list in Tamil Nadu (barring the Devendrakula Vellalars and Arundhathiyars) be identified as ‘Adi Dravidars’. “According to the 2011 census, there are 76 castes in SC list. Out of these, 2 castes have no members; 14 have already separated – 7 identify themselves as ‘Arundhathiyars’ and 7 more are demanding that they be recognised as ‘Devendrakula Vellalars’ and be removed from the SC list. Out of these 60 castes, Adi Dravidars and Paraiyars constitute around 90 lakh in terms of population. If we identify the 60 castes as Adi Dravidars, it will cross 1 crore people in terms of population and they will be around 65% of the total Dalit population in the State,” he said. Mr. Ravikumar said that the Adi Dravidar (and Paraiyar) community had been systematically sidelined – when it comes to representation in jobs, education and also in terms of political importance in the State – despite being such a huge population. ‘Not respected’ “Despite the numbers, we have never been given proper representation or political importance in the State. Even the Adi Dravidar political icons are not respected while other caste icons are respected. The reason this is happening is because this community doesn’t claim its caste identity as much as it talks about annihilation of caste,” he said. While the VCK had pursued a number of progressive larger political issues, he was asked if the decision to refocus its attention to the needs of the community will not result in party being labelled a ‘scheduled caste’ party once again. “We are not claiming the Paraiyar identity. Claiming sub-caste identity is against the Ambedkar’s concept of ‘Annihilation of caste’. We are highlighting this issue only in the interest of social justice. Usually, only numerically small communities will be sidelined in electoral politics, which works on the strength of numbers. Despite being one of the largest communities in Tamil Nadu, why is there such a big neglect?” he asked. While Mr. Ravikumar acknowledged that Adi Dravidar identity and Paraiyar identity are often interchangeable in practical terms, he reiterated that the VCK is not attempting a caste-mobilisation. “Adi Dravidar is not a caste identity but a secular ‘casteless’ identity and was put forward by leaders such as Rettaimalai Srinivasan, M.C. Rajah and Ayothee Thass. We are asking that all 60 castes to be brought under ‘Adi Dravidar’ identity. Over time, they will inter-marry and sub-caste differences will wither away,” he said. No imposition On the issue of imposing the ‘Adi Dravidar’ identity on other communities, Mr. Ravikumar said, “We cannot force anyone to accept this identity. Let this become a model for removing caste differences. If there are community leaders who don’t want to be called ‘Adi Dravidars’, they should be free to leave.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-shifts-focus-to-adi-dravidar-identity/article32710823.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Wearing masks and following distancing norms all the more important now’||With the number of COVID-19 cases going up in the State in the last few days, particularly in Chennai, indicating a possibility of another surge, experts have stressed the need for stringent adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing norms. The government has advised district administrations to focus on ensuring that people follow these mandatory norms. J. Radhakrishnan, principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said that while a large number of cases in the early stages emerged in congested neighbourhoods, several COVID-19 cases were now being reported following people’s visits to crowded areas, temples or functions like weddings. “For instance, inside a temple, there is strict adherence to the guidelines. However, in shops nearby, norms are not followed,” he said. Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, Indian Council of Medical Research- National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, said the importance of wearing masks at this stage could not be overstated. ‘Unlock’ phase “It is all the more important now, as we have entered the ‘unlock’ phase, with 100% employees in organisations returning to work, people visiting malls and using public transport,” she said. Pointing out that experts across the world had highlighted that wearing masks was the closest people could get to safety, during this pandemic, until a vaccine becomes accessible, she said that wearing masks must become a way of life. She said that many who wear masks, do not wear it properly. “They do not cover their nose and mouth or keep lowering their masks while talking,” she said. Dr. Radhakrishnan also stressed the need for wearing masks properly. “Many pull down their masks to rub their nose or do not handle or dispose it properly after removal,” he said. He said that all Collectors had been advised to reiterate proper and mandatory usage of masks among the people.  Several cases are now being reported following people’s visits to crowded areas, temples or functions J. Radhakrishnan Health Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wearing-masks-and-following-distancing-norms-all-the-more-important-now/article32710810.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Memorial to be built for SPB: Charan||A memorial will be built for singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam at his farm house in Tamaraipakkam where his mortal remains were laid to rest on Saturday, said his son S.P. Charan. “My family and I are very keen to build a memorial here for my father. His music belongs to the people and for his fans, we wish to have a memorial here,” Mr. Charan said. “We will soon begin planning for the memorial and ensure that it is a beautiful place,” he added. He thanked the police as well as the people from the locality for their help on Saturday. Bharat Ratna Music composer Gangai Amaran was confident that the singer would be considered for Bharat Ratna award. In an appeal to the Prime Minister, Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali said Mohammed Rafi and S.P. Balasubramaniam be considered for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/memorial-to-be-built-for-spb-charan/article32710781.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Selvam too moves HC against breach of privilege proceedings||Member of the Legislative Assembly Ku.Ka. Selvam has also moved the Madras High Court challenging a fresh show-cause notice issued to him by the Committee of Privileges on September 7 this year for having displayed gutkha (chewing tobacco) sachets in the House on July 19, 2017. His writ petition has been listed for admission before Justice K. Ravichandrabaabu on Monday. The judge had on September 18 recused himself from hearing similar writ petitions filed by 18 DMK MLAs including its president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin. After the recusal, the 18 writ petitions were listed before Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana and she, on September 24, stayed all further proceedings pursuant to the issuance of the notices to the petitioners for alleged breach of the privileges of the House. Mr. Selvam was one among the 21 DMK MLAs who had displayed the gutkha sachets in the Assembly to highlight its availability in bunk shops despite the State government having banned the manufacture, transportation, storage, distribution and sale of the substance. However, he rebelled against the party recently and got dismissed from its primary membership on August 13. Hence, he was not included in the batch of cases filed by the 18 DMK MLAs and was left to fight the case on his own. Two others were excluded as they had died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selvam-too-moves-hc-against-breach-of-privilege-proceedings/article32710819.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Political parties condemn defacement of statue||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan and Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan condemned the defacing of Periyar’s statue in Tiruchi on Sunday. “This is an extremely condemnable act. Whoever has indulged in this inhumane act must be punished and police should take swift action to arrest them,” Mr. Murugan said in a statement. Reacting to DMK MP Kanimozhi who had asked if this was the respect the BJP was showing to Periyar, he said it was a politically motivated statement. “This shows that the DMK is trying to gain political mileage out of this issue and even before an investigation is conducted in the matter, her statement raises doubt that this could be a political conspiracy. The police should question Ms. Kanimozhi to find the truth,” he said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, while condemning the incident and calling for the immediate arrest of those involved in the defacement of Periyar’s statue, questioned why the Tamil Nadu government was silent over the repeated incidents of attacks on Periyar’s statues in the State. “Why is the government not taking any action on these incidents when it should act with an iron hand?,” he asked. TMC president G.K. Vasan too condemned the incident and said those involved must be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-parties-condemn-defacement-of-statue/article32710820.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ruling party has corona crorepatis, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Sunday that the AIADMK’s support to the agriculture Bills was actually the reason for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to praise the Tamil Nadu government for its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Prime Minister is praising Tamil Nadu and its Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami because he is not fighting for the rights of States and remains a puppet,” he said at the ‘Mupperum Vizha’ organised by the party’s Karur district unit. Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister and the Health Minister had directed officials not to reveal the actual figures of the novel coronavirus infection. “Since they are not able to suppress the number of deaths caused by COVID-19, they are citing other reasons... The Prime Minister is praising such a government,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that though the government had relaxed the lockdown, it continued to swindle money in the name of the disease. “There are corona-crorepatis in the AIADMK, and the virus is only afraid of them,” he quipped. Recalling his allegation that the State Cabinet was a criminal Cabinet, he said irregularities and corruption had increased. He said all sections were affected by the AIADMK government and people were prepared to remove it. “Let us start our work for establishing a DMK government which will fulfil the expectations of the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ruling-party-has-corona-crorepatis-says-stalin/article32710804.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patient felicitates doctors for providing good care||A patient, who recovered from COVID-19 after being treated at the National Institute of Ageing on the premises of the King Institute at Guindy, felicitated institute director K. Narayanasamy to show his gratitude for the good care provided to COVID-19 patients by the hospital staff. ‘Like family’ “All the staff members at the institute have been treating every patient like their family. They provide good food round the clock, and all the workers are very courteous and take care of the patients in a wonderful way,” Lion N. Kannan, photographer and joint secretary of Pasumai Thayagam, said. Mr. Kannan presented a bouquet to the institute’s director on Sunday, when he was discharged after treatment. He said he had been in a serious condition when he was admitted, but the treatment provided by the doctors helped him recover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-felicitates-doctors-for-providing-good-care/article32710807.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Congress in-charge tests positive for virus||Newly-appointed AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu, Dinesh Gundu Rao, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Mr. Rao had held meetings with senior leaders and office-bearers of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee in the last three days and had also met DMK president M.K. Stalin and other senior leaders on Friday. In a tweet, Mr. Rao said he had tested positive for COVID-19 and was quarantining himself for 10 days. He asked his primary contacts to get themselves checked and take necessary precautions. Mr. Rao, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, Congress floor leader in the Assembly K.R. Ramasamy and media-wing head A. Gopanna had met Mr. Stalin, DMK treasurer Duraimurugan, parliamentary party leader T.R. Baalu and DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru at the DMK headquarters, Anna Arivalayam, on Friday, to discuss the alliance’s election strategy for next year’s Assembly polls and other issues. The DMK, Congress and other parties in the Secular Progressive Alliance are scheduled to hold a protest against the three agriculture Bills, across the State, on Monday. Congress leaders said the protests would take place as per the schedule and that they would participate in the agitations. While a few leaders got themselves tested for COVID-19 after Mr. Rao’s tweet, others plan to get tested after the protests on Monday, they said. On Thursday morning, the TNCC had organised a press meet with Mr. Rao, at Kamarajar Arangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-congress-in-charge-tests-positive-for-virus/article32710809.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ASI on duty at ICF ends life||A 57-year-old RPF assistant sub-inspector, who was on duty when fire broke out in the ICF furnishing factory on Saturday, ended his life on Sunday morning. The police said Khaja Moideen belongs to the 1984 batch and has 36 years of service. On Saturday, he was on duty as a gate guard in the ICF furnishing factory when the fire broke out. On Sunday morning, he ended his life. The ICF police rushed to the spot and sent his body for post-mortem. A police officer scotched rumours that Moideen was worried about facing action. “He had 36 years of service. Preliminary investigation reveals that he took this extreme step due to personal problems. We are investigating further,” said the officer. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asi-on-duty-at-icf-ends-life/article32710816.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman with severe lung infection recovers||When 56-year-old Hymavathi was brought to Chennai from Nellore, for COVID-19 treatment, neither the doctors nor her family doubted the possibility of her recovery. They anticipated a short hospital stay. The morbidly obese patient, who had no other co-morbidities, arrived at the hospital a week after contracting the infection. However, a repeat CT-Scan showed severe lung involvement. “Such people usually succumb to the infection in three to five days. It was a little unprecedented, and so was the fact that the patient, in 20 days of treatment, did not need a ventilator,” said Balaji Ravilla Baskaran, director of Noble Hospital, where she was treated. The doctor said that he was impressed with Ms. Hymavathi’s determination in battling the disease. “She maintained her breathing all through the hospitalisation and did not go on ventilator support. On Friday, she managed to walk, maintaining her oxygen levels for 15 minutes,” he said. The hospital initiated her on a low dose of steroids and followed treatment protocols. Her husband, a jeweller, was also diagnosed with the infection, but he recovered despite being morbidly obese, Dr. Balaji said. The patient was put on a lean and liquid diet to keep her on oxygen mask. “She conserved all her energy to breathe,” Dr. Balaji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-with-severe-lung-infection-recovers/article32710805.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenant kills woman after tiff over rent||A 28-year-old woman was stabbed to death allegedly by her 55-year-old tenant in Choolaimedu on Saturday after an argument over payment of rent. Her husband and father-in-law, who were also attacked by the man, have been admitted to a hospital with injuries. According to the police, Sukanya, 28, her husband Sathish and father-in-law Chandra Mohan, 69, reside in Radhakrishnan Nagar, Choolaimedu. They rented out first floor of their house to Narayanan, a painter, 20 years ago. On Saturday, Satish asked Narayanan to pay rent and an argument ensued between them. Subsequently, Narayanan rushed into the house and returned with a knife and allegedly stabbed Sukanya, Satish and Chandramohan. He then fled the spot. While Sukanya died on the spot, the other two were rushed to the hospital by neighbours. The police have arrested Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenant-kills-woman-after-tiff-over-rent/article32710778.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM condole Jaswant’s death||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Sunday condoled the death of former Union Minister Jaswant Singh and said his demise was an irreparable loss to the people of the country. “An experienced political leader known for his simplicity, humbleness, governance skills and cordial relations will be missed by the country. He was an asset to the people of India,” the Governor’s condolence message, released by the Raj Bhavan, said. “I convey my deep condolences to the bereaved members of the family and pray to the Almighty God to rest his soul in peace and give strength to his family to overcome this unfathomable loss,” he said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami tweeted: Very sad to hear the death of former Union Minister Shri.Jaswant Singh Ji. He was a valiant soldier, able administrator. We fondly recollect his association with our beloved Amma. May his soul rest in peace. Heartfelt condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-cm-condole-jaswants-death/article32710821.ece
28 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancer Institute gets more facilities||The Cancer Institute (Adyar) has upgraded its infrastructure by adding four operation theatres, an intensive care unit and a post-operative ward. The facilities are housed in the Diamond Jubilee Block. On Sunday the facilities were commissioned formally by Chairperson V. Shanta. One of the operation theatres is equipped with a robotic system. The ICU has 13 beds and the post-operative ward 35 beds. The commissioning was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, hospital authorities said. “With the gradual relaxation of the lockdown, the footfall at the Cancer Institute has significantly increased. The new operation theatres will significantly decrease the overall treatment time and will positively impact more lives,” said Arvind Krishnamurthi, head of Surgical Oncology division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancer-institute-gets-more-facilities/article32710787.ece
28 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Dy. Speaker hospitalised after testing positive||Deputy Speaker of the State Assembly Pollachi V. Jayaraman was admitted to Sri Ramachandra Hospital in Porur after testing positive for COVID-19. Hospital sources said his condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dy-speaker-hospitalised-after-testing-positive/article32710800.ece
28 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department sets up wild fodder grass bank at Attakatti||First of its kind in the region, the Forest Department has set up a wild fodder grass bank at Attakatti near Aliyar where seedlings of wild grass species preferred by herbivores will be grown to improve their foraging areas in forests. The facility has a collection of 50 species of wild grasses that are palatable to herbivores such as sambar deer, spotted deer, gaur and Nilgiri tahr. According to officials with the Department, seedlings of these wild grass species, abundance of which are shrunk due to uncontrolled spread of invasive species like lantana camara, will be reintroduced in forest patches that are ideal for their growth. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, also in-charge as Field Director of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), said the main aim of the facility was to inventorise native wild grasses preferred by the wildlife in different habitats. “Our efforts are to identify erstwhile native grassland patches affected by anthropogenic activities and increase the palatable grass composition in its natural form,” he said. According to him, the Department has plans to remove invasive species like lantana camara and restrict their growth through artificial multiplication of native grasses by planting seedlings and sowing seeds in herbivore foraging areas. “This will help for overall habitat quality improvement,” said Mr. Anwardeen who had taken up a similar initiative while working in Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve. Of the 50 species inventorised at the grass bank, 20 are preferred by elephants, 24 by spotted deer, 16 by sambar deer, 13 by gaur and four by Nilgiri tahr. Types of grass consumed by wild boar and bonnet macaque are also included in the bank. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR, said the facility was brought up with the expertise of biologists of the Forest Department. Forest Range Officer Naveen Kumar, who is in charge of the facility, said the nursery of the grass bank was spread in half an acre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-sets-up-wild-fodder-grass-bank-at-attakatti/article32710829.ece
28 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Flower vendors back on Mettupalayam Road||The Flower Market stretch on Mettupalayam Road is back to its original self- a congested stretch where flower vendors, customers, pedestrians, and road users jostle for space. The stretch returning to its original self has largely to do with those vendors who sell off the streets resuming business. The Coimbatore Corporation had more than a month ago asked the vendors to not sell off the streets on the stretch after it barricaded the western and eastern sides. At the time of barricading the stretch and asking the vendors to move away from the place, the Corporation had said it was to contain the spread of COVID-19 as the area had a few positive cases and to facilitate the construction of new shops for flower vendors inside the market. The Corporation had also seized flowers, makeshift tables and other items from the vendors to enforce the COVID-19 safety protocol. The Corporation’s move ensured that the otherwise congested Flower Market stretch of the Road was free of traffic congestion. But in the past few days, the stretch is back to its original self and in a much worse form because the vendors had returned even though the Corporation had not removed the barricades. A few vendors have also started using the barricades as stand to hang garlands. The eastern side of the stretch of Mettupalayam Road is equally bad as the Corporation, to facilitate the construction of shops, had dug road and diverted traffic. The Corporation, after closing the old Flower Market on the west of the Road is constructing 97 stage shops at Rs. 75 lakh. Sources in the Corporation said they had received complaints of vendors returning to sell off the streets and they would initiate action in a day or two. They also said that the work to draw power supply to the new shops was complete and the Corporation would be able to throw it open in the next few days. The flower vendors say they want the Corporation to thrown open the stage shops at the earliest as they would have no where to go if they were asked to vacate the Devanga Higher Secondary School ground, where they had temporarily set shop during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-vendors-back-on-mettupalayam-road/article32710831.ece
28 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police start imposing fines for violations||The city police have started imposing fines on people who violate COVID-19 safety guidelines. On Sunday, city police imposed fines on 300 persons for various violation and collected fine to the tune of Rs. 72 ,300. A senior officer with the city police said they started imposing fines on violators based on decisions at a recent district-level review meeting on COVID-19. Earlier, Coimbatore Corporation was imposing fines on people who indulge in violations of various safety guidelines that were introduced to prevent the spread of the disease. The officer said that now the corporation, revenue and health departments, and the police were imposing fines on people who indulge in violations including, non-compliance of wearing mask, maintaining physical distancing in public places and spitting in the public. On Saturday, the city police imposed fines on 355 persons and collected a total fine of Rs. 79,000. Fines for violating COVID-19 safety guidelines are Rs. 200 for not wearing mask, Rs. 500 for not maintaining physical distancing, Rs. 500 for spitting in public, Rs. 5,000 for violations of physical distancing and non-compliance of wearing mask in gyms, salons, beauty parlours and other commercial establishments, Rs. 500 for individuals who violate the guidelines in containment zones and Rs. 5,000 for violations seen in vehicles and commercial establishment in containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-start-imposing-fines-for-violations/article32710848.ece
28 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four held for stealing cash from two-wheelers||A special team of the Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Sunday arrested four persons from Tiruchi on charges of stealing Rs. 9.82 lakh from the under seat storage area of two-wheelers belonging to two persons. The gang followed those who leave banks with cash and steal money from them, the police said. The arrested were identified as K. Raja (28), R. Raja (32), L. Vijay (31) and M. Arumugam (41), all from Tiruverumbur in Tiruchi district. Police said the accused landed in the custody of the special team from Unjavelampatti, near Pollachi. The accused stole Rs. 2.94 lakh kept in a two-wheeler belonging to a man from Pollachi police station road on September 15 and Rs. 6.88 lakh from another vehicle on September 9. Police have recovered Rs. 9.64 lakh. The accused were produced before the first judicial magistrate, Pollachi, and remanded in judicial custody. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-stealing-cash-from-two-wheelers/article32710855.ece
28 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||S&T workshop gets slew of modern facilities||A slew of modern facilities were commissioned at Signal and Telecommunication (S&T) workshop and training centre at Podanur recently. The facilities were commissioned by R. Baskaran, Principal Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineer, Southern Railway. The facilities include ‘QN1 relay model, a a black body thermal scanner that automatically records the temperature of staff entering the workshop. A new homoeopathy dispensary was also opened at the workshop. Masks, sanitiser bottles and homoeopathic medicines were distributed to the staff during the event. At the machine shop, he inaugurated ‘Geedee Weiler Make Capstan Lathe.’ was inaugurated and at Protective Coating Shop ‘Zinc-Cobalt Plating' was launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/st-workshop-gets-slew-of-modern-facilities/article32710827.ece
28 September 2020||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Trial run of ferry carried out in Kanniyakumari||When boat services resume to Vivekananda Rock and Tiruvalluvar Statue in Kanniyakumari, tourists will have two more ferries for joy ride. The trial run of the fifth boat, procured by Poompuhar Shipping Corporation from Goa, was conducted here on Sunday. The new boat has been bought at a cost of Rs. 4.3 crore by the Department of Tourism with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank, according to an official. The double-decker boat has a seating facility for 131 passengers on the lower deck and air-conditioned seating facility for 19 passengers on the upper deck. Another new fully air-conditioned boat arrived from Goa three months back. Boating services remain suspended since lockdown was clamped in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trial-run-of-new-boat-conducted/article32710939.ece
28 September 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Three teenagers booked under POCSO Act||The police have registered a case under POCSO Act against three teenagers for allegedly sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl and for publishing a video of it on internet. According to the police, a class 11 student from a government school was in relationship with a younger student from the same school. Isolated place The teenager reportedly lured the girl with false promises and took her to an isolated place along the banks of a river near Pedapanur early this month. The teenager along with his friend of same age had allegedly sexually assaulted her and filmed the incident, the police said. The boys had shown the video to a common friend and he had allegedly published the video on the internet. The video went viral and had come to the notice of victim’s parents. Based on complaint of the victim’s parents, Gurubarapalli police have registered case under sections 3 read with 4 and 13 (b) (c) read with 14 of POCSO Act and IT Act and have arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-teenagers-booked-under-pocso-act/article32710841.ece
28 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||82 patients test positive in Madurai||There were 82 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Sunday. The number of cases till date has risen to 16,359. As many as 54 people were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities, taking the number of patients discharged till date to 15,235. One person succumbed to COVID-19, moving the death toll to 386. The total number of active cases is 738. In Theni district, 76 people tested positive for COVID-19 and five people were discharged on Sunday. The total number of positive cases and discharges are 14,686 and 13,963 respectively as on date. As one person succumbed to the disease, the death toll is 177. The number of active cases is 546. Dindigul saw 39 people testing positive for COVID-19, taking the total cases to 8,742. As many as 119 people were discharged, taking the number of discharged patients to 8,104. The death toll rose to 159 as two people succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases stands at 479. Ramanathapuram recorded 11 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 5,478. Twenty-seven patients were discharged and the number of active cases stands at 154. In Sivaganga, there were 30 new COVID-19 positive cases, taking the total number of cases in the district to 5,070. There was one death, moving the toll to 120. Fifty-nine persons were discharged and the number of active cases stands at 268.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/82-patients-test-positive-in-madurai/article32710943.ece
28 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Help desk set up in DPO||Maduai rural district police have set up a help desk at the District Police Office to clear the doubts of job aspirants who want to upload their online application for the recruitment to the post of Grade II police constable. In a statement, Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar said Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board had announced that the submission of applications would be accepted through online mode onwww.tnusrbonline.org. Applications in any other mode would not be accepted. The help desk, headed by a Sub-Inspector of Police, would function between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. till October 26. Applicants could also clear their doubts over phone on 77088 06111. Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police E. Karthik opened the help desk at the Ramanathapuram DPO. It would function between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. Pnone 04567 232243. The new SP has introduced a new mobile number, 87782 47265. People can call the police and report on illegal activities, sand smuggling, sale of narcotics substances and other confidential information and air their grievances. The details of those giving alerts would be kept confidential, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-desk-set-up-in-dpo/article32711244.ece
28 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Farm bills are for corporate firms’||Democratic Youth Federation of India members staged a protest near K. Pudur bus stand here on Sunday, condemning the three farm bills that were recently passed in the parliament. The protesters said these bills were ‘anti-farmers’ and were in favour of corporate conglomerates. They also demanded cancellation of admissions for medical aspirants based on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. “Conducting NEET is against the interests of students from underprivileged families. Hence, the admissions must be conducted based on their marks in Class 12 examinations,” said S. Saravanakumar, one of the protesters. Tirunelveli Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi staged a demonstration in Tirunelveli pressing the Centre to withdraw the farm bills “that would destroy the livelihood of farmers in the country.” The protest was led by the party’s district secretary, S. Nizamdeen. The agitators also opposed the New Education Policy and the move to make education a State subject. They also demanded scrapping of NEET “which will dash the dream of poor students to become doctors.” The cadre also pressed for beedi companies to provide relief to workers affected due to COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-bills-are-for-corporate-firms/article32710946.ece
28 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Office-bearers elected for Chamber||Office-bearers were elected to the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry at its 94th annual general body meeting here on Sunday. N. Jegatheesan was elected as the president for the 12th successive year. The other office-bearers are: secretary-J. Selvam; treasurer - S. Sridhar; D. Dhanushkodi, Ba. Bala and D. S. Jeeier Babu - vice-presidents Mr. Jegatheesan said he would work towards reviving industries affected by the lockdown and strive for improving infrastructure in the southern districts. “ The Chamber would impress upon the authorities to expedite the pending projects in the South, particularly the Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor and bus port in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-bearers-elected-for-chamber/article32710940.ece
28 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Stones from Rasipuram for Meenakshi temple||Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja and Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar took part in the ground breaking ceremony for cutting granite stones from Rasipuram to be sent for the renovation of Veera Vasantha Rayar mandapam of Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple. Officials said about 1 lakh cubic feet of granite stones would be sent from Pattinam here. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Udhayakumar said a sum of Rs. 18.1 crore had been sanctioned for the mandapam renovation, Rs. 6.4 crore for procurement of the stones and Rs. 11.7 crore for sculpting the stones into required forms and installing it. On the general body meeting of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Monday, he said the meeting would be held according to safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/granite-stones-from-rasipuram-to-be-sent-to-madurai-temple/article32710832.ece
28 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre has agreed to give Rs. 700-cr. aid to U.T.: CM||The Centre has agreed to provide Rs. 700 crore as COVID-19 assistance to the Union Territory, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said. The assurance to this effect came from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan during a meeting in Delhi, he said. “We presented a strong case for Central aid, to the tune of Rs. 700 crore, to Puducherry, for managing the ongoing pandemic,” said Mr. Narayanasamy. He had met Mr. Vardhan along with Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and Puducherry MP V. Vaithilingam. The Health Minister agreed to the demand and promised to release the allocation soon, Mr. Narayanasamy said. Pointing out that the Centre had earmarked only Rs. 3 crore for Puducherry in April, the Chief Minister said the U.T. required more funds, especially due to the revenue shortfalls in the wake of COVID-19. The assistance from the Centre would be spent on ramping up health infrastructure, equipment, medicines and recruiting health staff, on contract basis. The Chief Minister said that government employees had agreed to his appeal to contribute a day’s salary to the COVID-19 fund. Pledging to donate a month’s pension, from his stint as an MP, to the fund, Mr. Narayanasamy also appealed to MPs, Ministers and MLAs to contribute a month’s salary to the fund. “The government is doing all it can to reduce disease transmission, but the infection’s spread can be contained only with public cooperation and their compliance with safety measures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-has-agreed-to-give-rs-700-cr-aid-to-ut-cm/article32710798.ece
28 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI slams L-G, AIADMK for their stand on agitation||The Communist Party of India on Sunday slammed Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and AIADMK legislator A. Anbalagan for opposing the protest planned by the Congress and alliance parties on Monday against the farm bills. In a statement, CPI secretary A.M. Saleem said political parties had a right to stage agitations against the Centre for passing the Agriculture Bills in an “undemocratic” manner. Ms. Bedi was taking forward her pro-BJP politics by opposing the agitation, he said. “During her tenure nothing good has happened to the people of Puducherry. She is trying to run a parallel Ministry,” the CPI leader said.  The AlADMK had no right to oppose the agitation as Mr. Anbalagan himself had staged a protest in front of Raj Nivas during the time of the pandemic. “Where was his concern on spread of COVID-19 when he staged the agitation,” Mr. Saleem said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-slams-l-g-aiadmk-for-their-stand-on-agitation/article32710817.ece
28 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held under POCSO Act||A 20-year-old youth was arrested on Saturday on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl near Old Adhanakottai a few months ago. The accused, who was a close relative of the 16-year-old girl was arrested on the basis of a complaint by the victim's mother. Police sources said the youth promised to marry the girl and sexually assaulted her. The girl was found to be pregnant when she was taken to hospital after she suddenly fell unconscious in her house. A case under the POCSO Act was booked against the youth, who was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-under-pocso-act/article32711273.ece
28 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Job racket: five held in Ramanathapuram||The District Crime Branch police have arrested five persons, including an assistant with the office of Chief Educational Office, Ramanathapuram, K. Kannan, 47, and an assistant in Rural Development department, M. Kesavan, 45, for a job racket in the Department of Education. Police said recruits for the post of Junior Assistants, recruited by Tamil Nadu Public Services Commission, in the Department of Education in the district had recently joined duty. When D. Rajesh, 32, of Soorankottai joined duty at Government Higher Secondary School in Sikkal, the officials found that he had produced a fake appointment order. Based on a complaint by CEO A. Pugalenthi, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik ordered for a probe by the District Crime Branch. Its Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Tirumalai arrested Rajesh who revealed that Kannan had made the fake appointment order after taking Rs. 5 lakh from him. Upon interrogating Kannan, the police found that both Kannan and Kesavan had also taken money from three others, identified as P. Kalaivanan, 26, S. Sathish Kumar, 33 - both from Paramakudi and Manojkumar, who had joined different schools. The police are on the lookout for one more accused. All the accused have been booked for cheating and forgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-racket-five-held-in-ramanathapuram/article32710944.ece
28 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH plans to set up post COVID-19 care centre||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital is planning to set up a post-COVID-19 care centre for persons who recovered from the disease. The GMKMCH is the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 in Salem district and the hospital has been handling mainly COVID-19 cases with severe symptoms. The hospital has set up over 600 beds for COVID-19 treatment and about 400 of them have oxygen supply. It recently set up a COVID-19 triage zone, especially to attend to patients visiting the hospital with COVID-19 symptoms. Suspected cases would be referred here for swab collection and CT-scan. However, as part of improving the health of persons recovered from the disease and as part of regular follow-up, authorities here are planning to set up a post-COVID-19 rehabilitation centre. R. Balajinathan, hospital Dean said, “the centre would mainly focus on following up discharged patients and advising them on various exercises. While a separate team will be handling exercises and physiotherapy for in-patients, persons recovered from the disease would be provided with breathing, chest physiotherapy and other minimal exercises as part of regular follow-up. Other consultations would also be provided.” Dr. Balajinathan said that till date, 3,761 patients have discharged from the hospital. A.M. Sudhakar, Head, Yoga and Naturopathy at the hospital, said that exercises would focus on improving the lung capacity and prevent any complications to patients. “Those undergoing treatment at the hospital are trained in various breathing exercises, immune-booster yoga, and pranayama exercises. The patients are also provided with aroma oils which while smelling prevents headache and cleanses lungs. Stress counselling is also provided. On discharge, the patients are followed up through telemedicine and they are advised to continue the exercises at homes as well”, he said. He added that it has also been planned to call patients to the centre for regular follow-ups as part of post-COVID-19 care and they would be trained in necessary exercises to improve their immunity and lung capacity. According to authorities, the centre is expected to begin functioning soon on the hospital premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-plans-to-set-up-post-covid-19-care-centre/article32710837.ece
28 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Loaded truck overturns in Salem||Traffic on the Salem-Ulundurpet National Highway was affected for an hour on Sunday when a truck loaded with FILM 32 lubricant oil, moving towards Bhavani from Chennai, overturned near Ammapet here. The police said a fire and rescue team from Shevapet fire station led by Assistant District Officer S.Murugeshan and Station Officer M.Kalaiselvan sprayed foam and water as the lubricant started to spread on the road. The truck was safely removed using cranes and the whole operation lasted for about two hours. Driver Balaji from Tiruvannamalai suffered minor injuries in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loaded-truck-overturns-in-salem/article32710834.ece
28 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inflow in Mettur dam drops||The inflow in Mettur dam dropped to 7,679 cusecs on Sunday. Public Works Department officials said water level at the dam was 99.12 ft against the full reservoir level of 120 ft. The storage was 63,706 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 7,679 cusecs. The discharge into the Cauvery was maintained at 20,000 cusecs and 850 cusecs was released through East-West canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-in-mettur-dam-drops/article32710833.ece
28 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Speed trial on BG line today||The Commissioner of Railway Safety of Southern Circle will conduct high-speed trial run on the newly laid broad gauge (BG) line between Mecheri Road and Mettur Dam railway stations using a special train formation on Monday. In a release, Railways advised the public residing in the vicinity of the railway lines and stations to exercise caution and not to approach or trespass rail lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speed-trial-on-bg-line-today/article32710838.ece
28 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture dept. staff placed under suspension||The district administration and the Department of Agriculture have suspended an employee who was recently arrested by CB-CID in connection with PM-Kisan scheme scam. According to officials, Anbazhagan, an agriculture assistant officer, was suspended here after he was arrested and remanded by CB-CID officials. Close to Rs. 3 crore has been recovered. Officials also found that over 1,200 ineligible accounts have been created in the names of persons from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-dept-staff-placed-under-suspension/article32710851.ece
28 September 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Gang selling ‘iridium’ nabbed in Thoothukudi||Thoothukudi district police has busted a gang that was trying to sell six containers of a “mystery substance” claiming it to be iridium here on Sunday. Apart from arresting four persons, the police also seized a SUV and two sharp weapons and a compact disc on iridium. “We need to ascertain what the substance is by sending it to a laboratory,” Superintendent of Police, S. Jayakumar, said. Talking to reporters, he said that the police received a tip-off from one S. Thangam (55) of Muthiahpuram about a gang that had sought his help to sell iridium, worth several crores of rupees. Based on the alert, a special police team, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (Thoothukudi Rural), Ponnarasu, and SIPCOT police station Inspector of Police, Muthusubramanian, tracked down the suspects. They were identified as S. Vaithiyalingam (65) of Karaikudi and K. Muthuramalingam (45) of Mudukulathor and P. Mariyadhas (40) and M. Murugan (47), both from Thoothukudi. They said that they had got the iridium from a person in Pattukottai and claimed that it had been stolen from the Defence Research and Development Organisation in Mumbai. Mr. Jayakumar appealed to the people to be wary of such gangs who had come up with ‘novel ideas’ of selling vastu-compliant objects like iridium, temple ‘kalasams’ and also sand boa claiming that these objects would bring good fortune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-selling-iridium-nabbed-in-thoothukudi/article32711246.ece
28 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 11 deaths, 622 new positive cases||The central districts on Sunday recorded 622 fresh cases and 11 deaths. Three patients in Pudukottai district, two each in Thanjavur, Karur and Tiruchi and one each in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam died, official sources said. Men aged 45, 46 and 77 years from Pudukottai with comorbidities, including diabetes and acute respiratory distress syndrome, succumbed to COVID-19. In Thanjavur, a 67-year-old man with no pre-existing conditions and a 52-year-old woman with bronchial asthma died of the viral infection. A 30-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man from Karur and two women aged 58 and 68 in Tiruchi died of COVID-19. A 61-year-old man from Nagapattinam, who had a history of coronary artery disease, and an 80-year-old man with a history of kidney disease in Tiruvarur district died of the viral infection. Meanwhile, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts for another consecutive day. Among the 190 patients who tested positive in Thanjavur were a police man, an employee of a private bank, and four employees including three staff nurses at Government Raja Mirasudar Government Hospital. Meanwhile, municipality officials continued to conduct fever camps and collect samples in high-risk areas. A total of 255 samples were lifted within Thanjavur Corporation limits alone on Sunday. Tiruvarur recorded 123 new cases, while in Pudukottai, 96 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Patients in both districts were local cases with no travel or contact history and patients with existing respiratory illnesses. Tiruchi recorded 83 new COVID-19 cases, reflecting a slight drop in recent days. Patients testing positive were from within existing containment zones and were primary contacts of patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses, official sources said. Nagapattinam recorded a drop in cases with 41 patients testing positive for the virus. Most patients testing positive in these parts were local index cases with no history of contact or travel, a senior health official said. In Karur, 38 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among them were residents from Pugalur, Gandhigrammam, Anna Nagar and other localities. Ariyalur recorded 37 new cases for COVID-19, while 14 patients tested positive in Perambalur. Five of the 14 hailed from Perambalur block, while four hailed from Veppanthattai, two from Veppur and three from Alathur blocks. Meanwhile, 213 new throat swabs were sent to laboratory for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-11-deaths-622-new-positive-cases/article32711276.ece
28 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for mailing explosive substances||Needamangalam police on Saturday arrested Sathiyamoorthy of Aranthangi and Amir Syed of Thanjavur on the charge of sending a parcel containing explosive substances to a farmer. Sources said the farmer of Kandrakudi in Orathanadu police station limit in Thanjavur district received a couriered parcel containing a gelatin stick and an electric detonator. Similarly, a video studio owner at Needamangalam in Tiruvarur district also received a parcel containing a gelatin stick and an electric detonator. Needamangalam police registered a case and detained Sathiyamoorthy and Amir Syed in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-mailing-explosive-substances/article32711271.ece
28 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boy drowns||A 16-year-old boy, Sheikh Abdul Khader, drowned in the Bhamini river at Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district on Sunday. The boy had gone to the river along with his friends in the afternoon to have a bath when he was washed away. Firefighters retrieved the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-drowns/article32711272.ece
28 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||531 candidates appear for JEE(A) in Tiruchi||A total of 531 students out of 621 registered candidates appeared for Joint Entrance Exam (Advanced) at three centres, including Shivani Engineering College and MAM College of Engineering and Technology, in Tiruchi district, on Sunday to gain admission into B. Tech programmes in Indian Institutes of Technology. The names of the candidates who appeared for JEE (Advanced) had figured within the first 2.5 lakh ranks in JEE (Main). They registered online for today’s exam from September 12 to 17. The students sat for two sessions of three hours each, and wrote the exam in Computer Based Test mode. Students were required to wear face masks, ensure social distancing and follow all other aspects of safety protocol, sources said. Each student was required to bring along 50 ml of sanitiser in a transparent bottle. The results of JEE (Advanced) would be declared on October 5. Students would be intimated about the results to their registered mobile numbers. However, they would have to know about their ranking from JEE (Advanced) 2020 online portal, sources said. As for B.Arch, registration for Architecture Aptitude Test would be conducted on October 5 and 6. The test would be conducted on October 8 and the results declared on October 11. Tiruchi is one of the seven locations for conduct of JEE (Advanced) along with Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem, Tirunelveli and Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/531-candidates-appear-for-jeea-in-tiruchi/article32711274.ece
28 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Five deaths in 5 districts||COVID-19 has claimed five lives in the five southern districts on Sunday. While two deaths have been reported in Tirunelveli district, one each has been reported in Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts. The number of fresh positive cases in Tirunelveli district on Sunday was 111 (12,463 till date) with a discharge of 97 (11,361 till date). As the death toll increased to198, the number of active cases stands at 904. Thoothukudi district recorded 42 fresh cases (13,256 till date) with a discharge of 69 (12,530 till date). The number of active cases is 605 with the loss of 121 lives. Kanniyakumari district saw 92 fresh positive cases that took up the total number of positive cases to 12,413. With 49 discharges on Sunday (11,215 till date), the number of active cases stands at 980. Death toll in the district is 218. Tenkasi had the lowest number of fresh positive cases – 30 – among the southern districts (7,167 till date). It reported 79 discharges on Sunday (6,566 till date) with 467 active cases. The district has a death toll of 134. Virudhunagar reported 50 fresh cases with the highest number of total positive cases – 14,313 till date – in the five southern districts. The number of discharges was 29 on Sunday (13,840 till date) that took the number of active cases to 263, the lowest among the southern districts. The death toll in Virudhunagar stands at 210.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-deaths-in-5-districts/article32710941.ece
28 September 2020||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||Ambur SI succumbs to infection||A sub-inspector attached to the crime wing, Ambur police station, succumbed to COVID-19 on Sunday. K.K. Shanmugam, 52, belonged to the 1993 batch and is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. “On September 24, he was found to have typhoid, and on September 25, he tested positive for COVID-19,” said P. Vijayakumar, SP, Tirupathur. The SP met Mr. Shanmugam’s family and assured them support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambur-si-succumbs-to-infection/article32710799.ece
28 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Show-cause notices issued to 109 bought leaf tea factories for ‘deviations’||The Tea Board, Coonoor has issued show-cause notices to 109 bought leaf tea factories after “deviations,” such as a lack of quality leaf procurement, poor hygiene, non-maintenance of statutory records among others, were discovered during inspection of the factories. A release said that the deviations by the factories also included defaulting online payments to farmers, non-adherence to licensed production limits, non-removal of iron filings, failure to declare monthly tea waste produced, non-payment of green leaf price as per the price-sharing formula to farmers as well as for accumulating above-permissible levels of tea waste at factories. The Tea Board said that a total of 119 tea factories were inspected in September in the Southern Zone and that the 109 factories which were found to have the “deviations” have been given time to reply. It said that action would be initiated against the factories as per the Tea Marketing Control Order of 2003 and Tea Waste Control Order of 1959. An order has also been issued to all orthodox/dual tea manufacturers in South India to declare the tea waste generated at the factories and to upload the details of the amount of waste produced on the Tea Board’s specific tea waste portal. “The Tea Board is taking concerted efforts to ensure higher price for made tea in the market,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/show-cause-notices-issued-to-109-bought-leaf-tea-factories-for-deviations/article32710852.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. crosses 30,000 mark||Coimbatore district on Sunday crossed 30,000 mark in terms of the number of people tested positive for COVID-19 so far. On Sunday, 596 new cases were reported in the district while 472 persons got back home after recovering from the disease. As many as 4,981 persons were undergoing treatment in Coimbatore district as on Sunday. Sources with the district administration said that a private hospital was temporarily barred from treating COVID-19 patients based on allegations that it charged in excess of the rate fixed by the government. The Health Department on Sunday said that five more patients from Coimbatore district died of the disease, taking the toll to 418. Eight more deaths have been reported from Tiruppur, taking the toll to 126. Erode reported two deaths, raising the number to 84. In Salem, five patients died of the disease. According to health officials, two male patients, 52 years and 62 years respectively died at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Three male patients aged 84 years, 70 years and 53 years died at private hospital here. With 282 persons testing positive in Tiruppur, the overall tally of the district increased to 7,681. As many as 1,667 persons were undergoing treatment in different hospitals in Coimbatore and Tiruppur as on Sunday. Erode district reported 125 new cases taking the district’s tally to 6,388. While 170 persons were discharged, 1,074 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 378 cases. According to Health Department officials, 369 cases were indigenous, including 177 cases in Salem Corporation limits. Nine patients returned from Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Thanjavur. In Namakkal, 173 cases were reported. According to Health Department officials, 27 patients returned from Salem, Tiruppur, Erode, Coimbatore and Theni. Krishnagiri district reported 66 cases, while Dharmapuri registered 93 indigenous cases. In the Nilgiris, 161 people tested positive. This is the single largest increase in the number of cases over a 24-hour-period recorded in the district. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stands at 3,807. The toll also increased from 23 to 24 with 917 people undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-crosses-30000-mark/article32710846.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Share CT scan details with dept.’||As a part of the strategy to contain spread of COVID-19, Collector M. Govinda Rao has directed all CT scan centres in Thanjavur district to submit details of patients who undergo lung screening to health authorities. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, he said there were 20 CT scan centres in the district. Many of them were in Thanjavur and Kumbakonam. An advisory had been sent to all centres to share details of patients who underwent lung screening. The details should be shared with the Deputy Director of Health Services daily. It would enable officials to alert and create awareness among patients diagnosed with lung infection. “Early detection of lung infection is crucial in treating COVID-19 patients. The daily report submitted by CT scan centres enables health officials to take early steps for treatment of patients,” said Mr. Rao. Reports of CT scan centres were taken up for discussion with a 10-member COVID-19 coordination committee daily. Details of lung-infected patients were shared with block medical officers, block development officers and revenue officials to monitor the health of patients. They were being given the best possible treatment. Mr. Rao said the district had 4,163 beds to treat COVID-19 patients. About 30% of the beds had been allotted to patients as on Saturday. There were 1,236 active cases in the district. There was no cause for concern as far as medical infrastructure was concerned. It was well-equipped if cases were to rise suddenly. The Collector said it had been brought to his knowledge that a section of people did not bother to wear face masks and follow social distancing norms. Officials had been asked to enforce rules on the norms and action would be taken against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/share-ct-scan-details-with-dept/article32711270.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘ Rural hospitals well-equipped’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said medical equipment and other facilities were kept in a state of readiness in hospitals functioning in rural areas across the State. Also, oxygen facility had been created in 30-bedded upgraded primary health centres in the State. Speaking to reporters at Annavasal in the district, Mr. Vijayabaskar said Tamil Nadu was a surplus State in oxygen production. All government hospitals had been provided with oxygen facilities adequately. Excess oxygen was being supplied to other States. Further, 2,000 mini-clinics in the State would soon become functional, with selection of doctors and nurses under way. Appealing to the general public to remain cautious at a time when relaxations had been announced, Mr. Vijayabaskar said it was imperative for the public to wear mask while venturing out. Due to sustained measures by the State government, the number of COVID-infected cases had come down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-hospitals-well-equipped/article32711277.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Security stepped up for CM||“Alerts were sent to police units across the State that some extremist elements had planned to target senior leaders of Hindu organisations. Security has also been beefed up at Israeli establishments, particularly the Jewish settlement at Vattakanal near Kodaikanal in Dindigul district," a police official said. The threat to Israeli nationals had increased after the assassination of Iranian Revolutionary Guards commander Qasem Soleimani in a U.S. drone strike in Baghdad, Iraq, on March 3. The recent issues along the Indo-China and Indo-Pakistan borders and India’s close defence relationship with Israel could provoke Pakistan-sponsored terror groups in India to target Israeli diplomats, tourists, etc., the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-stepped-up-for-cm/article32710797.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tourism calls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-calls/article32710803.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The two-lane bypass road from Gopu Iyer Madam to Nathippalam bridge on Tiruchi-Ramanathapuram National Highway that joins the Madurai-Rameswaram four-lane National Highway should be converted into a four-lane road. This will reduce traffic density inside Ramanathapuram and provide direct connectivity to Rameswaram. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram    With the growing number of COVID-19 cases, scientists around the world are engaged in discovering a suitable vaccine. Pulmonologists, radiologists and anaesthesiologists play an important role in the treatment of the disease. However, these specialists are few in government and private hospitals. The government should increase the number of seats in medical colleges to cater to the needs of the public in the long run. S. Kanagavel Manoharan, Madurai    The road widening project between Tirunelveli and Tenkasi is moving at a snail’s pace. The work must be expedited as the number of vehicles plying on this road has increased manifold. It is a harrowing experience for road users to negotiate so many curves and dangerously narrow roads. P. Victor Selvaraj, Palayamkottai    Mattuperanji, a small pond near Sholavandan, receives water from a sub-canal of the Periyar Main Canal. This pond caters to the needs of farmers in and around Sholavandan. However, due to construction of a railway underpass nearby, the storage capacity has reduced in the tank. Now it is filled with the soil dug from the construction site. The authorities must take steps to rejuvenate the pond. M. Sainithii, Madurai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32711247.ece
28 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Several organisations announce participation in bandh||Several organisations have announced that they will join Monday’s State bandh in Belagavi and Vijayapura districts. This will be as effective as it was during the lockdown, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike district unit president Deepak Gudanatti told journalists in Belagavi on Sunday. He announced that several organisations were supporting the bandh on Monday. “Kannada organisations, Dalit organisations, farmers organisations and youth organisations are supporting the bandh,” he added. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader Jayashree Gurannanavar said that the three national bills and the land reforms amendment bill of the State had the potential to destroy millions of farmers. “They can reduce land-owning farmers to landless workers, bonded labour and indebted workers whose children and grandchildren would have to work for decades to repay loans,” she said. Choonappa Pujari and others were present. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha members in Vijayapura said that they would participate in the bandh in protest against the farm bills. Belagavi Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi gave a stern warning to protesters urging them not to damage public property in the name of the bandh. In a video message released here on Sunday, he said that no law and order disturbance would be allowed on Monday . “Farmers and others who are participating in the bandh should not block roads nor cause damage to property. If they do, they will be seriously dealt with as per law,” he said. “They should observe social distancing and other COVID-19 safety protocol. If they violate these, action will be taken against them under the Disaster Management Act. Action will also be taken against those who force merchants to close shops,” he said. Protesters should peacefully assemble at Tahsildar offices, submit memorandum copies and disperse, the Superintendent of Police said. He warned that the district had 4,000 CCTV cameras installed in strategic locations and important points in the district. “We will also use drones. Their footage will be studied for signs of disturbance,” he said. Rajya Sabha member and BJP Krishi Morcha leader Eeranna Kadadi said that the bandh was organised by vested interests and not genuine farmers groups. “The Congress is organising the protests with political motives. I urge the farmers not to fall into the trap laid by the Congress,” he added. He said that farm land and farm produce would fetch better prices if the farm Acts were implemented. NWKRTC officers said that buses would operated as usual across North Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/several-organisations-announce-participation-in-bandh/article32710889.ece
28 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||VTU and NITK to implement Technology Enabled Learning through Virtual Labs||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) and National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, Surathkal, will collaborate in implementing Technology Enabled Learning through Virtual Labs in all the affiliated institutions of the university. VTU Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa and NITK’s K.V. Gangadharan held an online meeting with principals of affiliated colleges on Friday. The Vice-Chancellor said that Virtual Labs was an initiative under the National Mission on Education through ICT funded by the Union Ministry of Education for aiding Technology Enabled Learning in the field of experiential education in engineering and science subjects. It is a free-to-access online repository for students and teachers and provides more than a thousand experiments across different streams for students across the country. Virtual Labs has been developed and maintained by 11 participating institutions led by IIT Delhi. NITK Surathkal is one of the key members of this consortium. The participating faculties shall be supported by NITK Surathkal by way of online training programmes. Subsequently, the university shall collaborate with Virtual Labs team at the Centre for System Design at NITK Surathkal in creating content for advanced subject areas relevant to the current academic and professional environment. Principals and faculty of over 190 affiliated colleges participated, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vtu-and-nitk-to-implement-technology-enabled-learning-through-virtual-labs/article32710887.ece
28 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Former MLA bereaved||Deputy Director of Women and Child Development Subhash Ramachandrappa Alagur died in a private hospital in Vijayapura on Sunday. He was 56. The final rites were conducted in his native village of Toravi. His brother and former MLA Raju Alagur and others attended, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-mla-bereaved/article32710891.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In spite of govt. order against reopening, some private schools conducting classes||Some private and government schools, not just in Bengaluru but also in other parts of Karnataka, are allegedly conducting classes for high school students on the campus despite the State government issuing an order that schools cannot open till the month-end even if students want to get their doubts clarified. A parent whose son is enrolled in a private school in Bengaluru and is currently in Class 9, said, “We did not want to send our son to school, but he said all his friends were going and we were forced to oblige.” Several videos and photos The Hindu received shows students coming out of their classrooms after attending classes. While some students were seen wearing masks, many had not taken such a precaution. In many instances, students were reportedly told by the managements not to come to the school wearing their uniform. A senior official with the Department of Public Instruction said they would take action against schools violating rules if they receive complaints. Last week, it had issued a show-cause notice to a private school in the city which was conducting classes for high school students. ‘Double standards’ But managements of private schools have objected to the government’s refusal to let children come to class to clear their doubts claiming that it was practising “double standards” as it allowed teachers to meet with students under the Vidyagama programme for government schools. Under this programme, government school teachers visit neighbourhoods where students reside and conduct classes in public places. Teachers of government schools, however, said they were forced to conduct classes on the school campus after many of them, especially those in Bengaluru, did not find alternative space to conduct classes. “Sometimes when it rains, we ask students to rush to the school so that they do not get drenched,” said a government high school teacher. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said many private schools decided to conduct classes after they saw teachers from government schools conducting classes on the campus. “This is a violation of the government’s norms and the department should take action against both private and government schools,” he said. Despite the Centre easing restrictions on students visiting schools from September 21, the State government has issued an order prohibiting this. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has said that a decision would be taken by the end of the month on if schools could reopen from October 1 after consultation with the Department of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-spite-of-govt-order-against-reopening-some-private-schools-conducting-classes/article32710754.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highest single day rise in Bengaluru Urban||A total of 4,217 COVID-19 cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban on Sunday, which is the highest single day spike in the district so far. With this, the total number of positive cases in Bengaluru Urban at 2.2 lakh. Of these, 1.73 lakh patients are discharged and the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the city is 2,836. The city has seen over 4,000 cases each day in the last four days. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, attributed the consistent spike in the number of cases to tests being ramped up in the city. “We are trying to reach the doorstep of people for testing and are also trying to spread awareness to ensure that there is no stigma if one is tested positive,” she said. Meanwhile, a total of 9,543 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on Sunday while 6,522 discharges were made. With this, a total of 5.75 lakh positive cases have been reported in the State so far while 4.62 lakh of them are discharged. A media bulletin issued by Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that more than 1.04 lakh cases are active. A total of 79 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported on Sunday, taking the total to 8,582. Besides this, 19 patients died due to non-COVID-19. A total of 835 patients have been admitted in intensive care units across different hospitals in the State. A total of 67,857 tests were conducted on Sunday. Of these, 26,049 were rapid antigen tests and the rest were RT PCR and other methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/highest-single-day-rise-in-bengaluru-urban/article32710759.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With key Bills stuck in Council, govt. may have to rethink strategy||With the BJP government in the State failing to get the nod of the Legislative Council for amendments to three crucial Bills — all of which were to replace Ordinances — during the legislature session that concluded in the early hours of Sunday, these Ordinances will have to be promulgated again. Even before the legislature session commenced, the Opposition parties and labour and farmers groups had criticised the Ordinances as “anti-labour” and “anti-farmer”. The 75-member Council, where the combined Opposition of the Congress and JD(S) is in the majority, on Saturday defeated the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020, while the Council was adjourned sine die later in the midst of the discussion on the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020, without passing it. The Karnataka Agriculture Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was not taken up for discussion. All three Bills had earlier been passed by the Legislative Assembly. “In recent decades, this is the first time such a thing has happened,” a legislature secretariat source said. Government sources said the Ordinances promulgated earlier would remain in force for six weeks from the date of the legislature being convened (in this case, September 21). “If the government wants the changes before the legislature is reconvened, it can promulgate another Ordinance after the lapse of the current one,” the source said. The Council session, which went past 1 a.m. on Sunday morning, saw heated arguments between the treasury and Opposition benches. While the Opposition members insisted that discussion on subjects such as problems at the Government Medical College in Mandya, the alleged BDA scam, and the recent violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli had to be taken up under Rule 330, the treasury bench was keen on the passage of the Bills. Finally, as the members became weary with the proceedings moving past midnight, the Council was adjourned in the midst of the discussion on the land reforms Bill, much to the chagrin of the ruling party. Sources in the legislature secretariat said the labour Bill was sent back to the Assembly after the Council defeated it, but the Assembly could not take it up. “If the Ordinance is promulgated again, fresh replacement Bills have to be placed before the Assembly again and due process has to be followed,” the source said. ‘Disappointed’ BJP spokesperson and MLC N. Ravikumar said, “We are disappointed with the chain of events in the Council on Saturday night. The chair should have at least given a ruling on the land reforms Bill. The House was adjourned sine die abruptly.” The developments in the Council after the labour reforms Bill was defeated came as no surprise, and the Opposition was expected to stall the other two Bills, he added. Interestingly, senior BJP member Ayanur Manjunath had also opposed the labour Bill, terming it anti-labour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-key-bills-stuck-in-council-govt-may-have-to-rethink-strategy/article32710769.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Less than 10 contractors have started work under new garbage tenders||It was in early August that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) started issuing work orders under the new garbage tenders to contractors, and the council also cleared tenders that were pending for well over a year, fearing contempt from the High Court of Karnataka. More than a month later, less than 10 contractors who were issued work orders have actually started work on field. With time running out, the civic body has now threatened to cancel the work orders of contractors who fail to begin work by September 30. According to information available, separate collection and transportation of different streams of waste, as envisaged in the garbage tenders, has started in eight wards — Vidyaranyapura, Hoodi, Govindarajanagar, Gali Anjaneya Temple, Deepanjalinagar, Byrasandra, Mangammanapalya, and Singasandra. The contractors have completed demonstration in 11 wards — Kempegowda, Chowdeshwari, Atturu, T. Dasarahalli, Chokkasandra, K.R. Puram, Garudacharpalya, Lakkasandra, Adugodi, Hosakerehalli, and Yediyur. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep told The Hindu that the work orders were issued after signing agreements from August 6 onwards to 38 contractors. Of these, work has started in eight wards and it is likely to start soon in another 11. “We had given the contractors one month to be ready to begin operations in the respective wards. We have given them more than one month’s time. If the contractors fail to begin work by end of the month, we will cancel the work orders and float fresh tenders for those wards,” he said. Meanwhile, after the BBMP council had cleared tenders for nearly 150 wards, the civic bodysigned the letter of acceptance to 74 contractors. With this, tenders are in place for 112 wards, as some tenders have to still be re-evaluated, while those pertaining to 30 wards are being heard in the High Court. Mr. Randeep said the 74 contractors had been asked to now submit bank guarantee. “We usually give 15 days’ time for the contractorsto submit the bank guarantee. We will wait till October 1, take stock on how many have submitted it and begin issuing work orders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/less-than-10-contractors-have-started-work-under-new-garbage-tenders/article32710745.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A rural recipe to boost tourism in State||Ahead of World Tourism Day, the State government has unveiled the Karnataka Tourism Policy 2020-25 that envisages greater participation of local communities in tourism activities. The core theme is agri and rural tourism with the objective of promoting not just agricultural activities, but also all aspects of rural life, including local cuisine, culture, tradition, and arts. The policy was released by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Sunday, along with Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi, Revenue Minister R. Ashok, and Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation chairperson Shruthi. According to a press release, the policy has been formulated thus in a bid to create inclusive socio-cultural growth and generate economic benefits for citizens. This is in line with the sustainable development goals set by the United Nations. Through the policy, the government hopes to enhance Karnataka’s position as “a safe destination by ensuring a comfortable and inclusive experience for all tourists and by adopting safety and hygiene measures to adapt to the new normal”. The release also stated that the aim is to generate over 10 lakh direct and indirect jobs and Rs. 5,000 crore in investments in the sector by 2025, apart from increasing the contribution of tourism to the State GDP from 14.8% to 20%. The press release added that the focus would be on five As — attraction, accommodation, accessibility, amenities, and activities. Heritage tourism will also be promoted with focus on two Es — explore and experience. As many as 26 types of tourism products will be promoted during the five-year policy period, with focus on three Cs — culture, craft, and cuisine. Several key tourist destinations have been identified for development with special emphasis on the experiential aspects of tourism. To ensure tourism development across the State, district-level task forces are to be constituted, while an Investment Facilitation Cell will be set up to act as a nodal agency for enabling, facilitating, and monitoring investments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-rural-recipe-to-boost-tourism-in-state/article32710764.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, hyperloop corridor proposed from airport to city||To make Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), Bengaluru, a transportation hub, Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) on Sunday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Virgin Hyperloop to conduct a feasibility study for a proposed hyperloop corridor from the airport. According to a release from the BIAL, a pre-feasibility study, focusing on technical, economic, and route feasibility, is expected to be completed in two phases of six months each. “With speeds of up to 1,080 kmph, hyperloop could transport thousands of passengers per hour from the airport to the city centre in under 10 minutes, according to the preliminary analysis,” the release said. The release also stated that travellers could streamline their multimodal trip with seamless check-in and security — for both their hyperloop as well as air travel at centrally located hyperloop portals. The MoU was exchanged virtually between Sultan bin Sulayem, chairman of Virgin Hyperloop and DP World, and T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, Chief Secretary, government of Karnataka and chairman of the Board of Directors of BIAL. After signing the MoU, Mr. Sulayem said, “We are honoured to partner with BIAL to explore ways in which hyperloop can become a part of the solution to tackle congestion and support economic growth in Bengaluru.” He also said that beyond just the transit of passengers, airports were a crucial conduit for goods, especially time-sensitive deliveries. “A hyperloop-connected airport will dramatically improve the delivery of cargo and create an ultra-efficient supply chain,” he added. Mr. Vijay Bhaskar said the government of Karnataka had implemented several measures to improve the transport infrastructure of the State and that commissioning of a feasibility study for hyperloop connectivity from the KIA was another major step towards enabling the efficient movement of people. Hari Marar, MD and CEO, BIAL, said technological innovation was key to building and sustaining world-class transportation hub, and this study was an important step forward. “This mode of transportation offers enormous economic potential, connecting passengers at unprecedented speeds, with zero emissions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-hyperloop-corridor-proposed-from-airport-to-city/article32710750.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City-based storytelling collective finds mention in ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Over the past seven years, the city-based Bangalore Storytelling Society has been working on “reviving, promoting and nurturing the art of oral storytelling and popularising it as a performance medium”. On Sunday, the collective found mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 69th edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’, his monthly radio address. His address highlighted the art of storytelling and mentioned a few traditional storytelling forms prevalent in some parts of the country. For the city-based collective, this has just strengthened their resolve to work harder in reviving the ancient oral traditional forms. Aparna Athreya, co-founder of the Bangalore Storytelling Society, told The Hindu that the whole experience, right from receiving a call from the Prime Minister’s office to being mentioned in the monthly address, had been a roller-coaster ride.“Storytelling is one way to connect and bond with one another and become a more connected, happier nation,” she said.  New journey Ms. Athreya also said the mention in the radio programme could have piqued interest in many people about storytelling. “We are embarking on a new journey…we need to see whether such collectives from different parts of the country can come together to nurture the art form. We also could explore if it is possible to get grants to research and revive these art forms,” she added. At Mr. Modi’s request, Ms. Athreya told the story of Krishna Devaraya and Tenali Rama. Among the several traditional storytelling art forms are Hallakki tradition from Karnataka, Burrakatha from Andhra Pradesh, Villu Paatu from Tamil Nadu, and Dastangoi from the north. Hallakki is a very niche and traditional art form where the storytellers are women only. “There is no replicating it,” she said and added, “there is a need to preserve these languages and art forms. Many of these are receding into the rural areas and we should try to give them the recognition they deserve.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-based-storytelling-collective-finds-mention-in-mann-ki-baat/article32710747.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Initiative to gift a meal to those in need||The pandemic has not been easy for anyone, more so for the economically and socially disadvantaged. While there have been several instances of an outpouring of help, now, you can do your bit too. Soon, when you walk into a few restaurants in the city, after you order your meal, you can also buy a token which will be used to provide a meal for people who may not be able to afford it. This is an initiative of Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association and will begin on a pilot basis in around 30 restaurants in the city from October 2. The initiative is called Sanchigondu — one for the bag. The tag line of the project is ‘gift a meal, bring a smile’. P.C. Rao, president of the association, said each hotel would fix a price of the token. “The customer can pay either for a meal or a beverage. We have told hotel owners to cap the token to a maximum of Rs. 100,” he said. He said they would conduct a sensitisation workshop for all the restaurant owners. “We want these tokens to help daily wage labourers, poor students, differently abled persons, and those who are unemployed,” he said. Veerendra Kamat, treasurer of the association, said they started this project as they wanted people who were unable to afford food to get access to quality food. “During the pandemic, many people do not have a steady source of income and our effort is to help such people,” he said. He said once they finish the pilot project and understand the challenges, they would think of scaling this to other hotels in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/initiative-to-gift-a-meal-to-those-in-need/article32710751.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NLSIU convocation: 576 students receive degrees, diplomas, doctorates||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, on Sunday held its 28th annual convocation ceremony in virtual mode in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 576 students received their degrees, diplomas, and doctorates. While three of them received their Ph.D degree, 40 from the Master of Public Policy Programme (MPP), 45 from the Master of Laws Programme, 77 from the Bachelor of Arts and Laws (Honours) Programme, and, 411 students from the Distance Education Programmes received their respective degrees, doctorates, and diplomas. A total of 48 gold medals were awarded to graduates from different academic programmes. According to a release by NLSIU, Yamuna Menon, who graduated with a BA LLB (Hons.), received 18 medals, which is the highest number of medals received by any student in the history of the university. Delivering the convocation address, Niraja Gopal Jayal from Centre for the Study of Law and Governance, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, drew attention to some of the challenges of the post-COVID-19 world where the “Generation Z”, she hoped, would play a part to help the world steer through the challenges. “Is globalisation dead? Can or should it be dead? Or is it possible to imagine a newer and better form of globalisation,” she said and added, “a newer form of globalisation grounded in an acknowledgement of the necessary interdependence of nations is not just possible but also necessary. A more humane equitable form of globalisation surely needs to be crafted.” Four imperatives Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Vice-Chancellor, NLSIU, said the New Education Policy 2020 had set four imperatives for the NLSIU and other similarly placed universities: “... the growth of single-stream universities into vibrant multidisciplinary institutions; embracing a holistic and multidisciplinary approach grounded in constitutional values rather thana narrow vocational approach; building a vibrant and open culture of knowledge creation grounded in high quality research; and ensuring greater inclusivity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nlsiu-convocation-576-students-receive-degrees-diplomas-doctorates/article32710743.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MP seeks NIA division in Bengaluru||Tejasvi Surya, MP, who was on Saturday appointed president of the BJP’s youth wing, has appealed to Union Home Minister Amit Shah to set up a permanent division of the National Investigation Agency in the city. He said in a tweet that he had pointed out to the Home Minister that Bengaluru had become “an epicentre of terror activities”, which necessitates a permanent division of the NIA. He said many terror modules have been found out in Bengaluru in the recent past and terror groups want to use the city as an incubation centre. Mr. Surya thanked Mr. Shah for “his assurance that it will be set up soon”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-seeks-nia-division-in-bengaluru/article32710762.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||We need both ventilators and manpower: Private hospitals||The State government recently announced that it will let out ventilators to private medical establishments for government-referred patients. However, private hospitals now say they do not have the manpower to handle the additional equipment. Sources said that of the 2,050 ventilators the State received from the Centre, nearly 300 will be rented out to private hospitals. With more critical COVID-19 patients requiring ICU beds with ventilators, the State Health Department on September 23 decided to lend ventilators to private establishments in the State for six months, to be mandatorily used for government-referred patients. The ventilator charges of Rs. 500 per patient per day will be deducted from the amount (Rs. 10,000) fixed for every ventilator bed. Deputy Commissioners have been asked to submit the requirement of ventilators received from private hospitals in their districts. The hospitals will have to get into an agreement with the Health Department on this. While welcoming the move, heads of private hospitals now say they are facing an acute shortage of manpower. “We need a 1:1 nurse patient ratio in ICUs. At any given point of time over 15% of our nursing staff are infected and are either under quarantine or treatment. With the existing staff, we are barely managing,” said R. Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). The association will discuss the issue with the government. “We are glad that government has responded to our request for ventilators made in June. But the manpower shortage has further worsened now and it would be great if the government provides us trained nurses for the ICUs,” Dr. Ravindra said. Sources in PHANA said more than ventilators what the hospitals need now are High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) machines for oxygen therapy. “Seven months into the pandemic, we have learned that HFNC machines are more helpful than ventilators,” a doctor said. Meanwhile, health activists have questioned the government’s move, especially when government hospitals do not have adequate ventilators. “The move is shocking, especially when people have been repeatedly asking for better care in public hospitals. Instead of investing in government hospitals, the government is further short-changing them,” said Sylvia Karpagam, a public health doctor and researcher. “In private hospitals out-of-pocket expenditure is high even for patients referred from the government,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-need-both-ventilators-and-manpower-private-hospitals/article32710757.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Betting: Three arrested||The CCB sleuths have arrested three persons who were allegedly running betting for Indian Premier League (IPL) matches being held in the UAE. Based on a tip-off, a team of officials raided a place at Gandhinagar on Friday and recovered Rs. 9.5 lakh in cash. According to the police, the accused Bhavesh Jain, 38; Aravind Jain, 40; and Vimal Jain, 40, are businessmen from Nagartpet and were running the gambling racket during IPL cricket matches to earn extra money. The accused would run the gambling operation through an app and collect money online from punters. The accused were caught while collecting bets for the match played between Delhi Capitals and CSK teams. The police also seized mobile phones from the accused to ascertain whether they are linked to any inter-State gambling racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/betting-three-arrested/article32710748.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three held, marijuana seized||The R.T. Nagar police arrested three persons and recovered 5 kg of dry marijuana and 23 kg of fresh marijuana leaves from them. The accused have been identified as Budensab, 59, a native of Andhra Pradesh, Chandrappa, 40, of Kolar, and Marappa, 56, of Chickballapur. The police said that recently, they had registered a case against an alleged addict identified as Karthik, 22, a resident of Sultanpalya. During questioning, he revealed that he was buying drugs from Budensab. According to the police, they received a tip-off that Budensab was selling ganja at a ground in R.T. Nagar where the police caught him and seized 5 kg of the contraband. Upon questioning, he revealed that he along with the two other accused were bringing marijuana leaves from a hill and selling. The three accused had 23 kg of fresh marijuana leaves. The police said the three would go to a hill near Doddaballapur during the day to identify marijuana plants grown in the wild and would return during the night to collect them. They would dry the leaves at a ground in R.T. Nagar and sell them to consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-marijuana-seized/article32710749.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister seeks advice on reopening||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has written to all the Ministers and MLAs seeking advice on reopening schools and colleges (pre-primary to PUC). He has requested the Ministers and the MLAs to provide their inputs on when schools and colleges could be reopened and if and when reopened, which classes should be started first. He has also sought advice on what kind of cooperation could be expected from elected representatives and the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-seeks-advice-on-reopening/article32710752.ece
28 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New corpn.||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday announced the setting up of the Kadugolla Development Corporation for the development of the backward community. He said the government would provide financial aid through the corporation. Thesocially and economically backward community is spread across 10 districts, with major concentrations in Chitradurga andTumakuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-corpn/article32710768.ece
28 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner inspects IIT campus||Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has asked officials to immediately conduct a survey pertaining to the forest land in the area allotted for the construction of a permanent building for Indian Institute of Technology, Dharwad. Mr. Patil, who visited the campus of IIT Dharwad coming up off the Pune-Bengaluru Road at Mummigatti near Dharwad on Saturday, said that a road leading to the permanent campus would be laid soon. He asked the officials to take up survey and demarcate the forest land so as to allow IIT Dharwad administration to expedite the works. Later, Mr. Patil visited the site at Tadasinakoppa where the permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) is coming up, and sought details from the officials. He said that Rs. 7 crore sought for the road leading to the IIIT campus had been sanctioned by the government. Mentioning that the work had been entrusted to the Public Works Department, he asked the department officials to complete the road work at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioner-inspects-iit-campus/article32710885.ece
28 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Now, Hubballi Airport gets Instrument Landing System||Instrument Landing System (ILS) which facilitates smooth aircraft landing even during inclement weather conditions and poor visibility has now been set up at the Hubballi Airport. And, it will take another one-and-a-half months for the facility to be commissioned. According to the authorities concerned, ILS calibration process was carried out on Thursday with an aircraft landing at the airport with the help of the Instrument Landing System. Airport Director Pramod Thakre told The Hindu that now that the ILS calibration had been successfully completed, they had begun the process of getting clearances from the authorities concerned and these had to be published for the information of the pilots. “After installation of the ILS, flight landing procedure automatically changes and this has to be communicated to all those concerned after getting clearances from the competent authorities. There is a set procedure for it and it usually takes one-and-a-half months to complete it,” he said. The Instrument Landing System guides pilots land aircraft even in case of minimum visibility. It consists of a localiser, glide path and distance measuring equipment. ILS is a standard International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) precision landing aid which is used to provide accurate descent guidance signals to aircraft for landing on the runway under normal or adverse weather conditions. In Hubballi, the installation of ILS began during January and it has now been completed successfully. Although night landing facility is available in Hubballi, ILS was missing resulting in flight delays during inclement weather conditions. Airport sources said that ILS would help in avoiding accidents while landing. In March 2015, a SpiceJet aircraft carrying 75 passengers and crew had skidded off the runway in Hubballi. And, one of the reasons attributed for the mishap was lack of ILS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-hubballi-airport-gets-instrument-landing-system/article32710884.ece
28 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Rural tourism will help boost economy, check migration’||Highlighting the importance of promoting rural tourism, Rohit Boralikar from Indira Gandhi National Tribal University (IGNTU), Amarkantak, Madhya Pradesh, has said that expansion of tourism to rural areas will help boost rural economy and also check migration by generating local employment. “Rural tourism will help us generate employment, boost the rural economy and check migration to urban areas. It is a very low cost establishment and hence, very affordable to develop rural entrepreneurship. The major products of rural tourism are nature-based recreation, fairs, festivals, special events, arts, crafts, architectural heritage, authentic rural cuisines, various rural activities and agro tourism. This will help a tourist get closer to nature, and also purchase agricultural produce directly from the field,” he said. He was delivering a talk at a webinar organised by the Department of Tourism and Hotel Management at Central University of Karnataka (CUK), Kalaburagi, as part of World Tourism Day on Sunday. “Rural tourism will also offer people an opportunity to understand and experience rural culture, tradition, cuisine and pure nature and contribute to the development of rural areas by promoting cultural, environmental and historical richness. It offers the opportunity of enjoying rural environment and culture at a low and affordable price. It appeals to a large market, including students, families and other stakeholders,” he said. Delivering a talk on Building Peace and Fostering Knowledge, Tony K. Thomas from Mahatma Gandhi University, Kerala, said that Gross National Happiness (GNH) was more important than Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “To build peace and happiness, we need to have equitable and sustainable socio-economic development, preservation and promotion of cultural and spiritual heritage, conservation of environment and good governance. Peace helps in the development of tourism and tourism helps promote peace,” he said. Jitendra Mohan Mishra from IGNTU, another resource person, delivered talk on “Yoga and Wellness Tourism”. “The goal of yoga is to attain physical and mental well-being through the mastery of the body. This can be achieved through meditation, proper breathing, holding postures and exercises. Wellness tourists generally seek an integrated wellness and prevention approaches to improve their quality of life,” he said. Central University of Karnataka Vice-Chancellor H.M. Maheshwaraiah inaugurated the event. Dean, School of Business Studies, K. Padmasree presided over it. Pro Vice-Chancellor G.R. Naik, Registrar Mustaq Ahmed I. Patel, faculty members M.V. Alagawadi, Ganapati B. Sinnoor, Natraj Patted and Jagadeesh Biredar and others were present.  ‘This will help a tourist get closer to nature, and also purchase agricultural produce directly from the field’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rural-tourism-will-help-boost-economy-check-migration/article32710896.ece
28 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tenkabailu Thirumaleshwara Shastri passes away||Bhagavatha (singer) of the Tenku Thittu school of Yakshagana Tenkabailu Tirumaleshwara Shastri passed away here on Sunday. He was 76. Shastri breathed his last at a private hospital at Deralakatte.  He is survived by three daughters and a son. Shastri had a typical melodious voice which he could retain till his last days. He taught Bhagavathike to a number of students at the Sri Padre Chandu Yakshagana Training Centre at Perla. Hailing from Tenkabailu village, Bantwal taluk in Dakshina Kannada, he was well versed in playing percussion instruments, chende and maddale, used in Yakshagana performance. Both as a professional and amateur Bhagavatha, he had lent his voice to touring Yakshagana melas (troupes) such as Bappanadu, Malla, Madhuru, Ira, Kuntaru and Kairangala. Yakshagana artiste S.N. Bhat Bayar said that though he belonged to the old school of Yakshagana, Shastri attracted both the new generation and old audiences with his melodious voice. Amid changing times, he stuck to singing in the traditional style, while not compromising with the ragas and also, not crossing the set borders. “Hindola and Madhyamavathi were his best ragas. He loved them too much and not only enjoyed singing in those ragas but also entertained the audience as well,” Mr. Bayar said. Shastri was the recipient of the Dakshina Kannada Rajyotsava Award. He also received, among others, the Udupi Yakshagana Kalaranga Award and the Kuriya Vitala Shastri Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tenkabailu-thirumaleshwara-shastri-passes-away/article32710898.ece
28 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||14 organisations in Udupi district extend support||In all, 14 organisations in Udupi have supported the call for Monday’s State bandh given by farmers organisations to protest against the recent amendments to laws pertaining to the farm sector. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, secretary, Udupi district unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxists), Balakrishna Shetty, the representatives of 14 organisations will walk on the roads from 6 a.m. on Monday and seek the cooperation of traders and others to support the bandh. He said that the Congress, the Janata Dal (Secular), the Dalit Sangarsh Samiti, the Udupi District Muslim Okkuta, CITU, the Welfare Party of India, Sahabalve, the Karnataka Prantha Raita Sangha, the Congress Kisan Cell, the Karnataka Rashtra Samithi and the Ambedkar Sene are among the organisations that have their support for the bandh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-organisations-in-udupi-district-extend-support/article32710886.ece
28 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Works worth Rs. 2,000 cr. to be taken up in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 23 works estimated at Rs. 2,000 crore will be taken up by the Shipping Ministry in Dakshina Kannada to make the fishing community self-reliant (Atmanirbhar), said Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Friday. In a statement here, Mr. Kateel said that this was announced by the Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya during his video conference with MPs from the coastal regions of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Goa on Friday. Among the 23 works that will be taken up are construction of gas terminal, LNG terminal, petrochemical complex, godown for foodgrains and sea food park at the New Mangalore Port. The other works to be taken up are construction of jetties for water sports and building a hospital. The Shipping Ministry will also take up development of various beaches in the State, Mr. Kateel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/works-worth-rs-2000-cr-to-be-taken-up-in-dakshina-kannada/article32710882.ece
28 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Somanathapura temple included for World Heritage Site nomination||The Belur, Halebid, and Somanathapura temples will be nominated for seeking the UNESCO World Heritage Site status and the final dossier is set for submission ahead of the September 30 deadline. Both Belur and Halebid have been under the UNESCO’s tentative list for the last six years, and it was decided at the stakeholders’ meeting held recently to include the 12th century Keshava temple at Somanathapura as part of the serial nomination process under the Sacred Ensembles of the Hoysalas. The State Archaeology Department has tied up with Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage  (INTACH), Bengaluru, for the preparation of the dossier, and the work commenced in September last year. Submitted to ASI B.R. Poornima, Commissioner of the Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage, told The Hindu that the final dossier has been submitted to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which represents the country at the UNESCO world heritage meetings. She said the stakeholders’ meeting with local community members has also been conducted and there would be follow-up regarding site management. Pankaj Modi, an architect who lead the team of experts in the preparation of the final dossier, said INTACH initially shortlisted 14 Hoysala temples across Karnataka for serial nomination last year and conducted a comprehensive study. “We pruned the number of temples from 14 to three for the present, and apart from Belur and Halebid, which were already on the tentative list, Somanathapura has been included,” he said. The serial nomination process allows for inclusion of other monuments at a later date, and this has happened in the case of Darasuram and Gangaikonda Cholapuram after Brihadeshwara temple at Thanjavur was first inscribed as a World Heritage Site, Mr. Modi said. UNESCO defines serial nominations as any two or more unconnected sites that may contain a series of cultural or natural properties in different locations, provided that they are related because they belong to the same historical and cultural group. Other such serial nominations include the forts at Chittorgarh, Kumbhalgarh, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur, Jhalawar, and Jaisalmer are examples. However, Mr. Modi pointed out that the inscription as a World Heritage Site was still long ways off as the process was complex and elaborate. Pandemic slows process It is an 18-month process from the date of submission and there will be feedback from UNESCO, followed by field visits, approval of site management plans and more. Besides, the COVID-9 pandemic has upset the calendar of events, so this exercise could get stretched a little longer, he said. There are 137 Hoysala monuments, of which 43 are protected by the ASI and 55 by the State Archaeology Department. Thirty-nine monuments are unprotected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/somanathapura-temple-included-for-world-heritage-site-nomination/article32710770.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Much is being said about administrative reforms as the State faces an unprecedented crisis of revenue amid the pandemic. Former Chief Minister S.M. Krishna(in picture)had, during his tenure, asked the late Haranahalli Ramaswamy to submit a reforms report to abolish wasteful posts and departments. The State was facing severe financial constraints when Mr.Krishna assumed office in 1999 and his governmentpresented a white paper on the State’s finances. Now, with the economic slowdown, the legislators, particularly those from the Congress, are demanding that the government abolish posts such as joint director and regional commissioner, besides some departments that have led to “wasteful” expenditure. While what drains our resources is a matter worth debating, administrative reform is a forgotten agenda for our legislators when the State’s fiscal position is sound.   The newly built Mini-Vidhana Soudha at Sira in Tumakuru was lying idle for the past one year and no one bothered to formally inaugurate it or utilise it for administrative work. A few days ago, Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy rushed to Sira and inaugurated it. Needless to say it had something to do with the upcoming byelection to the constituency. They did not invite former Minister T.B. Jayachandra, who has been picked as the Congress candidate in the bypoll. The building was sanctioned in 2015 under the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government when Mr. Jayachandra was Minister. The latter is credited with taking the initiative in the project, which was completed at a cost of Rs. 13.5 crore. The hasty inauguration had many saying that the Ministers should have had the “courtesy” to invite Mr. Jayachandra, setting politics aside for a change.      MLA for Mangaluru City North Y. Bharath Shetty(in picture)has announced “prizes” to his party (BJP) workers who plant and nurture saplings in wards coming under his Assembly segment from this year. The prizes are not in cash, but in the form of development projects in the range of Rs. 10 lakh, Rs. 5 lakh, and Rs. 2 lakh drawn from his area development fund. The MLA said recently that party workers in each ward should plant and nurture at least five saplings. Their growth will be inspected every year just ahead of the monsoon or after heavy rains. The best-maintained saplings will be considered for the prize. The fund will be used only for such projects, which will help the community as a whole. The MLA is of the view that his initiative will encourage workers to contribute to increasing the green cover in the city while also contributing on the development front. Nagesh Prabhu Raviprasad Kamila||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article32710767.ece
28 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pathiyoor declared barren land-free||Pathiyoor has become the first barren land-free grama panchayat in Alappuzha. The local body has turned around 75 acres of barren land into agricultural fields. “We have cultivated paddy in 30 acres (upland), sesame in 15 acres, horse gram in three acres, finger millet in five acres, maize in 15 acres, sunflower in three acres, and so on. Besides, farmers were distributed cattle and birds. To promote fish farming, fingerlings were deposited in 15 ponds,” K. Sukumaran, president, Pathiyoor grama panchayat, said. About Rs. 30 lakh was spent on creating kitchen gardens. Seeds and saplings of vegetables, elephant yam, ginger, and turmeric were distributed to 5,985 farmers in 19 wards. Paddy farming has been undertaken in five acres at Kareelakulangara and in two acres on the premises of Pathiyoor Sree Durga Devi temple. The declaration of barren land-free grama panchayat was made by Haritha Keralam vice chairperson T.N. Seema at a function held online recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathiyoor-declared-barren-land-free/article32711255.ece
28 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||476 persons test positive in Alappuzha||The district logged 476 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of the new cases, 426 patients contracted the disease through local transmission and 42 people came from other States. Seven persons who reached the district from abroad and a health staffer also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 426 locally transmitted cases include 54 reported from Mannancherry and 43 from Purakkad. Alappuzha (36), Pallippuram (36), Aroor (31), Arattuppuzha (27), Ambalappuzha South (13), Arookutty (13), Vayalar (13), Ezhupunna (11), and Kanjikuzhy (10) also registered a high number of contact cases. The district also recorded a COVID-19 death, taking the official death toll to 35. The deceased was identified as a 63-year-old woman from Vandanam. Meanwhile, 306 people who were undergoing treatment in hospitals, tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 4,042.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/476-persons-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32711256.ece
28 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Man held for impersonation, swindling||Police officers have arrested a 36-year-old man on charges of impersonating as a priest and cheating a woman of Rs. 50,000. The arrested person was identified as Faizal of Wayanad. He was arrested by the Kurathikad police on Saturday. Fake name The police officers said that the accused person, who was living under a fake name Vishal, befriended a man named Arun and secured Rs. 50,000 from his mother with the promise ofi getting him a job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-impersonation-swindling/article32711257.ece
28 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level falls in Idukki reservoir||The water level in the Idukki reservoir fell below the blue alert level on Sunday. Though the water level had touched the blue alert level on Saturday, official announcement was postponed in view of the decline in the inflow to the reservoir. The water level on Sunday was 2,388.34 ft, whereas the blue alert level as per the new rule curve level decided by the Central Water Commission was 2,388.37 ft. There was no rainfall on the catchment area on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-falls-in-idukki-reservoir/article32711224.ece
28 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Ex-servicemen, families oppose canteen closure||Ex-servicemen and their families have strongly opposed the decision to close down the CSD canteen of 122 Territorial Army Battalion at Kannur. The National Ex-Servicemen Co-Ordination Committee has written to the Minister for State for Defence, demanding the withdrawal of the order. Committee general secretary Vijayan Parali said the abrupt closure of the canteen had caused a lot of inconvenience to aged and sick ex-servicemen, women, and dependants. The closure order issued by the Director General of Territorial Army will be effective from October 1. Mr. Parali pointed out that the canteen run by the Defence Security Corps and the 122 TA Battalion catered for over 30,000 persons. The Committee pointed out that there were strictures to issue only 100 tokens per day and this meant only a maximum of less than 3,000 would be entertained, leaving out the 20,000 ex-servicemen unattended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-servicemen-families-oppose-canteen-closure/article32711212.ece
28 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Coir industry being brought back to its glory: Minister||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said that the government’s aim is to bring the coir industry back to its glory, and that its efforts are getting good response from workers and the co-operative sector. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating the spinning machines allotted by the government to the Azhikode Coir Industry Co-operative Society under the Kannur 0Coir Project, through videoconferencing on Sunday. The government has sanctioned 10 spinning machines. The objective is to install 1,000 automatic spinning machines in 100 coir groups as part of the second coir reorganisation being implemented by the Coir Development Department. The project is expected to be completed by November, Mr. Isaac said. The machines were manufactured by the Kerala State Coir Machinery Manufacturing Company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-industry-being-brought-back-to-its-glory-minister/article32711213.ece
28 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Local testing camps aid quick detection of cases||Local testing camps held in areas that have seen a surge in COVID-19 cases have been helping with quick detection of the disease among symptomatic people. In areas such as West Kochi, where cases had been persistently climbing since mid-July, testing camps had been set up under each of the four urban primary health centres, said a health worker from Fort Kochi. Since testing was not done at the health centre itself to protect other patients from the risk of infection, separate buildings have been identified with the help of the local ward councillor to conduct camps twice a week, she said. Each camp functions with two doctors, two staff nurses and two ASHA workers. “With the spread of the infection now, out of about 50 tests done in a day, at least 10 will return positive results,” she said. While most tests done at such camps were antigen, some RT-PCR confirmatory tests were done, particularly after a wedding in the area had left many symptomatic primary contacts of patients, she added. Including private ones, tests were being conducted at about 100 facilities in the district, helping with quick detection, said Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. In Varapuzha, where a few workers in the vicinity of the market had tested positive recently, leaving several primary contacts, facilities for antigen testing were set up at a government school in the same ward, said a health official in the area. The panchayat made arrangements for the facility while the Health Department provided the staff, he said. Testing is usually done once a week at the camp which functions under the Varapuzha community health centre. If a symptomatic person was to be tested urgently, they were usually sent to another testing camp that might be running on the day, he said. A list of primary contacts of patients is maintained by ASHA workers in the area and they are monitored daily for symptoms via phone. When the caseload was more manageable, all primary contacts were tested on the seventh day of quarantine, said the health worker in Fort Kochi. At present, only those primary contacts who reported symptoms, along with all other symptomatic persons, were required to get tested, she said. In other areas like Alangad, which has also seen a consistent rise in cases scattered across the panchayat, a testing camp is held weekly at an auditorium which was rented to run a first-line treatment centre (FLTC). While the FLTC itself had not been functioning in the absence of staff, testing continued, mostly with staff from the primary health centre, said panchayat president Radhamani Jayasingh. At Chellanam, two testing camps had been functioning since the area began to report cases in July, said a health official. To facilitate testing, the panchayat had arranged for vehicles to transport symptomatic people from their homes to the testing camps, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-testing-camps-aid-quick-detection-of-cases/article32711207.ece
28 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Vyttila flyover to have height gauge on both sides||A height gauge will be erected on either end of the six-lane flyover at Vyttila, to prevent vehicles taller than 5.50 metres from entering the structure. This will be put up at the entries to the flyover from Palarivattom and Aroor sides, as insisted by metro agencies, to prevent vehicles taller than 5.50 metres from crashing into the metro viaduct that towers over the flyover. This height restriction is the norm across India, while it is lower than 5 metres in most of the developed world where vehicles, including goods carriers, adhere to height restrictions, official sources said. A few people had expressed concern over vehicles registered outside Kerala, with illegally altered length, width, and height entering the flyover, posing danger to fellow motorists and the metro viaduct that hovers above. The PWD (NH Wing) has also readied a roundabout beneath the flyover, to ensure smooth flow of traffic in the east-west direction, from SA Road to Thripunithura and to the Vyttila Mobility Hub. “Thus buses and other vehicles going to the hub will have to proceed along the left side of the roundabout, while those proceeding to Thripunithura will have to use the right side of the structure. This system was finalised after discussions with Keltron and Cochin Smart Mission Limited [CSML], which will together ready the signal system at Vyttila,” official sources said. A median on the Thripunithura side will be relocated northward, to create more space for vehicles wanting to take a free-left turn. “We did our best to ready the flyover and service roads on either side, without any land acquisition. Care has also been taken to ensure excellent ride quality over the structure,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vyttila-flyover-to-have-height-gauge-on-both-sides/article32711198.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||To unwind, Kochiites now take to city’s new walkways||With work under way to renovate the Marine Drive walkway, and the once popular beachfront walkways in Fort Kochi and Puthuvype in a state of disrepair, Kochiites are taking to new and well-maintained walkways to exercise and unwind. On the occasion of World Tourism Day, city residents, tourism and civic stakeholders spoke on the potential that walkways hold to de-stress people, especially in the pandemic situation, and the efforts being taken to spruce up ill-maintained ones. The newly-built Avenue Walkway that begins in front of the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos) and ends at the Mattancherry BOT Bridge is emerging as a hub for families wanting to unwind. The Cochin Port Trust built it, using Central tourism funds. Among those who frequent the stretch are Vishnu Venugopal and his wife Akhila. ‘Safe and well-lit’ “The walkway’s main attraction is that it is very scenic, abutting the backwaters and located well away from the city. With it being spacious, visitors can do jogging, walking or bicycling on the lengthy stretch. It is also safe and well lit, so much so that guests can be seen at 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. The availability of adequate parking space makes it very convenient for city dwellers,” said Mr. Venugopal. The Queen’s Walkway on Chathiath Road is among the few other well-maintained ones in the city. The walkway around Durbar Hall Ground, located in the heart of the city and which was renovated twice during the past 18 years and still cries for upkeep, is symbolic of the plight of most walkways in the city. Maintained by the Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC), people used to throng the ground and the walkway till a few years ago. Now, damaged portions of the walkway and ill-lit areas make people think twice before venturing there. Repair work The piecemeal repair work was not durable and the premises had to be fully renovated, said DTPC sources. This is mainly because it is tough to get replacement for the small tiles that were used to pave the walkway. Repair works are now being done using cement. “We plan to replace the tiles with natural stone tiles the coming fiscal,” they added. The agency further evinced interest in taking over renovation and upkeep of the damaged walkway at Puthuvype.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/to-unwind-kochiites-now-take-to-citys-new-walkways/article32711195.ece
28 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Youth Congress activists hold protest at toll plaza||Youth Congress activists, who took out a march to the National Highways Authority’s toll plaza at Ponnarimangalam in protest against the alleged stoppage of discounted toll rates offered to residents of nearby panchayats, clashed with the police on Sunday. Traffic was disrupted on Container Road for some time. The Mulavukad police said a case had been registered against the activists for unlawful assembly, taking out a procession without permission, and obstructing vehicles. Earlier this week, Hibi Eden, MP, and T.J. Vinod, MLA, had denounced the NHAI’s decision to collect toll from people living in the vicinity of the plaza. A Janakeeya Samiti (people’s conclave) too is in the forefront of the agitation against what it termed as illegal toll collection from those who had been exempted, based on a decision taken at a meeting convened by people’s representatives and then District Collector. “We too will shortly launch an agitation, since toll is being imposed on us, although the NHAI has not installed street lights on Container Road, while the construction of service roads at Mulavukad is incomplete,” said an office-bearer of the samiti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-activists-hold-protest-at-toll-plaza/article32711191.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy organises mangrove planting drive||The Southern Naval Command organised a mangrove planting drive along the Venduruthy channel here on the occasion of World River Day on Sunday. The drive was led by Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, along with A. Jayamadhavan, Assistant Conservator of Forest. Officers, sailors and their families, and Forest officials took part. Around 200 mangrove saplings were planted by the residents of Katari Bagh. Cleaning up of channel The cleaning up of the Venduruthy channel by the Southern Naval Command had resulted in the return of flora and fauna, according to a press release here. Five different varieties of mangroves had been identified along the channel besides numerous species of birds and animals, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-organises-mangrove-planting-drive/article32711202.ece
28 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||924 new cases push caseload past 6,000-mark||With 924 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday in the highest single-day spike so far, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has crossed the 6,000-mark. Of the people who tested positive, 889 have acquired the infection through local contact. Among them were nine health workers, eight of whom were working at private hospitals. In West Kochi Fort Kochi continues to report a spike in cases with 53 people testing positive from the area. From Mattancherry, 18 people have been newly infected while 20 people from Palluruthy have tested positive. Areas such as Rayamangalam and Thrikkakara have reported over 30 cases each. Other positive cases of the infection were reported from Aluva, Alangad, Cheranalloor, Chittatukara, Eloor, Njarakkal, Thripunithura, Udayamperoor, Perumbavoor and Kothamangalam. After a few weeks of respite, 14 people were newly infected from Chellanam on Sunday. A total of 337 people tested negative and 21,356 people remain in quarantine. Of the 6,109 active cases in the district, 2,733 people remain in isolation at home. For testing, 1,537 samples were sent from government facilities and 1,781 samples from private labs and hospitals. Going by the website of the Directorate of Health Services, there have been 61 confirmed COVID-19 deaths in the district so far. Since March, the district has seen 15,780 cases of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/924-new-cases-push-caseload-past-6000-mark/article32711205.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Quarry operator arrested||The Kalady police on Sunday arrested the operator of a quarry at Malayatoor, who had been absconding since the explosives kept at the building where workers stayed went off earlier this week, resulting in the death of two persons. A special police team constituted by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik arrested Benny Puthen from Bengaluru. The quarry manager and the person who used to transport explosives had been arrested earlier. Throwing caution to the wind, a total of 1,500 detonators and 350 gelatin sticks were illegally stored in the building. Missing man found A Muppathadam native who had gone missing since Friday was taken into custody from Kottayam on Sunday. Based on his statement, the police said he was debt-ridden and had kept his clothes and other items near the Periyar to mislead people. The police had deployed scuba teams on the premise that he might have drowned. He was traced to Kottayam after he made a phone call to his wife. Madrassa teacher held A 41-year-old Madrassa teacher was arrested by the Aluva police on the charge of sexually abusing a 10-year-old boy. The arrested is a native of Ambazhakodu, Mannarkad. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarry-operator-arrested/article32711192.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Renovation work on at Marine Drive walkway||The Marine Drive walkway, once the hub of city residents to unwind and exercise, is getting renovated. Although owned by the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), the entire 2.4-km stretch is currently being renovated by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) under a Rs. 7.80-crore project. This includes the over 1-km long stretch from High Court Junction to the junction near the first Goshree Bridge, that the GCDA had commissioned in 2012. “The tiles here were improperly laid, causing undulations. New granite-based tiles will be laid. Lack of drainage resulted in rainwater sprouting up from the tiles when people walked over them. Care is now being taken to give adequate gradient so that water seeps into drains that will be built beside the walkway. LED lights which can be switched on and off from CSML’s head office too have been planned. CCTVs too will be put up, since the walkway is a haven for drug addicts. Pay and use toilets are also on the anvil. The renovation work is expected to get over by March,” said official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovation-work-on-at-marine-drive-walkway/article32711200.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bio-fertilizer plant to be commissioned soon||A plant to produce bio-fertilizer from elephant dung and bio-gas from other animal dung is ready for commissioning at the Abhayaranyam elephant rescue and training centre at Kodanad near Perumbavoor. The centre in Koovappadi block panchayat is the first such facility in the State. Kodanad is an eco-tourism destination visited by thousands of tourists. The location has an elephant training and rescue centre. However, the waste left behind by the animals had turned into a big problem, said M.P. Prakash, block panchayat member. The plant was established to treat waste in an environment-friendly way, he said. It was being set up with help from the Gobardhan programme under the Suchitwa Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bio-fertilizer-plant-to-be-commissioned-soon/article32711203.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stress on drawing power from solar panels on boats||Even as land-based solar power plants have been mooted for the upcoming Water Metro project in the Greater Kochi area, a section of naval architects say that sourcing solar power from panels installed atop the 23 ferries that will be introduced in the project’s first phase will be technically and financially more viable. The solar panels should ideally be installed atop boats, in order to reduce the battery size and subsequently the size of the vessel. This is important since boats are not connected to the grid when moving, unlike electric trains which source power from the grid even as they are on the move, says Sandith Thandasherry, founder of the firm that designed Aditya, India’s first solar ferry that the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) operates in the Vaikom-Thavanakadavu route. It is seen that capital expenditure (capex) is the lowest when solar panels are atop a boat, since increase in solar panel cost is more than compensated by decrease in battery cost. Low energy cost In the case of operational expenditure (opex), involving both energy cost and maintenance cost, maximum number of solar panels on a boat will usher in the lowest energy cost. The cost of power from solar panels is cheaper, be it to operate the vessel’s propulsion or air conditioning system, than the expense of grid energy stored in batteries, or the power from genset on board. Even while presuming that energy is sourced from land-based solar plants, it is effective to have a single large solar plant rather than multiple small plants (in ferry terminals), says Mr. Thandasherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stress-on-drawing-power-from-solar-panels-on-boats/article32711189.ece
28 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Low patronage for public transport in future: survey||There will be a drastic reduction in demand for travel, triggered by changes like reduced job opportunities and work-from-home practices during the COVID times, finds a “Survey on the effects of COVID 19 on transportation: What the experts say”, conducted by city-based think tank Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR). It speaks of how safety concerns will guide the choice of commuting mode and that there would be an increased preference for private vehicles, non-motorised transport (NMT) and shared mobility services. The survey was conducted in June-July 2020, among experts from the transportation sector to understand their perception of the effects of the pandemic on public transport. People will increasingly prefer two-wheelers and non-motorised transport like cycling and walking. The government should prioritise investments to improve the infrastructure for NMT and electric vehicles. Increased public spending for transport infrastructure development and improving the efficiency of public transport will boost the sector, the experts said. They recommended government support to help stakeholders in public transport by ensuring credit availability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-patronage-for-public-transport-in-future-survey/article32711204.ece
28 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Illegal trade: gold dealer arrested||Customs officials have arrested J.J. Swasthan Jagannath, proprietor of Krisha Gold Testing, Thrissur, in connection with an illegal gold trading network in Thrissur. The Customs case is that large quantities of smuggled gold were being brought to the State by train and bus from Chennai and Madurai by carriers of unorganised jewellery-making units on the outskirts of Thrissur. The Customs had seized large quantities of gold and arrested a few persons in Thrissur last year.   Investigations revealed that the gold in his possession was of foreign origin. He was produced before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, and was later released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-trade-gold-dealer-arrested/article32711225.ece
28 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Flyover debris to be removed: Minister||The day-and-night work to scoop out the tarred layer of the Palarivattom flyover as part of reconstructing its girders will begin at 9 a.m. on Monday, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran has said. All debris will be moved away from the area, to cause least disturbance to road users. Concrete pieces might be taken to Chellanam to construct a sea wall. This has been communicated to officials of Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society, he added. The work will be undertaken in less than nine months, after taking all safety precautions. He also sought the cooperation of the public to complete the project in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flyover-debris-to-be-removed-minister/article32711196.ece
28 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||690 more added to Kollam list||On Sunday, Kollam reported its highest single-day surge in caseload with 690 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the patients are 666 local contact cases, two NRIs, nine health workers and 13 others who travelled from various States. The Health Department has also confirmed that the death of an 80-year-old Kanjaveli resident is due to COVID-19. She had died on September 24. All the health workers who tested positive are employees of different private facilities. While the number of recoveries on Sunday is 269, Kollam currently has 4,825 active cases. Kollam Corporation alone reported over 200 contact cases on Sunday while Alappad has around 60 new patients. Chavara, Thazhava, Panmana, Perinadu and Soorandu are also among the places that reported new cases. The district currently has 21,452 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,97,157. While 1,138 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 40,968 primary and 6,582 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present 18 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/690-more-added-to-kollam-list/article32711261.ece
28 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Aymanam to roll out welcome mats to guests||As Kerala prepares to unlock its tourism sector next month, the backwater landscape of Kottayam will have a lot more to offer than the Vembanad lake and boat rides. Having been declared as the first model Responsible Tourism (RT) village in Kerala, Aymanam, a hamlet near Kumarakom, will be rolling out welcome mats to the guests from the coming season onwards. From boat rides through its canals to walking tracks and village life to cultural experience, the local body is now ready with a host of tourism products that are locally owned. As many as 118 RT units have been established in the panchayat. Training has been imparted to 617 persons in different tourism-related activities, besides initiating waste management projects in association with the local body and the Haritha Keralam Mission. The project envisages a structured development of village’s interiors to maintain a balance between the guests and the local community, says K. Rupesh Kumar, Coordinator, RT Mission Kerala. “The packages have been developed in way to ensure the local development of the panchayat, while also generating employment and staying carbon neutral to the maximum possible extent. As part of it, special tourism gramasabhas were held and to encourage visitors to participate in the community, a directory of the local tourism and cultural resources was prepared,” he said. Based on the outcome of these special gramasabhas, the State has now accorded administrative sanction to the boat terminal project at Cheepungal and renovation of the Valiyamadakkuzhy—a water body spread over 5.5 acres of land—for water-tourism. Second phase The second phase of the RT project, which is soon set to take off, envisages imparting training to 400 more persons, besides evaluating aspects of tourism here. Meanwhile, stakeholders of the State’s village tourism sector including the house boat operators and the hospitality industry, are keenly watching elevation of Aymanam as an RT destination. “This definitely presents an advantage, as development of tourism in Aymanam can bring in more clients here,” says K. Arun Kumar, secretary, Chamber of Vembanad Hotels and Resorts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aymanam-to-roll-out-welcome-mats-to-guests/article32711263.ece
28 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||426 fresh cases reported in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to spiral out of control with 426 testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of these, 418 persons including a health worker at the District General Hospital contracted the virus through local transmission. The fresh cases also included 48 children and 56 persons aged above 60. Vazhappally reported the highest number of cases with 36 persons testing positive, closely followed by the Kottayam municipality with 34 cases. Cases were also reported from Erattupetta- 24, Pambadi-20, Vakathanam-18, Thiruvarppu-14 and Udayanapuram-12. Meenadom and Vaikom reported 10 cases each while Ettumanur, Kanjirappilly, Thalapalam and Vijayapuram reported nine cases each. With 124 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3,660 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/426-fresh-cases-reported-in-kottayam/article32711265.ece
28 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees highest number of cases in State||The highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the State on Sunday was reported from Kozhikode when 956 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. According to the District Medical Officer, the number of active cases from here is now 5,782. As many as 879 people who were reported infected on Sunday got it through local transmission. Forty-three people had returned from other States and five from abroad. The source of infection is unknown in 29 people. There were seven health workers among the newly infected persons. Kozhikode Corporation reported 277 cases of locally acquired infections, including 61 from Beypore alone, Chekkiad 124, Vadakara 44 and Feroke and Edachery 35 each. There has been a gradual rise in the number of people who opt for home isolation in the district. While just 114 people were under home care on September 15, it has gone up to 1,584 on Sunday, in less than two weeks. The Health Department had recently brought out guidelines for home isolation. Health experts hope that this will ease the burden on the Government Medical College Hospital and the Government General Hospital, the two designated COVID hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-sees-highest-number-of-cases-in-state/article32711210.ece
28 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Greens observe River Day with a unique get-together||The banks of river Kallai at Kunnathupalam in Kozhikode witnessed a unique get-together on Sunday, marking International River Day. Around 35 environmental activists got together in complete adherence of COVID protocol to discuss this year’s theme of the day, Women-Water-Climate Change. Similar meetings were held across the State on the banks of rivers such as the Chaliyar, Iruvazhinji, Bharathapuzha, and Periyar. “This is the first time the River Day is being observed so enthusiastically in the State. The long inaction must have triggered such a response from environmentalists,” said T.V. Rajan, general secretary of the Kerala Nadhi Samrakshana Samiti that organised the events across the State. “It is often perceived that collecting water is the responsibility of women and girls while men work and boys study. Women and girls sometimes have to travel miles to get water for their household. One point that we tried to stress is that men have equal responsibility in collecting water,” Mr. Rajan said. On the other hand, climate change was leading to scarcity of water across the world, he added. In Kozhikode, district secretary of the samiti K. Ramadevi opened the get-together and stressed the need to protect rivers, as only five per cent of the water available in the world was devoid of salt. “Over 95% of the water now available is salty and unfit for human use,” she said. The participants later planted saplings on the banks of the river to prevent soil erosion. The samiti is also planning a seminar on the topic on the Aluva river banks on October 3 on the occasion of State River Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-observe-river-day-with-a-unique-get-together/article32711219.ece
28 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Attendance at public gatherings limited to five in city||Strict crowd control steps and restriction of attendance at weddings, funerals, places of worship and public gatherings will be enforced within the Kozhikode Corporation limits for two weeks in view of the recent spurt in COVID-19 cases here. In an order issued on Sunday, District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao said that all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and other gatherings “would be limited to five in number.” Playgrounds, gymnasiums, turf grounds, swimming pools, cinemas, and auditoriums shall not function until further orders. Maximum precaution would be taken in containment zones. Restricted zones Crowds should be controlled at markets, shopping malls, and commercial complexes. Fishing harbours and markets would be restricted zones. Maintaining a distance of six-ft distance would be mandatory to enter these places. Police personnel would ensure the enforcement of these steps and quick response teams need to examine if employers are giving face masks, and sanitisers to employees. Total attendance at weddings and funerals would be limited to 50 and 20, respectively. It would be mandatory to maintain visitor register in COVID-19 Jagrata portal. Attendance at religious places of worship should not cross 50 people. Hand sanitisers and physical distancing are also compulsory. Cause for concern Mr. Rao observed that these steps are being taken considering the high number of cases being reported from the district, a majority of which is from within the corporation limits, in recent days. Experts are also predicting a further rise in the coming days. The high number of active cases is a cause for concern as the health apparatus is struggling to keep up with the surge. Test positivity ratio Of the 6,375 cases reported in the past four days, 6,086 are locally acquired infections. Of the three major clusters of infection, two are within the corporation limits and of the nine critical containment zones, five are here. The weekly test positivity ratio, which was 4 earlier, went up to 5.8 in September second week, 7.8 in third week, and is close to 10 now. Mr. Rao pointed out that 46.5% of the total cases reported so far were in the past two weeks. Though more first-line treatment centres are being opened for asymptomatic people, there is a rise in the number of those with symptoms too, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attendance-at-public-gatherings-limited-to-five-in-city/article32711215.ece
28 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bid to clear backlog puts health staff in a spot||Some Health Department officials in Kozhikode recently tried to clear a backlog of data entry on the antigen tests being conducted on suspected COVID-19 infected persons in the district. But apparently it turned out to be an additional burden for them. It all began when discrepancies were noticed in the number of antigen test kits supplied to the department staff and the tests actually done on suspected infected persons. The number of test kits supplied, the number of tests, and the number of people tested positive and negative for the virus were not matching, an official, who wished not to be named, told The Hindu . It was later revealed that the details of only those who tested positive were being uploaded onto the official portal and people tested negative were being left out. A section of officials claimed that they did not have enough technical staff to do the job and the work was thus kept on hold. The issue was subsequently taken up by the higher officials, including the Director of Health Services, District Medical Officer as well as the District Surveillance Officer (DSO). N. Rajendran, DSO, and Additional District Medical Officer, asked the staff to clear the backlog by September 18 and “ensure real-time data entry” in future. When the shortage of technical staff was pointed out, it was suggested that the help of computer instructors in schools could be utilised as classes are yet to fully resume there. This proved to be a double burden for the Health Department staff. For example, a municipality in the district reportedly hired five such computer instructors to upload the data. However, the health staff had to spend a lot of time to train these people to upload the data correctly. They had to depute one staff solely for this “training” too. “What we could have completed on our own spending some extra hours in office is now doubling our work load,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-clear-backlog-puts-health-staff-in-a-spot/article32711208.ece
28 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BSF men admitted to FLTCs||As many as 37 symptomatic patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at the BSF training centre at Areekkarakkunnu on Friday have been admitted to various first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in Kozhikode district. A majority of them are undergoing treatment at FLTCs at Mukkom and Nadapuram. In the case of asymptomatic patients, treatment will be offered at the quarantine centre set up within the BSF camp. BSF higher-ups and senior police officers are closely monitoring the situation. Health Department sources said tests on the remaining persons with suspected COVID-19 symptoms would be conducted at the government hospital in Valayam on Monday. Though there was a plan to conduct a massive antigen test among 500 persons, including jawans and their family members, on Sunday, it was postponed for technical reasons. Meanwhile, containment zone regulations have been intensified at Chekkiyad with the support of rapid response teams. They have also started collecting details of people who are suspected to be the primary contacts of positive cases. Valayam and Kallachi are now in focus to collect such details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsf-men-admitted-to-fltcs/article32711211.ece
28 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Laws needed for protection of women in cyberspace’||A group of women activists in Kozhikode under the aegis of the collective ‘Laingikathikramangalkethire’ (Against sexual violence) openly congratulated activists Bhagyalakshmi, Sreelakshmi Arakkal, and Diya Sana for “upholding the dignity of every woman in the country.” The trio had reportedly beaten up Youtuber Vijay Nair on Saturday, after the latter’s video “demeaning several feminists of the country” went viral a few days ago. Opening a protest meeting here on Sunday, activist Kanakadurga K. said it was impossible for women these days to sit idle and let the law handle their offenders. “Though they [activists] took the law into their hands, their action deserves applause and is exemplary,” she added. Activist and lawyer Swapna Parameshwarath called for strong laws to protect women in cyberspace. Another activist Kunhila Masilamani criticised the police for their alleged bias towards both the parties in the case and termed it a societal farce. “The same police that refused to take any action for days against Mr. Nair had no qualms about acting against the women who beat him up within hours. Their claim that the women had sabotaged law and order is just a reflection of their intolerance towards women who questioned patriarchy,” she said. She stressed the need for a massive campaign to establish the rights of women in cyberspace, on the lines of the long struggle to establish their rights at the workplace. Activist Bindu Ammini, one of the women who has been the subject of Mr. Nair’s offence, said she had complained against him on September 25 directly to the Director General of Police, but the police refused to file an FIR or even register a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laws-needed-for-protection-of-women-in-cyberspace/article32711209.ece
28 September 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Situation worsens in Malappuram||The number of daily COVID-19 cases crossed 900 in Malappuram district on Sunday, sounding an alert through the people. District administration warned people not to lower their guards against the virus as the positive cases peaked to 915 on Sunday. There were 399 recoveries in Malappuram on Sunday. While 848 of the new cases contracted the virus through direct local contacts, there were 40 cases whose source of infection could not be traced.  In Palakkad As many as 488 people tested positive for the virus in Palakkad on Sunday. There were 199 recoveries in the district. While 350 people contracted the disease through direct local contacts, 20 came from other States and five from abroad. The source of infection could not be traced in 113 cases. In Thrissur Thrissur district recorded 573 new COVID-19 cases and 215 recoveries on Sunday. There were 562 local transmission cases. As many as 4,492 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals, while 1,663 patients are under home observation. In Kannur As many as 332 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Sunday. Of these, 281 contracted the virus through local transmission. Nineteen health workers were among the infected. The district also reported 153 recoveries. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district saw 252 more COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of these, 247 are local transmission cases. There are now 4,443 people under observation in the district. In Wayanad Wayanad saw the biggest single-day spike in fresh COVID-19 cases when 172 people tested positive in the district on Sunday. Of these, 115, including four health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The district also reported 115 recoveries. (With inputs from Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/situation-worsens-in-malappuram/article32711217.ece
28 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Woman in labour denied treatment, loses twins||A fully pregnant woman who had a harrowing time after having been turned down at the labor room of the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, on Saturday lost her twin babies during labor at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Sunday. The 20-year-old woman from Kizhisseri near Kondotty had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 early this month but recovered and tested negative on September 15. She was taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, before dawn on Saturday. However, the hospital refused to admit her. Three other private hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode too were approached by the woman’s family. But all of them denied treatment to her. The hospitals insisted on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test results for her COVID-19 negative status. She was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday evening. During childbirth, she lost both her babies. Hospital officials said placental abruption had caused the death of the babies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-in-labour-denied-treatment-loses-twins/article32711214.ece
28 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||263 new cases reported in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta district on Sunday recorded the highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases on a single day with 263 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 Of the fresh cases, 201 persons including five health workers contracted the virus through local transmission while 15 cases came from abroad. Other States The remaining 47 active cases had come from other States. Meanwhile, the contact source of at least 29 new cases were yet to be identified. With 150 recoveries reported during the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 1,827 active COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/263-new-cases-reported-in-pathanamthitta/article32711264.ece
28 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||With 853 cases, marginal dip in capital||The district’s COVID-19 case graph dipped marginally to record 853 new cases on Sunday, down from the all-time high figure of 1,050 the previous day. While 651 cases were due to local transmission, the district health authorities have been unable to trace the source of 171 other cases. Six people who had come from the State recently also contracted the infection, sources said. Nineteen health workers have also been diagnosed with the disease. The death toll continued to mount with six more fatalities being attributed to COVID-19. The deaths were those of natives of Nedumangad (87 years old), Mariyapuram (90), Vithura (64), Korani (65), Thirumala (73), Puthukurichy (37). 207 dead The pandemic has so far claimed 207 lives in Thiruvananthapuram, the highest in the State. Among the new patients are 106 people aged above 60 years and 88 children aged below 15 years. With 434 people testing negative for the infection, the number of active cases in the district stood at 9,928. In quarantine The district administration placed 2,454 people under quarantine on Sunday, taking the number of people who are being being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 29,051.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-853-cases-marginal-dip-in-capital/article32710931.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC blindsided by MPs quitting posts||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) appeared to have been blindsided by the stepping down of two MPs from crucial party positions. Benny Behanan resigned as United Democratic Front convener, purportedly opening the door for the KPCC to nominate M.M. Hassan to the post. K. Muraleedharan, MP, resigned as chairman of the KPCC media campaign committee. He reportedly said in his letter to the Congress national leadership that he was abiding by the party line that MPs and MLAs stay away from critical organisational positions voluntarily. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran told The Hindu that the MPs had not informed him about their decision. The AICC had nominated them to the organisational posts. They might have sent their resignation letters to the national leadership. Mr. Ramachandran said the AICC had signalled several times that it wanted MPs and MLAs to focus on their constituencies. An organisational post would hamper their primary task of maintaining and nurturing their constituency. The actions of the leaders appeared to be in tandem with the AICC line “one person, one post,” he said.  Back to State politics? Another office-bearer said the KPCC also viewed that the resignations could be the precursor to a collective move by a few Congress MPs to return to State electoral politics ahead of the Assembly elections in 2021. The KPCC was against such a change of tack in the election year. Some party persons viewed Mr. Behanan’s resignation as signs of discord in the so-called ‘A’ group of the party in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-blindsided-by-mps-quitting-posts/article32711222.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||As cases surge, hospital beds turn scarce||As COVID-19 cases surge, the health system, including the private sector, is feeling the pressure of increased demand for hospital admissions and critical-care facilities. Three weeks ago, people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 had the freedom to opt for a private hospital of his/her choice, whether he was asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. However, it is no longer easy to walk in to a private hospital seeking admission, because beds are getting filled up. Home care advised “Availability of beds is indeed becoming a problem. We are also now counselling our asymptomatic patients to opt for home care so that the hospital beds can be saved for those patients with comorbidities or respiratory issues,” says A. Rajalakshmi, senior consultant in Infectious Diseases and Infection Control, KIMS. Thiruvananthapuram has the advantages of a well-equipped hospital network as well as a well-streamlined district health administration. Despite recording around 1,000 cases a day, only 1.5% of the cases are reaching ICUs. With the exception of Kozhikode and Ernakulam, other districts would fold up if cases surged further and the State crossed the 10,000 cases a day mark, it is feared. Public health experts point out that more attention should be on the 60% of asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms who are now pushed to either home care or COVID-19 first or second line treatment centres to prevent them from going into complications. “Doctors are now trying to send as many as possible to home care or FLTC. But this needs to be done with much more care or else there could be unnecessary deaths,” cautions a senior doctor. Category C patients with serious symptoms alone are now referred to medical college hospitals. All asymptomatics and those with mild symptoms are assigned to home care or FLTCs, while Category B (patients with co-morbidities) are sent to second-line treatment centres. Inadequate facilities FLTCs are the weak link in the system right now because the facilities in most are hardly adequate. “Now that beds at both public and private sector hospitals are getting scarce, people are opting for home care just to avoid FLTCs and that could lead to unforeseen problems,” he said. “The government should come out with district-wise lists of ICUs and beds available. There should be some agency or call centre at district-level for real-time monitoring of available beds and to coordinate its distribution. Or else, a patient who requires medical attention will end up going from hospital to hospital in the eleventh hour,” points out A.V. Jayakrishnan, chairman, IMA Hospital Board of India.  The government should come out with district-wise lists of ICUs and beds available in hospitals and FLTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-cases-surge-hospital-beds-turn-scarce/article32711229.ece
28 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSSP plea to protect coastline||A Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) study has underscored the need for urgent but sensible measures to protect the 78-km-long, once-tranquil Thiruvananthapuram coast and address the factors that have quickened its degradation. Among other things, the study report ‘Coastal erosion and management along the Thiruvananthapuram coast’ has called for urgent steps to end illegal and unscientific construction activities and large-scale encroachment along the coast and to relocate people from the particularly vulnerable locations. Also, the study has recommended a comprehensive revisit of the EIA performed for the Vizhinjam roject. The report has especially noted the following stretches and regions as requiring close observation: Kollengode- Paruthiyoor; Adimalathura; Cheriyathura- Valiathura; Valiathura- Kochuthope; Shangumughom; south Thumba (along VSSC); Thazhampalli- Poothura- Anchuthengu. “Earlier, coastal erosion was a problem in Thiruvananthapuram only during the monsoons. But over the past three-four years, it has become intermittent,” said V. Harilal, chairperson, Environment Subject Committee, KSSP, who with K.V. Thomas, former Group Head, National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS), prepared the 66-page study report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kssp-plea-to-protect-coastline/article32710934.ece
28 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Open university to follow IGNOU model||Sree Narayana Guru Open University, which is set to become the 14th State University in Kerala, will stick to the IGNOU (Indira Gandhi National Open University)-model of administration. Dispelling claims that the fledgling institution could replicate the composition of other universities, the ordinance promulgated by the government to bring the university into being has veered away from convention to exclude the Syndicate and the Senate from its statutory bodies. The government has chosen to adopt the recommendations submitted by academician J. Prabhash, who had been designated special officer for the endeavour, in June last. In his report, Dr. Prabhash had mooted an institutional architecture similar to the IGNOU and other open universities in the country. He recommended the establishment of an academic and administrative structure that included an executive council, and an academic and research council, in addition to the board of school studies and the council of directors for the school of studies. While the Higher Education Department had recently toyed with the idea of replacing the proposed executive council with the Syndicate to emulate the system that is generally in vogue, the government has now decided to stick to the original proposal. As per UGC advisory Official sources said that the move is in line with a University Grants Commission (UGC) advisory that urged States to emulate the IGNOU model while establishing open universities. Such a composition would also provide greater thrust for the inclusion of academicians, while minimising the influence of party politics on administrative matters in the long run. Besides the other statutory officers and bodies, the open university will also have a cyber controller and a cyber council that will be mandated with preparing projects through modern technological methods for teaching, examination, awarding degrees and other activities of the university. Despite gearing up to formally declare the university open on October 2, the government is yet to zero in on a prospective candidate for its first Vice Chancellor. The government has declared its intentions to name the university as a lasting homage to social reformer Sree Narayana Guru.  Sree Narayana Guru Open University is being set up as a lasting homage to the social reformer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/open-university-to-follow-ignou-model/article32711223.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Flat allotted to spouse of late Cong. leader||The city Corporation has allotted a flat to Girija Velayudhan, wife of the late Congress leader and State Minister P.K. Velayudhan. The civic body had decided to allot a flat to her in the Kalladimukham housing complex following a request she had submitted to Law Minister A.K. Balan, citing that she did not have a land or house of her own. On Sunday, Mayor K. Sreekumar visited her at her current residence at Kakkammoola. She thanked the Corporation authorities for the gesture. She has been shifting from one rented house to another over the past several years. The Mayor said that Mr. Balan would hand over the keys to the flat soon and that she should shift to the new flat as soon as possible. Mr. Velayudhan had served as Minister for Rural Development and Transport in the K. Karunakaran government of 1982 and was the State president of the Bharatiya Depressed Classes League. He passed away in 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flat-allotted-to-spouse-of-late-cong-leader/article32710933.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Let students meet teachers in school: KITE||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has recommended direct interactions between students and teachers for enhancing the digital learning. K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer of KITE which telecasts the First Bell classes, has submitted the recommendation to the General Education Secretary. With the Centre’s standard operating procedures allowing students from Classes 9 to 12 to reach schools to seek teachers’ guidance, KITE has mooted direct interactions with teachers and online classes along with the ongoing First Bell classes. KITE recommends that in the first phase, students of Classes 10 and 12 meet their teachers in a staggered manner. G Suite For online education, Google India has expressed willingness to provide a platform through its G Suite for Education that ensures privacy. Teachers can communicate with students online on this platform. KITE hopes that this strategy will enable portions taught till September in schools to be completed by mid-November at least. The second phase will go on till the end of December, and if schools are able to reopen in January, the learning gap will be reduced to one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/let-students-meet-teachers-in-school-kite/article32711232.ece
28 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Habitual offender arrested||The Thiruvananthapuram City police apprehended a habitual offender who had escaped while undergoing remand a month ago. The accused, Vishnu alias Makkaan Vishnu, 25, who had been arrested by the Fort police for theft cases, fled from a COVID-19 first line treatment centre, established in Varkala for remand prisoners, on August 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/habitual-offender-arrested/article32710932.ece
28 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kochi-based start-up bags ICT award||The Kochi-based Inntot Technologies, backed by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) through its Fund of Fund programme, has bagged an award at the ICT Startups Awards 2020 in New Delhi for its work in the field of digital broadcast receivers through innovation. Inntot Technologies was launched by Rajith Nair and Prasanth Thankappan in February 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-based-start-up-bags-ict-award/article32711231.ece
28 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KPCC march against farm Bills today||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) will stage a protest march to Raj Bhavan against the farm Bills on Monday. The march will begin from near the statue of former Chief Minister K. Karunakaran at Museum at 10 a.m., KPCC president Mullapally Ramachandran said. Mr. Ramachandran, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will hand over a memorandum against the Bills to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-march-against-farm-bills-today/article32711234.ece
28 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man murdered||A photographer by profession, Mohammed Rafi, 29, was allegedly stabbed to death by a person, identified as Gopi, at Ramnagar in the city, at around 6 a.m. on Sunday. According to IV Town Inspector of Police K. Srinivasulu, Mohammed Rafi, who left photography and was into full-time farming now, had a dispute with his wife and was allegedly close to another woman, which could have been the reason for the murder. The police registered a case and formed teams to trace the accused. Dies in accident In another incident, a 26-year-old youth, Nagendra, died at Gollapalli on Parigi-Penukonda State Highway on Sunday. The accident occurred when the auto he was travelling fell on its side as the driver tried to avoid collision with two two-wheelers coming in the opposite direction. Parigi Sub Inspector P. Sreenivasulu said there were six persons in the autorickshaw. The others escaped with minor injuries. They were travelling from Hindupur to Penukonda when the incident occurred. A 22-year-old youth, Haneef, died at Chukkaluru Crossroad on the Tadipatri-Anantapur Road when his two-wheeler had a head-on collision at 11.15 a.m. Two others were injured grievously and shifted to Anantapur Government General Hospital after first aid at a local hospital, the Tadipatri Rural Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-murdered/article32711281.ece
28 September 2020||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Wood for new temple chariot handed over to sculptor||The inquiry by the CBI into the gutting of the chariot at the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple here is progressing, according to Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das. The century-old chariot was gutted in the early hours of September 6, triggering State-wide protests. “Stern action will be taken against those involved in the incident,” said Mr. Krishna Das, who is also the district in-charge Minister. Mr. Krishna Das, along with BC Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna and district Collector D. Muralidhar Reedy, performed puja to the wood being used to make the new chariot at the temple, and handed it over to the sculptor. The Hyderabad-based sculptor, Ganapathi Acharyulu, will have to make the 40-feet-high chariot ready by mid-January 2021, which is the deadline set by the government. “Aim is to ensure that the chariot is ready for use during the ‘kalyanotsav’ scheduled between February 19 and 28, 2021,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. The BC Welfare Minister is monitoring the project – right from the selection of the wood to finalising the chariot’s design. The chariot is being built with 1,250 cubic feet of teak wood grown in the Bastar forest in Chhattisgarh by spending Rs. 95 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-probe-into-chariot-fire-progressing-minister/article32710626.ece
28 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rules sidelined as virus shows signs of slowing down in Chittoor||While the district’s tally has touched the 60,000-mark accompanied by 640 deaths on Sunday, a majority of the cases are concentrated in Tirupati and its surroundings, in places including Renigunta, Srikalahasti, Chittoor and Madanapalle, and the rest of the mandals show a downward trend with double and single digit-cases. The encouraging statistics has spurred the people to move about freely, without much caring about social distancing and wearing of mask in places with declining number. The district continues to report a daily average of 700-900. The eastern mandals, where the first signs of virus were seen in March, are now witnessing a relaxed mood among a cross section of public. The buzz at the vegetable and fish markets has returned in recent weeks, while crowds continue to swell at the meat shops. The presence of the police at traffic signals enforcing the face-mask norm remains totally missing all over. Similarly, the social distancing norm has only turned into a mirage for now. After a lull of six months, a large number of roadside eateries are opening to good crowds. Dozens of new restaurants had opened in several towns and mandal headquarters in the district during the last one month. Except for popular malls in Tirupati, the others elsewhere in the district are enforcing the guidelines in a relaxed manner, giving the option to the customers. The media reports against the use of substandard sanitizers at the malls and commercial outlets had only made the public to avoid the facility, while the owners too are found to be not insisting the customers to use them. Meanwhile, wearing of masks and other rules are still in place at the border check posts at Uttukota, Nagari and Pallipattu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rules-sidelined-as-virus-shows-signs-of-slowing-down-in-chittoor/article32711286.ece
28 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dacoit gang busted, 21 held||The Kadapa police on Sunday nabbed as many as 21 persons of Kadapa and Anantapur districts, and seized cash, a pistol, ammunition, a car, three motorbikes and fifteen mobile phones, at two different locations at Brahmanapalle and Hatyarala villages in the district. Acting on a tip-off that a gang was on the prowl on the Rajampeta-Rayachoti road, Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anbhurajan formed a special party with police personnel from Rajampeta, Pullampeta, Ontimitta and Nandalur. In the early hours, six youths were taken into custody at Brahmanapalle, while moving suspiciously. After interrogation, 15 more were nabbed at Hatyarala. Senior police officials said that the youth were under the influence of a self-styled godman in Anantapur, who used to perform occult practices. On his advice, the youth used to focus on houses of realtors, financiers, couple living in isolated spots and elderly couple. During strikes, the youth used to brandish pistol to terrify the families. Recently, the youth had attacked the house at Ballery in Karnataka, after the godman informed them that its owner was in possession of Rs. 150 crore worth gold. However, the gang found nothing from the house. Similarly, the youth split into groups and had committed similar offences in Anantapur, Kadapa and Tirupati. Interestingly, several members of the gang were educated, having studied B. Tech, MCA and management courses. A case was registered and the accused were sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dacoit-gang-busted-21-held/article32711288.ece
28 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elephant continues to wreak havoc in Kuppam||A wild elephant, believed to have separated from its herd in Krishnagiri forests of Tamil Nadu, killed a woman and injured a man at Shantipuram and Gudupalle mandals in Kuppam in the early hours of Sunday. According to forest officials, the animal has been on the prowl in the forest-fringe villages in Kuppam, Shantipuram and Gudupalle mandals since the last fortnight. It killed 17-year-old girl at a field while her family members were guarding their crops on Friday. The pachyderm retreated into the thickets in Tamil Nadu, but returned to the Andhra Pradesh side on Sunday. It trampled a 50-year-old woman at C. Bandapalle village in Shantipuram mandal, when she ventured out to answer the call of nature in the early hours of Sunday. The pachyderm then moved to Chintarapalem village of the neighboring Gudupalle mandal and chased a farmer Narayanappa (56) in a field. It flung the man into the air. Mr. Narayanappa suffered a head injury and fractures in his ribs after being dashed to the ground. Aggressive behaviour Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said the male pachyderm aged around 20 years was found to be undergoing ‘musth’, a periodic condition characterized by highly aggressive behaviour owing to the rise in reproductive hormones in the autumn and early winter. “The animal is very aggressive. Recently, it got separated from its herd. Forest trackers are trying their best to make it retreat into the forests in Tamil Nadu. The animal is straying into areas in Kuppam, and the neighbouring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,” said Mr. Ravi Shankar. He said that when the elephant was trying to cross into the forests in Karnataka, it was driven back into Kuppam side by the forest officials there. “The situation is same on the Tamil Nadu side. If this continues, it may lead to possible loss of more lives and crops,” he said. Tom-tom parties Mr. Ravi Shankar said that the issued was discussed with Chittoor Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and SP S. Senthil Kumar. “As a temporary measure, we have arranged tom-tom parties at all vulnerable hamlets for warning the public not to venture out alone after the sundown,” he said. “The families of the deceased will be given a financial assistance of Rs. 1 lakh each on Monday,” said the DFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wild-elephant-continues-to-wreak-havoc-in-kuppam/article32710622.ece
28 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang strikes at temple for ‘treasure’||A idol of nandi in the complex of an old temple at Agaramangalam village of GD Nellore mandal in the district was uprooted and broken into pieces by a gang of ‘treasure hunters’ in the early hours of Sunday. According to Additional SP K. Eeshwar Reddy, there was hearsay in the village that valuable jewellery was deposited under the nandi idol. Believing it, the gang scaled the compound wall and broke the idol after uprooting it. Later, they escaped from the spot. A case was registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gang-strikes-at-temple-for-treasure/article32711291.ece
28 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kondaveedu Fort to be developed as a major tourist spot||The historic Kondaveedu Fort is an enduring symbol of the valour and glory of the Reddy kings, Minister for Home and Disaster Management M. Sucharitha has said. Speaking after launching a book titled ‘Kondaveeti Charitra Vyasalu’ authored by Modugula Ravikrishna at a function here on Sunday, Ms. Sucharitha said she had spent her entire childhood at at Phirangipuram, watching the fort and the formidable fort walls. “In those days, it was very difficult to travel to Kondaveedu Fort due to lack of proper transport facilities. But now, we can just drive along the ghat road to reach the fort. The government is keen on transforming the fort as an important tourist destination,” said the Home Minister. Participating in the programme, Guntur Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said the Kondapalli Killa and Kondaveedu Fort were built by Reddy Kings during the 13th and 14th centuries. The Giri Durgam atop the fort used to be the most formidable protective formation in those days. The fort always boasted of its mighty warriors and horses. “The Reddy kings patronised art and literature. Telugu was the official language. Yerrapragada was the court poet, while Srinatha was a minister of the Reddy kings,” he said. Andhra Pradesh Madya Vimochana Samithi chairperson V. Lakshmana Reddy said that history reveals that Yogi Vemana had penned ‘Navaneetha Sidhasaram’ at the fort in the 15th century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kondaveedu-fort-to-be-developed-as-a-major-tourist-spot/article32710711.ece
28 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur doctor receives Manasa oration award||Dronamraju Phani Bhushan, a senior psychiatrist from Guntur, has been conferred with the Manasa Hospital Oration Award. The award was instituted by Karri Rama Reddy, chairman of Manasa Hospital, Rajahmundry, a recipient of B.C Roy Award and holder of Limca Book of World Records, for recognising the physicians in the field of mental healthcare. Dr. Phani Bhushan is the 36th recipient of the award and the other awardees includes Venkoba Rao, N.N. Wig, J.S. Neki, Shoba Srinath, Sarada Menon, V.K. Varma among other, along with several other distinguished faculty from all over India. In the oration, Dr. Phanibhushan spoke about illnesses masquerading as a psychiatric disorder and highlighted the challenges and its relevance in the current generation of practice. A wide range of specialists and super specialists shared their experience during a presentation.  He described how anxiety and panic could be the precursors to cardiac issues and other complications in elderly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-doctor-receives-manasa-oration-award/article32710709.ece
28 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to build godowns at RBKs||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday said that the government was preparing to construct godowns at the YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK) across the State. Addressing the farmers and public representatives at Gundepalli of Jaggampeta mandal, Mr. Kannababu said, “An action plan is under consideration to construct godowns at the panchayat level. The initiative is to construct the godowns in all the 10,641 RBKs.” It is learnt that the government will obtain financial aid from the Central government to create additional godown space to enable the farmers to store the produce, particularly commercial crops, till they get remunerative price in the market. New market yard Mr. Kannababu asked the officials and public representatives to identify land for construction of a new market yard in Jaggampeta mandal. He also assured to revive the market yard in Kirlampudi mandal. Earlier, Janapareddy Hina Sailaja was sworn in as chairperson of the Jaggampeta Agricultural Market Committee in the presence of Mr. Kannababu and Rajya Sabha member Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose. R. Ramani is the vice-chairperson of the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-build-godowns-at-rbks/article32711319.ece
28 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held ‘for bid to sell hired cars’||Kakinada Rural police on Sunday arrested a 40-year-old man, M.N.V. Krishna Mohan, and recovered 14 cars from him in East Godavari district. He had reportedly put the cars on sale and collected advance amounts from prospective buyers. He was nabbed following a complaint by Thota Padmaji of Samalkot town that Mr. Krishna Mohan had not been paying the rent for her car taken a few months ago. Mr. Krishna Mohan belongs to Ramanayyapeta village in Kakinada rural mandal. Kakinada Rural CI R. Govinda Raju told newsmen here on Sunday that Mr. Krishna Mohan had been found evading the rent to the owners of 14 cars hired by him. He even took money from some people as advance by offering the cars for sale, the CI added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-bid-to-sell-hired-cars/article32711317.ece
28 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam dam registers outflow of 6 lakh cusecs||A cyclonic circulation over south Andhra Pradesh and neighbourhood at mid-tropospheric levels has spurred good rainfall in the last 24 hours leading to heavy inflows (5,10,750 cusecs) and outflows (597,440 cusecs) into Srisailam Dam on Sunday- the highest for the current South West Monsoon season. The India Meteorological Department has predicted moderate thunderstorm with lightning likely at isolated places over Rayalaseema region for the next 24 hours and also noted that in the 24 hours ending with 4.30 p.m. on Sunday heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places was observed over Telangana and north interior Karnataka. These rains have resulted in Jurala project discharging 4,35,361 cusecs and Sunkesula 90,694 cusecs into Srisailam dam and cumulatively, the dam has received 841.5 tmcft so far in this season with Jurala’s contribution being 699 tmcft, Tungabhadra’s 128 tmcft through Sunkesula and Hundri 14.80 tmcft. Currently, 5,65,040 cusecs were being released from Srisailam into the Krishna river through spillway lifting 10 gates up to a height of 25 feet and the remaining through power generation on the Andhra Pradesh side. Drawal of water has been stopped from the Pothyreddypadu Head Regulator as all the reservoirs downstream are brimming. In the past 48 hours good amount of water was contributed by the heavy rain in Nallamalla which had led to flooding of Nandyal Revenue Division on Saturday, said Srisailam Dam Superintending Engineer Kamatham Srinivasulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srisailam-dam-registers-outflow-of-6-lakh-cusecs/article32711283.ece
28 September 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy sheeters counselled||As many as, 1,857 rowdy sheeters, KD, dossier criminals (DC) and suspect sheeters, involved in different crimes under various police stations in the district, were summoned in Machilipatnam, Gudivada, Nuzvid, Nandigama and Avanigada sub-divisions and were given counselling on Sunday by Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeters-counselled/article32710714.ece
28 September 2020||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||6 boats seized, drivers held for illegal sand dredging||In a joint raid, officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and revenue and irrigation department personnel conducted raids on the sand reaches on Godavari river bund on Sunday. The team, led by Narsapuram Town police, seized six boats for allegedly dredging sand illegally in the river and arrested the sarangs (boat drivers). Officials seized 200 tonnes of sand kept ready for transportation, said SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Kareemullah Shariff. Following the directions of Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, the SEB personnel conducted separate raids at Errakaluva, located at Pothavaram village in Nallajarla mandal and booked cases against 13 tractor owners and drivers for illegally mining sand. Police seized 60 tonnes of sand which was being transported illegally without any bills, Mr. Shariff said. Stern action would be taken against those who resort to illegal sand mining and smuggling in the district, the SP warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-boats-seized-drivers-held-for-illegal-sand-dredging/article32711298.ece
28 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSU to offer 47 skill-based courses||The University Grants Commission(UGC) has given its nod for 47 new skill-based courses to be offered by the Vikrama Simhapuri University from the new academic year. Elated over the UGC nod, its Vice-Chancellor R. Sudarsana Rao said the courses were designed to improve the employability of the students in the industry and service sectors. The Department of Marine Biology would offer vocational Degree Course in Aquaculture, Diploma in Aqua, Lab Technician and certificate course for Marketing Executives in Aqua Sector. The Department of Chemistry would offer advanced diploma in Analytical Chemistry, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsu-to-offer-47-skill-based-courses/article32711294.ece
28 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP will emerge as an alternative to YSRCP in State’||BJP leader D. Purandeswari, who has been elevated as party national general secretary, on Sunday asserted that she would strive to see her party wrest power from the YSRCP in the State in the next elections. Happy over her elevation to the coveted post, Ms. Purandeswari told the media at Chirala in Prakasam district that it was natural for any party to aspire for power. While working hard to strengthen the party at the national level, she would pay special attention to Andhra Pradesh, where she was sure that the party would emerge as an alternative to the YSRCP. Capital issue Replying to a question, she denied that the BJP’s stand on the three capital issue was ambivalent. Party leader Ram Madhav had enunciated the stand amply clear on the issue, she said. While questioning the need for three capitals for Andhra Pradesh at a time when Uttar Pradesh, a much bigger State, had only one, Mr. Madhav had maintained that the Centre had only a limited role in the matter. Ms. Purandeswari said the opposition parties were raking a needless controversy over the three farm bills. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, by setting in the agriculture reforms process through the three pieces of legislation, wanted to ensure doubling of the income of farmers, she said. Farmers should not get carried away by the opposition parties’ disinformation campaign over the Bills — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 (FPTC), Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 (FAPAFS), and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-will-emerge-as-an-alternative-to-ysrcp-in-state/article32711305.ece
28 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll rises to 905 as 11 more die in Nellore, Prakasam||The toll due to coronavirus continued unabated in south coastal Andhra Pradesh with 11 more deaths-- eight in Prakasam district and three in Nellore district-- in the last 24 hours. The combined toll in the two districts rose to 905 with Prakasam district accounting for 442 deaths and Nellore district for 439, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Sunday night. A positive aspect was that the number of recoveries was more by 264 when compared to fresh admissions during the period. While 1,165 persons contracted the disease in the last 24 hours, 1,429 patients recovered from the illness during the period. As many as 659 patients in Prakasam district and 506 patients in Nellore district got infected in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 99,287 with Nellore accounting for 52,565 cases and Prakasam district for 46,722. The number of active cases marginally came down to 10,355 in Prakasam district and 3,789 in SPSR Nellore district during the period. So far 84,670 patients in the two districts, including 48,776 patients in SPSR Nellore district have recovered so far. As many 651 of the 1294 patients being treated from COVID-19 wards in hospitals in Prakasam district were provided with oxygen/ventilator support. The Government General Hospital(GGH), Ongole accounted for 311 deaths so far in the district, where 8343 patients were treated from their homes, daily status report compiled by the district health authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-rises-to-905-as-11-more-die-in-nellore-prakasam/article32711293.ece
28 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weekend lockdown observed||With partial relaxations, lockdown on Sundays continued this weekend also in Srikakulam. The district administration has been imposing lockdown every Sunday to prevent crowds in fish and vegetable markets. It has banned sale of meat in the town. Srikakulam Municipal Commissioner P. Nallanayya said that the movement of people was allowed to some extent as some of the students were appearing for various examinations. He said that there would not be any relaxations from next Sunday since COVID-19 continued to spread in Srikakulam limits. He said strict vigilance in containment zones would continue all the days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weekend-lockdown-observed/article32711320.ece
28 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP will return to power in 2024, say new in-charges||The TDP will storm back to power in the 2024 elections as people are fed up with the YSRCP government, according to the new in-charges of three parliamentary constituencies. Thanking party president N. Chandrababu Naidu for appointing her in-charge of the Araku parliamentary constituency, Gummadi Sandhya Rani, who is also MLC, said on Sunday that she would strive to strengthen the party in the segment spread over Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam. “Unfortunately, the party could not win many seats in the tribal belt for various reasons. The tribal people and other downtrodden sections have now realised the TDP alone is committed to their welfare. The party will soon regain its glory and return to power in 2024,” Ms. Rani told The Hindu . In-charge of the Srikakulam parliamentary constituency Kuna Ravikumar said he would activate all leaders and cadre to highlight the misdeeds of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government. Vizianagaram parliamentary constituency’s new in-charge Kimidi Nagarjuna said the party had strong network in all the constituencies. Mr. Nagarjuna, who was defeated by Botcha Satyanarayana (now Municipal Administration Minister) in Chepurupalli in the 2019 elections, hoped that the party would prove its strength in the local body elections. Quits TDP Meanwhile, former Cheepurupalli MLA Gadde Babu Rao quit the Telugu Desam Party saying that the leadership failed to recognise his services to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-will-return-to-power-in-2024-say-new-in-charges/article32711322.ece
28 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavams conclude with ‘Chakrasnanam’||The annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara concluded with Chakrasnanam here on Sunday. In tune with the COVID-19 norms, priests ceremoniously observed avabhrida snanam to Lord Chakrathalwar at a makeshift water tank near Ayina mahal inside the temple. The priests who performed snapana thirumanjanam to Lord Malayappa and his two divine consorts along with Lord Sudarsana later ceremoniously immersed the idol of Chakrathalwar in the tank waters signalling the conclusion of the nine-day annual festival. Special religious proceedings were held in the evening hours at the yagasala inside the temple followed by Dwaja Avarohanam (lowering of the temple flag). Hundi income After a gap of over six months, the hundi income for the first time crossed Rs. 2 crore in a day by registering Rs. 2.34 crore on Sunday. It has been frequently touching Rs. 1 crore mark since the beginning of this month. Prior to the lockdown, the average hundi collection stood at a little over Rs. 3 crore a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavams-conclude-with-chakrasnanam/article32711307.ece
28 September 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,834 couples to take part in Kalyanam||About 2,834 couples will be taking part in the online Kalyanotsavams of Lord Venkateswara on Monday. Normally about 700 tickets are issued daily. But with the TTD resolving to conduct Kalyanotsavams online in view of the COVID-19, the participation has shot up as there is no cap on the number of participants. About 20,000 couples have purchased Kalyantosavam tickets during the past two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2834-couples-to-take-part-in-kalyanam/article32711311.ece
28 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri City MD donates Rs. 25 lakh for COVID Lab||The Managing Director of Sri City Ravi Sannareddy on Sunday contributed Rs. 25 lakh for the development of a COVID-19 laboratory at the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences. A demand draft for the amount was handed over to SVIMS Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-city-md-donates-rs-25-lakh-for-covid-lab/article32711295.ece
28 September 2020||VELARUPADU (WEST GODAAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Alert sounded as rivulets in spate||Officials of the Revenue Department and the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) have appealed to villagers not to cross rivulets and streams which are in spate. Owing to continuous downpour in the catchment areas for the last few days, many streams were overflowing in the forests in the Agency area, said the officials on Sunday and cautioned the villagers not to travel on small and manual boats. Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana said that road communication to many habitations was cut off as the rivulets were overflowing on the causeways. Medicines, groceries and other essentials were kept ready in the villages in wake of heavy rainfall prediction, he said. Transportation was cut off to Madapuram, Tekuru, Gaddapalli, Paidakulamamidi, Tatakurugommu, Paidipaka and other habitations as flood water was overflowing on the low-level bridge at Kothur village. Irrigation and Revenue officials sounded alert as the flood level in the Krishna River was raising on Sunday. Police were deployed along the river bund. Flood water entered some temples, ashrams, agriculture fields, houses and other buildings located on the river bund in Krishna and Guntur districts. Revenue officials served notices on the residents and ashram managements, including Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrbabu Naidu whose residence was located on the river bund at Undavalli in Guntur district. Evacuated “We evacuated the children staying in Chiguru campus, being run by a private NGO, some residents from the buildings located on the river bund. Pickets were posted at Seethanagaram and other villages,” said Guntur Urban Superintendent of Police (SP) R.N. Ammi Reddy. Krishna SP M. Ravindranath Babu said police pickets were posted in the villages on the river bund. Residents in Jaggaiahpeta, Kanchikacherla, Challapalli, Mopidevi, Avanigadda, Nagayalanka and Koduru mandals were cautioned against going near the river and grazing cattle on the bund, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alert-sounded-as-rivulets-in-spate/article32711314.ece
28 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic march continues in E. Godavari||The State reported 6,923 new COVID-19 infections, taking the tally to 6,75,674 in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The death toll went up to 5,708 with 45 more fatalities reported during the period. The death rate remained at 0.84%, the lowest among the States with a huge number of infections. As many as 76,416 samples were tested during the 24-hour period, and only 9.06% of them turned out to be positive. Positivity rate It is the lowest single-day positivity rate of tests conducted in the last two-and-a-half months. The overall positivity rate of 56 lakh tests conducted so far is 12.07%. With 7,796 recoveries were reported in the last one day, the overall tally of recoveries crossed the six-lakh mark. So far, 6,05,090 persons recovered, taking the recovery rate to 89.55%. Even as less than 7,000 new infections were reported in the State, East Godavari witnessed over a 1,000 of them. It was followed by West Godavari with close to 1,000 cases. The new cases and fatalities in various districts are as follows: East Godavari (1,006 & 4), West Godavari (929 & 4), Prakasam (659 & 8), Chittoor (577 & 2), Guntur (535 & 5), Nellore (506 & 3), Srikakulam (503), Anantapur (480 & 3), Kadapa (472 & 3), Vizianagaram (376 & 1), Krishna (333 & 6), Visakhapatnam (318 & 3) and Kurnool (229 & 3). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (94,190),West Godavari (64,433), Chittoor (59,820), Anantapur (56,209), Kurnool (55,685), Guntur (53,244), Nellore (50,999), Visakhapatnam (49,357), Prakasam (46,722), Kadapa (42,861), Srikakulam (38,593), Vizianagaram (34,179) and Krishna (26,487).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-march-continues-in-e-godavari/article32711301.ece
28 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP announces in-charges for Parliamentary constituencies||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu announced in-charges for all the 25 Parliamentary constituencies in the State on Sunday. Nearly 50% of them belong to the BC communities and Kapus. It is in accordance with the party's commitment to the empowerment of these sections, a release issued by the party said here on Sunday. The in-charges of the Parliamentary constituences are: Kuna Ravikumar (Srikakulam), Kimidi Nagarjuna (Vizianagaram), Gummadi Sandhya Rani (Araku), Palla Srinivasa Rao (Visakhapatnam), Buddha Naga Jagadeeswara Rao (Anakapalle), Jyothula Navin (Kakinada), Reddy Anantha Kumari (Amalapuram), K.S. Jawahar (Rajahmundry), Thota Sitarama Lakshmi (Narsapur), Ganni Veeranjaneyulu (Eluru), Konakalla Narayana Rao (Machilipatnam), Nettem Raghu Ram (Vijayawada), Tenali Sravan Kumar (Guntur), G.V. Anjaneyulu (Narasaraopet), Yeluri Sambasiva Rao (Bapatla), Nukasani Balaji (Ongole), Sk Abdul Aziz (Nellore), Narasimha Yadav (Tirupati), Pulivarthy Venkata Mani Prasad (Chittoor), Reddappagari Srinivasa Reddy (Rajampeta), Mallela Linga Reddy (Kadapa), Kalava Srinivasulu (Anantapuram), B.K. Partha Sarathy (Hindupuram), Somisetti Venkateswarlu (Kurnool) and Gouru Venkata Reddy (Nandyal). Coordinators Mr. Naidu also appointed as many as 13 senior party leaders as coordinators for two to three parliamentary segments. They are: Kondapalli Appala Naidu (Machilipatnam and Guntur), Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy (Kakinada and Amalapuram), P.G.V.R. Naidu (Srikakulam and Vizianagaram), Nimmakayala Chinarajappa (Visakhapatnam and Anakapalle), Pithani Satyanarayana (Narasaraopet and Bapatla), Gadde Rammohan (Rajahmundry and Narsapur), Nakka Ananda Babu (Araku), Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar (Eluru and Vijayawada), Mukku Ugranarasimha Reddy (Tirupati and Chittoor), Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy (Kadapa and Rajampeta), V. Prabhakar Chowdary (Kurnool and Nandyal), B.T. Naidu (Anantapuram and Hindupur) and B.C. Janardhan Reddy (Ongole and Nellore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-announces-in-charges-for-parliamentary-constituencies/article32711310.ece
28 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor condoles demise of Jaswant Singh||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed grief over the demise of former Union Minister and BJP leader Jaswant Singh, on Sunday. Mr. Harichandan recalled the services of Singh to the nation as a soldier in Indian Army. “Jaswant Singh was a Member of Rajya Sabha for five times and Lok Sabha for four times. During the NDA regime, he held several key portfolios such as external affairs, finance, defence and etc. The State Value Added Tax (VAT) was introduced during his term as the Union Finance Minister from 2002 to 2004, which helped the States generate more revenue,” said Mr. Harichandan. Meanwhile, BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Sunday tweeted that the nation had lost a committed soldier. Mr. Veerraju recalled that Singh, a BJP veteran, was a disciplined soldier who stood for values and served the nation in different capacities to the best of his ability. BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao said in his condolence message that Singh was a veteran soldier-turned-distinguished first generation BJP leader. “Jaswant Singh was a perfect gentleman, extremely courteous and scholarly. Suffered a lot in coma for six years but achieved salvation,” Mr. Rao tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-condoles-demise-of-jaswant-singh/article32711312.ece
28 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||71,589 appear for POLYCET||The Polytechnic Common Entrance Test (POLYCET 2020), conducted by the State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET) on Sunday, was a smooth affair. In a statement on Sunday, Board Chairman and Special Commissioner M.M. Nayak said of the total 88,314 students who registered, 71,589 (81.06 %) appeared for the test in 388 centres. The answer key would be made available on the website sbtetap.gov.in on September 29. Mr. Nayak said efforts were on to complete the process needed to declare the results by October 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/71589-appear-for-polycet/article32711308.ece
28 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu wants music varsity after SPB in Nellore||TDP national president wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, requesting him to establish a music university at Nellore in memory of playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam who passed away recently. Letter to CM Mr. Naidu suggested that a bronze statue of the legendary singer be installed on the proposed varsity premises and the area be developed as ‘Sri S.P. Balasubrahmanyam Sangeeta Kalakshetram’, saying that it would be a befitting tribute to SPB whose contribution to music is unparalleled. Mr. Naidu said the erstwhile TDP government had undertaken the establishment of a Kalakshetram to commemorate the famous Bapu-Ramana duo. It also had instituted a national prize of Rs. 10 lakh in the name of legendary vocalist Mangalampalli Balamurali Krishna . “The YSRCP government should pay the tributes Balasubrahmanyam deserves,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-wants-music-varsity-after-spb-in-nellore/article32711309.ece
28 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM’s nod to lecturers’ plea||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is said to have agreed to the plea of the 5,042 contract lecturers working in government junior and degree colleges besides private oriental colleges on payment of remuneration for 12 months, instead of 10 months for the academic year 2020-21. Mr. Jagan is reported to have approved the related file.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-nod-to-lecturers-plea/article32711297.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||318 new cases take tally closer to the 50,000-mark||The COVID-19 tally is inching towards the 50,000-mark in Visakhapatnam district, with 318 fresh infections being reported in the last 24 hours, on Sunday. This takes the cumulative tally to 49,869 since the pandemic broke out, according to the district bulletin. The death toll also rose to 391 as three more persons succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. According to the officials, the number of active cases in the district stands at 4,234. As many as 310 persons, who have been undergoing treatment in various hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and under home quarantine were discharged or recovered in the last 24 hours. This takes the total number of recoveries in the district to 45,244 as on Sunday. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that among the 722 clusters in the district, 51 are very active and 28 are active. Already 192 clusters were denotified by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/318-new-cases-take-tally-closer-to-the-50000-mark/article32711333.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Early detection key to overcoming hearing problems, say doctors||When a child turns three, but still fails to respond whenever he or she is called, parents usually dismiss it as ‘disinterest’ on the part of their child without realising that there could be an underlying problem. It is important to detect hearing problems early in children and to initiate remedial measures. Thankfully, it is no longer difficult to identify hearing problems in children. An Otto Acoustic Emission (OAE) machine can detect hearing abnormalities in one-day-old infants. If there is any discrepancy, further tests can be conducted for confirmation and remedial action, say doctors. “An OAE device is available at the Government ENT Hospital in the city. Early screening with OAE will help in undertaking further audiometry tests, if needed. After the baby turns a month old, more specific tests like Brain-stem Evoked Response Audiometry (BERA) can be conducted. The baby has to remain in a lying position and electrodes have to be placed on the head,” says Dr. B. Ramachandra Rao, Associate Professor at the Government Hospital.  State Referral Hospital “No surgical procedures are being done at the hospital at present in view of the pandemic. There is a decline in the number of outpatients in view of the restrictions on public transport. OAE machines are also available at some private paediatric hospitals,” he says. The Government ENT Hospital in the city has been recognised as a State Referral Hospital by the Appellate Board. “On an average, three children are brought to the hospital every day for OAE and BERA tests, during normal times. The figure for Pure Tone Audiometry (PTA) tests, performed on older children and adults, is 30 on an average. Certificates are issued to three persons on an average to enable them to get the pension being extended by the State government,” says K. Srinivasa Rao, Audiologist and Speech Therapist at the Government ENT Hospital. “The State government has approved the conduct of cochlear implant surgeries for both ears among children in the target age group. When this is implemented, Andhra Pradesh will be the first in the world to provide for implants for both ears. However, I had expressed my reservations against it as I first want all children to be covered for one ear first, after which the second ear,” says Dr. S.K.E. Appa Rao, noted ENT surgeon and International Board Member of Global Cochlear Implant Access Network (GCIAN). “I had told the same to Dr. A. Mallikarjuna, Chief Executive Officer of Dr. YSR Arogyasri Health Care Trust and he was convinced,” Dr. Appa Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/early-detection-key-to-overcoming-hearing-problems-say-doctors/article32711323.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 suspected temple thieves held||A six-member gang, which was allegedly involved in a series of thefts at temples in Visakhapatnam and in Vizianagaram districts, was arrested by the Vizianagaram police on Sunday. All the accused are aged between 21 and 24 years. The arrested were identified as T. Veerababu, M. Nagarajuna, M. Dhanaraju, S.. Sai, A. Chiranjeevi and G. Eswara Rao, all hailing from various places in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts. Twenty-seven cases in which the accused were allegedly involved are under Pending Trial (P.T). Addressing a press conference at the District Police Office here, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao said that on September 23, unidentified miscreants had entered a temple and stole a hundi. On the same night, they tried to commit a theft at another temple at Dasannapeta. A special team was formed, under the guidance of Mr. Ranga Rao, following the series of temple thefts. On September 27, at around 3 a.m., the Vizianagaram II Town police nabbed six persons, who were found moving in suspicious circumstances in an auto-rickshaw. On questioning, the accused confessed to their involvement in 19 temple offences, including more than 10 in Visakhapatnam district (city and rural areas) – Parawada, Steel Plant, Kurmannapalem, Gajuwaka, Kailasapuram, Chepaluppada, Lankelapalem, Chodavaram, K Kotapadu and Sabbavaram. Mr. Ranga Rao said that the robberies were committed for easy money. The accused used to travel in an auto-rickshaw, owned by Nagarajuna, to look for temples located in secluded places and commit the offence by gaining entry into them and fleeing with the cash in the hundis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-suspected-temple-thieves-held/article32711325.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism policy will be investor-friendly: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the government is committed to place the State on the world tourism map by providing the infrastructure and promoting the tourist spots in a big way. Participating in the State-level World Tourism Day celebrations on Sunday, he said a DPR (Detailed Project Report) has been prepared for 5-Star and 7-Star hotels at 12 places in the State. Tenders would soon be called in the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. “Investor-friendly tourism policy would be released soon. The stakeholders could expect transparent and speedy clearance of proposals as ‘single window clearance’ was proposed,” he added. He explained that the stakeholders would be segregated into small, medium and large operators. This would enable the government to extend incentives to only those in the need. AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) MD Pravin Kumar said the employment generation potential of the sector was 10 times that of others . Tourist destinations would be identified and promoted in every district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-policy-will-be-investor-friendly-minister/article32711302.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police help students attend polycet in tribal areas||As part of ‘Prerana,’ the community policing initiative, the district police under the guidance of Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao in association with the officials of the ITDA, Paderu, have helped as many as 258 students from various tribal areas of Visakhapatnam district to attend AP Polycet- 2020 which was held on Sunday. Bus facility The district police paid the entrance fee of all the candidates and issued them hall-tickets with the help of village volunteers and the postal service. The police officials have also arranged bus facility to the examination centres from Narsipatnam on Sunday. Pocket sanitisers and face masks were provided to the candidates keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic. Assistant Superintendent of Police Vidhya Sagar Naidu appealed to the youth to utilise the opportunity and succeed in their lives. He said the district police in association with the ITDA officials aim to provide opportunities for employment and skill development training for the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-help-students-attend-polycet-in-tribal-areas/article32711327.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed on diabetic||The gangrene-affected limb of a diabetic was saved through pedal arch reconstruction, instead of amputating the leg, by Dr. Siba Sankar Dalai, interventional neuro radiologist, and his team, at Medicover Hospitals at Arilova here. Ch. Visweswara Rao, the 56-year-old from East Godavari district, with a history of uncontrolled diabetes, has been suffering from gangrene in the left leg. At least 10% of patients, who suffer from uncontrolled diabetes for a period of 15 years, end up developing peripheral arteries disease, in the areas below the knee joint. And it is this condition that results into problems like gangrene, forcing the patient to sacrifice his/her limb to save life. Dr. Siba Sankar Dalai said that while most patients recover with right medication, a few arrive at the hospital at an advanced stage of the ailment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-surgery-performed-on-diabetic/article32711315.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advance booking facility for rail parcel space||Indian Railways has introduced advance booking facility for parcel space in Luggage Coaches (SLRs) available in passenger-carrying trains and in Parcel Vans (VPs) attached to the time-tabled parcel trains. Advance booking will be allowed only in parcel spaces, which are not already leased by Railways. The advance booking of space in SLRs and VPs shall be permitted up to 120 days in advance, subject to payment of a nominal 10% of the total freight by the customer at the time of booking. The balance payment (90%) of the freight has to be paid at least 72 hours before the scheduled departure of the train for which the advance booking has been made. In case, the customer wishes to cancel the booking, such cancellation should be done at least 72 hours before the scheduled departure of the train for which advance booking has been made. Only 50% of the advance freight shall be refunded. In case of inability of railway administration to provide parcel space in the train on account of cancellation of train or for any other reason, full advance freight shall be refunded to the customer. The advance indenting of parcel vans, to be attached to passenger-carrying trains and time-tabled parcel special trains, will also be permitted up to 120 days in advance on payment of prescribed Wagon Demand Registration Fee as per rules, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Further, Railways has also planned to attach additional Parcel Vans (VPs) to special trains to provide extra space for the parcel luggage in the specified routes. One more Parcel Van is being attached to 01019/ 01020 CST Mumbai-Bhubaneswar-CST Mumbai Konark Special train for the convenience of cargo movers in this route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/advance-booking-facility-for-rail-parcel-space/article32711316.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No social distancing at a few exam centres||Amidst the COVID-19 situation, a large number of students attended the AP Polycet here on Sunday. Over 15,000 students had applied for the AP Polycet 2020 held at 56 examination centres in the district. Candidates attended the examination with masks, face shields and carried their own water bottles. Students reached the examination centres early in view of the COVID -19 situation. Most of the candidates came to the centre on their own avoiding public transport due to the pandemic.Social distancing had gone for a toss at a few examination centres. With some centres have left all candidates at once leading to chaos and overcrowded situation. There was traffic congestion at a centre near Rama Talkies area. Parents were seen criticising the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-social-distancing-at-a-few-exam-centres/article32711328.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits happy with YSRCP rule, says MLA||YSR Congress Party MLA Merugu Nagarjuna has alleged that the ‘Jai Bheem’ roundtable meet, which was organised in Vijayawada, is not for the benefit of Dalits, but to chant the name of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. In fact, it is not ‘Jai Bheem’ roundtable meet, but ‘Jai Chandrababu’ roundtable meet, he alleged. Addressing a press conference at the party office here, on Sunday, Mr. Nagarjuna said that after Mr. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy came to power, he introduced a number of welfare scheme. Mr. Chandrababu Naidu, who has no work in the State, was trying to create rift between people of different castes and religions, he alleged. Mr. Nagarajuna alleged that it was Mr. Naidu who spoke ill about Dalits, when he was in power and a number of attacks used to be reported against them. He wondered why no roundtable meets were conducted at that time. He asserted that Dalits in the State were living a peaceful and happy life under the YSRCP government. The welfare programmes of the State government were reaching every beneficiary, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalits-happy-with-ysrcp-rule-says-mla/article32711334.ece
28 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 550 attend AU webinar||Over 550 participants attended the webinar “InCorporate”, organised by the Management Club of the Department of Commerce and Management Studies, Andhra University, on Sunday. It was streamed online in the YouTube handle of the management club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-550-attend-au-webinar/article32711335.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood surge in the Krishna continues||The administration heaved a sigh of relief as the inflow came down to 1.05 lakh cusecs by evening. Anticipating more inflows, the discharge was maintained at 1.12 lakh cusecs to have a flood cushion of about 4 tmcft of water. With fresh floods, the storage capacity in the reservoir went up to 74 tmcft. “The inflow is likely to be about 1 lakh cusecs in the next few days,” said Somasila superintendent N. Krishna Rao. People of Nellore residing on the banks of the Penna were a worried lot as they were still to recover from the losses suffered last week. The storage in the Kandaleru reservoir, which caters to the drinking water needs of several cities including Chennai and Tirupati, rose to 45.32 tmcft against its full capacity of 68 tmcft. In Prakasam district, water entered hundreds of houses in Giddalur as Saigaleru was in spate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-surge-in-the-krishna-continues/article32711299.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready for the big show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-for-the-big-show/article32711330.ece
28 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Fear of violence in Agency looms||Fear of further escalation of confrontation between the police and the Maoists looms large over parts of the restive border areas of the Bhadrachalam Agency ahead of the Telangana bandh called by the CPI (Maoist) on September 28 in protest against recent "killing" of eight of its cadre in Agency areas of the State. The State committee of the outlawed organisation called the Telangana bandh on Monday in protest against the incidents of "exchange of fire" on September 3, 7, 19 and 23 — three in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district and one in Kumram Bheem district — calling them "acts of State repression." As many as six Maoist rebels were killed in three incidents of "EOF" which occurred in Gundala and in Charla mandal in the tribal dominated district this month. Dudi Devalu alias Shankar, 25, Maoist commander of special protection team of the CPI (Maoist) Telangana State committee secretary Haribhushan, Maoist dalam commander Kovasi Jogaiah alias Chandu, Charla Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS) Commander, Sodi Jogaiah, were among those "killed" in these "EOF" incidents. Amid fears of retaliatory attacks by rebels, the TSRTC has suspended its night services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fear-of-violence-in-agency-looms/article32711183.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Indians lucky so far, but the situation could get worse’||Mass testing, screening and isolation of positive patients, along with adherence to ‘social vaccine’ (masks, personal hygiene and social distancing), is the only way forward to contain the raging COVID-19 pandemic, insist top scientists. “This much is certain; we are nowhere close to the end of the pandemic, We do not know when we are going to cross the peak, There are theoretical models but in the absence of reliable data, we cannot bank on them. Peak or plateau will come only when we do something about it,” says CSIR- CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra. Indians are “lucky” because the virus has spared many lives and most are asymptomatic, needing no hospitalisation. Yet, “if we allow things to drift as is happening now, the situation could get worse and what we do not want to happen is to get the hospitals crowded beyond capacity putting the healthcare system under more pressure,” he says, in an exclusive interview. We should consider ourselves “extremely lucky” if we get the vaccine by the year-end or early next year. But, our preparation should be to deal with the virus without vaccine as there is no drug available. It could also take up to two years for the entire population to be covered, he explains. ‘Vaccine not sure shot’ “Any vaccine is not a sure shot. Most candidates are early experiments that are done in-vitro and on animals. When it reaches the people. it is a different story. Efficacy and robustness depend on how many people can get protection from infection irrespective of different age groups and health conditions. Unlike a drug that can go and hit the target, a vaccine needs to work through the immune system of the body and comes with a different level of complexity,” says the director. ‘Give luck a chance’ “Never before so much money and effort has been put into making a vaccine against one infectious agent at a time. Regulatory authorities could also facilitate by relaxing rules due to the pandemic; for example, by combining two stages (Phase 1 and 2) to save time if they find it to be safe. But, how good a vaccine works, only time will tell. The fastest vaccine, so far, has come in four years and, therefore, talking about a few months is a bit ambitious. However, we can’t rule it out and there is no harm in giving our luck a chance,” he says. Dr. Mishra says the major issue in knowing about a vaccine is that “you just wait after vaccination to see that a person does not get infected for a long time. It is very difficult to check for efficacy and robustness in the population in few months and requires long term monitoring. A short cut could expose the volunteers to active infection; it is unethical as there is no drug to give if the person does get infected.” Herd immunity The CCMB director is sure we will eventually get back to some kind of “normalcy or new normalcy” in a few months with “some kind of herd immunity and some drugs helping the balance”. However, it has become imperative to strengthen public healthcare for a large population. “It is clear we cannot have private medicare at a cost within the reach of 10% population, ignoring the weaker sections. No one is safe unless the entire population is taken care of as has been evident in last few months,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indians-lucky-so-far-but-the-situation-could-get-worse/article32711162.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GCOT to launch village monograph project||Gramodaya Chamber of Commerce and Technology (GCOT), a social enterprise registered as a non-profit company under the Companies Act, has decided to launch preparation of village monographs in about 100 villages of Telangana and prepare Gram Panchayat Development Plans, as part of the 150th Mahatma Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations this year. The village monograph project is a technology platform developed by GCOT based on information collected on 200 parameters, including qualitative and quantitative data, by linking specifics of the village. The launch of the project is scheduled as part of the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi to be held virtually for three days from October 1 to 3 due to the prevailing pandemic. According to chairman of the organising committee of the celebrations Dr. B. Pratap Reddy, the project is conceived to achieve village self sufficiency through agricultural support, farmer-producer organisation promotion, animal hostel, non-resident village model, women and youth empowerment, healthcare and wellness. “The strengths of GCOT include training, capacity building, marketing support, enabling access to markets and project management to make villages selected under the project self-sufficient,” Dr. Pratap Reddy said. As part of the 150th birthday festivities of Gandhi, GCOT has instituted Gramodaya Bandhu Mitra Puraskar to be given to 150 individuals and institutions working on Gandhian perspective of agriculture, rural development and self sufficiency, he said. CMD Pragati Group Dr. G.B.K Rao was presented with this award on Sunday. GCOT would also release a global declaration with the motto of re-imagining India for new global order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gcot-to-launch-village-monograph-project/article32711170.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Towards integrating land info||As efforts are intensified for updating entire land-related information within a fortnight following instructions from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, officials say that the exercise is a beginning towards a much larger target, integrating all land related information in future. The Chief Minister’s directive, senior officials said, was aimed at bringing together databases of Stamps & Registration department, Municipal Administration and Panchayat Raj departments, being maintained separately at present, on to a single platform Dharani, the much awaited integrated land records management system, in the State. “Once the data is updated, it will be uploaded on Dharani where information about every inch of land in the State can be obtained with just a click of the button,” a Registration department senior official told The Hindu . The deadline set by the Chief Minister was aimed at prompting people to get their non-agricultural properties registered carrying out proper required mutations. “Though property transactions are made, people will not be coming forth to make the declaration of their non-agricultural lands openly,” said the official. Declaration of agricultural lands has been a trend these days since the introduction of schemes like rythu bandhu and rythu bima, but the same is not the case with the non-agricultural properties as there are no such financial benefits attached. This, in fact, has ensured that there is no comprehensive database and in turn, affected planning related to different schemes. It was in this background the government had announced its resolve to update land records as it has several advantages. “The first advantage will be effective and efficient tax collection without any slippages and the second will be availability of databases for planning schemes in future,” the official said. The initiative is also advantageous for landowners in that it will reduce scope for fraud and help on monetization of properties. “We are hopeful that transactions will see a spike once the database is prepared and land values are revised as announced by the Chief Minister. The revision will mostly be upward,” he said. A section of people are, however, expressing doubts over the efficacy with which the data would be uploaded in such a short notice. Updating information pertaining to agricultural lands is a bit easier because these properties have records of more than hundred years. But it is not the case with non-agricultural properties which do not have proper records, experts feel. The government should have given at least six months to one-year time for updation and hosting of the information on Dharani portal. This was because identification of lapses in the existing records itself would take at least two months while rectification of these after proper field level surveys would take another two to three months. “The government’s decision to set a 15-day deadline could be aimed at driving a sense of urgency among the landowners to update their records or else, such transactions will not be possible once Dharani portal is launched,” an expert in land related issues said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/towards-integrating-land-info/article32711175.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revenue tribunals for ryots’ issues||The coming days will see the State government taking a decision on who will preside over the revenue tribunals to be constituted to settle over 16,000 land dispute cases which were unresolved till the State Legislative Assembly passed the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books Act, 2020, recently. In the latest Act, the government did not make a provision for appellate authority over mutations done by the Tehsildar. All appeals arising out of land disputes hereafter have to necessarily go to civil court. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao defended the decision on the floor of the Legislative Assembly asking where was the need for an appellate authority when a five-tier judicial system from junior civil judge to Supreme Court already existed in the country. He expressed the intention of the government to remove the discretionary powers of the appellate authority after the orders under the Act were passed by the Tehsildars. There were 16,137 cases of land disputes in the State, including 12,000 solely related to Record of Rights (RoR), until the pattadar passbooks legislation was passed in the State Legislative Assembly. The objections of aggrieved farmers on mutations till now were referred to Revenue Divisional Officer as the first appellant authority and Joint Collector as second appellant authority. But, the latest Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books Act, 2020 has removed both authorities and left the farmers the option to approach civil courts. Nature of pendency A senior law officer told The Hindu that the rules under the Act were being framed which will address the issue of constituting revenue tribunals to be headed by either retired IAS or judicial officers to go into the 16,137 pending cases. Apart from 12,000 cases of Record of Rights issues, the pendency was also related to disputes over Inam, tenancy and land encroachments. In the absence of appellate authority, a retired Revenue Secretary T. Gopal Rao argued that it will be unfair to expect farmers to approach civil courts at considerable expenditure. If the decisions of Tehsildars were to be treated as final and there was no way their mistakes were redressed other than approaching courts, the small farmers will end up paying huge fee to fight cases, the retired Revenue Secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revenue-tribunals-for-ryots-issues/article32711178.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,967 test positive for COVID-19, nine die||Less than 2,000 COVID-19 cases were detected in Telangana on Saturday with only around 50,000 tests being conducted. The new 1,967 cases include 297 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 152 from Karimnagar, 147 from Rangareddy, 137 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 105 from Nalgonda, and 89 from Warangal Urban. Nine more COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 1,100. Between September 21 and 25, around 53,000 to 59,000 samples were tested a day, falling to 50,108 samples on Saturday. Results of 1,520 persons were awaited. A total of 28,50,869 samples have been tested in the State since March 2, when the first COVID case was reported here. Of those, 1,85,833 were found to be positive. While 1,54,499 patients have recovered, there are 30,234 active cases. While data on ICU beds with and without ventilator support in the State government hospitals was mentioned in the media bulletin issued on September 23 and 24, senior officials from the Health department did not mention the data thereafter. As per the details provided, 4,424 oxygen beds and 862 ICU beds were available in the 62 government hospitals on Saturday while 2,416 oxygen beds and 1,039 ICU beds were vacant in the 225 private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1967-test-positive-for-covid-19-nine-die/article32711158.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID suspect’s body lies in ambulance for 9 hours before burial||As rain pounded the city throughout Friday night and continued till Saturday morning, the body of an elderly woman had to be kept in an ambulance for more than nine hours till her burial, as the hospital where she died and the apartment where she lived refused to let in. Her family members and the ambulance driver took turns to guard the body throughout Friday night. The 65-year-old woman lived with her family at Masab Tank, and was suspected to be COVID-infected. She was admitted to a private hospital in Mehdipatnam and passed away late on Friday evening. E. Pradeep, driver of the ambulance run by Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), a local NGO, said that the hospital was not willing to keep the body. Residents of the apartment where the woman’s family stays also did not allow her body to be brought in for the night. The ambulance had to be parked near the building as it continued to pour heavily. “We waited near the apartment’s parking lot till the grave was dug in the morning. All this happened while it rained heavily,” said Mr. Pradeep. HHF trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari said that while government hospitals and major corporate hospitals have mortuary facilities, mid-range private hospitals do not have that provision. “If freezers and other facilities are provided at graveyards and crematoriums, people will not be put to such distress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-suspects-body-lies-in-ambulance-for-9-hours-before-burial/article32711156.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sagar visit a welcome break for Sindhu||For world champion P.V. Sindhu, it was just the kind of change she had been looking for. The ace shuttler visited the Nagarjunasagar in Nalgonda on Sunday with her family. The 25-year-old Rio Olympics silver medallist, like many, could not just afford any trip other than going to the Academy for training ever since the first lockdown was imposed in March this year due to the pandemic. Taking a much needed break from her gruelling schedule, which includes three hours of badminton training and then another round of fitness training in the evening daily. Accompanied by her parents P.V. Ramana and P. Vijaya and a couple of other family members, Ms. Sindhu drove to the picturesque site on Sunday. “We all needed this break from our daily routine. These kind of trips can help any individual to refresh,” said Mr. Ramana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sagar-visit-a-welcome-break-for-sindhu/article32711167.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Visit down memory lane for first batch of Dhruva||An emotional reunion it was as they saw some of them after 25 years. There were no hugs and handshakes but only smiles and emotions pouring out on the screen as the silver jubilee reunion was celebrated virtually by the first batch of the Dhruva College of Management. Cutting across continents, countries and time zones, sharing successes and disappointments and the highs and lows of life, 59 of the 60 students of the 1995-97 batch went down the memory lane as they missed their lone batchmate Sunita, who passed away. Giving them the company were their teachers and other dignitaries who shaped their careers after they stepped out of the portals. On behalf of the batch of 1995-97, Sudarshan Satyam presented a video tribute to S. Pratap Reddy, chairman of Dhruva, for being pivotal in shaping their lives while the college curated and presented a video reminiscence of their first steps to leaving the campus. Dr. Reddy in his address recalled the roller coaster journey of Dhruva since its inception and the significance of the first batch of students that will always remain special to him as the first born child to a mother. To relive the moments of the past, the organising committee that comprised Sudarshan Satyam, Dheeraj Gaur, Vishnu Vardhan, Venkat Reddy, Ch Prasad, Vinod, Ganesh M and Nagarjun Gowra designed a bouquet of awards mimicking the Oscars for their batchmates. Mr. Dheeraj Gaur and Mr. Sudarshan kept the audience glued to their catchy video presentations and funny banter taking them down memory lane. Dr. Reddy also shared another video compilation as a digital memento to the batch that made the Dhruvans emotional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/visit-down-memory-lane-for-first-batch-of-dhruva/article32711165.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||HES Society extends aid to medical student||Shreya Celumula, daughter of Celumula Venukumar and Madhavi from Karimnagar. was awarded the first Dr. K.V.R. Prasad Memorial Scholarship by HES Society. She was selected from over 200 applicants from economically backward sections who secured a seat in merit category in government medical colleges. K.V.L. Poornamamba, wife of late Dr. K.V.R. Prasad, presented the cheque to cover the first year fee. The Society will pay the fee of Shreya throughout her MBBS programme. The scholarship is instituted in the memory of Dr. K.V.R. Prasad, who established Sridevi Nursing Home, one of the first multi-specialty nursing homes in the city in 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hes-society-extends-aid-to-medical-student/article32711163.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cricket betting racket busted, two arrested||Sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) on Sunday busted an online cricket betting racket operating from a house in Chilkalguda and apprehended two sub-organisers. They were betting under main organiser KD Online bookie of Rajasthan and accepting money directly and indirectly over cellphones from punters for the ongoing IPL 2020 matches, inspector K. Nageswar Rao said. The accused are Polapally Shiva Kumar (22), a private employee from Mettuguda, and Daddojwala Naveen Kumar (27), a businessman from Chilkalguda. Police seized Rs. 20,000 and two cellphones from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cricket-betting-racket-busted-two-arrested/article32711171.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Registration closure ill-planned’||The Congress has charged the government with ill-planned closure of property registrations for almost two months creating confusion at all levels and said Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao was good at creating great hype around his decisions but poor at the implementation and performance. “The CM is emulating Prime Minister Narender Modi in introducing new laws without any planning and preparation and this was causing problems to people,” Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) Treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said in a statement here. He demanded restoration of registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registration-closure-ill-planned/article32711180.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Shilparamam to open doors from Gandhi Jayathi||After close to 200 days, Shilparamam Arts Crafts and Cultural Society in Madhapur and Mini Shilparamam at Uppal will be open for public from October 2. In an official release, special officer G. Kishan Rao said that as per the instructions of the State government, the Shilparamams would be open from 2. p.m. and 8.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shilparamam-to-open-doors-from-gandhi-jayathi/article32711172.ece
28 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Women-led units graduate from We Hub programme||Women-led social enterprises — ADIRO Labs, Cellerite, Radius, Oorvi and CabDost — which were supported by the Australian Consulate General in Chennai, graduated on Saturday from the Telangana government-backed WE Hub’s Community Slate programme. The Consulate General funded the programme to the tune of Rs. 30 lakh. The graduation was done online on Octa. It was chaired by WE Hub CEO Deepthi Ravula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/women-led-units-graduate-from-we-hub-programme/article32711174.ece
28 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||2BHK colony inaugurated||Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar on Sunday inaugurated a double bedroom housing colony at Chintagurthi village in Raghunadhapalem mandal near here. As many as 20 two bedroom houses (2BHKs) were constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.25 crore under the State government's flagship housing scheme for shelterless poor people in the village, sources said. District Collector R V Karnan and other officals accompanied the Minister during the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2bhk-colony-inaugurated/article32711184.ece
28 September 2020||siddipet,TELANGANA||New revenue Act will address farmer’s problems: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao laid the foundation stone for Rytu Vedika at Toguta in Dubbak Assembly headquarters along with MP K. Prabhakar Reddy on Sunday. He said after several decades land survey was being taken up by government. He took part in development programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-revenue-act-will-address-farmers-problems-harish/article32711182.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Smart ID cards for government school teachers||Teachers of government schools will shortly get smart photo ID cards no matter that the schools are not functioning. They will be provided Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) cards on a par with those issued by corporate houses. They earlier had ID cards issued by respective headmasters of mandal education officers. The teachers are now busy providing all their particulars online to the government. The information includes districts and mandals where they are working, dress code of their schools, their rank of service, mobile number, place of posting, address, code number, date of birth, blood group and photo.   All eyes are on introduction of flexi fares on inter-State bus services of State Road Transport Corporation to Maharashtra and Karnataka from Monday. The corporation has intended to introduce the fares as per demand on only high-end luxury services while sparing express and ordinary services. Effectively, the fares will go up when the demand to travel is high and go down during lean period. The fares could vary on hourly basis going by demand. It was said the corporation conceived the idea as private travels had competitive fares, charging high when the demand peaked and low when traffic was down. This impacted the revenue of the corporation as the private travels ferried large volumes of traffic at low fares in lean periods and cut into the traffic of the corporation which operated at fixed tariff. The occupancy of the corporation buses dropped considerably.     The much-hyped relaxation of age limit for availing of the social security pensions has taken a hit from unexpected quarters. The incidence of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), which turned out to be pandemic, has impacted the data collection relating to the promise made by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for bringing down the eligibility age from 65 years to 57 years. This was also a promise made by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the runup to the previous Assembly polls. Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao informed the members during the monsoon session of the Assembly that the survey that was launched to assess the number of beneficiaries has taken a hit by the incidence of COVID-19, especially in the urban areas. As a result, results of the survey are yet to come from some corporations and municipalities where the incidence is high.   Gandhi Bhavan, the Congress headquarters, was almost a deserted place for almost a year with not much political activity. Except a few leaders who regularly turned up for the press meets the cadre stayed away despite the party getting three Parliament seats after a debacle in the Assembly elections. However, the appointment of new Aall India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore for the party made some difference with leaders along with their followers turning up in an apparent move to catch the attention. The parking lot of the party office was full of cars and so was the grand building teeming with the cadre. A senior leader and regular visitor to the party office hoped that Mr. Tagore could bring all the leaders to the office and hope he would bring some good omen too. Yes, the grand old party badly needs it.   (N. Rahul, M. Rajeev and R. Ravikanth Reddy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/smart-id-cards-for-government-school-teachers/article32711176.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Sunday stop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sunday-stop/article32711169.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||Actor seeks bar on news linking her to drug case||Actor Rakul Preet Singh moved the Delhi High Court seeking to bar media firms from running any news linking her with the case of an alleged drug-link of movie actors till the time the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) completes the probe and files its report. In her application, the 29-year-old actor has alleged the media of “simply running fake news”, which are not based on “true, correct and verified facts”. ‘Damaged reputation’ Ms. Singh said the media’s slander campaign against her has “irreparably damaged her reputation, dignity and clean image, and flagrantly violated her privacy and right to be left alone”. The actor said she “does not take drugs at all, is a teetotaller and non-smoker, and is into fitness, yoga and meditation”. She said that the media continued its slander campaign after she left the NCB office — following a summon to assist in the investigation — by falsely attributing statements to her. Ms. Singh admitted to WhatApp chats with Rhea Chakraborty, an actor who is currently in custody in the alleged drug case being probed by NCB. These chats are from August 6, 2017, onwards till 2020, the application said. “The media reported that the petitioner [Ms. Singh] has supposedly confessed to the NCB that ‘Rhea Chakraborty would get drugs sent to her house’ or that ‘Rhea wanted to take back her drugs back’. The petitioner denies that she made any such statement,” her application before the court stated. “As far as the petitioner is concerned, this solitary reference to a ‘doobs’ on September 22, 2018, was nothing but mere rolled tobacco cigarette and not any banned substance, and that too of Rhea and this is what the petitioner stated before the NCB on September 25, 2020,” her application stated. “Most of the media, however, labelled this solitary reference as a ‘drug chat' and ran a campaign that the petitioner has ‘confessed to drug chats with Rhea’,” she said. Actor’s main petition On her main petition seeking to restrain news channels from airing contents, which are defamatory or “suggestive innuendos” against her in the case, the court had on September 17 issued notices to the Centre, Press Council of India, Prasar Bharat and News Broadcasters Association. The court had then said, “It is hoped that media houses and TV channels would show restraint and abide by the Program Code and other guidelines while making report in connection with Rakul Preet Singh”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/actor-seeks-bar-on-news-linking-her-to-drug-case/article32711138.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police issues advisory to IGIA passengers on arms and ammunition||The Delhi police have issued an advisory reminding domestic and international passengers at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) that carrying ammunition in their luggage, knowingly or unknowingly, is an offence and asked them to thoroughly check their bags before entering the premises. DCP (IGI) Rajeev Ranjan said in the last three years, 297 passengers have been booked under the Arms Act after they were caught with live bullets or guns in their possession during frisking at the airport. “In most of the cases, passengers inadvertently carry ammunition in their baggage. It poorly affects the passengers, their co-passengers and family members. We keep issuing advisory regarding it and request passengers to recheck their baggage before entering the premises,” said Mr. Ranjan. On June 30 this year, a US-bound passenger at the Delhi airport was held for allegedly carrying a bullet in his baggage. He was not allowed to board the plane and was booked under the Arms Act. Till September 15, 2020, a total of 51 passengers were caught under Arms Act at IGI police station. The list includes eight women passengers. Mr. Ranjan said in a few cases, the passengers held with bullets in his or her baggage are able to convince the investigating officer by producing arm licenses. In some cases, many of them said he or she works as a policeman or is in the Defence. In these cases, the passenger is released after getting a clearance letter from his commanding officer. ‘Unware of belongings’ “But most of the passengers, who get caught in the crime, say that they were unaware of the bullet found in their baggage. They end up facing legal action. It is a non-bailable offence under the Arms Act,” said Mr. Ranjan. He added that the passengers are requested to keep in mind the legal provisions of the law and “never carry ammunition in any circumstances such as — for your relative and friends who have a license; if your license is not valid in Delhi; using as a Talisman or a Mascot of good omen; foreign passenger from a country where arm license if not required for buying arms or ammunitions.”  In most of the cases, passengers inadvertently carry ammunition in their baggage. We keep issuing advisory regarding it and request passengers to recheck their baggage before entering the premises. Rajeev Ranjan DCP (IGI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-issues-advisory-to-igia-passengers-on-arms-and-ammunition/article32711140.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi High Court Bar Association challenges classification of law offices||The Delhi High Court Bar Association (DHCBA) has moved the High Court challenging the classification of law offices as “commercial activity” for the purposes of calculation of property tax under Delhi Municipal Act. “A professional activity like an advocate is not a business and cannot be deemed as a commercial activity and as such, the non-residential rates would not apply in the case of an advocate using premises for an office,” the DHCBA’s petition stated. It explained that the Municipal Corporation of Delhi attributes a use factor to a building depending upon its purpose. The use factor varies from, 1 (for residential purpose and public purpose) to 10 for star hotels (3 stars and above). The use factor for industry, entertainment, recreation and clubs has been specified as 3 and that of utilities and business as 2 and 4 respectively. The Bar Council of Delhi had sent a representation on July 21 to the civic corporations for reduction of use factor 4 to 1 for levying of property tax in respect of offices of advocates in Delhi. “The respondents [civic corporations] being the assessing authority conveniently ignored the law laid down by the apex court regarding profession of advocates which by no stretch of imagination comes in the category of commercial enterprise, industrial, mercantile, shop or business venture,” the petition stated. “A lawyer does not render services, conduct business or commercial activities. It is submitted that a lawyer is only an instrument to bring home justice for a litigant,” the DHCBA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-high-court-bar-association-challenges-classification-of-law-offices/article32711136.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||21-year-old held for killing roommate in Govindpuri||A 21-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his roommate on suspicion of having an affair with his niece in south-east Delhi’s Govindpuri area, the police said on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Suman, a resident of Tugalakabad village, they said. On September 17, the police received an information regarding an injured person, found in his room in Kangar Mohalla, Tugalakabad village. The police rushed to the spot and found the person injured and unconscious. He was bleeding from his nose and mouth. He was taken to AIIMS where he was declared brought dead, a senior police officer said. During enquiry, his roommate Suman was identified as Kamlesh (20). The police said the autopsy report of the deceased stated that lacerated wounds was the cause of Kamlesh’s death. A murder case was then registered at Govindpuri police station, they said. CCTV footage The footage of CCTV installed in the area were analysed. The footage revealed that there was a contradiction in the versions of Suman, who was seen entering and leaving the house at the time of Kamlesh’s death. “Later, the accused admitted to kill the deceased with scissor while he was asleep in his room,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said. He was arrested on Friday and the scissor used in commission of the crime was also recovered, the DCP said. During interrogation, Suman revealed that Kamlesh was working with him in a sewing cloth factory in Tugalkabad Village. Kamlesh had developed a relationship with the accused’s distant niece who lives in Mujaffarpur, Bihar and he used to talk to her, the police said. He had warned Kamlesh, but the victim continued keeping in touch with her and this was the bone of contention between them, they said. On September 17, Suman had an heated argument with Kamlesh in the afternoon over the same issue. Around 7.30 p.m., he returned from work and found that the Kamlesh was sleeping, the DCP said. He killed him with a scissor in his sleep, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/21-year-old-held-for-killing-roommate-in-govindpuri/article32711141.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia declares schedule for admission test||Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Sunday declared its admission test schedule for various postgraduate, undergraduate and diploma programmes for the 2020-21 session. Entrance examination for 126 programmes will start from October and the decision to conduct the examination, the university said, was approved by the Executive Council at its meeting on September 24. The decision, the university said, was made after taking into consideration the admission-related guidelines issued by the UGC on September 22. The university advised all applicant to visit the website of the Controller of Examinations, JMI, (www.jmicoe.in), regularly for latest announcements or changes, if any, regarding admission tests, including publication of results as well as to download their admit cards that will be available seven days prior to the date of the scheduled examination. The venue of admission test within or outside Delhi will be mentioned on the admit card. Therefore, the university was in conversation with other institutes to set up other centres in the Capital which would soon be finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jamia-declares-schedule-for-admission-test/article32711135.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dhaba owners arrested for attacking man||Two brothers were arrested for allegedly attacking a 32-year-old man in Central Delhi’s Anand Parbat, the police said on Sunday. A senior officer said the incident took place on Saturday night when Head Constable Damodar and Constable Vijay Dudi were on patrolling duty in Nai Basti, Anand Parbat. At 9.33 p.m., the officials saw two groups fighting with each other at a nearby dhaba. Damodar saw the brothers were attacking the victim, Gaurav, with a knife and utensils when he intervened. Gaurav had gone to the eatery with his friend Prem Sagar (30) when an argument broke out between them and the accused, who were the dhaba owners — Neelesh and Akash — over ordering takeaway food , said DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia. Soon after the argument, when the two friends were leaving the dhaba, the accused attacked them. Meanwhile, the patrolling staff reached the spot and brought the situation under control. The team nabbed the accused and took the injured to hospital. Gaurav is out of danger, the DCP said, adding that a case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dhaba-owners-arrested-for-attacking-man/article32711142.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- Brief||The IIT-Delhi on Sunday said the JEE (Advanced) 2020 was successfully conducted across the country with close to 96% candidates taking the examination. The institute said for Paper 1, 1,51,311 candidates appeared and for Paper 2, 1,50,900 appeared. “The exams were conducted in 222 cities and 1,001 exam centres all over the country,” IIT-Delhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jaideep-brief/article32711133.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||IIIT-D conducts virtual convocation ceremony||Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology-Delhi (IIIT-D) on Sunday conducted a virtual convocation ceremony and conferred degrees upon 237 B.Tech, 203 M.Tech, two M.Tech. dual and 12 Ph.D. students. Joachim Frank, professor at the Columbia University, USA, and recipient of the 2017 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iiit-d-conducts-virtual-convocation-ceremony/article32711134.ece
28 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU Academic, Executive Council oppose formation of body for new education policy||Academic and Executive Council members of Delhi University on Sunday opposed the formation of a committee for the implementation of the new education policy by bypassing the university’s statutory committees. In a letter to the Vice-Chancellor, the AC and EC members wrote that they were dismayed over the formation of such a committee “without any statutory basis”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-academic-executive-council-oppose-formation-of-body-for-new-education-policy/article32711143.ece
28 September 2020||Ahmedabad,||Coast Guard rescues 12 from sinking ship||Twelve crew members of a cargo vessel sinking in the Arabian Sea off the Gujarat coast have been rescued by the Coast Guard, officials said on Sunday. Around 9 p.m. on Saturday, the Coast Guard received information that there was flooding onboard the vesselMSV Krishna Sudamaaround 10 nautical miles off the Okha coast. The vessel on Saturday started sailing from Mundra in Gujarat for Djibouti, carrying 905 tonnes of rice and sugar, the Coast Guard said in a statement. “Search and rescue was immediately commenced wherein Coast Guard ShipC-411sailed from Okha,C-161was diverted from off Mundra, andMV Southern Robinin the vicinity of the area was diverted to render assistance,” it said. C-411arrived near the vessel in distress. It undertook extensive search in the area and located the craft carrying 12 crew members who had abandoned the vessel as it was sinking due to flooding, it said. “The Coast Guard ship rescued all the 12 crew members under challenging circumstances owing to night hours, floating dangerous debris and unfavourable weather conditions. They were brought to Okha and are safe,” it said. The area is being monitored byC-161so that it can combat any probable oil pollution incident that might result from leakage of fuel from the sunken dhow.  All the 12 crew members were rescued under challenging circumstances. They were brought to Okha and are safe Coast Guard||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/coast-guard-rescues-12-from-sinking-ship/article32710917.ece
28 September 2020||Gondia,||Naxal hideout busted; IED seized: police||The police on Sunday busted a Naxal hideout in the forests near Kosbi village in Gondia district of Maharashtra and seized explosives, including an improvised explosive device (IED) and gelatin sticks, an officer said. The seizure included explosive powder, a detonator, iron nails, glass pieces, and electric batteries. The IED was found hidden inside a drum at the hideout by C-60 commandos and police personnel, the officer said, adding that the IED was defused by the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad. “The explosives were kept hidden by the Naxals in order to target the security forces,” said additional superintendent of police Atul Kulkarni. The police had recovered five tents from another hideout located in the same forest on September 23, Mr. Kulkarni said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/naxal-hideout-busted-ied-seized-police/article32710919.ece
28 September 2020||Mumbai,||No intention of joining hands with Sena again, says Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said his meeting with Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday afternoon was not political in nature. Mr. Fadnavis said his party will not bring down the Maha Vikas Agahdi (MVA) government, but will wait for it to crumble under its own weight. The meeting created a flutter in political circles in the State, with claims that the MVA government’s stability would be under threat if the Sena and the BJP join hands again. It later turned out that Mr. Raut, the executive editor of the Sena mouthpiece, Saamana , held the meeting with the former chief minister to discuss an interview for the newspaper. “Mr. Raut has said in the past that he wants to interview me. However, I have certain conditions. I want this interview to go unedited. There will be my cameras as well. We wanted to discuss the interview in detail and therefore we sat down for it,” said Mr Fadnavis. He added that there was no political discussion. “There was no discussion about formation of a government headed by the Sena and the BJP. There is no reason for it. People are already agitated over the functioning of the State government. We as a strong Opposition party are holding the government accountable for its every action. This government will fall on its own and when it falls, we will think about forming the new government. We are in no hurry,” said Mr. Fadnavis. The Sena snapped ties with the BJP last year after the Maharashtra Assembly polls over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party then joined hands with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress to form MVA government in the State. Mr. Raut, who spoke to reporters separately, downplayed the visit saying both of them are no enemies to not have a meeting, which was pre-planned to discuss the interview schedule. “Maharashtra’s politics is about ideological differences and not personal differences. I used to meet Sharad Pawar even when we were in an alliance with the BJP. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was well-aware of our meeting,” he said Meanwhile, Mr. Pawar, NCP chief and Rajya Sabha MP, had a 40-minute discussion with Mr. Thackeray at his residence on Sunday, in the backdrop of the meeting between Mr. Fadnavis and Mr. Raut. Sources said the future unlocking process and the COVID-19 situation in the State were some of the issues that were discussed during the meeting. However, Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam criticised Mr. Raut, alleging that he was in a hurry to grab headlines. “When that happens, political careers end. This is not my ill-wish for Mr. Raut, but a reality,” he said. ‘Reveal stand on Bills’ Mr. Nirupam, who was removed as Mumbai Congress chief ahead of the Lok Sabha polls last year, said if the party is serious about opposing the new farm Bills, it should first ask the Sena to spell out its stand. The Congress and the NCP say they will not allow the implementation of the new laws in Maharashtra, while the Chief Minister hasn’t uttered a word on it, he said. “The Sena supported the Bills in the Lok Sabha, while it staged a walkout in the Rajya Sabha when other Opposition parties were demanding a vote on it,” Mr. Nirupam said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-intention-of-joining-hands-with-sena-again-says-fadnavis/article32710912.ece
28 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kshitij Ravi Prasad remanded in NCB custody till October 3||A Mumbai court on Sunday remanded Kshitij Ravi Prasad, who was earlier hired as an executive producer by a firm of filmmaker Karan Johar, in the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) custody till October 3. Mr. Prasad was arrested by the NCB on Saturday after questioning in a drugs case linked toactor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. He was produced before a magistrate court via videoconferencing. The NCB told the court that Mr. Prasad said he had procured drugs from another accused Karamjeet Singh Anand and his associates. It said the investigation into the case revealed that the accused is a part of conspiracy for drug procurement and is connected with the other accused linked to death case. The investigation into this case is in preliminary stage as revelations made by Mr. Prasad are to be verified, the NCB said. It also said Mr. Prasad is indirectly connected with accused Anuj Keshwani, from whom commercial quantity of a contraband was seized. Therefore, it is necessary to interrogate in deep as to whom the accused was delivering the contraband in Bollywood. Mr. Prasad’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde, however, told the court that the accused was “harassed and blackmailed” to give a statement. He was also subjected to third degree and ill treatment. Mr. Maneshinde then requested the court to record Mr. Prasad’s statement, which it allowed. Mr. Prasad told the court that during a raid at his house the NCBdid not find anything, except a stale and dry cigarette butt, which they “believed to be a ganja joint”. Mr. Prasad said his two friends picked up by the agency, were asked to give a statement against him. He also claimed that the NCB official, while recording his statement inserted “patently false claims” despite his protest. Mr. Prasad told the court that his statement was not recorded as per his narration and language. He claimed to have “unwillingly signed the statement after nearly 50 hours of interrogation, humiliation and torment”, the note said. After hearing both the sides, the magistrate said that detailed custodial interrogation of Prasad was “justifiable” to get the truth out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kshitij-ravi-prasad-remanded-in-ncb-custody-till-october-3/article32710923.ece
28 September 2020||MUMBAI,||71-year-old kidney transplant patient beats COVID-19||A 71-year-old man, who underwent a kidney transplant five years ago, has recovered from COVID-19. Arvind Baval was admitted to Apex Hospital in Mulund on September 16 after he tested positive. Apart from having comorbidities such as hypertension and diabetes, he had been taking three immunosuppressant drugs. Dr. Hardik Thakker, consultant physician and infectious diseases expert at the hospital, said Mr. Baval had fever and breathlessness when he was admitted. “A diabetic patient, with hypertension and a transplanted kidney, faces more danger in a novel coronavirus attack. This virus could do much more damage in such cases considering his age and lower immunity,” he said. Mr. Baval was in the ICU for three days and the isolation room for a week. “Since he was on immunosuppressive therapy, his immunity was low. He was also having comorbidities which made it a very difficult case,” Dr. Thakker said. Mr. Baval was then given remdesivir treatment for five days. “With sheer determination and aggressive treatments we were able to save him. After completing the remdesivir course, he was taken off oxygen support for five days and then discharged,” Dr. Thakker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/71-year-old-kidney-transplant-patient-beats-covid-19/article32710914.ece
28 September 2020||Mumbai,||CM opens boat club, grape park on World Tourism Day||On World Tourism Day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated a boat club and grape park in Nashik and a complex built in Kharghar by the State Tourism Department. He also launched a data bank ‘Maharashtra Tourism - Something for Everyone’, which contains information on tourism sites, pilgrim centres, agriculture tourism, world heritage sites, airports, hotels, restaurants, resorts in the State. At his official residence Varsha during a tourism e-function on Sunday, Mr. Thackeray said he had aerially photographed Maharashtra several times and its beauty ought to reach the world, adding that the endeavor of his government was to make the State the “number one tourist destination in the country”. He said it was not just enough developing tourist sites but related infrastructure too has to be developed. State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said eight crore people visited the country every year and Maharashtra has potential to showcase agri tourism, jungles of Vidarbha and the Konkan coast. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal said Nashik is one of the main pilgrim centres of the country and the boat club and grape park would boost tourism. State Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray said a plan had been made to boost agri-tourism and informed that the Taj group of hotels was building a tourism centre in Konkan. He said Chipi airport and two 5-star hotels will come up, and the beach shack policy would also attract tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-opens-boat-club-grape-park-on-world-tourism-day/article32710921.ece
28 September 2020||Mumbai,||Sena, NCP hail SAD’s decision to quit NDA over farm Bills||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena on Sunday congratulated the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership for its decision to quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in protest over the passage of the farm Bills in Parliament. NCP chief Sharad Pawar took to Twitter to praise SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Badal, “who under the leadership of Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of NDA”. He added, “Thanks for firmly standing with farmers.” Sena leader Sanjay Raut tweeted that his party “appreciates Akali Dal’s decision to break its ties with the NDA in the interest of farmers”. He also said it was a sad development as it is the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years after the Sena and the Telugu Desam Party. Mr. Raut said the Sena and the SAD were “pillars of the NDA”. “Both the parties stood by the BJP through thick and thin, while others joined when they smelt power. The Sena was forced to quit the NDA last year while the Shiromani Akali Dal quit over farm Bills. We felt sad over the development,” he said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-ncp-hail-sads-decision-to-quit-nda-over-farm-bills/article32710918.ece
28 September 2020||Pune,||Scrap all reservation if Marathas don’t get quota: BJP MP Bhosale||Warning that the intense displeasure prevailing amongst the Maratha community could spiral out of control, Bharatiya Janata Party MP Udayanraje Bhosale on Sunday said if the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government failed to get the Maratha quota law implemented in the State, then reservation for all communities ought to be scrapped. Mr. Bhosale, a direct descendant of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji and influential community leader from Satara, called for a merit-based approach. “Very often, students from the Maratha community fail to secure admission despite getting good grades as their fellow students, despite getting lower marks, get through by availing of reservation benefits… this is unfair and a major source of the frustration currently prevailing among Maratha community youth,” said Mr. Bhosale, who recently said he was willing to resign from his post if the quota law was not implemented in the State. A number of Maratha leaders led by Shiv Sangram chief Vinayak Mete conferred with Mr. Bhosale, a Rajya Sabha MP, at his residence in Satara to discuss the impasse over the implementation of the Maratha quota law. It is believed a number of outfits and community leaders have urged Mr. Bhosale to take the lead in the agitation. “Even before the Bills for Maratha reservation were passed by the then Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government in 2018, I had been arguing for scrapping of all reservations on caste lines and instead making them on financial criteria… but, that it did not happen,” Mr. Bhosale said. Mr. Bhosale was earlier with Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). He joined the BJP before the Lok Sabha elections last year, only to be trounced by the NCP’s Shriniwas Patil. The storm of the Maratha agitation throughout 2018 saw Mr. Bhosale cast in the role of a possibly important mediator between the community’s interests and the then BJP government. At the time, Mr. Bhosale had chaired a Maratha Parishad in Pune in August 2018. Sources said a similar brainstorming meeting on the delayed implementation of the Maratha quota would be held on October 3 in Pune. ‘Bhosale should lead’ Mr. Mete said he had come to invite Mr. Bhosale for the session. “Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale must take the lead in this fight… as a direct descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji, he has the capability to unite the different Maratha outfits and ensure the justice that has been denied the community so long,” said Mr. Mete. Meanwhile, several activists of the Maratha Kranti Morcha held a big demonstration in Pune, surrounding offices of various political parties, including the NCP and the BJP. Girish Bapat, BJP MP from Pune, who met the protesters, targeted the government for its failure to make the quota law stick in the Supreme Court. Mr. Bapat said, “When our party was in power in Maharashtra, we ensured that the Maratha Bill that we got passed in the Assembly endured in the Bombay High Court. Why couldn’t the ruling government show the same tenacity and fight hard for the community’s interests in the Supreme Court to get the quota law implemented in Maharashtra?” ‘Not keen on EWS quota’ Meanwhile, Rajendra Kondhare, convenor of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, said the community was not interested in the benefits under the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota recently extended by the Chief Minister to pacify the restive community. “The first priority of this government is to urge the Supreme Court Bench to vacate the stay on the implementation of the Maratha quota law. Until that happens, we are not interested in the insubstantial EWS quota benefits,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/scrap-all-reservation-if-marathas-dont-get-quota-bjp-mp-bhosale/article32710916.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||In tune with the times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/in-tune-with-the-times/article32711237.ece
28 September 2020||Washington,||In first Trump-Biden debate, U.S. will finally see its choice||The volatile U.S. presidential election enters a fierce new stage this week when Donald Trump and Joe Biden hold their first debate — a television spectacle finally allowing Americans to witness the two antagonists head to head. Tuesday’s clash, coming right after Mr. Trump defied Democrats and nominated a conservative to replace the late Supreme Court liberal icon Ruth Bader Ginsburg, could again upend an already nail-biting contest. Mr. Biden, 77, leads in polls against the Republican incumbent, both nationwide and in most of the crucial swing states set to provide the decisive electoral college count on November 3. But Mr. Trump, 74, is campaigning hard, criss-crossing those battlegrounds on Air Force One while Biden runs a far lower profile strategy. And with his history of skilful showmanship and brutal debate tactics, Trump is hoping the meeting in Cleveland will put him back on top. High stakes Because of COVID-19 restrictions this has been a mostly long-distance election season. That puts even more weight on the first of three 90-minute debates, where tens of millions of Americans will weigh up two men who each accuses the other of posing an existential threat to the United States. Mr. Trump sees his nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court — potentially tilting the court to the right for years —as a fundamental boost to his troubled reelection campaign. But the live TV debate will be a wild card. Mr. Trump needs to break through the bad news of 2,00,000 coronavirus deaths, the long-lasting economic fallout, and fatigue among swaths of the country at the constant scandal and upheaval roiling his administration. And Mr. Trump has huge confidence in his prowess on stage. Yet unlike the fawning treatment he enjoys during his weekly call-ins to Fox News , he’ll find himself facing a man painting him as “toxic” in front of the entire country. Mr. Biden, as the frontrunner, mainly needs just to keep steady. But he’ll be up against a man many would call the best provocateur in the business. Mr. Trump has spent months denigrating Mr. Biden’s mental state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-first-trump-biden-debate-us-will-finally-see-its-choice/article32710614.ece
28 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Mahinda statement on Modi meet silent on 13-A||Hours after India and Sri Lanka issued a joint statement referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to the Sri Lankan government to address the Tamil minority’s aspirations, with the implementation of the 13th Amendment, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa’s office released a statement on Saturday, making no mention of Mr. Modi’s call, or the constitutional provision on power devolution. Mr. Rajapaksa’s statement, following the leaders’ virtual meet on Saturday, focused on Sri Lanka’s response to the coronavirus pandemic that has drawn international praise. While outlining the talking points of their discussion — such as development, geopolitics, economy, defense and tourism —it was silent on justice and post-war reconciliation that remain sensitive issues to some in the southern Sinhala-Buddhist constituency, who fear power devolution might lead to separatism and justice might target the armed forces, who are accused of war crimes. Though PM Rajapaksa, during his time as President for a decade from 2005, had assured India and the international community on multiple occasions that he would “go beyond” the 13th Amendment to ensure “meaningful devolution’, as a means of arriving at a political solution to Sri Lanka’s national question, he is yet to implement the promise. Saturday’s joint statement sparked interest for its explicit reference to the 13th Amendment, that too at a time when some in the Rajapaksa administration are calling for its abolition. Joint statement While the joint statement indicated that both Colombo and New Delhi were agreeable to the mention, the omission in PM Rajapaksa’s own statement that came hours later did not go unnoticed. Popular weekend newspaper Sunday Times carried a front page report titled ‘Lanka avoids any 13-A commitment at Rajapaksa-Modi summit’. Meanwhile, the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), a prominent grouping of Tamil parties, welcomed the joint statement by India and Sri Lanka. Tweeting from its official handle, the TNA said: “We welcome PM Modi calling on Sri Lanka to address the aspirations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and respect within a united SL including by carrying forward the process of reconciliation with implementation of constitutional provisions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mahinda-statement-on-modi-meet-silent-on-13-a/article32710618.ece
28 September 2020||SEOUL,||N. Korea accuses S. Korea of intrusion to find official’s body||North Korea accused South Korea of sending ships across the disputed sea boundary to find the body of a South Korean official recently killed by North Korean troops, warning on Sunday the intrusion could escalate tensions. South Korea denied the accusation. “We urge the South side to immediately halt the intrusion across the military demarcation line in the West Sea that may lead to escalation of tensions,” the official Korean Central News Agency said. “It arouses our due vigilance as it may lead to another awful incident.” ‘Kim’s apology’ South Korea proposed a joint investigation to resolve discrepancies over the South Korean official’s death last week. Officials in Seoul have said the 47-year-old was likely attempting to defect before North Korean troops fatally shot him and burned his body. According to Seoul, North Korea on Friday sent a message, including a rare apology by leader Kim Jong-un for the shooting death of the official. The North Korean message distributed by South Korea said its troops shot the official because he attempted to flee after refusing to answer their questions. It said the troops were unable to find the official’s body and burned the object he was floating on in line with anti-coronavirus rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-accuses-s-korea-of-intrusion-to-find-officials-body/article32710615.ece
28 September 2020||Peshawar,||Pak. provincial govt. to buy Kapoor Haveli||The provincial government in Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa has decided to purchase the ancestral houses of legendary Bollywood actors Raj Kapoor and Dilip Kumar to conserve the historic buildings which are in dilapidated condition and facing demolition threat. The Department of Archaeology in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province has decided to allocate sufficient funds for purchasing the two buildings, which have been declared as the national heritage and lie in the heart of Peshawar city, an official said. An official letter has been sent to the Deputy Commissioner of Peshawar to determine the cost of both the historic buildings, where the two greats of Indian cinema were born and raised in their early days before the partition, said Dr Abdus Samad Khan, the head of department of archaeology. Raj Kapoor’s ancestral home, known as Kapoor Haveli, is situated in the fabled Qissa Khwani Bazar. It was built between 1918 and 1922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-provincial-govt-to-buy-kapoor-haveli/article32710616.ece
28 September 2020||Geneva,||Swiss voters refuse to rein in immigration from EU||The Swiss have rejected a bid to dramatically reduce immigration from the European Union, but have embraced offering paid paternity leave for the first time, projections from several votes in the country Sunday showed. Shortly after polls closed at noon (1000 GMT), projections from gfs.bern polling institute indicated that 63% of Swiss voters had balked at the initiative to tear up an agreement permitting the free movement of people between Switzerland and the surrounding EU. The initiative, backed by the populist right-wing Swiss People’s Party (SVP) — Switzerland’s largest party — had been opposed by the government, Parliament, unions, employer organisations and all other political parties out of fear it would jeopardise overall relations with the bloc. Public support for the initiative had also been seen slipping in recent opinion polls, but the suspense remained high since SVP has eked out surprise victories in the past in its war against tightening relations with the EU. Most people vote in advance in the popular polls and referendum held in Switzerland every few months as part of the country’s famous direct democratic system, usually making it possible to quickly surmise which way the vote is headed. SVP’s initiative called for Switzerland to revise its Constitution to ensure it can autonomously handle immigration policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/swiss-voters-refuse-to-rein-in-immigration-from-eu/article32710619.ece
28 September 2020||KARACHI,||13 killed in van fire on highway in southern Pakistan||Thirteen people were killed after a passenger van overturned and caught fire on a highway heading to Pakistan’s port city of Karachi overnight, police said on Sunday. The van fell in a ditch after it was struck by an object from another vehicle late on Saturday night, said a senior official.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/13-killed-in-van-fire-on-highway-in-southern-pakistan/article32710610.ece
28 September 2020||Beijing,||Beijing, Sept 27, 2020 (AFP) -||Sixteen workers died and one is in a critical condition after being trapped underground in a coal mine in southwest China on Sunday, reported state broadcaster CCTV. A conveyor belt caught fire, which produced dangerous levels of carbon monoxide, leading to their deaths.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-sept-27-2020-afp/article32710612.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Growth compulsions, fiscal arithmetic||India’s growth in the first quarter of 2020-21 at (-) 23.9% showed one of the highest contractions globally. Global growth prospects for 2020 have been projected by a number of multilateral institutions and rating agencies including that for India. The 2020-21 real GDP growth for India is forecasted in the range of (-) 5.8% (the Reserve Bank of India’s Survey of Professional Forecasters) to (-) 14.8% (Goldman Sachs). The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in its September 2020 Interim Economic Outlook has projected a contraction of (-) 10.2% in FY21 for India. The annual projections also indicate a strong likelihood of even the nominal GDP growth showing a contraction for 2020-21. The latest data released by the Ministry of Statistics indicate a Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation rate of 6.7% for August 2020. The average CPI inflation during the first five months of 2020-21 is estimated at 6.6%. Given the injection of periodic liquidity into the system and the inflation trends, the year as a whole may show a CPI inflation of close to 7%. Since deflator-based inflation tends to be lower than the CPI inflation, it may be about 5% or less. In fact, in the first quarter of 2020-21, the GDP-based deflator was only 1.8%. If we take the OECD’s real GDP growth projection at (-) 10.2% and a deflator-based inflation of about 5%, the implied contraction in nominal GDP is about (-) 5.0% for 2020-21. It is true that some of us felt at one time that the economy might not do too badly because some key sectors such as agriculture and related sectors, public administration, defence services and other services may perform normally or better than normal given the demand for health, relief and revival expenditures. We had even expected that a small positive growth might be possible. The recently released national income figures for Quarter I of 2020-21 hold no such hope. What is most surprising in the Q1 data is that the sector ‘Public Administration, Defence and other Services’ contracted at (-) 10.3%. This means that there was no fiscal stimulus. Independent estimates show that States’ capital spending fell by 43.5%. The worsening of the fiscal deficit appears to be because of decline in revenue than increase in expenditure. Revenue erosion The policy challenge for the remaining part of the fiscal year is to minimise this sharp contractionary momentum in real and nominal growth. A sharp contraction in nominal GDP growth has significantly adverse implications for the prospects of central and State tax revenues, which may both contract. In the first quarter of 2020-21, the Centre’s gross tax revenues contracted by (-) 32.6% and the CAG-based data pertaining to 19 States show a contraction of (-) 45% in their own tax revenues. This implies a negative buoyancy of about 1.65 in the combined tax revenues of central and State governments in the first quarter. Given the adverse impact of the lockdown, even the budgeted non-tax revenues are not likely to be realised. The revenue calculations of the Budget were made on the assumption that the nominal income of the country would grow at 10%. With the prospect of a contraction in nominal growth, tax revenues of the Centre would show a considerable shortfall as compared to the budgeted amounts. Some estimates indicate that the tax and non-tax revenue and non-debt capital receipts in the current fiscal may fall well short of the budget estimates by an amount higher than Rs. 5-lakh crore. The combined fiscal deficit of the Centre and the States will have to make up for the shortfall in tax and non-tax revenues, if the level of budgeted expenditures is to be maintained. Fiscal deficit In order for the central government to maintain the level of budgeted expenditure and also provide for additional stimulus, its fiscal deficit may have to be increased to close to an estimated 8.8% of GDP. This consists of an estimated revised budgeted fiscal deficit of about 4% of GDP due to a lower denominator value of GDP-plus 2.5% to make up for the shortfall in tax and non-tax revenues plus 2.3% for the additionality over the budgeted expenditures in the already announced stimulus package (including the recently announced first batch of supplementary demand for grants). If one adds the Centre’s and States’ fiscal deficit, the combined fiscal deficit amounts to 13.8% of GDP. If the nominal GDP actually contracts in 2020-21, the fiscal deficit as the percent of GDP would go up further. This also does not take into account any additionality to borrowing because of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation. It may be noted that the Centre’s fiscal deficit to GDP ratio for the Q1 of 2021 was 17.4%. The Centre’s fiscal during the first four months of 2020-21 as a per cent of annual budgeted target was at 103.1%. Limits to deficit How high can fiscal deficit go? The International Monetary Fund, in its June 2020 update of the World Economic Outlook, estimated the fiscal deficit of India and China at 12.1% of GDP. All the other countries except the United States and a few others have a deficit lower than this. The dollar as a reserve currency has its own advantages and this benefits the U.S. Coming back to India’s fiscal deficit, there are not adequate resources to support a fiscal deficit of nearly 14% of GDP. All this will therefore require substantial support from the Reserve Bank of India which will have to take on itself, either directly or indirectly, a part of the central government debt. In the direct mode, the RBI takes on the debt directly from government at an agreed rate. It took India long to move away from the automatic monetisation of debt. It happened in the early 1990s. Even if the RBI wants to support the borrowing programmes, it should not do so directly. The indirect method is preferable as the market still sends out the signals on interest rate. In both cases, the RBI is the provider of liquidity. The indirect route is not new. The question ultimately relates to the extent of debt monetisation that may be undertaken. The country has also to guard against high inflation. This Fisc is caught in a serious dilemma. The economic situation warrants enhanced government expenditure. The fiscal deficit will go well beyond the mandated level — more than twice the mandated level. This has to be accepted. It appears that governments are withholding expenditure. That is not the right approach. At the same time, there is a limit to monetisation of debt. Perhaps the best course of action would be to keep the combined fiscal deficit at around 14% of GDP in the current year and find ways to finance it. This will have to be brought down gradually. It may take several years of normalisation. C. Rangarajan is former Chairman, Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council and former Governor, Reserve Bank of India. D.K. Srivastava is Chief Policy Advisor, EY India and former Director, Madras School of Economics. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/growth-compulsions-fiscal-arithmetic/article32710598.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Where is the sentinel guarding our rights?||In P.K. Ghosh v. J.G. Rajput (1995), the Supreme Court held, “Credibility in the functioning of the justice delivery system and the reasonable perception of the affected parties are relevant considerations to ensure the continuance of public confidence in the credibility and impartiality of the judiciary. This is necessary not only for doing justice but also for ensuring that justice is seen to be done.” In its own words, the Supreme Court has been assigned the role of a “sentinel on the qui vive ” as regards fundamental rights. The right to get redress from the Court is itself a fundamental right, and the Court cannot abandon its own duty in this regard. Exercise of power Since assumption of office by Chief Justice J.S. Khehar in 2017, the Court has increasingly come under the public gaze not for its role as the protector of the Constitution but for its repeated failures. Successive Chief Justices have failed to stop the decline of the Court. With the Court upholding the Chief Justice as ‘Master of the Roster’, in a debatable judgment in 2018, Chief Justices have used their powers to constitute Benches and allocate cases to such Benches in a highly selective manner. This defeats the fundamental principle of the rule of law. There is no doubt that the Chief Justice must be the administrative head. But he must exercise his powers in a fair and just manner. He must not constitute Benches and allocate cases to those Benches in a manner which tilts the balance in favour of the executive. Decisions in some of the most important matters affecting the nation, the Constitution, democracy, and the people and their fundamental rights have been taken in favour of the executive, such as in the Ayodhya case, the Rafale case, the Birla-Sahara case, and the order for a National Investigation Agency probe into the Hadiya case. On the other hand, the Court refuses to decide on the challenge to electoral bonds, the removal of Article 370, and habeas corpus cases, among others. These decisions have all come from Benches constituted by respective Chief Justices. The Supreme Court consists of a maximum of 34 judges although it generally functions with around 30. Yet, constitution of Benches and allocation of cases have left much to be desired in the last five years. For instance, diverse Benches, all presided by Justice Arun Mishra (now retired), were assigned as many as eight cases of the Adani Group. Disturbing events The outcome of these cases is not the subject matter of this debate. The issue is, does justice appear to have been done? Perhaps, the abject failures of the Court were influenced by different but disturbing events involving these Chief Justices. Former Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Kalikho Pul’s suicide note, which otherwise is an admissible piece of evidence, carried serious allegations against “two senior-most judges” of the Supreme Court. Pul’s wife requested an inquiry, which Chief Justice J.S. Khehar and his colleagues stopped. Contrast this with the Supreme Court ordering an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, where no suicide note was found. The same Court declined to order any inquiry into the demise of judge B.S. Loya, thereby failing to reassure the subordinate judiciary that it stands with it. Later, the fact that Chief Justice Dipak Misra presided over the Constitution Bench hearing matters related to the medical college scam, despite the FIR naming unknown persons including constitutional functionaries of misconduct, perhaps weakened his authority. Subsequently, many including retired judges have been chargesheeted in that case. Then came the sexual harassment charge against Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi. Soon after the complainant’s charge, Chief Justice Gogoi, Justice Arun Mishra and Justice Sanjiv Khanna presided over a Bench on a Saturday to condemn the complainant at the instance of the Solicitor General in a matter that they stated was “of great public importance touching upon the independence of judiciary”. The entire judiciary and executive demonstrated their high-handedness in the case. The complainant later withdrew her complaint and the police filed a report saying no offence was disclosed. Another Bench presided by Justice Mishra entertained a strange affidavit from a lawyer and ordered an inquiry by Justice A.K. Patnaik (retired) into the charge of attack on the judiciary stating: “This is with respect to the contents of the affidavits, whether the affidavits are correct or not.” The Court also directed the top agencies to co-operate and investigate this matter. Simultaneously, her complaint was found unsubstantiated by a three-member committee headed by Justice S.A. Bobde and comprising Justice Indu Malhotra and Justice Indira Banerjee. The report has not seen the light of day. The complainant was reinstated just after Chief Justice Bobde took over. This vindicated her on the one hand and proves that every action taken by the Court and the police were unconstitutional. Did these events influence the exercise of the powers by these three masters of the roster? When Chief Justice Bobde took over, I had written that his appointment gave “fresh hope to all stakeholders in the administration of justice”, but that his acceptance of the Presidential Proclamation from P.K. Mishra, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, raised serious concerns about the times to come. Functioning of the court Since the lockdown, the Supreme Court has been functioning in a truncated manner. Despite repeated requests from the Bar, virtual hearings have not improved. While the High Courts have been using better systems, the Supreme Court persists on using a system which does not allow all the judges to sit every day. As a result, generally seven-eight Benches sit every day as against 13-15 which can be constituted by the master of the roster. The Court, which in March stated that the migrant exodus was triggered by panic created by fake news, has been repeatedly adjourning the matter on the role of the media in publishing/ broadcasting false and vicious reports on the Nizamuddin Markaz vilifying a section of Indians. Is the Court not the protector of minorities? The working of the Court is far from satisfactory although the Court claims that sufficient number of matters are being heard. The Bar and litigants feel otherwise. The constitution of Benches and allocation of matters even under the present dispensation continues to be subjective. Senior judges are not assigned PIL matters and almost all matters raising important issues in respect of acts of commissions and omissions by the executive have been allocated to Benches constituted by the Chief Justice. The Court needs to re-address its role assigned under the Constitution. The Supreme Court must reassert emphatically that it is truly the sentinel on the qui vive as regards the fundamental rights of all citizens. Dushyant Dave is a Senior Advocate in the Supreme Court of India and is President of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/where-is-the-sentinel-guarding-our-rights/article32710607.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Diagnosing what ails medical education||The new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 (https://bit.ly/2S1dpJs) aims to provide “universal access to quality education…” and bridge the “gap between the current state of learning outcomes and what is required… through undertaking major reforms that bring the highest quality, equity and integrity into the system, from early childhood care and education through higher education”. It suggests that where it differs from previous policies is that in addition to the issues of access and equity, the present policy lays an emphasis on quality and holistic learning. The outcome sought in higher education is “… more than the creation of greater opportunities for individual employment. It represents the key to more vibrant, socially engaged, cooperative communities and a happier, cohesive, cultured, productive, innovative, progressive, and prosperous nation”. In a brief paragraph on medical education, it states that the aim is to train health care professionals “primarily required for working in primary care and secondary hospitals.” On private entities Successive governments have been faced with the quandary of how to quickly expand educational opportunities while simultaneously addressing the issues of quality and equity. In the field of health care, there is a continuing shortage of health-care personnel. The infrastructure required for high-quality modern medical education is expensive. Faced with public demand for high-quality medical care on the one hand and severe constraints on public resources on the other, private entities have been permitted to establish medical educational institutions to supplement government efforts. Though they are supposed to be not-for-profit, taking advantage of the poor regulatory apparatus and the ability to both tweak and create rules, these private entities, with very few exceptions, completely commercialised education. None of the three stated objectives of medical education has been achieved by the private sector — that is, providing health-care personnel in all parts of the country, ensuring quality and improving equity. The overwhelming majority of private medical colleges provide poor quality education at extremely high costs. Faced with this situation, the public has approached the polity, the executive and the courts to ensure equity, if not quality. The results have been patchy. On and off, there have been attempts to regulate fees, sometimes by governments and sometimes by courts. Faced with the fundamental contradiction that all governments have been complicit in violations of their own policies to ensure quality as well as equity, these efforts have not been fruitful. The executive, primarily the Medical Council of India, has proven unequal to the task of ensuring that private institutions comply with regulations. When the courts are approached, which issues are seen as important depends on the Bench. Some judges wish to ensure quality and equity; others give importance to points of law on the rights of private parties, federalism and such issues. It was in this situation that the board of governors, which replaced the Medical Council of India, as an interim before the National Medical Commission became operative, introduced the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Undergraduate), or NEET-UG, as a single all-India gateway for admission to medical colleges. It is well known, though not easy to prove, that entrance examinations being held by almost all private colleges were a farce, and seats were being sold to the highest bidder. Challenged in courts, after an initial setback, the NEET scheme has been upheld. NEET has worsened equity NEET may have improved the quality of candidates admitted to private institutions to some extent, but it seems to have further worsened equity. Under any scheme of admission, the number of students from government schools who are able to get admission to a medical college is very low. With NEET, the number has become lower. The high fees of private medical colleges have always been an impossible hurdle for students from government schools, whatever the method used for admission. Allowing government medical colleges to admit students based on marks in Standard XII and using NEET scores for admission to private colleges will be more equitable right now. The basic cause of inequity in admission to higher educational institutions is the absence of a high quality school system accessible to all. In medical education, the situation is made far worse by the rent seeking and profiteering of the majority of private medical colleges. It’s about political resolve The fundamental problem in achieving quality, equity and integrity in education, the stated objectives of the new NEP, is confusion on the part of successive governments between policy-making for human resource development and economic policy. On the one hand, the Ministry of Human Resources Development repeatedly says that quality and equity are the cornerstones of good education. On the other, the economic policies consider education a consumer good which can be sold to the highest bidder. No amount of tweaking the methods of admission can address this contradiction. Only a resolute government, determined to ensure that economic policy facilitates quality and equity in education, can do it. Dr. George Thomas is an orthopaedic surgeon and former Editor, the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/diagnosing-what-ails-medical-education/article32710600.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The devil is in the detail||It is heartening that readers engage with some of the difficult and often contentious issues surrounding journalism and media freedom. While I sincerely thank those who have endorsed my views in my last column, ‘Tilting at windmills’ (September 21), some others wrote saying they see bias not in opinion pieces but in news reports and headlines published in this newspaper. Providing context S. Balasubramanian, a reader from Bengaluru, saw a clear bias in the way The Hindu reported the Supreme Court proceedings of the bail plea of activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj. On September 25, The Hindu carried a report with the headline, ‘SC asks Sudha Bharadwaj to file bail plea on merits’. Mr. Balasubramanian compared it with the headline carried in some other news organisation: ‘Elgar case: SC junks Sudha Bharadwaj bail plea’. Mr. Balasubramanian said: “While the report in The Hindu may not be completely incorrect, one cannot but wonder if The Hindu report is short on facts. And the title only reflects the respective paper’s preferences. In an era where the credibility of news organisations is at an all-time low, The Hindu can’t afford to let its readers down.” It is evident that The Hindu reported the proceedings of the Supreme Court in a fair manner. It is important to remember the observations of both judges who constituted the Bench — Justice U. U. Lalit and Justice Ajay Rastogi. Justice Lalit asked advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for Ms. Bharadwaj: “Why is your client not applying for bail on merits?” Justice Rastogi asked: “You have such a good case on merits, why are you seeking bail on medical grounds?” Encouraged by these observations, Ms. Grover withdrew the bail plea on medical grounds. Contrary to Mr. Balasubramanian’s contention, The Hindu report was not only factually correct but also provided more facts. The report provided the necessary context without editorialising. An interesting reaction to my column was on Twitter. A reader, C. Chitra, whose handle is ‘flying colours’ wrote: “Occasionally people will suggest that those of us concerned about the dogmas of our age are tilting at windmills. From British press, unconscious bias was ‘Something which so many people don’t understand’.” Of course, there is lot to learn from the British Press and its rich reflection on the vocation. Role of the news ombudsman It is crucial to realise that a news ombudsman uses journalistic yardsticks in evaluating complaints and is not swayed by external factors such as his or her political preference and social media campaigns. Like many young reporters, in my early days in journalism, due to daily deadline pressures, I hardly reflected on what constituted journalism. In 1998, Godfrey Hodgson, director of the Reuters’ Foundation Programme, welcomed me into the fellowship programme at the University of Oxford with a short monograph titled Prometheus Unbound: What the media can do with freedom . It was the Iain Walker Memorial Lecture delivered by Harold Evans a year earlier. And this sparked off my passion to learn about the various elements of journalism and the role of journalism in contributing to a better democratic public sphere. Alan Rusbridger, former editor of The Guardian , in his obituary of Sir Harold Evans who died on September 23 in New York, pointed out some of his great qualities. He wrote: “He [Evans] could do it all. Write like a dream; design with impact; edit with flair; dash off the perfect headline; crop a picture; see off a writ. There was no one who knew more about the craft of journalism, nor anyone to match his passion for communicating that craft — documented in numerous textbooks that were, in turn, studied by generations of would-be journalists.” I use Evans’s books as texts for my students at the Asian College of Journalism. But what I learnt from him as a news ombudsman is his expansive understanding of the crucial role of journalism. In his Iain Walker Memorial Lecture, Evans recollected a handwritten note framed on the wall of the Editor’s office of The Northern Echo . It was a letter from W.T. Stead accepting the editorship of the paper. The framed note read: “What a marvellous opportunity for attacking the devil!” He also pointed out that tabloid values suffuse the press in ways that are unthinkable, where complex stories are squeezed into ‘good guy’, ‘bad guy’ format. A news ombudsman is committed to keeping tabloidisation at bay. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-devil-is-in-the-detail/article32710604.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||The benefits of a carbon tax||With China, the largest carbon dioxide emitter, announcing that it would balance out its carbon emissions with measures to offset them before 2060, the spotlight is now on the U.S. and India, countries that rank second and third in emissions. One way to cut effluents while earning revenues is to price the carbon content of domestic production and imports, be it energy or transport. With the International Monetary Fund endorsing the European Union’s plan to impose carbon levies on imports, India can be among the first movers in the developing world in taxing and switching from carbon-intensive fuels (like coal), the main sources of climate change. Record heat waves in Delhi, floods in southwest China, and catastrophic forest fires in California this year are indicative of the existential danger from global warming. India ranks fifth in the Global Climate Risk Index 2020. Between 1998 and 2017, disaster-hit countries reported $2.9 trillion in direct economic losses, with 77% resulting from climate change, according to a United Nations report. The U.S. faced the highest losses, followed by China, Japan, and India. Air pollution has fallen worldwide after the COVID-19 outbreak, including in India. But with resumption of polluting activities, emissions in India are set to rise sharply unless strong action is taken. Carbon dioxide, the chief culprit in global warming, was 414 parts per million in August 2020 because of past accumulation. As one half comes from the three top carbon emitters, they need to drive de-carbonisation. Stronger action India has committed to 40% of electricity capacity being from non-fossil fuels by 2030, and lowering the ratio of emissions to GDP by one-third from 2005 levels. It is in the country’s interest to take stronger action before 2030, leading to no net carbon increase by 2050. A smart approach is pricing carbon, building on the small steps taken thus far, such as plans by some 40 large companies to price carbon, government incentives for electric vehicles, and an environmental tax in the 2020-21 budget. One way to price carbon is through emission trading, i.e., setting a maximum amount of allowable effluents from industries, and permitting those with low emissions to sell their extra space. Pilot projects on carbon trading in China have shown success. There is valuable experience in the EU, and some American states — for example, the regional greenhouse gas initiative in the U.S. northeast. Another way is to put a carbon tax on economic activities — for example, on the use of fossil fuels like coal, as done in Canada and Sweden. Canada imposed a carbon tax at $20 per tonne of CO2 emissions in 2019, eventually rising to $50 per tonne. This is estimated to reduce greenhouse gas pollution by between 80 and 90 million tonnes by 2022. The fiscal gains from pricing carbon can be sizeable. A carbon tax at $35 per tonne of CO2 emissions in India is estimated to be capable of generating some 2% of GDP through 2030. An internally recommended carbon price of $40 per metric tonne in China could generate 14% additional revenues. Imposing a carbon tariff Big economies like India should also use their global monopsony, or the power of a large buyer in international trade, to impose a carbon tariff as envisaged by the EU. Focusing on trade is vital because reducing the domestic carbon content of production alone would not avert the harm if imports remain carbon-intensive. Therefore, leading emitters should use their monopsony, diplomacy and financial capabilities to forge a climate coalition with partners. India is among the nations that are hardest hit by climate impacts. There is growing public support for climate action, but we need solutions that are seen to be in India’s interest. A market-oriented approach to tax and trade carbon domestically and to induce similar action by others through international trade and diplomacy offers a way forward. Ed Araral is Associate Professor and Director, and Vinod Thomas is Visiting Professor, at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-benefits-of-a-carbon-tax/article32710608.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Battle for Bihar||The Assembly election in Bihar will be taking place in unprecedented circumstances over three phases, in the last week of October and the first week of November. This will be the first Assembly election since COVID-19 disrupted normal life, and the performance of the governments on the health and economic fronts will become an issue in the election campaign. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s record of 15 years is mixed. After initial improvements in governance after he took over in 2005, there was an evident downslide, culminating in the bungled handling of the pandemic. He deserted the BJP in 2013 and won the 2015 Assembly election in alliance with the RJD, only to return to the BJP’s embrace soon. His popularity is waning, while the BJP is on the defensive on questions of border security, economic stagnation, and farmer backlash. The State and the Centre, jointly and separately, mismanaged the return of migrant workers from other States to Bihar during the lockdown. They have held together to distract the debate from substantive issues to emotive rhetoric. The suspected suicide of a film actor who hailed from Bihar is being used by both parties to fan caste and parochial emotions. The brazenly partisan conduct of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Harivansh — a member of the JD(U) — during the monsoon session is being hailed as adherence to Bihari ethos and his critics are being labelled anti-Bihar. It is not that the NDA is free from internal squabbles. Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan is sulking after the entry of another Dalit leader, Jitan Ram Manjhi, into the alliance. Still, the social coalition of upper castes, non-Yadav backward castes and considerable segments of Dalits behind the NDA is largely intact as the campaign formally begins. It is not unbreachable, but the Opposition, commanded by RJD leader Tejashwi Pratap, does not appear battle-ready. The RJD, the Congress and the Left might ultimately form an alliance, but not before more bad blood is generated and confusion spread among their supporters. This will be the first Bihar Assembly election in 30 years in which Lalu Prasad is not the central campaigner. The junior Yadav is often compared, unfairly, to his father. Hamstrung by his siblings, and dealing with a changed social environment, he has the tough task of selectively appropriating his father’s legacy and selectively disowning it. Muslims constitute nearly 17% of the State’s population, and it will be interesting to watch how the NDA and the RJD-led alliance address them regarding the National Population Register and allied concerns. The election will be a health check of Indian democracy in the post-pandemic era. There is potential for a new imagination in Bihar, but, unfortunately, that is not visible on the horizon yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/battle-for-bihar/article32710592.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Salutary lesson||Vodafone Group Plc has won yet another round in its 13-year-long battle with India’s tax authorities. On Friday, an international arbitration tribunal ruled that the Indian government’s efforts to claim more than Rs. 20,000 crore in tax (including related interest and penalties) from Vodafone using retrospective legislation was in clear breach of the ‘fair and equitable treatment’ protections afforded under Article 4(1) of the Bilateral Investment Treaty between India and the Netherlands. The ruling upholding the British multinational’s stand ought to end India’s protracted and often perverse pursuit of what at the very outset was a highly contentious claim. The dispute began in September 2007 when tax authorities served a demand on Vodafone International Holdings BV for tax that it said Vodafone’s Dutch unit ought to have withheld while acquiring the controlling stake in the erstwhile Hutchison Essar Ltd. from Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd. Since the stake purchase transaction took place outside India between two overseas entities, Vodafone was emphatic from the start that it was not liable for any tax relating to the deal. Following a setback at the Bombay High Court, Vodafone presented its position to the Supreme Court, which ruled in its favour in 2012. In a move fraught with implications for all its international investment treaties, the government of the day, however, amended the tax legislation to give retrospective effect to its claims. This was the trigger for the U.K.-based company to seek arbitral recourse. For Vodafone, the legal win is at best a pyrrhic victory. After having spent about $11 billion in 2007 for acquiring the 67% stake in Hutchison Essar, the telecom services provider has struggled with challenges that forced it, in November 2019, to write down the book value of its Indian holdings to zero. While the Indian operation has gained size and market share including through its merger with the erstwhile Idea Cellular — from, respectively, 44 million subscribers in 2007 to 305 million users, and 26.7% at the end of June — there have been continued losses in the face of intense competition and unviable tariffs. Add to the mix the substantial sum of money it owes the government in the form of adjusted gross revenue dues and the future fund requirements of a rapidly technologically evolving and highly capital intensive industry, Vodafone’s wariness to commit more equity to the Indian venture becomes understandable. The government must not seek to litigate the matter any further. The cost of doing otherwise will surely be bruisingly high, especially at a time when Prime Minister Narenda Modi spares no opportunity to woo foreign investment. Any failure to learn a salutary lesson from this loss would only serve to undermine overseas investors’ faith in India’s commitment to international treaties and the rule of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/salutary-lesson/article32710593.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Mining and geological education (From an editorial)||The Public Services Commission recommended the establishment in India at an early date of a School of Geology which would take rank with similar institutions in Great Britain and afford equal facilities for the scientific study of the subject. It is recognised that the demand for highly trained geologists in India is slowly increasing with the growing sense on the part of the educated classes of the opportunities available to them of taking a share in the utilisation of the raw materials of the country. The provision of facilities in the country for thorough instruction in mining and geology has been under the consideration of the Government of India for some years past and under the Reforms scheme only central agencies and institutions for research and for professional or technical training or for the promotion of special studies will be under the control of the Government of India. The provision of high class instruction in geology will naturally be included in the list of subjects to be directly dealt with by the Central Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mining-and-geological-education-from-an-editorial/article32710601.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Filip to indigenous medical systems (From an Editorial)||The Union Government’s decision to recognise the certificates of authorised medical practitioners of Ayurveda, Unani and Homeopathy under the national health services scheme — this would entitle Government employees treated by them to financial reimbursement — is only an offical admission of the fact that a sizeable section of the population entrusts itself to the care of such doctors. The reasons for the wide acceptance of Indian systems could be their comparative cheapness or the unwillingness of the allopathic doctors to serve in rural and semi-urban areas or deliberate preference for these systems over others. This no doubt has led to quackery which has done much harm to systems that are also not without a scientific basis, though neglected due to several reasons. The efficacy of Indian medicines in curing certain diseases and the systems’ basic approach to bodily aliments may not be questioned. But what needs to be done is to conduct scientific and rational research of the medicinal properties of several plants, roots and herbs on the one hand and on the other to regulate and standardise the education and practice in these systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/filip-to-indigenous-medical-systems-from-an-editorial/article32710602.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Count on the regulator||Many a time, investors face mis-selling, lack of proper servicing or some other issue with investments. It happens with large investors as well but the ones with resources are better placed to solve their grievances. Retail investors may not be aware but there are free-of-cost channels where they can get the grievances sorted out. SEBI The Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI)) is the regulator for secondary market transactions, including those concerning the stock exchanges and mutual funds. If you have any grievance against any mutual fund or adviser or distributor or stock broker, the authority you have to approach is SEBI. SEBI’s online platform SCORES is designed to help investors lodge complaints pertaining to the securities market, against listed firms and SEBI- registered intermediaries. Since August 2018, it is mandatory to register on SCORES for lodging a complaint. To become a registered user, investors may click on ‘Register here’ under ‘Investor Corner’ appearing on the home page of the SCORES portal. Investors will have to fill in the registration form. Fields such as name, address, e-mail address, PAN and mobile number are mandatory. The user name and password for SCORES will be sent to the investor’s registered e-mail id. If an investor is already a registered user, he/she can log in by entering the user name and password. After logging into SCORES, investors must click on ‘Complaint Registration’ under ‘Investor Corner.’ The investor should provide complaint details and must also take care to select the correct complaint category, entity name, and nature of complaint. He or she must provide complaint details in brief (up to 1,000 characters). A PDF document (up to 2MB in size for each nature of complaint) can also be attached with the complaint. RBI The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is the regulator for banks. For any issue with banking services, you can lodge a complaint with the RBI. The Banking Ombudsman Scheme was notified by the RBI in 1995 to provide for a system of grievance redressal against banks. The Scheme seeks to establish a system of resolution of customer complaints. Any person whose grievance is not resolved to his satisfaction by the bank within two months can approach the Banking Ombudsman if the complaint pertains to any of the matters specified in the Scheme. Banking Ombudsmen have been authorised to look into complaints concerning (a) deficiency in banking service (b) sanction of loans and advances insofar as they relate to non-observance of the RBI’s directives on interest rates, delay in sanction or non-observance of prescribed time schedule for disposal of loan applications or non-observance of any other directions or instructions of the RBI as may be specified for this purpose, from time to time. and (c) such other matters as may be specified by the RBI. You can fill up this online complaint form with details of complaint, bank’s name against which you wish to file a complaint, phone numbers, bank account details and the like. Names, addresses, land line number and e-mail ids of 22 Ombudsmen across the offices of RBI, pan-India, are available on the website. It also has the link to file the complaint, which leads you to the relevant website for filing the same. There are three schemes viz. banks, NBFCs and digital transactions. This website provides the FAQs and guidance on how to file the complaint. IRDAI The regulator for insurance products or services is the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). There is a Grievance Cell with the IRDAI where you can lodge your issues. This Cell takes up the grievances with the respective insurers for redressal. Policyholders who have complaints against insurers are required to first approach the grievance redressal cell of the insurer concerned. If they do not receive a response from the insurer within a reasonable period of time or are dissatisfied with the response of the company, they may approach the IRDAI cell. This cell entertains complaints only from the insured or the claimants. It will not entertain complaints on behalf of policyholders by advocates or agents or any third party. There is a complaint registration form available on the IRDAI website. Complaints can be registered over e-mail or, if required, in physical form, with the Cell. Conclusion Regulators are the second leg of a complaint if the service provider e.g. bank or mutual fund or MF distributor or insurer is not responding to a grievance or the response is not satisfactory. Initially, you have to try working it out with the service provider. Generally, the approach of the regulator is to find a middle path in a difference of opinion or if it is a serious lack of basic service, then direct the provider accordingly. If your case is of a very serious nature or if you are looking at compensation, then you may consider filing a case with the court of law. However, that requires time, energy and expense till the case is settled. Hence, retail investors should, under normal circumstances, limit themselves to the service provider and the regulator.  (The author is a faculty, author and columnist)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/count-on-the-regulator/article32710589.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am 75 and have a fixed deposit (FD) with Canara Bank for Rs. 4 lakh. Till last year, they were deducting 10% TDS for the interest accrued. Suddenly, for FY20, they did not deduct TDS though I had not given Form 15H. When I enquired, they said Rs. 50,000 is allowed for senior citizens (80 TTB) and hence, TDS was not deducted. I have FDs with other banks and they have all deducted TDS. Please let me know if I am right in demanding Canara Bank to deduct TDS?  Parameswaran A.Section 194A of the Income Tax Act deals with tax to be deducted at source (TDS) with respect to payments made in the form of interest from other than securities. This includes interest payable by banks/co-operative societies/post office to deposit holders among other similar natured payments. Banks/co-operative societies/post office are required to deduct tax at 10% if the aggregate interest payouts in a year exceeds or is likely to exceed Rs. 40,000 (Rs. 50,000 for senior citizens). If the interest payout from your Canara Bank deposit is not likely to exceed the prescribed limit, then they are not required to deduct TDS at the time of interest accrual or payment irrespective of submission of Form 15H.  Q.I am a pensioner, owning a self-occupied house. The loan for building the house was repaid and the interest thereon was also paid in before retirement. There is no rental income. But, I pay property tax. While calculating taxable income, what prevents me from deducting the tax amount from my salary income (pension). From my income, I have to pay property tax even in the absence of earning any property income and if this is not deducted before calculating my taxable income, will it not amount to payment of income tax on an amount paid already as property tax?  Kuppuswamy N. A.Generally, under the Income Tax Act, deductions in the form of expenses of any nature are allowed only when a taxable income is generated out of a particular avenue. As your house property is self-occupied and does not generate taxable income, expenses of any nature incurred on the same are not allowed under “Income from House Property” barring interest on housing loan which is also restricted to Rs. 2 lakh per annum. As there is no loss (negative income) from “Income from House Property”, there is no scope of setting off the same with your salary/pension income. Q.My annual earnings come to Rs. 10 lakh and I have paid tax of Rs. 25,000 for FY20. I am investing about Rs. 20,000 per annum in PPF and have an insurance policy for Rs. 30,000. Kindly advise on ways to reduce tax further. J. Ragunath A.A resident individual has the following popular options to invest to save tax under Section 80C up to Rs. 1.50 lakh per annum and an additional Rs. 50,000 under Section 80CCD(1B) apart from what you have done – Life Insurance for self and dependents, Equity Linked Savings Scheme (ELSS), Tax Saving Fixed Deposits, National Pension Scheme (80CCD(1B)), Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs) , Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana and National Savings Certificate. Apart from the above, if applicable, deductions can be claimed under Section 80C towards children’s tuition fee and repayment of housing loan repayment. It is to be noted that each investment option aforementioned has riders and restrictions in terms of applicability, minimum investment, lock-in period, treatment of maturity, treatment of accruals, among others, and must be carefully gone through while you are considering availing of the benefit. Interest from savings bank accounts up to Rs. 10,000 under Section 80TTA can be claimed while filing your income tax return. Further, donations towards social causes can be done. Certain donations are allowed 100% deduction while others are allowed 50%. Deductions towards donations will be restricted to 10% of gross total income in case the donated amount exceeds 10% of the gross total income. Donations under Section 80G do not come under the limits prescribed for Section 80C deductions.  (The author is a partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article32710587.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article32710591.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan Royals pulls off IPL’s biggest chase||It was tipped to be a battle royale between the batsmen of Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab with plenty of sixes predicted. And so it turned out to be at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium in their IPL tie on Sunday. Royals chased down the daunting target of 224 set by Kings XI to post its second win in as many matches. The hero of Rajasthan's chase —– the highest in IPL history — was fashioned by Rahul Tewatia, who was surprisingly promoted up the order. Tewatia played the innings of his life, smashing five sixes off Sheldon Cottrell in the 18th over when Royals needed 51 off 18 balls. He had been struggling till then, particularly against leg-spinner Ravi Bishnoi. Though Tewatia wasn't there when his team got home with three deliveries to spare, his 53 (31b, 7x6) had swung it Royals’ way. A second-wicket stand of 81 between captain Steve Smith (50, 27b, 7x4, 2x6) and Sanju Samson (85, 42b, 4x4, 7x6) had put the chase on course after the early loss of Jos Buttler. Samson, who had played a match-changing innings against CSK, came up with yet another stupendous knock. Earlier, Mayank Agarwal played a stunning knock to power Kings XI to 223. His 106 (50b, 10x4, 7x6) was all about sheer class and timing and less about the slam-bang variety that is often a feature of the shortest format. It was his maiden IPL hundred, and his second in all T20s. A six over long-off in the second over of the match, bowled by Ankit Rajpoot (who came in for David Miller), set the trend. In the next over, he pulled Jaydev Unadkat over square-leg. Mayank's opening partner K.L. Rahul greeted Jofra Archer with three successive fours. The Kings XI skipper continued from where he left off against RCB. Mayank, meanwhile, raced to a half-century off just 26 balls and a hundred off 54, reaching the landmark in style with a lofted shot over extra-cover for four off leg-spinner Shreyas Gopal. He holed out in the next over, though, to Samson at deep mid-wicket off seamer Tom Curran. Mayank and Rahul’s opening-wicket stand yielded a whopping 183 off just 99 balls. Nicholas Pooran, who smashed three sixes in an eight-ball 25, ensured that the Kings innings ended with a bang. Not many would have reckoned then that Tewatia would come up with a bigger bang.  Royals’ 217 for seven against Deccan Chargers (214 for five) in 2008 was the previous highest successful run chase||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajasthan-royals-pulls-off-ipls-biggest-chase/article32710688.ece
28 September 2020||London,||Gunners will face acid test at Anfield||Mikel Arteta has “changed the mood” around Arsenal, according to Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp with the Gunners rejuvenated by winning the FA Cup, Community Shield and their opening two games of the Premier League season. However, the toughest test of what Arsenal can aim for this season comes on Monday with a trip to Anfield, where Klopp’s men have not lost in 60 league games. Arteta described Liverpool’s home as the “toughest place in the world” to go, but Arsenal can take confidence from two victories over the Premier League champion in the past three months. Three key battles are set to decide where the game will be won and lost. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has been the key figure in Arsenal’s revival, scoring twice in the FA Cup semifinals and final plus the winning penalty in the shootout against Liverpool in the Community Shield. Arteta has followed Klopp’s example by using his biggest goal-threat cutting in from a wide area and Aubameyang will look to exploit the space left by Alexander-Arnold as he marauds forward. Thiago vs Xhaka Liverpool signalled its intent to defend its crown by adding a world-class talent in Thiago Alcantara to a team of winners. An injury to Jordan Henderson means Thiago is likely to make his first start on Monday and Granit Xhaka has the unenviable task of stopping him from dictating the game. Third battle Mohamed Salah’s hat-trick on the opening day of the season against Leeds took his tally in Premier League games for Liverpool at Anfield to 51 in 57 games. Kieran Tierney is facing Liverpool away for the first time and has added more steel to the left side of the Gunners’ defence. Salah scored six times in his first six appearances against Arsenal, but failed to find the net the last two times against Tierney.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gunners-will-face-acid-test-at-anfield/article32710726.ece
28 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Teams bowling first taking far too long||One of the early trends to have emerged in the Indian Premier League has been the teams bowling first taking far too long to finish their stipulated quota of 20 overs. It has led to murmurs of whether it’s a deliberate ploy to exploit the dew advantage all through the chase. Zaheer Khan, Mumbai Indians’ director of cricket, however, didn’t see the stretched duration as an intentional ploy. “There are rules and regulations in place. You can’t stretch the game beyond a certain point. Your captain will get fined, your team will get fined and eventually the captain may have to sit out for a game. I don’t see that as a tactic used by any of the teams,” Zaheer said on Sunday, the eve of Mumbai Indians’ clash against Royal Challengers Bangalore. Common feature In the first week, the innings stretching beyond two hours had become a common feature. No doubt, the Indian cricketers being short of game-time was a factor but a few match officials indicated to The Hindu that the delay appeared to be intentional. Since the matches in UAE are starting at 6 p.m. local time to suit Indian television slots, with the dew setting in around 8.30 p.m., prolonged first innings have raised eyebrows. So far, only once has a captain been fined, during RCB’s last match. Hardik to bowl ‘soon’ While Mumbai Indians has heaved a sigh or relief with the return of captain Rohit Sharma, pace sensation Jasprit Bumrah and allrounder Hardik Pandya, all of whom had been nursing injuries when the IPL was postponed in March, Hardik is yet to bowl in the tournament. Zaheer was hoping to see Hardik, who has recovered from a back injury that has nagged him for the last two years, bowling in a match soon. “We are looking forward to him to bowl and he is very keen and is really wanting to bowl. We just have to wait and be patient and listen to his body,” Zaheer said. “At the end of the day, for any bowler, injuries play a huge role. We are happy that he is there as a batsman, with full fitness — so that’s the exciting part. Hopefully, you will see him bowl soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teams-bowling-first-taking-far-too-long/article32710694.ece
28 September 2020||PARIS,||A cold, damp start||Roland Garros got underway in the “ridiculous” cold of Paris on Sunday still in the grip of the coronavirus which organisers had hoped they would escape by pushing back the clay court Grand Slam event by four months. Play started with the tournament’s new retractable roof closed over Court Philippe-Chatrier as temperatures outside dropped to a shivering 10 degrees Celsius and rain forced a suspension. Organisers had hoped to welcome 20,000 fans a day but in the space of just a few weeks, that figure was quickly slashed by the French government to a 1,000 maximum. In 2019, more than 500,000 people watched the two-week tournament on site. Inside the grounds of Roland Garros, there are further signs of the effect of the pandemic. Bustling shops, food outlets and other commercial stalls have been shuttered. Everyone at the tournament, including players if they are not in action or in practice, is masked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-cold-damp-start/article32710728.ece
28 September 2020||Berlin,||Hoffenheim halts Bayern’s run||European champion Bayern Munich suffered its first defeat since December when its 23-match winning run was ended by a shock 4-1 Bundesliga defeat at Hoffenheim on Sunday. Hoffenheim, the current league leader, raced into a 2-0 lead with early goals by defender Ermin Bicakcic and striker Munas Dabbur. Although Joshua Kimmich gave Bayern a lifeline just before the break, Croatia international striker Andrej Kramaric netted a second-half goal and converted a late penalty to seal the win. A Jamie Vardy hat-trick and a superb James Maddison goal steered Leicester City to a stunning 5-2 win at Manchester City on Sunday and kept it top of the Premier League with a maximum nine points from three games. The outcome snapped City’s 11-match unbeaten home run in the league dating back to last season. Tottenham fell foul of the newly adopted interpretation of defensive handballs, conceding a penalty deep into stoppage time via VAR to draw 1-1 at home to Newcastle. In Saturday’s late match, free-spending Chelsea came from 3-0 down to salvage a 3-3 draw at newly-promoted West Brom.  The results: Premier League: Sheffield United 0 lost to Leeds 1 (Bamford 88); Tottenham 1 (Moura 25) drew with Newcastle 1 (Wilson 90+7-pen); Manchester City 2 (Mahrez 4, Ake 84) lost to Leicester 5 (Vardy 37-pen, 54, 58-pen, Maddison 77, Tielemans 88-pen).   LaLiga: Eibar 1 (Kike 48) lost to Athletic Bilbao 2 (Lopez 40, 87); Osasuna 1 (Torres 38) lost to Levante 3 (Melero Manzanares 41, Roger 77, Morales 81); Atletico Madrid 6 (Costa 9, Correa 47, Felix 65, Llorente 72, Suarez 85, 90+3) bt Granada 1 (Jorge Molina 87).   Serie A: Spezia 1 (Galabinov 31) lost to Sassuolo 4 (Djuricic 12, Berardi 64-pen, Defrel 66, Caputo 76); Hellas Verona 1 (Favilli 57) bt Udinese 0.   Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 4 (Bicakcic 16, Dabbur 24, Kramaric 77, 90+2-pen) bt Bayern Munich 1 (Kimmich 36)   Saturday: Premier League: Burnley 0 lost to Southampton 1 (Ings 5); West Brom 3 (Robinson 4, 25, Bartley 27) drew with Chelsea 3 (Mount 55, Hudson-Odoi 70, Abraham 90+3).   LaLiga: Elche 0 lost to Real Sociedad 3 (Portu 55, Januzaj 77-pen, Lopez 90+4); Real Betis 2 (Mandi 35, Carvalho 37) lost to Real Madrid 3 (Valverde 14, Emerson Aparecido 48-o.g., Ramos 82-pen).   Serie A: Cagliari 0 lost to Lazio 2 (Lazzari 4, Immobile 74); Sampdoria 2 (Quagliarella 8, Colley 18) lost to Benevento 3 (Caldirola 33, 72, Sau 88); Inter Milan 4 (Lautaro Martinez 45+2, Ceccherini 52-og, Lukaku 87, D’Ambrosio 88) bt Fiorentina 3 (Kouame 3, Castrovilli 57, Chiesa 63).   Bundesliga: Schalke 04 1 (Uth 90+3) lost to Werder Bremen 3 (Fullkrug 22, 37, 60-pen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hoffenheim-halts-bayerns-run/article32710730.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Middle-order failed to step up: Warner||Sunrisers Hyderabad captain David Warner feels his team was 20-30 runs short in the match it lost to Kolkata Knight Riders on Saturday. “I don’t blame anyone except myself for the very soft and poor dismissal. I take full responsibility,” Warner said at the post-match media conference. “I think it was actually a good performance. We backed ourselves. Unfortunately in the middle, lost it a bit. They should have put pressure back on the bowlers, could have taken a few more risks,” Warner said. “Disappointed with the 35-36 dot balls. That’s not acceptable in T20 cricket. You have to generate momentum. They bowled well, pulled the length back. We were unable to hit boundaries, they executed their plan well. “We did get a good look at the wicket and playing conditions here. The boundaries are much bigger than they are in India. It is the same for everyone, of course,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/middle-order-failed-to-step-up-warner/article32710697.ece
28 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Keeping it simple paid off, says Gill||Opener Shubman Gill was pleased with the way he carried his role in Kolkata Knight Riders’ victory on Saturday. Gill scored an unbeaten 70 as KKR overhauled Sunrisers Hyderabad's 142 for four at Abu Dhabi. The 21-year-old stuck to his task, even as KKR lost three wickets in seven overs, forging an unbroken 92-run partnership with Eoin Morgan (42 not out). “The plan was simple. I was there to get set, I had to see my team through. (SRH’s) total was not that big, so it was important for me to stay there. As a batting unit, we did well,” said Gill at the post-match press conference. Gill said KKR had confidence in pacer Pat Cummins, who returned figures of one for 19 in four overs after his forgettable performance against Mumbai Indians in the first match. “He (Cummins) is a world-class bowler, one of the best in the world right now. One odd day does not mean much, he bowled really well. Pat is one of our best bowlers and we had to start with Pat and Sunil (Narine),” said Gill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/keeping-it-simple-paid-off-says-gill/article32710699.ece
28 September 2020||KOLKATA,||East Bengal officially becomes the 11th team in ISL||East Bengal was officially inducted into the Indian Super League as the eleventh team to participate in the tournament, on Sunday. This was announced by the tournament management body Football Sports Development Limited’s chairperson Nita Ambani, who welcomed East Bengal as the new team to compete in the 2020-2021 season. The club, which was recently acquired by Shree Cements, bid for a place in the top league in the country and will be joining its traditional rival Mohun Bagan, which merged with the ISL champion ATK earlier this year. This completes the admission of the two legacy clubs into the country’s elite league, much to the joy of millions of fans and supporters each of them commands. Proud moment “It is such a happy and proud moment for ISL as we welcome East Bengal FC and their millions of fans into the League. The inclusion of both legacy clubs, i.e. East Bengal and Mohun Bagan (now ATK Mohun Bagan) opens limitless possibilities for Indian football, especially for talent development in the State,” Nita Ambani said in her statement. With the West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee backing the club’s admission and urging the All India Football Federation and the FSDL to ensure East Bengal’s entry, Shree Cements agreed to invest in the club and procured a 76% stake in the team. East Bengal has now convened a special general meeting to transfer the sporting rights to Shree Cement East Bengal Foundation, which is the new company formed to formalise the acquisition. “West Bengal has made an immense contribution to the growth of the beautiful game in India. The ISL’s growing footprint in the state and across India is yet another step towards our mission of building a competitive and robust football ecosystem in the country,” Ambani added in her statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-officially-becomes-the-11th-team-in-isl/article32710716.ece
28 September 2020||DUBAI,||RCB needs its pace attack and batting to click||Royal Challengers Bangalore would look to address its pace bowling concerns and improve its batting display when it faces Mumbai Indians here on Monday. Devdutt Padikkal will be aiming for consistency, while Aaron Finch would look to convert his starts. After two low scores, skipper Virat Kohli would be eager to spend more time in the middle, while A.B. de Villerswill be expected to provide the late fireworks. In the bowling department, spinner Yuzvendra Chahal will be the key man what with the pacers, barring Navdeep Saini, leaking runs. Dale Steyn is likely to retain his place but the same can’t be said about Umesh Yadav and he could make way for Mohammad Siraj. Mumbai Indians, which ticked all the boxes in the comfortable win against Kolkata Knight Riders, is unlikely to tinker with the team composition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-needs-its-pace-attack-and-batting-to-click/article32710796.ece
28 September 2020||DUBAI,||RCB has to sort out its pace attack||Royal Challengers Bangalore would look to address its pace bowling concerns when it faces Mumbai Indians here on Monday. RCB started on a winning note but its star-studded batting collapsed against Kings XI Punjab, resulting in a big defeat. Devdutt Padikkal, who debuted with a classy half-century but did not do much against KXIP, will be aiming for consistency, while fellow-opener Aaron Finch would look to convert his starts into good scores. After just making 14 and 1, skipper Virat Kohli would be eager to spend more time in the middle, while A.B. de Villers, who has looked good, will be expected to provide the late fireworks. In the bowling department, spinner Yuzvendra Chahal will be the key man what with the pacers, barring Navdeep Saini, leaking runs. Dale Steyn is likely to retain his place but the same can’t be said about Umesh Yadav and he could make way for Mohammad Siraj. Mumbai Indians, which ticked all the boxes in the comfortable win against Kolkata Knight Riders, is unlikely to tinker with the team composition. Skipper Rohit Sharma looked in ominous form against KKR and Jasprit Bumrah was back at his best after a failure against Chennai Super Kings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-has-to-sort-out-its-pace-attack/article32710691.ece
28 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana Archery Association office-bearers||Anil Kamineni and T. Sanjeeva Reddy were elected president and general secretary of the Telangana Archery Association here on Sunday.  The office-bearers: President: Anil Kamineni; Vice-president: T. Raju; General secretary: E. Sanjeeva Reddy; Treasurer: P. Shankaraiah; Assistant secretary: K. Srinivas. Executive members: K. Satya Prasad, Ajmera Shyam Naik, S. Saranga Pani, Dr. L.B. Laxmikanth Rathod, S. Vijay Kumar, E. Saraiah Dora and Bhukya Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/telangana-archery-association-office-bearers/article32711145.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna’s sagacity||Whenever His devotees were in trouble, Lord Narayana always went to their rescue, and we see many instances of this in the Mahabharata, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. Duryodhana took refuge in a pond, when he had to face the Pandavas. Duryodhana was equally at ease on land and in water. But Bhima could not fight in water. And there seemed to be no way to get Duryodhana to come and fight on land, for he knew his strength. Krishna then taunted Duryodhana and mocked him, until Duryodhana could take it no longer and he emerged from the water. But there was a further hurdle. Yudhishtira most unwisely chose that moment to be kind towards his cousin. He said Duryodhana could choose which of the Pandavas he wanted to fight. Had Duryodhana accepted this offer so foolishly made by Yudhishtira, then he could easily have killed off all the Pandavas except Bhima. But Krishna forestalled such a development, by now praising Duryodhana’s valour. He said that the mighty Duryodhana always chose worthy opponents. He would not waste time fighting those weaker than him. None but Bhima would be suitable. Duryodhana fell for the bait, and immediately affirmed that Krishna was right. He would indeed fight none other than Bhima. So, Bhima fought with Duryodhana. Krishna asked Bhima to strike Duryodhana’s thighs, for that was the only way to kill him. Bhima was hesitant, for this was against the rules of fighting. But upon Krishna’s insistence, he took aim at Duryodhana’s thighs, and the latter fell down. Duryodhana pointed to the unfairness of Bhima’s act. Krishna said Duryodhana had never been fair to his cousins. He had cheated them in a game of chess. He had been dishonest in his dealings with them, and could expect no more than to be paid back in the same coin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/krishnas-sagacity/article32710700.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 10:06 IST,||Sudoku - September 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-28-2020/article32712346.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||3,292 COVID-19 cases, 42 deaths reported in the Capital||The Capital recorded 3,292 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday with 42 deaths and 3,739 recoveries in the past 24 hours, said a Delhi government heath bulletin. Nearly 51,416 tests were conducted during the period with a positivity rate of 4.40%. The death rate based on the last 10 days data stands at 0.98%. The number of active cases stands at 29,228. The total number of cases has touched 2,71,114 with 5,235 deaths and 2,36,651 recoveries. There are 2,380 containment zones. Currently, there are 17,291 patients under home isolation. Commenting on the increase in the number of deaths, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that fatality rate in the Capital was less than 1% in the last 10 days. He added that one must not look at the figures for a single day but the average of 10 days. “We do not look at the figures for a single day. The average fatality rate of the last 10 days has been 0.94%”, Mr. Jain said, commenting on the 46 deaths reported on Saturday. Testing tripled The Minister added that the number of cases had risen over the past few weeks as the number of tests being conducted has also gone up multifold. “We tripled the number of tests and those tested positive were isolated in small containment zones. We knew that we would have to do it aggressively for two to four weeks and we are seeing positive results now as the cases are declining,” Mr. Jain said. He said that the positivity rate for the last seven days has been 6.5% which was 8.5% two weeks ago and 9% three weeks ago. The cumulative positivity rate is 9.27%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3292-covid-19-cases-42-deaths-reported-in-the-capital/article32710907.ece
28 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab govt. appoints nodal officers to curb stubble burning||To check stubble burning this kharif (summer) season, the Punjab government has appointed 8,000 nodal officers in villages that grow paddy. Over 23,000 crop residue management machines are being given to farmers for on-site management of straw. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has appealed to farmers not to burn crop residue because the practice could aggravate the conditions helping COVID-19 to spread, besides causing pollution. He said the State was taking measures to sensitise the farmers to the problem and it had been pressing the Centre for Rs. 100 per quintal to farmers for managing the paddy straw without burning it. Until November 15, the nodal officers will work in close coordination with the staff members of the Departments of Cooperation, Revenue, Rural Development and Agriculture, panchayats and the Punjab Pollution Control Board. With the help of a Super SMS system, they will prepare a list of owners who have rented out their land and call up the owners and warn them that a red mark will be made in their land records if they fail to prevent the burning of straw. They will create awareness in villages by demonstrating the use of crop residue management machines, handing out pamphlets, making announcements from gurdwara, besides delivering lectures to school students, who would in turn create awareness among their parents.  Subsidy on machines The Chief Minister said that as part of the strategy, the Department of Agriculture, which he heads, was giving 23,500 crop residue management machines to farmers, either individually or in groups or through cooperative societies, at a subsidy of 50%-80%. These were in addition to 51,000 machines given over the past two years. Paddy has been grown this year on 27 lakh hectares, including 7 lakh hectares under basmati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-appoints-nodal-officers-to-curb-stubble-burning/article32710871.ece
28 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Now, Odisha govt. turns to radio for classes||As online classes fail to reach most students due to poor mobile connectivity, the Odisha government has now turned to radio to reach out to children in remote areas of the State. The School and Mass Education Department will launch classroom teaching through All India Radio from Monday. “As the schools could not be opened due to COVID-19 pandemic, we had tried to reach students with online classes, mostly through smartphones. But, virtual classes have their inherent drawbacks. Of the 60 lakh students, we were hardly reaching to 22 lakhs during lockdown,” said State School and Mass Education Minister Sameer Ranjan Dash. Mr. Dash pointed out, “The situation worsened further when lockdown was lifted. Many parents started returning to their workplaces taking the only smartphone in the family with them. As per our assessment, the number of students taking online classed dropped to 6 to 7 lakh after the unlock.” “It is well known that radio can be heard even in the remotest parts. Moreover, radio is cheap compared to expensive smartphones and the recurring cost is also low. We hope to cover more students with the radio school programme,” he said. As per the plan, students from Class I to VIII can learn their lessons through 15-minutes of teaching by experienced teachers through radio. It will be available everyday from 10 a.m. to 10.15 am.  Extraordinary situation “A student could cover six pages of his textbook within 15 minutes of radio programme. Though the teaching through radio would not be effective as it could have been in physical classroom, the extraordinary situation has forced us to try different methods for reaching students,” the Minister said. Schools in Odisha have been closed since March 17. However, children have been provided textbooks. Three hours of classroom instruction are also available through Doordarshan. Since considerable time has been lost due closure of schools, school syllabus has been reduced by 30%. Recently, the National Human Rights Commission issued notices to Education Ministry over the inability of students to follow online classes. Human rights lawyer Radhakant Tripathy had moved NHRC stating that 38 lakh students from Odisha were unable to access online education due to unavailability of requisite digital infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-odisha-govt-turns-to-radio-for-classes/article32710874.ece
28 September 2020||Guwahati,||Police recruitment board chief resigns||Retired IPS officer Pradeep Kumar on Sunday resigned as chairman of the State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) taking moral responsibility for the anomalies in the process of the recruitment of sub-inspectors in the Assam Police. The State police have so far arrested 13 people for leaking the question paper for recruiting sub-inspectors to 597 vacant posts and conducting a “written test” for 50 applicants at a guesthouse in Guwahati on September 19, a day before the scheduled date of the exam. Two of the prime accused, former Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police P.K. Dutta and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Diban Deka, are absconding. “I have tried to ensure a transparent recruitment process with honesty and integrity. I apologise to the applicants and their families for the anomalies caused by a vicious circle and resign as chairman,” Mr. Kumar, a 1984-batch officer, said. The State’s Crime Investigation Department has meanwhile raided the residence of the former DIG and recovered more than 8 kg of gold. The CID also raided his hotels and estates, including a major tea garden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-recruitment-board-chief-resigns/article32710873.ece
28 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Bhim Army chief meets assault victim in Aligarh||Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad on Sunday met the victim of brutal physical assault and alleged gang rape at J.N. Medical College in Aligarh. The family members of the victim, resident of a village in the neighbouring Hathras district, said on Sunday that they were receiving threats from the relatives of the upper caste men who have been arrested by the police in connection with the case. “I have just met my sister. There is no improvement in her condition. If the Aligarh and Hathras administration are really serious, they should refer her to AIIMS as soon as possible,” tweeted Mr. Azad in Hindi after meeting the victim. The girl was allegedly assaulted by four men on September 14 when she went to collect fodder in the field. Admitted to the J.N. Medical College, doctors said she suffered serious spinal cord injury leading to paralysis of limbs. Later, in a statement given to the investigating officer, she alleged that she was also gang-raped by four men. Earlier, the Aligarh police tried to stop Mr. Azad and his supporters at the Gabhana Toll Plaza. But the Bhim Army chief gave them a slip and reached the medical college on a motorcycle where he was stopped again. After some abrasive moments with the district administration, he was allowed to meet the family members. Taking the Uttar Pradesh to task for the deteriorating law and order situation, Mr Azad said the situation was not normal in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bhim-army-chief-meets-assault-victim-in-aligarh/article32710872.ece
28 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha Assembly session set to begin from Sept. 29||Two lawmakers are among the 136 persons who tested positive as the monsoon session of the Odisha Assembly is set to commence from September 29. Senior BJD MLAs Debi Prasad Mishra and Pramila Mallick have been asked to isolate themselves. As part of the efforts to identify infected persons, MLAs, journalists, Assembly staff and drivers have undergone COVID-19 tests in the premises on Sunday. Of the 757 persons who were tested on Saturday, 136 were found to be infected accounting for 18% positivity rate as against the State average of 9%. Another 350 persons underwent tests on Sunday.  ‘Matter of concern’ “It is matter of great concern that so many people have tested positive. In view of the results, we have convened another meeting on Monday when we would take the final call on the length of the session,” Surjya Narayan Patro, Speaker, told The Hindu . The monsoon session is scheduled to be held between September 29 and October 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-assembly-session-set-to-begin-from-sept-29/article32711129.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SI absconding after shooting at girlfriend||A police Sub-Inspector allegedly shot at his girlfriend in Alipur on Sunday evening. A policeman passing through the area spotted a woman lying injured near Sai Mandir on GTK Road. He rushed her to a nearby hospital. On the way, the victim revealed that she has been shot at by SI Sandeep Dahiya, currently posted at Lahori Gate station, during a quarrel, said a police officer. “A case under appropriate Section has been registered. The accused is absconding,” added the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/si-absconding-after-shooting-at-girlfriend/article32710909.ece
28 September 2020||Agartala,||INPT likely to join forum of royal scion||Indigenous Nationalist Party of Tripura is expected to forge an alliance with a new socio-political platform floated by State’s royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarman in upcoming polls to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council. Several leaders of the INPT, traditionally an ally of the Congress, said they would partner with a party which has more accessibility in the indigenous society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/inpt-likely-to-join-forum-of-royal-scion/article32710869.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||No takers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-takers/article32711132.ece
28 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CM seeks RWAs’ support to wipe out dengue||Marking week four of the ten-week anti-dengue drive, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday sought the support of Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) across the city to help fight the spread of vector-borne disease. After inspecting his house for signs of stagnant clean water for ten minutes at 10 a.m. and draining accumulated water, Mr. Kejriwal took to social media to appeal to all RWAs of Delhi to come forward and make the residents aware of the measures to be taken to prevent dengue. He appealed to the RWAs to talk to people and increase participation by motivating them to join hands in preventing the spread of dengue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-seeks-rwas-support-to-fight-dengue/article32710908.ece
28 September 2020||Bhopal,||Two railway officials held on rape charge||The Government Railway Police has arrested two railway officials on charge of raping a 22-year-old woman at a rest house on the Bhopal station premises on Saturday. The arrested were Rajesh Tiwari, security counsellor and in-charge of disaster management with the Bhopal railway division, and senior section engineer Alok Malviya. The accused booked a rest room for her at the Bhopal station. Later they gave her drinks laced with sedatives and raped her, her police complaint said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-railway-officials-held-on-rape-charge/article32711130.ece
28 September 2020||September 28 2020 00:00 IST,||Scale up prevention of heart attack and stroke||Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) take the lives of 17.9 million people every year, 31% of all global deaths. Triggering these diseases – which manifest primarily as heart attacks and strokes – are tobacco use, unhealthy diet, physical inactivity and the harmful use of alcohol. These in turn show up in people as raised blood pressure, elevated blood glucose and overweight and obesity, risks detrimental to good heart health. Through the Global Hearts Initiative, WHO is supporting governments around the world to scale-up efforts on CVD prevention and control through three technical packages: MPOWER for tobacco control, SHAKE for salt reduction and HEARTS for the strengthening of CVD management in primary health care.  Global Hearts Initiative has  been rolled out in a number of countries. In those settings health workers are being trained to better deliver tested and affordable measures to protect people from CVDs and help them to recover following a heart attack or stroke. A new global initiative - Resolve to Save Lives - will give renewed impetus to these efforts.   Strategic priorities   The WHO Programme on Cardiovascular Diseases works on prevention, management and monitoring of cardiovascular disease (CVD) globally. It aims to develop global strategies to reduce the incidence, morbidity and mortality of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) by: • effectively reducing CVD risk factors and their determinants; • developing cost effective and equitable health care innovations for management of CVD; • monitoring trends of CVD and their risk factors.  CVD in developing countries Economic transition urbanisation, industrialisation and globalisation bring about lifestyle changes that promote heart disease. These risk factors include tobacco use, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet. Life expectancy in developing countries is rising sharply and people are exposed to these risk factors for longer periods. Newly merging CVD risk factors like low birth weight, folate deficiency and infections are also more frequent among the poorest in low- and middle-income countries.  Social and economic consequences Clinical care of CVD is costly and prolonged. These direct costs divert the scarce family and societal resources to medical care. CVD affects individuals in their peak mid life years disrupting the future of the families dependant on them and undermining the development of nations by depriving valuable human resources in their most productive years. In developed countries lower socioeconomic groups have greater prevalence of risk factors, higher incidence of disease and higher mortality. In developing countries as the CVD epidemic matures the burden will shift to the lower socioeconomic groups.  Key areas of work WHO goal is to effectively control CVD risk factors and to reduce the burden of the fast growing cardiovascular disease epidemic, particularly in developing countries and key areas of work include: • Reduce major CVD risk factors and their social and economic determinants through community based programmes for integrated prevention of NCDs. Development of standards of care and cost-effective case management for CVD. • Global action to enhance the capacity of countries to meet the health care needs of CVD. • Developing feasible surveillance methods to assess the pattern and trends of major CVDs and risk factors and to monitor prevention and control initiatives. • Developing effective inter-country, inter regional and global networks and partnerships for concerted global action||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scale-up-prevention-of-heart-attack-and-stroke/article32711221.ece
