01-12-2020||The adverse effects of the Covid-19 restrictions on health are apparent from the report of the PGIMS||Covid curfew’s impact||Diabetes is essentially a lifestyle disease that requires modifications in routine to keep its debilitating effects under check. Wasim Akram, the Pakistani cricketer who suffered from Type-1 diabetes, battled it successfully by adapting to its requirements, for getting afflicted with an illness early in life can put a career in jeopardy. The PGIMS report also puts the focus on how the priority accorded to Covid-19 has affected healthcare, with other illnesses not receiving proper follow-up, OPDs in hospitals remaining closed, surgeries being postponed, dispensaries and clinical laboratories that provided cost-effective intermediary consultations shutting down and the healthcare staff, tasked to tackle coronavirus cases, facing problems at many places because of staff shortage and non-payment of salaries.The lockdown has also seen fallouts not linked to the pandemic. Living constantly in closed spaces has tended to affect inter-personal relations. For students, being confined to home and without much activity and scope for recreation, being glued to TV, mobile phones and computer screens because of the break from schools and colleges, meant severe stress, besides other health problems. As the battle against the virus continues, tackling the pandemic should not be allowed to result in more health nightmares. Covid-19 deserves attention, but the neglect of other medical conditions for a long period can result in a healthcare breakdown. The economic slowdown resulted in distress and a similar situation from the health point of view is best avoided by ensuring physical well-being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-curfews-impact-178192
01-12-2020||With the farmers’ agitation having reached its doorstep||Time for fruitful talks||Agriculture was the only sector that managed to register growth in the April-June quarter, which bore the brunt of a stringent lockdown. During the July-September quarter, too, the sector grew by 3.4 per cent, even as the recession-hit economy shrunk by 7.5 per cent. Such resilience during a pandemic should have dissuaded the government from tinkering with a system which, though imperfect, was largely running like clockwork. Instead, it insisted on introducing sweeping reforms without developing consensus among the stakeholders.The farm leaders have been scuttling attempts by Opposition parties to derive political mileage from their agitation. Now, they should seize the opportunity to negotiate with the Centre. We have had enough of verbal assurances about the MSP. It ought to be incorporated in the law as a farmer’s inalienable right. It’s a given that both sides would have to make some concessions so that a middle ground is found. The deadlock must be resolved amicably at the earliest. A prolonged crisis would not only impair the agriculture sector but also impede India’s economic recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/time-for-fruitful-talks-178190
