04-12-2020||The claim by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) about top honey brands being adulterated with sugar syrup in the country needs scrutiny. Food adulteration is common||Bitter honey||The other is the China angle to the business, with the CSE claiming that it tracked down Chinese trade portals advertising fructose syrups that can bypass tests to check purity. It found that the same Chinese companies that advertised the syrup also exported it to India. With leading brands refuting the charge, the adulteration angle needs to be probed and stringent checks adopted against the agencies involved so as to curb the practice.Those in the apiary business take up beekeeping as an ancillary work to diversify agricultural practices as also to supplement income. Adulteration with sugar syrup prevents beekeepers from getting remunerative prices for genuine products, rendering the business unprofitable and making some of them quit the profession. While regular testing and sampling are needed to check adulteration, unfair trade practices help those wishing to cut corners. The guidelines issued by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India need to be enforced to check malpractices. During the lockdown, farmers found it difficult to sell honey because of the restrictions and had to resort to keeping honey in cold storages which meant additional financial burden. The National Bee Board, which promotes scientific beekeeping, needs to reinforce its role by keeping tabs on unscrupulous traders and looking into the demand and supply side of the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bitter-honey-179545
04-12-2020||When you have police officers who abuse citizens||CCTV surveillance||The police in India inherited brutality from the colonial administration that used them as a tool to suppress the freedom movement. But unfortunately, even seven decades after the end of the Raj, custodial torture and death appear to be the norm. According to data shared by the Ministry of Home Affairs with Parliament, almost five persons died daily in custody during 2019-20. Between April 1, 2019, and March 31 this year, 1,697 people died in custody — 1,584 in jail and 113 in police custody. This is mainly due to the fact that the police are not trained enough in modern interrogation techniques and the use of forensic science to gather evidence to prove the guilt of the accused during trial. They often find it easier to use third-degree torture to extract a confession from the accused even though it may not withstand judicial scrutiny.Now, the top court has said that CCTV footage/data should be preserved for at least six months, and the victim has a right to have the same secured in case of violation of his human rights. Once implemented, it would herald a paradigm shift in policing in India, pushing the police towards scientific investigation. Ideally, such a move should have come from the government, which often cries foul about judicial overreach. Now that the court has ordered it, the government must implement it in letter and spirit as it concerns the right to life and liberty guaranteed under the Constitution. This is all the more important because nothing substantial was done since the first order was passed on April 3, 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cctv-surveillance-179546
