23-12-2020||THE onslaught of the coronavirus pandemic has laid bare some glaring ailments afflicting our health system. Remedial measures are needed so that we are better equipped to deal with the struggles that ordinary people had to bear as they were expected to deal with a stringent lockdown — not experienced by anyone in living memory — imposed to keep Covid-19 at bay. Ill-informed and panicky||A check on private hospitals||While these ills have been prevalent in our society, the scale and intensity of their occurrence have brought into focus the urgent need to update the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Taking note of the sordid affairs, the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs has rightly suggested a comprehensive public health law to keep tabs on private hospitals, especially those that get land on subsidised rates, and black marketing of medicines. A relook into the steep cost of medical education that keeps the ordinary but deserving candidates out of the reckoning and leads to unprincipled practices is also called for. However, utmost care needs to be ensured that the checks do not end in the corruption-riddled inspector raj.Luckily, not all is dark. The public sector hospitals kept the flag of the noble profession high, with doctors and paramedics bravely attending to Covid patients and the dead. It makes a case to highlight the oft-felt need of raising the budget for healthcare. The virus should goad the authorities to enhance the funds at once. The 1.15 per cent of the GDP in 2017 cannot meet the needs of 1.3 billion people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-check-on-private-hospitals-188099
23-12-2020||THE seizure of a box with hand grenades in Gurdaspur||Drone infiltration||Five days prior to the latest midnight drop — which was detected by alert security personnel and did not go unchallenged — a drone module with international linkages was busted in Amritsar. As they try to unravel the nexus of the accused, arrested following multiple raids, with Pakistan-based smugglers and terrorist outfits, the investigating agencies have their hands full. The task has been made more difficult following revelations that drones were being procured, assembled, sold and repaired right in the middle of the national capital without any government authorisation. Purchased drones are meant to be registered and a Unique Identification Number is to be applied for. Since this was not done, the drones could not be monitored.As efforts are on to deploy improved anti-drone systems and find better technical solutions, there is also a demand to install low-level radars along the border to destroy the quadcopters. The threat posed by Chinese armed drones being exported to Pakistan, too, is not lost on the security establishment. The urgency required to deal with the crisis at hand cannot be stressed enough. Another aspect that needs attention is the glaring gaps in drone management and regulation in the country. Data estimation of rogue or unregulated drones has already been conducted. In the works is training of even police personnel in drone detection, tracking and identification. It’s bound to be a protracted battle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/drone-infiltration-188098
