28-12-2020||A committee of experts is on the job to come up with modalities for a ‘high quality aptitude test’ for admission to undergraduate programmes of Central universities from the 2021-22 academic session. The mandatory computer-based common entrance exam||Ending the cut-off race||The endeavour is in line with the National Education Policy’s stress on conceptual understanding, where individual interests and talent get primacy during admissions and marks in Board exams alone are not a barometer of knowledge and intelligence. Those who have a better grasp of the subject and a greater grounding in the basics are likely to have an advantage. While minimising the stakes of the Class XII exams and the need for coaching classes, the focus is to be on the holistic growth of students. Another aim of the policy is to remove the strict compartmentalisation of Arts, Science and Commerce, so that students can choose subjects based on their interests. The activation and standardisation of the proposals will take time, but these are in the right direction. The formalisation of a SAT-like module that disincentivises rote learning is a much-required change.The plan to hold one exam for admission will also take care of the issue of different boards having varied curriculum and evaluation patterns, and the resultant discrepancies. If what is conceptualised falls in place, a university will be able to see every student’s individual subject portfolio and decide on admissions based on aptitude, absorption and curiosity — the essential ingredients of meaningful education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ending-the-cut-off-race-190335
28-12-2020||It is a matter of grave concern that the norms for Covid containment are being given the go-by by tourists thronging Shimla for Christmas and New Year festivities. The pandemic and the lockdown hurt the tourism sector in Himachal Pradesh and the sight of visitors coming back indicates good tidings||Reckless tourists||Himachal Pradesh had been among the states that had strictly banned the entry of outsiders after the coronavirus outbreak. Long after, residents of other states were still required to get entry permits for making a visit. The prolonged restrictions led to an exodus of the workforce from industrial units in Baddi. Relaxation in night curfew and permission to open shops on holidays have played a part in the tourist surge of late, but the danger of virus transmission is still there with Covid cases not having abated in the state and crowding at public places only increasing the risk.Tourist safety had been a worry in the state even before the pandemic broke out, with little or no surveillance at mishap-prone spots. Now, it is even more important for the authorities to get their act together. The state offers facilities for adventure sports that also draw nationals of other countries. Precautionary measures have to be in place for minimising the risk factor. Traffic jams, lack of space for parking, noise pollution and landslides are the usual problems at tourist places, accentuated by lack of proper road connectivity. Any laxity in enforcing the rules for warding off the virus will only add to the visitors’ woes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/reckless-tourists-190336
