01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tri-service all-women mountaineering expedition to Himachal flagged off||A tri-services all-women mountaineering expedition to Mount Manirang in Himachal Pradesh organised by the Air Force as part of the 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mohotsav' celebrations was flagged off on Saturday. The team of 15 mountaineers led by Wg Cdr Bhavana Mehra aims to scale the 21,625 feet high peak on August 15, according to an IAF statement.  Flagging off the team, Air Marshal VPS Rana, Air Officer-in-Charge Administration at Air Headquarters, encouraged them to achieve their aim and appreciated the efforts by the organisers to facilitate the expedition. The other 14 members of the team include Wg Cdr N Linyu, Wg Cdr Nirupama Pandey, Wg Cdr Lalita Mishra, Wg Cdr Vyomika Singh, Flt Lt Komal Pahuja, Lt Col Geetanjali Bhatt, Maj Saumya Shukla, Maj Veenu Mor, Maj Usha Kumari, Maj Rachna Hooda, Lt Cdr Nandini Damroy, Lt Cdr Sino Wilson, Lt Cdr Chham Kumari and Lt Cdr Renu Ramdurg.Mount Manirang is located at the border of Kinnaur and Spiti districts of Himachal Pradesh. The Manirang Pass is located close to the peak and is one of the early trade routes between these two districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tri-service-all-women%C2%A0mountaineering-expedition-to-himachal-flagged-off-291420
01-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Cow cess brings in Rs7 cr, no respite from stray menace||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31While the city Municipal Corporation has earned about Rs7 crore on account of cow cess, there is no respite to residents from the stray cattle menace, especially in the southern sectors and areas on the periphery.Illegal rearing of cattleWe have informed the MC officials several times, but no action has been taken against those illegally rearing cattle. They work hand in glove with the officials concerned. - Jaspreet Singh, member, RWA, Housing Board Colony, Sec 52OfficialspeakWe recently changed our field teams and people will soon see results. Neighbouring cities let loose their cattle for grazing in the UT. If there is a complaint about the involvement of local persons, we will look into that. — Dr Amrit Pal Warring, MOH, MCStray cattle roaming on roads pose a risk to motorists, especially in the evening hours.One can see cattle entering the city from peripheral areas such as Faida and Jagatpura in the evening. Residents and councillors said the stray cattle also included the ones reared by local residents. People, after milking these cattle, leave them on the city roads at night.A number of persons are rearing cattle in the forest area of Sector 52 with the alleged connivance of MC officials. The rearing of cattle is banned in the city except for the milk colony, Dhanas.Jaspreet Singh, a member of the RWA, Housing Board Colony, Sector 52, said: “We have informed MC officials several times, but no action has been taken against those illegally rearing cattle. They work hand in glove with officials concerned.”“My father met with an accident involving a stray animal. A car first hit an animal on the main road and then rammed into my father’s car. Luckily, he escaped unhurt. However, accidents due to stray cattle on roads are a common sight in this area,” he added.Kamaljit Singh, president of a society in Sector 52, said: “People of the neighbouring colony are rearing cattle. After milking them, they leave them on roads, which causes road accidents and disrupts the flow of traffic.”Chandigarh Tribune checked the spot in Sector 52 in the evening and found goats and cows tied there and people milking them. It all goes on unabated under the nose of the MC. There is a provision for imposing a fine of Rs20,000 on such violators, but there hardly seems any implementation on the ground. The MC has no latest data of such challans.Councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali, who has been raising the issue in the MC House, said: “How is it possible that everybody knows where these cows come from and where are these reared but the officials concerned have no knowledge of it? They must act tough and should not release cattle after challaning erring persons. Rearing cattle in areas other than the milk colony is banned here.”Opposition leader Devinder Singh Babla said: “When the MC started collecting cow cess, it was claimed that it would be used for the welfare of the cattle and deal with stray menace. However, despite crores being collected, the situation has not changed.”Meanwhile, MC officials said they were going to spend Rs7 crore on the construction of a gaushala and a cattle pound at Raipur Kalan, and on other related purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cow-cess-brings-in-rs7-cr-no-respite-from-stray-menace-291217
01-08-2021||Zirakpur||Child falls off  5th floor, dies||A three-year-old child died after falling off the balcony of his house on the fifth floor of Chandigarh Enclave here today.Ekam, the only child of his parents, was rushed to a private hospital and then referred to the PGI, where he was declared brought dead. The kid and his mother were waiting for his father to return from office. As soon as his father, Amandeep Singh, came around 7 pm, the mother left the balcony to open the door. When the father got out of the kid’s sight, he lunged forward from the balcony to see him, and fell down. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-falls-off-5th-floor-dies-291222
01-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh gets first electric bus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31The first electric bus reached the city today. It will help improve the air quality of the city.The UT will get a fleet of 40 non-polluting electric buses, which will be operated by a private firm. Expected to hit the road in OctoberTransport Director Uma Shankar Gupta said the first electric bus reached the city on Saturday. It would be operated on a trial basis. A lot of 19 buses would arrive on September 30 and the remaining 20 in October, he said, adding that electric buses were expected to hit the road in October this year.Three companies had submitted bids to run 40 electric buses. However, the lowest bidder, Ashok Leyland, was awarded the contract to run the environment-friendly buses for a period of 10 years on the basis of km scheme.As per the agreement, all maintenance expenditure, bus charging stations, suspension, HVAC system and major and minor repair of the buses during the contract period would be the responsibility of the successful bidder. The department will pay Rs60 per km to the company.Transport Director Uma Shankar Gupta said the first electric bus reached the city today. It would be operated on a trial basis. A lot of 19 buses would arrive on September 30 and the remaining 20 in October, he said, adding that electric buses were expected to hit the road in October this year.After being charged, the bus will cover a distance of nearly 130 km and it would take 2-2.30 hours to fully charge the bus.In September last year, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme. The UT had floated tenders for procurement of 40 buses in the first phase.The procurement of the buses will give a major boost to the plan of the UT Administration to replace its entire fleet of ordinary buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses. At present, the CTU has 514 buses — 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 buses run on inter-state routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-first-electric-bus-291225
01-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Mann Kaur joins iconic Milkha Singh, Balbir Sr in heaven||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31With the passing away of centenarian athlete Mann Kaur today, Chandigarh has now lost three of its iconic figures.Magnificent MannAfter triple hockey Olympian Balbir Singh (Senior) and former India sprinter ‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh, one of the world’s oldest runners of all time – Mann Kaur – severed her bond with the City Beautiful.Born at different places, but settled in Chandigarh, the trio had established the city on the global sports map.Mann Kaur died at a Dera Bassi hospital today at the age of 105. She had been battling cancer of liver and gallbladder for the past six months.An inspiration for the youngsters, Mann Kaur, along with Milkha and Balbir (Senior), was always ready to motivate the city athletes and guide the residents to a healthy and happy life.While Balbir (Senior) died last year after a prolonged illness, Milkha lost his battle against Covid last month.Kaur was out of action since the Covid pandemic broke in March last year.“She is no more. She lived her life to the fullest. She was on a complete liquid diet and left the world very calmly. The deadly disease took her away from us. She was not in pain, but was suffering. Her last few days went peacefully and she breathed her last today,” said Gurdev Singh, Mann Kaur’s son.Kaur took up athletics at the age of 93 and went on to participate in many international championships. She received the Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President at the age 103.A six-time World Masters Championship gold medallist and also multiple Asian Masters Championship medallist, Mann was declared the fastest centenarian at a competition in the American Masters Games.“She was not feeling well since the Covid pandemic broke in March last year. She was confined to bed and had started living an isolated life. She was not interacting with people. She had also stopped running,” said Gurdev.Kaur was also the face of the ‘Fit India Movement’ and her love for running was even appreciated by the Prime Minister.Minister for Sports and Youth Services, Government of Punjab, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and many other sports enthusiasts paid tribute to Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mann-kaur-joins-iconic-milkha-singh-balbir-sr-in-heaven-291229
01-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||National Federation Cup: 2 athletes in a spot for forging certificates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31In an embarrassing moment, two local athletes have been allegedly caught submitting forged certificates in the 19th National Federation Cup Junior U-20 Athletics Championships, at Sangrur. The athletes did not participate in any event. However, action has been already initiated against them for submitting ‘tampered’ documents. The athletes will be facing a lifetime ban, confirmed officials. Tamper with timingsThe athletes have allegedly produced ‘tampered’ performance certificates in order to gain access to the championships. As per the criteria, athletes have to submit their respective state championship performance certificates, along with timing clocked in an event, through online mode. These two athletes have allegedly tampered with timings in order to qualify for the championship.The athletes have allegedly produced ‘tampered’ performance certificates in order to gain access to the championships. As per the criteria, athletes have to submit their respective state championships performance certificates, along with timing clocked in an event, through online mode. These two athletes have allegedly tampered with timings in order to qualify for the championship.“The athletes have submitted forged documents. They were called for the event, but they didn’t turn up at the venue. Our association has nothing to do with it as the athletes have sent a direct entry to the national federation. Committee members will take some action against both athletes. As per rule book, the athletes may face a lifetime ban. A show-cause notice has already been issued to them,” said Jaspinder Singh, secretary, Chandigarh Athletics Association.The athletes have reportedly timed 11.16s in the state meet, but in the federation cup the timing was tampered to 10.88s.“As per the regular criteria, we have crosschecked the timings claimed by the athletes and came to know about the forgery. We have forwarded the matter to the state association. After discussion, the federation will put a penalty on these two athletes,” said Ravinder Chaudhary, secretary, Athletics Federation of India.“This is for the first time such an incident has happened. Despite having every record, the athletes confidently submitted the forged document. A submission was also made by some parents. This act attracts the highest penalty and should be set as an example for others,” said a parentThe championship is also a qualification for the World Junior Athletics Championships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-federation-cup-2-athletes-in-a-spot-for-forging-certificates-291232
01-08-2021||---||Chandigarh got no Covaxin dose to date, Lok Sabha told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31Chandigarh did not receive a single dose of Covaxin till date from the Government of India, reveals data tabled in Lok Sabha. The Union Territory is among the 13 states, including North-Eastern states, which only received Covishield for vaccination drive.The remaining 24 states have received both Covaxin and Covishield vaccines for inoculation. As a matter of fact, all 37 states and union territories received Covishield along with Covaxin.The states and UTs that did not receive Covaxin include Chandigarh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Puducherry, Sikkim, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar.Meanwhile, Chandigarh officials say there is no specific rationale behind allocating only Covishield and the decision entirely rests with the Government of India and not with any state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-got-no-covaxin-dose-to-date-lok-sabha-told-291234
01-08-2021||---||2 violate DM’s order, fined||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31A local court has imposed a fine of Rs500 each on two persons for violating the orders of the District Magistrate issued to prevent the spread of coronavirus under Section 144 of the CrPC. The accused were found roaming without permission.Rajinder Kumar was arrested on April 18, 2021, in Mani Majra, while Prosanto was arrested on May 2, 2021, near Kishangarh Chowk, Chandigarh.Challans were presented against them in the court. Finding a prima facie case, a notice of accusation under Section 188 of the IPC was served upon the accused to which they pleaded guilty and did not claim trial and voluntarily confessed their guilt.The court, in its order, observed that since the accused confessed their guilt voluntarily, they had been ordered to pay a fine of Rs500 each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-violate-dms-order-fined-291235
01-08-2021||---||CBSE Class XII results: Khattar announces Rs1L reward for topper||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 31Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced a reward of Rs1 lakh for Hiteshwar Sharma from Panchkula, whom he referred to as the CBSE Class XII all-India topper even though the board has not released the merit list.The official Twitter handle of the CMO, Haryana, tweeted the announcement.The local lad has scored 99.8 marks in the arts stream.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta also met Hiteshwar today at his house in Sector 10 and congratulated him for the achievement.Hiteshwar, who had scored AIR 3 in the CBSE Class X exams in 2019, had recently interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the cancellation of the CBSE Class XII exams in view of the pandemic.However, according to some reports, a labourer’s daughter from Bulandshahr, Ansuiya Kushwaha, has scored a perfect 100 in the CBSE Class XII results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-class-xii-results-khattar-announces-rs1l-reward-for-topper-291237
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||U-19 cricket meet: Mohali, Bathinda emerge victorious||Bathinda defeated Patiala by three wickets in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District U-19 One-Day Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Patiala posted 201/9 in 50 overs with the help of Harjas Singh (62) and Emanjot Singh (59). Yuvi Goyal and Uday Partap Saharan claimed three wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, Bathinda scored 204/7 in 49.1 overs. Saharan scored 116 off 131 balls to help Bathinda log an easy win. Emanjot Singh (3/35) was the most successful wicket taker for Patiala.In another match, Mohali scored 239/9 in 50 overs. Jovanpreet scored a brilliant 103 off 126 balls. Chintany Randhan (3/60) and Harish Kumar (2/30) were the two most successful wicket takers for the bowling side.In reply, Moga was 92/5 in 32 overs before rain interrupted the match. Himanshu (3/23) was the most successful wicket taker for the bowling side. Mohali was declared winner via VJD method.In other matches, Ludhiana defeated Ropar by 60 runs (VJD method), Amritsar logged 155-run win over Muktsar Sahib, Nawanshahr beat Gurdaspur by 35 runs, Ferozepur overpowered Fazilka by seven wickets and Barnala-Sangrur match was abandoned due to heavy rain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/u-19-cricket-meet-mohali-bathinda-emerge-victorious-291239
01-08-2021||---||Two suspects sent to 3-day police remand||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 31The police today raided Kanika Milk dairy at Kalayat village in Kaithal that was involved in supplying seven quintals of spurious cheese to various shops in Mohali.The two suspects - Ankush and tempo driver Pardeep Kumar - were produced in a court, which sent them to three-day police remand.Balongi SHO Rajpal Singh said: “Three partners - Sahil, Sanjeev Kumar and Ram Mehar, all residents of Kaithal, - have been named in the FIR. Ankush, brother of dairy owner Sahil, has been sent to police remand. He transported cheese to the tricity. The vehicle registered in the name of Sahil has been seized. Samples have been taken and sent to a laboratory. The seized cheese has been kept in a deep freezer till the report of samples is received.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-suspects-sent-to-3-day-police-remand-291240
01-08-2021||---||HC stays order by Commission for Scheduled Castes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31Acting on a petition filed by the PGI, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed further proceedings before the National Commission for Scheduled Castes in a selection matter.The stay order by Justice Alka Sarin came after senior advocate Amit Jhanji, appearing for the institute, contended that a respondent in the present petition approached the High Court by filing a writ petition, ‘Professor Narendra Kumar versus PGI and another’.Among other things, directions were sought against treating different departments and specialties as separate units for reserving posts. Taking up the petition in February, the Bench admitted the matter after observing that it required detailed consideration.Jhanji added the same issues were raised by the respondent, along with the Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes Employees Welfare Association, by approaching the respondent commission. The selection process was stayed by the commission vide order dated June 21.Jhanji, referring to the Rules of Procedure of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, submitted that the rules said no action would be taken on subjudice matters. Hence, subjudice matters were not to be referred to the commission as complaints. Before parting with the case, Justice Sarin also issued a notice of motion for November 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-stays-order-by-commission-for-scheduled-castes-291241
01-08-2021||---||Rs1.54L water bill shocks BDC resident||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31A Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) resident received the shock of his life when he saw Rs1.54 lakh as his water bill today.Chander Pal was taken aback as the bill amount is just for May-June months for his two-room small house. It is also mentioned that if the bill is paid after the due date, Rs1.74 lakh will be charged.Several people are complaining of such hefty and “bogus” water bills these days. However, MC officials do not seem to bother. The MC has not issued any clarification regarding this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs1-54l-water-bill-shocks-bdc-resident-291242
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress approves office-bearers for city unit||Congress national president Sonia Gandhi has approved the proposal for the appointment of office-bearers and executive committee members of the city party unit.There are eight vice-presidents, including councillor Devinder Singh Babla, Pawan Sharma, Harphool Kalyan and Bhupinder Singh Badheri. Vikram Chopra will be the treasurer. There will be nine general secretries, There will be 24 secretaries and 23 organisational secretaries among others.City party president Subhash Chawla said the Congress will fight the next MC polls under this team. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-approves-office-bearers-for-city-unit-291243
01-08-2021||Ambala||6 dupe Panchkula man of Rs2.10 cr, booked||The Ambala police have booked six persons for allegedly duping a Panchkula resident of Rs2.10 crore on the pretext of settling him in Canada and providing higher returns for investing in their business.The suspects have been identified as Anil Bhalla, Akash Bhalla and Akash’s wife Bhawna Bhalla, the late Anil Kumar, Jayant Bakshi and Rajesh.Complainant Sikandar Sangwan, a lawyer, alleged that he knew Anil, his son Akash and his wife Bhawna of Panchkula since 2012. In 2018, they introduced the complainant to their accomplice Rajesh. They told the complainant that Rajesh and his brother-in-law Jayant ran an immigration business in Ambala and Yamunanagar. They said they were silent partners in this business and had been sending many people abroad. They made a plan with Rajesh and Jayant to allure the complainant to invest money in it.He alleged that Akash and Anil told the complainant that he needed to invest at least Rs2.25-2.50 crore in a company in Canada and it would be owned by Jayant and the complainant. After investing the amount, they would give the complainant at least 2 per cent of the invested amount and the complainant would receive permanent residency in Canada within one year of investing. After paying half the amount, the complainant, accompanied by Akash, had gone to Canada. After reaching there, the accused demanded the remaining amount to complete the investment process, which was also paid.The complainant returned to India and asked the accused for the money, but they refused and threatened to implicate him in false cases. A case has been registered at the Ambala City police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-dupe-panchkula-man-of-rs2-10-cr-booked-291244
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Economists speak with London Prof in e-session||Prof Kaushik Basu, an eminent economist, said today that he does a lot of reasoning inside his head that helps me in making decisions.He was speaking during a conversation with Amrita Dhillon, Professor of Economics at King’s College, London.The online session was hosted from here by the Majha House and centred around Prof Basu’s book, ‘The Policy Maker’s Journal: From New Delhi to Washington, DC’.Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said: “The book is designed around the journal he kept and is full of delightful observations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/economists-speak-with-london-prof-in-e-session-291247
01-08-2021||Mohali||2 die in accident on airport road||Deep Sidhu visits protest siteChandigarh: Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu visited Matka Chowk on Saturday and met Labh Singh, who has been protesting against the farm laws for over five months. Rajan Bains, who has been protesting at the chowk and was on the spot when Sidhu arrived, said: “Deep Sidhu came there all of a sudden around 3 pm. He spoke to Bapu Laabh Singh and left from there after about half an hour.” TNSSociety residents lodge complaintZirakpur: Residents of the Tribune Parivar Housing Society, Gazipur, alleged that a power transformer is being installed close to their houses, flouting the mandatory norm of keeping distance from the boundary wall of residential structures. The residents alleged that a builder was raising a housing society and the transformer was being installed to provide power to those houses. Ten plot owners had registered a complaint to PSPCL XEN Khushwinder Singh on July 27. TNSAthletics c’ship from August 13Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletic Association will conduct the 1st Chandigarh State U-23 Athletics Championship 2021-22 at the Sector 7 Sports Complex on August 13 and 14. Athletes studying, residing or working in Chandigarh will be allowed to participate in this championship. Athletes born on or after September 30, 1998, will be eligible to participate in this championship. Interested candidates can confirm their entries before August 9. TNSMohammad Rafi rememberedMohali: Desh Bhagat University remembered singer Mohammad Rafi on his death anniversary. The DBU community radio aired over 31 songs under the ‘Yaadgaar-e-Rafi Special Episode’ programme. Anju, Indian Classical Teacher/Singer, Vimal Trikha, founder member of the Chandigarh Bollywood facilitation cell, Sourav, lead singer from a popular Sufi band, ‘Sufi Sayaan’ managed by Gujral Events and Biki, music composer, participated in the event. TNSVaccination camp at RBUMohali: Rayat Bahra University organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp on the university campus. The camp was organised with the help the Mohali Civil Hospital. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor, said vaccine was the only way to return to normalcy and the university was striving to get all eligible persons on the campus vaccinated before the advent of the expected third wave. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-die-in-accident-on-airport-road-291276
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Veteran athlete Mann Kaur dies at 105||Once the face of Fit India Movement, internationally acclaimed veteran athlete Mann Kaur breathed her last at the age of 105 today. She died of liver cancer at a hospital here.Mann Kaur, who took to athletics at the age of 93, received the Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President at the age of 103. In 2016, she was declared the fastest centenarian at a competition in the American Masters Games. In 2019, she won four events — shot put, 60m sprint, 200m race and javelin throw — in her age category at the World Masters Athletics Championships in Poland. She won more than 25 medals at the veteran athletics championship.Popular as Bebe Mann Kaur, she stayed mostly in Canada and for some months every year at her son’s house in Chandigarh. After she won a marathon event in Patiala in 2016, the organisers provided her lodging in Hotel Neemrana, renovated version of famed Rajindra Kothi of Patiala Kings. She stayed in the Maharani’s room.“I was staying in room number 1 of the hotel, the place where the Maharani lived. I relived my whole life in a blink,” she told The Tribune in an interview in 2016.During her younger days, Mann Kaur served as a member of the royal staff. “My father was a cook in the royal kitchen. I was later married to a cook in his team,” she recalled. Her son moved to Canada after Independence. He was the first to participate in veteran athletics in Canada at the age of 78.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veteran-athlete-mann-kaur-dies-at-105-291043
