02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mandatory to mention pleas pending in lower courts in bail applications: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has changed the way bail pleas are filed in each and every case before the lower courts in Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh—it has now made it mandatory for an applicant to specify in the plea whether bail applications under any of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure have, or have not, been filed before any superior court.Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul also ordered that the public prosecutors /prosecuting agency would be duty-bound to apprise the court concerned on the issue after collecting necessary information from the investigating officers.“In case of lapse/default on the investigating agency/prosecution’s part in this regard, it would be construed to be a fraud played upon the Court, which could invite departmental as well as penal action against the erring parties/officials, as the case may be”. The Registrar-General was also directed to circulate the order to “all concerned” for not only information but also “necessary and strict compliance”.The directions came on a second regular bail petition in a house-trespass case registered in August last year under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC at Hajipur police station in Hoshiarpur district.A report was called from the court below after the petitioner’s counsel, on a previous date of hearing, sought the petition’s withdrawal on the ground that he had since been released on bail by Mukerian Judicial Magistrate First Class.Justice Kaul observed the report clearly revealed that the petition’s pendency was cleverly concealed from the court below. Refusing the petition’s withdrawal, Justice Kaul added the court deemed it appropriate to take suo motu cognizance of the fraud played upon both the high court and the trial court by the petitioner. Notice was also issued to the petitioner as to why the bail should be not cancelled.Justice Kaul further added time and again, more so in the recent past, it came to the court’s notice that the accused clandestinely approached the trial court seeking similar relief in bail matter by either concealing the pendency of a petition before the high court or by misrepresenting facts. Such malpractices were undoubtedly a matter of serious concern deserving to be nipped in the bud at the earliest.Before parting, Justice Kaul made it clear to the courts below in Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh that bail pleas would also mention the outcome if a superior court was at all approached for similar relief. An application not containing the information would not be accepted/ entertained and returned for resubmission with necessary information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandatory-to-mention-pleas-pending-in-lower-courts-in-bail-applications-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-291881
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 35 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh 4||Punjab on Monday reported 35 fresh Covid-19 cases while Chandigarh registered four.According to a health bulletin issued by the Punjab government, the new cases pushed the infection tally in the state to 5,99,162.The state reported zero fatalities due to the disease in a span of 24 hours, and its death toll stood at 16,294.There are 473 active cases of the disease in the state, the bulletin showed.Among the new cases, Kapurthala reported seven, Ludhiana five and Hoshiarpur four, it stated.With 63 more patients discharged from hospitals, the count of recoveries reached 5,82,395, as per the bulletin.The infection tally in Chandigarh, meanwhile, stood at 61,960, according to a medical bulletin issued by the union territory administration.The count also includes two cases that were not reported earlier, it stated.The death toll due to the disease in the UT stands at 811, and the number of active cases is 33, the bulletin showed, adding that the tally of recoveries is 61,116. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-reports-35-covid-19-cases-chandigarh-4-291880
02-08-2021||---||Chandigarh women riders donate items||Chandigarh, August 1Indian Women Riders, Chandigarh Chapter, debuted with a donation ride to Bal Sadan, Panchkula, which is an orphanage for girls. The ride was flagged off and lead by Meenal from Zirakpur. There were a total of 15 women riders. Indian Women Riders gave stationery items, art supplies, groceries and fruits to Bal Sadan. The riders joined the girls for a sumptuous breakfast, which was followed by games.Talking to the media, Meenal said that The Indian Women Riders constituent as a gesture of warmth and love, joined the little girls for a sumptuous breakfast that made them feel quite at home. She said the simple and frugal fare concluded by a few games made them rejoice at the unexpected turn of event, which they never thought would take them by such a pleasant surprise.An effortless transition of love and kindness almost imperceptibly reached them, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-women-riders-donate-items-291755
02-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Start OPDs with strategy in place to check crowding||Consider footfall from far-off areasAfter resuming OPDs, patients from the northern region, including Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and from far-flung areas of the country will come for treatment. This may also be considered while going ahead with the decision.Harsimran Singh Makkar, ChandigarhWill be a reliefCondition of many patients has worsened due to the closure of OPDs. Patients with serious ailments immediate medical attention. Opening of OPDs will provide some relief to such patients as private hospitals are looting public. The number of OPDs must be increased to cut the patients waiting time.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhCovid-appropriate behaviour a mustIt's time to allow patients to visit OPDs without seeking prior online appointment for treatment of their routine ailments. However, patients must follow Covid protocol during registration and consultation.SC Luthra, ChandigarhStart OPDs graduallyOPDs should be opened in a phased manner. Patients from neighbouring states, who come for routine check-up, should be restricted from hospitals. Only referral cases be attended at premier hospitals.KC Rana, ChandigarhPGIMER treatment unmatchableThe PGIMER and GMCH-32 are famous among patients from Punjab, Haryana, J&K, HP and UP. Doctors' treatment and managing patients at the PGI is unmatchable. In the light of the same, OPDs at both these hospitals should restart at the earliest.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhPoor are worst hitThe UT Administration must open the PGI and GMCH-32 OPDs as well as start elective surgeries. Due to the closure of OPDs in government hospitals, poor people have suffered a lot. They cannot afford to pay private doctors.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurAttend to not more than 50 patients a dayWalk-in OPDs for the general public can be opened at the PGI and the GMCH as more and more people in the UT are getting vaccinated against Covid. There should be a limit on number of patients to be attended in a day. At present, it should not be more than 50 a day.AK Jindal, PatialaSuitable seating arrangementsPatients faced difficulties without OPD services. The PGIMER and GMCH-32 should start OPDs for the general public. Seating arrangements with proper distancing should be made at both hospitals.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliAll and sundry will be benefitedEveryone can't afford expensive treatmentat private hospitals. Limited online consultations have been allowed, but all can't access this facility due to a few time slots. Therefore, it's high time for OPDs at the PGI and the GMCH to open. It will bring a relief to all and sundry.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhEveryone has to be carefulAs Covid cases have declined in the UT, the PGI and the GMCH OPDs can be opened for the public. Limited patients should be allowed in OPDs. It's important that anyone visiting hospital takes precautionary measures.MR Bhateja, NayagaonCovid test of patients at OPDsOnline registration must be compulsory for visiting the PGI and the GMCH. It's necessary to conduct Covid testof patients arriving at OPDs. The UT should make arrangements to prevent crowding.Anita Tandon, KhararAllow vaccinated patients at OPDsOnly those patients should be allowed in OPDs, who are fully vaccinated.Patients should show their vaccine certificates during registration for the OPD consultation.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliTake precautions at all costsCovid cases have declined in the UT. Therefore, it's safe to open the PGI and the GMCH. However, Covid precautions must be taken at all costs. Initially, OPDs must open for a limited patients to avoid rush. Every OPD patient must carry his/her vaccination certificate.Antra Rakheja, ChandigarhSenior citizens HITThe OPDs should open for non-Covid patients. Sick people, especially senior citizens, are facing problems as OPDs have been lying closed for long. There are other diseases besides Covid, which cause lots of suffering, if not treated systematically.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhOnline registration to avoid chaosThe PGI and the GMCH-32 should resume OPD services. Online registration should be mandatory to prevent chaos and maintain social distancing on hospital premises. Time slot should be allotted to patients.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliStrategy to enforce safety protocolThe Administration should make a proper strategy so that visitors follow Covid protocol strictly.Adish Sood, AmlohPeople from rural areas sufferingMany patients have chronic health problems. At times, they do not get timely appointments and their condition worsens. Due to the suspension of walk-in OPDs, poor people, especially from the rural areas, are suffering as they visit government hospitals for treatment. The UT should open routine OPDs for the public.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), UTEnsure doctors, staff, patients are inoculatedThe Administration should ponder over opening the OPDs. Patients cannot be deprived of healthcare services. As the fear of third Covid wave looms large, the authorities must ensure that doctors, staff and patients are vaccinated.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaStart OPDs, ensure sops are followedIt's high time for the OPDs to open. It must be ensured that all SOPs are followed. Patients with minor ailments may be advised online.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhProvide essential health servicesThe Administration should consider providing essential health services. It should open OPDs for a limited patients. Also, the hospital authorities should ensure safety of doctors, health workers and patients.Charu Malhotra, MohaliExpand healthcare infrastructureThe need of the hour is to expand OPD infrastructure so that medical attention is available for anyone who needs it without any delay.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaNot all can avail of online facilitiesAs Covid cases have reduced to negligible and restrictions have been relaxed/almost removed, it's time to allow walk-in OPDs in all government hospitals. Most patients are not able to avail of online medical facilities.Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), UTDue care for elderlyMany critical patients suffered on account of the closure of the walk-in-OPDs at the PGI and the GMCH-32. Such patients were fleeced by private hospitals. The elderly should always be always be given due care in the OPDs. So, it's high time to restore walk-in OPDs in all the three government hospitals.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhAdmn should take an urgent callThe UT Administration should take an urgent call on restoration of walk-in OPDs. Equally imperative for these hospitals is to ensure that Covid protocols are not violated.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhContinue online consultationThe government hospitals in the UT should continue online consultation instead of opening OPDs. All helplines should be operational and reachable.Saikrit Gulati,ChandigarhMake online registration easyThe PGI and the GMCH can make the existing online registration process easy. The faith in the PGI helpline can be restored by upgrading it to receive messages of the department concerned, which contain details of the patients who intend to visit the medical facility.Babu Ram Dhiman, Pinjorestart OPDs with staggered timingsIts time that the PGI and the GMCH-32 open walk-in OPDS for the poor, but with a rider. OPDs may start at staggered timings to prevent crowding.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliRegulate number of patients on daily basisTime has come for OPDs to start at the PGI and GMCH, Sector 32, for walk-in patients. This is important as the general public has remained deprived of such facilities for a long time. Such a step will lead to overcrowding in hospitals. So, suitable measures can be taken to regulate the number of patients on a daily basis in various departments.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaStill High risk of spreading infectionOnce the OPDs open, a large number of patients from the neighbouring states will avail of the facility. This will increase the chances of spreading virus. OPDs should open only for serious cases. The PGI and GMCH should deal with referral cases only.Paramjeet Singh, ChandigarhDon’t make patients suffer moreMaximum public activities have begun with moderate restrictions and guidelines. Therefore, the OPDs should start functioning for the convenience of patients with harsher precautions. Online prior appointmentcan be made compulsory so that limited number of patients are called daily.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliPeople have faith in govt hospitalsOnly a few Covid cases are reported and the number of active cases has declined in the UT. Most residents have already received the first dose of Covid vaccine. So, the Administration should allow walk-in OPDs in all government hospitals and dispensaries. Peopleh ave faith in government hospitals, especially in serious cases.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhClear backlogThe Administration should ensure that staff and specialist doctors are deployed in OPDs. Backlog of pending surgeries should be cleared before the third coronavirus wave strikes.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliIt’ll be a mockery of safety normsSocial distancing will go for a toss in the OPDs. Doctors are doing their best by providing consultation through telemedicine, calling limited number of patients to OPDs and also performing scheduled surgeries. Let the Administration wait for a few more months before opening OPDs.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhDon't rushThe UT should not rush to open walk-in OPDs in government hospitals. Daily registration of patients visiting hospitals should be limited and regulated.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhQUESTIONAfter the MC replaced traditional rehris with its vehicles for waste collection, it started adding garbage collection charges to the water bills. Residents are confused and say they are receiving hefty bills. What should be done to check the chaos? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/start-opds-with-strategy-in-place-to-check-crowding-291456
02-08-2021||---||T20 Cricket Tourney: Adda Cricket XI log 40-run win in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 1Adda Cricket XI, Dera Bassi, defeated Livewire Coaching Centre by 40 runs in the ongoing My Country-My Love T20 Cricket Tournament today.Batting first, Adda's XI posted 198/5 in 20 overs. Harvinder Nain (85), Pankaj (49), Dr Luthra (24) and Ankush (22) were the main scorers for the side.Achint claimed two wickets for the bowling side, while Kamal, Amit and Rizul claimed one wicket each.In reply, Livewire Coaching Centre scored 158 runs before getting all out in 19.1 overs.Kamal (46), Arshveer Singh (27), Gulshan (22) and Kapil (16) contributed to the chase. Pankaj claimed three wickets for the bowling side, while Ankush took two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/t20-cricket-tourney-adda-cricket-xi-log-40-run-win-in-chandigarh-291457
02-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||New office-bearers’ list bares chinks in Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 1Terming the appointment of new office-bearers and executive committee a start of the “Chandigarh Congress mukat” innings, previous city party president Pardeep Chhabra held current party chief Subhash Chawla and former party MP Pawan Kumar Bansal responsible for excluding some of the previous members.In a post on Twitter, Chhabra said proud, sycophants, backbiters and those with money power had their say in the release of the new list of the party.“Rahul Gandhiji wants politics of change, but the Chandigarh office-bearers list released yesterday showed it is not the politics of change, but politics of revenge. The local leaders will ruin the Chandigarh Congress,” he alleged in another Tweet.Chhabra said: “Why those working in the party for 30-40 years have not been included in the list. Why 30 per cent women are not in the list. Though the list was approved by the central leadership, but who was the recommending authority?”However, Bansal refused to comment on the issue, saying: “It does not merit my version.”While, Chawla said: “99.9 per cent members who were with Chhabraji have been retained except general secretary Sandeep Bhardwaj. Is he showing his shortcomings or mine? Moreover, he should recommend the name, we can still include them. It is better to raise such issues within the party than the social media.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-office-bearers-list-bares-chinks-in-congress-291458
02-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali civic body for direct hiring of sanitation workers||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 1The Mohali Municipal Corporation is all set to hire sanitation workers directly on a contractual basis. A resolution to this regard is likely to be tabled in the MC General House meeting to be held on August 3.Earlier, sanitation workers were being hired through various companies on contract for the cleanliness of the city. The meeting will be presided over by Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu.The MC will table the resolution for the recruitment of required workers for the maintenance of the city’s sanitation system and sewage treatment plant.Another important resolution of dividing the city into zones would also be tabled in the House meeting. As per the proposed zoning, ward numbers 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 41 and 43 to 50 will be in the north zone, while ward numbers 2, 6, 8, 9 to 12, 29, 24 to 39 and 42 will be in the east zone. Ward numbers 13 to 28 and 30 would be included in the south zone, while ward numbers 31 to 33, 40 and 41 will be in the west zone.The MC will be setting up these zones for civil, horticulture, sanitation, electricity, water supply and sewerage branches and their creation will improve the performance of officers and employees of the corporation.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said the corporation had taken a historic step by bringing a resolution for direct recruitment of sanitation workers.This would not only meet the demand of these employees but also curb their exploitation by contractors who were allegedly not giving their due rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-for-direct-hiring-of-sanitation-workers-291459
02-08-2021||---||Chandigarh bids adieu to veteran athlete Mann Kaur||Chandigarh, August 1Veteran athlete Mann Kaur, who died at the age of 105 after battling with cancer, was cremated in the presence of family members and fans at the Sector 25 electric crematorium here today.Her funeral was attended by people from different walks of life, including politicians, athletics coaches, young runners and several others. A recipient of the Nari Shakti Puraskar, 2019, she used to say “age is no bar to realise one’s dreams”.“She lived her life to the fullest. Though the past few months were tough for her, she was happy to have become an inspiration for others,” said Gurdev Singh, her son.The centenarian had been on liquid diet and had been treating the disease with the help of homeopathic medicines as operation was not an option at her age. She took up athletics at the age of 93. She received the Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President at the age of 103. In 2016, she was declared the fastest centenarian at a competition in the American Masters Games and she was among the prominent personalities of the Fit India Movement.In 2019, she competed in Poland winning four events in her category - shot put, 60m sprint, 200m and the javelin. In 2019, she won a gold in 200m dash and shot put at the Asian Masters Championship in Malaysia. After she won a marathon event in Patiala in 2016, the organisers provided her lodging in Hotel Neemrana, renovated version of famed Rajindra Kothi of Patiala Kings. She stayed in the Maharani’s room.Meanwhile, no official from the UT Administration, the Haryana Government or the Punjab Government attended the funeral.She took up athletics at 93||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bids-adieu-to-veteran-athlete-mann-kaur-291460
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested for house theft||1 held for theft at own houseChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 22-year-old youth for theft at his own house. According to the police, a resident of Dadu Majra Colony alleged that her son, Rakib, stole one pair silver anklet and Rs20,000 from the almirah on July 30. A case was registered and later Rakib was arrested. TNSSec 35 school student excelsChandigarh: Krishna Sharma, a student of Government Model School, Sector 35, here, brought laurels to the school by clearing the examination of Rashtriya Indian Military College. In the Rashtriya Indian Military College examinations held every year, only 25 students are selected from the country. TNS10 teams for cricket meetChandigarh: As many as 10 teams have confirmed their entries for the 3rd Kaushalya Devi Memorial U-17 Cricket Tournament at BBNCA Ground, Kaimbwala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-house-theft-291461
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||9 furniture shops gutted in Chandigarh||Nine shops were destroyed in a fire that broke out at the furniture market in Sarangpur last night. The Fire Department got information about the incident at 1.45 am on Sunday following which, fire teams were sent to the spot. A total of seven fire tenders were pressed into service.According to officials at the Sector 11 fire station, the exact loss was yet to be ascertained. The cause of fire remained unknown. Fire officials said goods kept in the shops were completely burnt. Being night, there was no one inside. The firemen took around one and a half hours to control the flames. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-furniture-shops-gutted-in-chandigarh-291462
02-08-2021||Panchkula||Two women among 3 held in drugs case in Panchkula||The police today arrested three persons, including two women, for selling intoxicants and recovered 600 capsules and 25 vials from them in Indira Colony, Sector 16, here. The suspects have been identified as Naveen (30), Raj Kumari (48) and Susheela (50). All three are neighbours in the colony.Acting on a secret information this afternoon, the police constituted a team to conduct a raid. It reached the colony and found the suspects sitting in a street with a black bag. The suspects spotted the raiding party and tried to run away. However, the police nabbed them.When cops searched the bag, they found 600 banned capsules of parvon spas, 25 vials of Leegesic and 25 vials of pheniramine maleate in it.The police said the raid was conducted in the presence of a Duty Magistrate and a drug inspector. Sub-Inspector Sushil Kumar, incharge, Sector 16 police post, said as per the report prepared by the drug inspector, the recovered capsules of parvon spas and vials of Leegesic were covered under the NDPS Act while vials of pheniramine maleate were not.A case was registered. The suspects will be produced in a local court tomorrow. — TNSOn tip-off, cops raid Indira Colony||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-women-among-3-held-in-drugs-case-in-panchkula-291463
02-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||PV Sindhu’s Olympic feat has Chandigarh shuttlers ecstatic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 1A wave of happiness spread among the local badminton fraternity as PV Sindhu became the first Indian woman player to win two consecutive Olympic medals.On Sunday, Sindhu won her second Olympic medal — a bronze — by defeating Chinese contender He Bing Jiao 21-13 21-15. In the 2016 Rio Olympics, she had bagged the silver medal.Surinder Mahajan, Badminton Coach‘A historic moment for India’“The credit goes to her parents and coach. She played aggressively, used the entire court, marked crosscheck shots and gave her best. This medal is a historic moment for India. Since childhood, she was a promising player. I congratulate her on behalf of the Chandigarh Badminton Association. We will try to bring the champion to Chandigarh to motivate youngsters in coming months.”Celebrations started at the Sector 38 Sports Complex as shuttlers gathered to celebrate Sindhu’s victory. International coach Surinder Mahajan, who accompanied Sindhu in various international championships and also coached her in youth training camps, termed the win a historic moment.“The credit goes to her parents and coach Pullela Gopichand. She played aggressively today, used the entire court, marked crosscheck shots and gave her best. This medal is a historic moment for India. Since childhood, she was a promising player. Under Gopichand and her new South Korean coach, she has achieved new heights. I had conducted camps of the Indian contingent for the Commonwealth, Youth and Asian championships in which Sindhu played, and I remember how hard she used to work. I congratulate her on behalf of the Chandigarh Badminton Association. We will try to bring the champion to the city to motivate youngsters in coming months,” said Mahajan, who is works with the UT Sports Department.A former Indian shuttler and local coach, Wing Commander Satish Bhatia, also congratulated Sindhu. “She lost the gold, but recovered well to win the bronze. Hats off to her for her performance,” said Bhatia, who represented India in the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games. “This is an unforgettable moment for the entire nation. She is such an inspiration. I just wish to have half her talent. She played well and showed what commitment means to achieve the aim,” said Deeksha, a local trainee.“She didn’t let her guard down, despite facing a defeat in the semis. She learned from her mistakes and made a stronger comeback today. She made every Indian proud,” said Shivesh, another player.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pv-sindhus-olympic-feat-has-chandigarh-shuttlers-ecstatic-291464
02-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh witnesses driest July since 2016||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 1The City Beautiful recorded 37 per cent deficit rainfall in the first two months of monsoon this year, besides witnessing the driest July since 2016.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, 421.7 mm of rainfall in June and July is considered normal in the UT. However, the city witnessed only 267-mm rainfall in these two months.“Haryana saw 47 per cent excess rainfall and Punjab saw normal rainfall. But some places like Ambala, Panchkula and Chandigarh did not see the same impact. One of the reasons for less rainfall in Chandigarh is that its normal rainfall is more than that of the neighbouring towns,” said Shivinder, a scientist at the local Meteorological Department.This July, the city recorded only 128.6-mm rainfall. It was over 300 mm in the month for the previous three years. Chandigarh recorded 302.6 mm, 323.5 mm and 319.2-mm rainfall in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2017, it recorded 242-mm rainfall. It was way back in the July of 2016 that the city saw lesser rainfall (109.5 mm) than this year. July 1994 witnessed the all-time high of 602.1-mm rainfall here.“The northwest region is expected to see a good rainfall in the remaining monsoon month. There is no specific extended forecast for small places like Chandigarh,” said a Met official.Weather ahead: The Met Department has forecast light rain for the next three days. The city is likely to see generally cloudy conditions till August 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-driest-july-since-2016-291465
02-08-2021||Amit Bathla||Was told to delete video by officials, claims jawan who attempted suicide||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 1The Home Guards jawan, who attempted suicide after alleging mental harassment by senior officials for stopping an Indian Defence Accounts Services (IDAS) officer’s car at Majri Chowk on July 17, claimed he was asked by the officials to delete the video which he shot in his defence when the woman officer “started misbehaving” with him.Piyush (26), Home Guards jawan‘Punished for honesty’I thought the matter stood settled after my transfer to the Police Lines. I didn’t know I would be punished for executing my duties with honesty.“I didn’t want to shoot the incident, but had to……when the officer threatened me with dire consequences,” said Piyush (26).The jawan is yet to be discharged from the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.“I thought the matter stood settled after my transfer to the Police Lines. I didn’t know I would be punished for executing my duties with honesty,” he said, adding that he had also gone to meet DCP Mohit Handa, who instead of listening to his views, turned him away.After Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij directed the DGP to take necessary action in the matter, the police had booked the woman officer under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharging his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC and her driver under the Motor Vehicles Act. Meanwhile, ACP (Headquarters) Vijay Kumar Nehra said they were also investigating allegations by the woman officer that the jawan’s conduct was inappropriate.The matterOn July 17, the jawan, on traffic duty, had stopped the car of an IDAS officer at Majri Chowk for jumping the red light. He was transferred to the Police Lines following the incident. Alleging mental harassment by senior officials of the Police Department, the jawan tried to kill himself by taking rat poison on the top floor of the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/was-told-to-delete-video-by-officials-claims-jawan-who-attempted-suicide-291466
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 1 new case in Chandigarh||Two test positive in Mohali districtMohali: Two persons tested positive for Covid in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the district to 68,457. Meanwhile, no death was reported and two patients were cured of the disease. A case each surfaced in Mohali and Dera Bassi. —– TNSPanchkula sees one case, no fatalityPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported just one fresh coronavirus case, taking the overall tally to 30,641. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,259 persons have recovered from the disease so far, six cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-1-new-case-in-chandigarh-291467
02-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh hospitals refund Rs 5.56L to patients||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 1Ten Covid patients in Chandigarh had received a refund from private hospitals of the amount overcharged from them. While the refund adds up to Rs5.56 lakh, some complaints are lying pending with sub-divisional magistrates.The information was provided in response to an RTI application filed by this correspondent on the amount refunded by private hospitals after an intervention of the UT Health Department.Eden Critical Care Hospital had refunded Rs5,20,011 to seven patients, while Care Partner Group refunded Rs17,300 to a complainant.The UT Health Department had set up a helpline for Covid patients who were fleeced by private hospitals during treatment. The department had then directed hospitals to refund the amount charged in excess of the rates notified by the Chandigarh Administration.The matter of refund was transferred to SDMs’ offices on June 10 and the complainants were asked to approach the SDM in their jurisdiction for refund.Three complaints were received against Healing Hospital. Two complainants had withdrawn the complaint after refund but there was no record available with the Health Department of the amount refunded. One complaint was forwarded to the SDM (South). Four complaints were registered against Mukat Hospital, out of which three were transferred to the office of the SDM (South) on June 15, while one complaint was settled with a refund of Rs11,237. Two complaints were filed against Landmark Hospital, of which one was settled with a refund of Rs8,059 and another was transferred to the office of the SDM (South) on June 30. Private hospitals were found charging extra for oxygen, medicines and investigation even as these were inclusive of the package notified by the Chandigarh Administration on April 24. A sum of up to Rs9,600 per day extra was charged for oxygen. Despite procuring remdesivir for Rs1,300 from the UT Administration, the hospitals took up to Rs4,000 from patients who were given the drug.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospitals-refund-rs-5-56l-to-patients-291468
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one new Covid case||Chandigarh reported one new Covid case, taking infection tally to 61,954, according to the medical bulletin.The death toll stands at 811, it said, adding the number of active cases stands at 30.The overall recoveries in Chandigarh have reached 61,113, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-new-covid-case-291433
02-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid fatalities drop to 2 in July||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31Two deaths took place in the UT in the month of July due to Covid-19, which is the lowest since the pandemic struck the region.1 case, 1 death in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Saturday reported one new case of Covid-19 and one death. A total of five patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSOne case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday saw just one fresh case of Covid-19, taking the tally to 30,640. With no fresh fatality, the toll remained at 376. TNSFour new cases in MohaliMohali: Four new cases of Covid-19 were detected while six patients were cured in the district in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, two were from Mohali and one each from Dhakoli and Kharar. TNSWhat’s more? The last Covid-19 patient at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, was discharged today and the hospital is Covid-free as of now.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, said, “This is for the first time that there is not even a single Covid patient admitted to our hospital. There was always an influx of Covid patients in our hospital. No patient was occupying the ICU ventilator bed for quite some time but today, the last patient was discharged. There is no Covid patient as of now and we are very happy about it. Hope it stays the same.”From witnessing 5,901 cases in the second week of May, the weekly cases have dropped to 38 last week. The positivity rate in July dropped to 0.6 per cent from 2.7 per cent last month. Only 283 persons contracted Covid-19 in Chandigarh this month, while it was 1,624 cases in June.In the past one week, 0.3 per cent of samples tested positive. For every lakh people in Chandigarh, 51,946 samples were tested and 5,255 out of every lakh people have tested positive for the virus.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “This is the result of vaccination that Chandigarh has recorded such low fatalities this month. Around 83 per cent of the population has got the first dose. We need to maintain these statistics by wearing masks and maintaining social distance till we completely eradicate Covid from our lives.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-fatalities-drop-to-2-in-july-291221
