03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports five new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported five new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration said on Tuesday.Chandigarh now has 34 active cases, with an average positivity rate of 0.24 per cent over the last seven days.The UT’s fatality count stands at 811. Chandigarh reported four recoveries over the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed.Meanwhile, 7,29,822 people over 18 have been given at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the UT. Of that number, 2,03,071 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-five-new-covid-19-cases-292403
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration extends Covid containment measures till August end||Chandigarh administration extended its Covid-19 containment measures up to August 31 on Tuesday.UT Adviser Dharam Pal Singh issued an order extending containment measures announced earlier until the end of the month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-extends-covid-containment-measures-till-august-end-292375
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now, housing projects can come up on 50 acres at New Chandigarh||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has allowed affordable housing projects in 50 acres in New Chandigarh, reducing the minimum area requirement from 100 acres, but without disturbing the density norms.Industrial boostThis would enable proper utilisation of the left-out pockets to provide housing facilities. The decision was taken at the 42nd meeting of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Board chaired by the CM through video conferencing.The approval was also granted for change of land use (CLU) for certain categories of industries, in an effort to further boost industrial activity in the state. The CLU will be applicable on green and orange industries at a distance of 100 metres and 250 metres, respectively, from Lal Lakir or nearby Abadi (minimum 50 pucca houses) on minimum 6 karam (30-33 feet) approach road, under the policy of permitting industrial activity in agricultural zone of master plans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-housing-projects-can-come-up-on-50-acres-at-new-chandigarh-292233
03-08-2021||Amarjot Kaur
||Lalit Kala Akademi, Le Corbusier Centre to restore Jeanneret’s sculpture, says Chandigarh Adviser||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 2 The UT Administration has tasked the Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi and Le Corbusier Centre to restore Pierre Jeanneret’s sculpture at Sector 16. The decision of the Administration comes 20 days after Chandigarh Tribune published a three-part series about the sculpture, which was lying in a shambles on the premises of Government Nursery School of Sector 16. Dharam Pal, UT Adviser, shared, “After reading the news stories about the sculpture, I was prompted to speak with the Education Secretary. After much deliberation, we decided that Lalit Kala Akademi should be roped in to handle the aesthetic part of the sculpture along with Le Corbusier Centre. The Engineering Department could help them too.” He added, “We are making consistent efforts to protect and preserve the heritage of this beautiful city.” In a communication sent to Dharam Pal, the Education Secretary wrote: “I had spoken with the Chairman, Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi, which principally agreed to handle the artistic part of it along with the Director, Le-Corbusier Centre. He said he shall visit the school and work out modalities for its restoration and see if it can be shifted to Jeanneret Museum. So, we had written a letter to the Chief Engineer, UT (as custodian of all UT property) with respect to the press clippings to take action in close coordination with Corbusier Centre and Akademi. They shall, as it needs Engineering Department’s help as the three elements are moulded out of RCC, and might need structural strength support from the Chief Engineer, UT.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalit-kala-akademi-le-corbusier-centre-to-restore-jeannerets-sculpture-says-chandigarh-adviser-291942
03-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||35% students turn up in Mohali dist on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 2About 35 per cent students of all classes attended the schools across Mohali district here today. All the primary, middle and high schools opened after about four months of closure due to the second wave of the pandemic.The schools had made elaborate arrangements to maintain social distancing in the classes, besides making available sanitisers for the students and staff.There are 547 government schools – 438 primary, 63 high and 46 secondary schools – in Mohali district.The schools had been closed in March this year. On July 26, the schools were reopened for Classes 10 to 12.Baljinder Singh, District Education Officer (Primary), said though the attendance of students was thin today – around 30 to 35 per cent – it would increase in the coming days.A notice issued by the Punjab Home Affairs and Justice Department on July 31 had stated that “all schools are allowed to open for all classes from August 2”.The notice further read: “The district authorities shall continue to ensure strict implementation of all extant directives of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs/state government on Covid appropriate behaviour, including social distancing, wearing of face masks, etc.”At Government High School, Phase 6, Mohali, the attendance of students was about 70 per cent. Teachers said there was great enthusiasm among the students.Meanwhile, Class 8 student Saloni said she had been anxiously waiting for the reopening of her school.“I was happy to meet my classmates and teachers,” said Saloni.Parents in schools to see arrangementsAs per information, more parents were seen in the schools as compared to students on the opening day. They wanted to see the arrangements made by the authorities in the schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-students-turn-up-in-mohali-dist-on-day-1-291944
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm activists stage protests at mall in Kharar, Sector 63||Farm activists of the city unit of the BKU (Charuni) gathered at a mall in Kharar this morning to protest the removal of pro-farmer flags at a market in the mall. In the evening, around 10 of these activists staged a symbolic protest at the city’s Sector 63, to protest against Mayor Ravikant Sharma.  Sarbans Parteek said, “Farm activists, Kamalpreet Singh and Gagan, who own a shop here in the mall, has put up pro-farmer flags on their shop. They also distributed Trolly Times newspaper. The management had removed those flags and asked them to not distribute the paper.” He added, “Yesterday, when a video of the flags being removed from his shop went viral, he met us and said he is shutting down business. We asked the management to file a police complaint if they had a problem with the flags. But the management then agreed to put the flags back, as there were no ground for complaint.” In the evening, the protesters gathered at Sector 63 and staged a protest by showing black flags to city Mayor who had arrived there to inaugurate a civic project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-stage-protests-at-mall-in-kharar-sector-63-291946
03-08-2021||---||Vodafone Idea subscribers face network issues in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 2Several subscribers of Vodafone Idea (Vi) in the city reported data connectivity issues, especially during noon, and call disruptions. Many users reported no access to the Internet and intermittent reception in connectivity.The network outage was a cause of big worry for subscribers, as several customers were still working from home and heavily depend on the Internet and voice calls.A majority of subscribers complained about data services and some subscribers even reported network outage, especially during voice calls, even at the time of filing this report.An email sent to the Vodafone-Idea company regarding poor connectivity issues and what they are doing to ensure seamless service, did not elicit any response till the filing of this report.This is not for the first time the subscribers of Vodafone-Idea are feeling harried. Last month also they faced a similar kind of issue. This is evident from the fact that perturbed over poor signals, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar instructed the telecom player and others to take steps to improve signal reception.According to experts, as several organisations resorted to work from home and others adopted e-learning, it led to an upsurge in Internet usage. However, the infrastructure was not upgraded in sync with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vodafone-idea-subscribers-face-network-issues-in-chandigarh-291947
03-08-2021||---||Auction of CHB units on leasehold basis: Now, August 10 is last date for e-bids||Chandigarh, August 2The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has extended the last date for the submission of e-bids for the auction of 151 commercial units and 38 residential units on a leasehold basis to August 10.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the board had invited e-bids for selling its 151 built-up commercial units and 38 built-up residential units on a leasehold basis through an e-tender and the last date to submit the e-tender was August 2 till 6 pm.Considering the number of queries about the lease period and the applicable rate of annual ground rent, it has been decided that the date of start of lease period for each of the unit will be provided on the CHB website — www.chbonline.in — and also, the last date for the e-bid submission has been extended to August 10 till 10 am.He said the bids would be opened on August 10 at 10.15 am.“The prospective bidders, who have already submitted their e-bids, have an option to modify (increase or decrease) their bid amount till 10 am on August 10,” said Garg.He said there was no change in the schedule in the e-tender for 46 residential units on a freehold basis for which the last date for the e-bid submission was August 4 till 6 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auction-of-chb-units-on-leasehold-basis-now-august-10-is-last-date-for-e-bids-291949
03-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration steps up process to privatise Power Dept||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The UT Administration has stepped up the process for privatisation of the Electricity Department, with the Empowered Committee examining the recommendations of the Technical Bids Evaluation Committee.The Evaluation Committee of the Administration has prepared a final report on the strengths and weaknesses of different technical bids received.After analysing the recommendations of the Evaluation Committee, the Empowered Committee would prepare its report and give it to UT Administrator VP Singh Bandore for approval, said sources in the department.The process to open the financial bids will start after getting the consent of the Administrator, the sources added.After the approval, the Union Cabinet will endorse the recommendation of the UT and then only a firm will be selected to take over the Electricity Department.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department.Seven companies, including Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company had submitted their bids.However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the Electricity Department after the UT Powermen Union had approached the court.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision of the government to privatise the electricity department by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-steps-up-process-to-privatise-power-dept-291951
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake water level nears danger mark||The water level of Sukhna Lake has reached 1,161.40 ft due to rain in its catchment area. The level is nearly 1.6 ft below the danger mark.On July 28, the water level in the lake was recorded at 1,159.90 ft, said an official of the UT Engineering Department. He said the water level was expected to rise further if rain continued in the region.The official said the floodgates would be opened if the water level reached the danger mark. “The Administration is ready to deal with any situation,” said the official.The two floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake reached the danger mark. Before this, on September 24, 2018, officials had opened the floodgates. Before 2018, it was in 2008 that the floodgates had to be opened when a similar situation arose. After floodgates are opened, water is carried to the Gaggar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-water-level-nears-danger-mark-291952
03-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Civic body again fails to find any takers for land in Mani Majra||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2Hopes of the cash-strapped Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to earn a revenue of about Rs81 crore by auctioning a piece of land at Mani Majra for a specialty hospital have been dashed once again.It was for the second time that the civic body had offered the land on a leasehold basis through an e-auction. However, again not even a single bidder showed interest in the auction. Interested parties had to file their bids by the mid of last month, but there were no takers for the land, measuring 2.74 acres.“I think pricing is the issue. Those interested are finding the rates too high compared to the present rates in that area. We will discuss the matter and will refloat the tender with same changes,” said an official privy to the development.The Leader of the Opposition in the MC, Devinder Singh Babla, said, “The price seems to be on the higher side. The MC should first priortise disposing of its showrooms and booths. It should fix a price that is attractive for buyers and also offer freehold properties. Otherwise, it will keep wasting money on advertisments and mainteance of its properties, while buyers will prefer Panchkula and Mohali.The MC has a long history of failing to dispose of its vacant properties depsite repeated attempts. At present, several MC buildings are lying vacant. In Sector 17, Mauli Jagran, Mani Majra and other areas, its booths and other properties have been lying vacant for years.The corporation has lost crores of rupees due to its failure to auction these. The MC wants to sell these at the market rate, but buyers have not shown any interest citing high prices. Some buyers even wanted freehold property, but the coporation failed to budge, thereby facing a huge loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-again-fails-to-find-any-takers-for-land-in-mani-majra-291955
03-08-2021||Amit Sharma||Law no deterrent for Chandigarh clubs serving hookah||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2It seems there is no fear of law and the orders of the UT Administration banning serving of hookah in view of Covid-19 have failed to act as a deterrent as several clubs and restaurants have been caught repeatedly for defying the hookah ban.In one such incident, three cases have been registered in less than a month against “The Common Room” at Mani Majra for sevring hookah.The Administration has already imposed a ban on serving of flavoured hookahs, including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, for smoke or consumption in hotels, restaurants, bars, taverns and hookah bars.However, many bars and clubs have repeatedly failed to adhere to the directions.In a case registered on August 1, the police found hookah being served at the “The Common Room” in Mani Majra. The police sealed the club for three days and registered a case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 58 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.This happens to be the third time in less than a month when hookah was found being served at the café.Earlier, on July 21, SDM (East) Ruchi Singh Bedi raided “The Common Room” and sealed it for serving hookah on the premises. Another case was registered against the same establishment on July 3.In April, SDM (Central) Harjeet Singh Sandhu had ordered the sealing of Pipe and Barrel Club in Sector 9 for serving hookah. The same club was earlier found violating the District Magistrate’s order thrice between December 2020 and January 2021.Gurmukh Singh, DSP (East), said they kept a close watch on the clubs to ensure that hookah was not served to customers. “We have been registering cases against the clubs for violation of the orders and recommend sealing of clubs for serving hookah,” the DSP said. A majority of the cases against the clubs have been filed at the Sector 26 police station.Since March 2020, 19 cases have been registered against the clubs and bars at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/law-no-deterrent-for-chandigarh-clubs-serving-hookah-291956
03-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: ‘0001’ goes for Rs 9.33 lakh||Chandigarh, August 2The much-hyped fancy registration number, ‘0001’ of the CH01-CF series, was sold for Rs9.33 lakh during an e-auction of fancy registration numbers conducted by the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA).Another number, ‘CH01-CF-0007’, fetched the second-highest bidding price of Rs3.98 lakh. It was followed by ‘CH01-CF-0009’, which was auctioned for Rs3.56 lakh. The registration number 0003 was auctioned for Rs2.36 lakh, 0005 for Rs2.32 lakh, 0002 for Rs2.26 lakh, 0004 for Rs1.55 lakh, 0008 for Rs1.51 lakh, 0010 for Rs1.31 lakh and 0006 for Rs1.14 lakh.The RLA earned a total revenue of Rs1,10,66,000 from the e-auction of fancy numbers of the new series, CH01-CF, held today, along with the re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series — CH01-CE, CH01-CD, CH01-CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS.Pradhuman Singh, Registering and Licensing Officer, said: “It was the second highest amount ever earned by the RLA, the first being Rs1,15,72,000 earned during the last e-auction of the CH01-CE series and re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series.”The successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered as well as deposit the bidding amount within one month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10 per cent as well as interest at the rate of 10 per cent on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-0001-goes-for-rs-9-33-lakh-291958
03-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Women's hockey team in high spirits, won’t stop till we touch gold’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2“We are not settling for anything less than a gold medal,” said defender Monika Malik soon after Indian women’s hockey team beat Australia 1-0 to book a place in the semifinals of the Tokyo Olympics today.Monika, who honed her skills at the Chandigarh Hockey Academy here, told Chandigarh Tribune “the team is in high spirits” and ready to face the challenges ahead.“Today’s win was special and we will try to make it count by winning the gold medal. I am happy to see this day. We have another hurdle to cross and I am confident that the team will face it boldly,” said Monika while on her way to a team meeting.The Haryana girl has a long association with Chandigarh. His father works as an ASI with the Chandigarh Police and she used to train under coach Rajinder Singh at the Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA) during her formative years. Monika stayed in the city from 2007-12.Besides Monika, the current Indian team features two other Chandigarh Hockey Academy products – Sharmila Devi and Reena.“This is the moment we all have been living for. I am happy that my trainees are contributing to it. Monika spent her initial years at the CHA. She would cry after tough training sessions, but was committed. I hope the Indian team wins gold medal and scripts history... such golden chances come once in many years,” said Olympian Rajinder Singh, who is currently posted in Bhopal.While Monika, who is playing her second Olympics, prepares for the semifinals, her father Takdeer Singh Malik is undergoing training for inter-departmental promotions.Takdeer, who once wished to see her daughter grow as a professional wrestler, was happy to learn about Indian hockey team’s performance at the Tokyo Games.“As a father, I want my daughter to give her best. But as an Indian, I really hope that the Indian team wins the final. For me, every team member is as important as Monika,” said Takdeer.Asked whether he spoke to Monika after the historic win, Takdeer said: “After winning the match, she just said ‘papa jeet gaye’ (we won) and I just replied ‘agla bhi jeetna hai’ (you have to win the next match too).”“I am happy that she is part of this historic moment. The entire nation is standing with the team. This is a result of sheer hard work,” he added.Gurminder Singh, hockey coach, UT Sports Department, remembered Monika and her batch mates as a talented pool of players.“She (Monika) was inducted at a very young age. The entire batch was very talented and as many as three girls are now playing for India in the Olympics. Other coaches, including Manjeet Kaur and Olympian Nisha Sharma, also coached them for a long time,” said Gurminder.“She has been such an inspiration for all of us. She is the backbone of the team and has been defending well. In today’s match, she showed how to use experience to defend the goal,” said Inder, a local trainee.Monika hails from Gamri village near Gohana in Sonepat. She played hockey at Government School, Sector 44, here, and also represented Chandigarh in many national events before switching to Haryana.Monika has now played over 150 matches for the Indian women’s team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/womens-hockey-team-in-high-spirits-wont-stop-till-we-touch-gold-291961
03-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid: Six children orphaned in Chandigarh, Centre says none||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2Despite the fact that Chandigarh is under the direct cont5rol of the Centre, there is often a mismatch in the data of the UT and the government. This time, an anomaly has been found with the data regarding the children orphaned due to Covid-19.On July 30, the Centre presented the data in the Lok Sabha regarding the orphaned children according to which, there were “zero” children who lost both their parents to Covid-19 in Chandigarh. However, Chandigarh has identified six such children and the Administration has taken the responsibility for the children under its scheme, ‘Parvarish’.Similarly, according to the data tabled on July 30, no orphaned children were registered on the PM CARES Fund portal (pmcaresforchildren.in) from Chandigarh, whereas 292 such children have been registered on the portal till date from other states.The Prime Minister had announced the PM CARES for Children scheme to support children who lost both parents to the pandemic.A UT official, who deals with matters regarding the orphaned children in Chandigarh, said the PM CARES Fund scheme had not been made functional till now and the UT was awaiting its digital licence to upload the details of the orphaned children on the portal. The UT has also identified 100 children who lost a parent to Covid-19. The UT scheme covers orphaned children or children who have lost one parent and the surviving parent has surrendered the child and the kids living with guardians/extended families.It also covers those who have lost one parent to Covid and are living with the surviving parent or extended families.The scheme ensures free education in government-run schools and a monthly financial support to such children till the age of 18. In case the child is unemployed after the age of 18, the monthly financial assistance shall be extended till the age of 21 on the basis of an assessment by the District Child Protection Unit.Details tabled in Lok sabhaOn July 30, the Centre presented the data in the Lok Sabha regarding the orphaned children according to which, there were “zero” children who lost both their parents to Covid-19 in Chandigarh. However, Chandigarh has identified six such children and the Administration has taken the responsibility for the children under its scheme, ‘Parvarish’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-six-children-orphaned-in-chandigarh-centre-says-none-291964
03-08-2021||---||SAD not to contest from Mohali||Mohali, August 2The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will not field its candidate from the Mohali Assembly segment in the coming elections in the state, said SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia.He said the SAD would instead support the candidate of its alliance partner, the Bahujan Samaj Party.He was here to attend a function organised to welcome back councillor Nirmal Kaur and former SOI leader Simran Dhillon into the party. He assured “due respect and recognition” to the Dhillon family and said their return to the SAD would strengthen the party.Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parambans Singh Romana, SOI patron Bhim Waraich and SOI president Robin Brar were also present on the occasion.Commenting on the local Municipal Corporation elections held in February this year, Majithia said senior leaders as well as local leaders would have to introspect on the causes of the debacle. He said possibly, the choice of candidates was not appropriate. He said if they did not accept their mistakes, the party could not progress.Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma lashed out at Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for allegedly grabbing shamlat land and added that drugs purchased by the government had been sold to private hospitals or chemists. He said the Centre had provided 80 ventilators and of these, 40 were allotted to private hospitals while the remaining were lying unused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-not-to-contest-from-mohali-291967
03-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Estate Office, Industries Centre seek suggestions||Chandigarh, August 2Suggestions have been invited for simplification of processes and minimising regulatory compliance burdens in the services of the District Industries Centre (DIC), UT.The UT Administration has initiated an exercise of minimising regulatory compliance burden with an aim to simplify, rationalise and digitise the interface with citizens. The main objective is to decrease time and cost burden and improve ease of living for citizens and ease of doing business for industrialists/investors.Meanwhile, the Estate Office, UT, has also solicited suggestions from individuals, industrialists, investors and industry associations of Chandigarh for taking steps to minimise the requirement of physical touch points with industrialists or investors and minimise or reduce regulatory compliance burden in the services of the Estate Office.The suggestions can be sent through email at noeodb754@gmail.com. These can also be sent by post at Tehsildar-cum-Nodal Officer, Ease of Doing Business, DC office, Sector 17, Chandigarh, by August 9.These can be sent through email, postThe suggestions can be sent through email at noeodb754@gmail.com. These can also be sent by post at Tehsildar-cum-Nodal Officer, Ease of Doing Business, DC office, Sector 17, Chandigarh, by August 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-estate-office-industries-centre-seek-suggestions-291975
03-08-2021||---||GMADA trashes land acquisition claims||Mohali, August 2The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) today trashed the claims of acquisition of land for the Eco City-3 project at New Chandigarh as “rumours”.GMADA spokesperson said presently the Eco City-3 project stands “denotified” and “further acquisition of land for this project is not under consideration of the authority”.“GMADA acquires land as per the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 and in future if there arises any need to acquire land for the Eco City-3 project, due course will be adopted as per the provisions of prevailing Land Acquisition Act,” said the spokesperson.“As of now, GMADA denies issuance of any letter pertaining to land acquisition for the Eco City-3 project,” the spokesperson added.Pertinently, a media report, quoting a GMADA letter, had suggested that development authority had announced acquisition of land for the Eco City-3 project at New Chandigarh.However, the spokesperson said: “The public in general is advised not to accept as true the information being disseminated about land acquisition for the Eco City-3 project as the letter being circulated in this connection is fake.”“Suitable action will be initiated against those who are misleading the public as the authority maintains zero tolerance against such notorious activities,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmada-trashes-land-acquisition-claims-291977
03-08-2021||---||Ex-general secy Sandeep Bhardwaj quits Chandigarh Cong||Chandigarh, August 2 Sandeep Bhardwaj, a close aide of former president of the Chandigarh unit of the Congress Pardeep Chhabra, today resigned from the primary membership of the party. In a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, the former general secretary of the city Congress said: “With a heavy heart, I hereby tender my resignation from the primary membership of the Indian National congress.” Bhardwaj blamed former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal for his resignation and levelled several allegations against him. Notably, Bhardwaj, who has been vocal against the current leadership of the city Congress, was not retained as the general secretary in the new office-bearers’ list released recently. Bhardwaj has been openly favouring Chhabra even as the latter was replaced by Subhash Chawla.  Bhardwaj alleged that the old party workers, who had been working to strengthen the party for the past 30-40 years, were being sidelined. Meanwhile, Chhabra continued to attack Chawla. In a tweet, he said, “The party in Chandigarh thinks all are their servants.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-general-secy-sandeep-bhardwaj-quits-chandigarh-cong-291979
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Nanded-Amb Andaura special train begins today||For the convenience of rail passengers, the Ambala Division of Northern Railways will now operate a weekly superfast special train (05427/05428) between Nanded and Amb Andaura. Nanded-Amb Andaura weekly special train (05427) will leave Nanded at 11.05 am every Tuesday from August 3 and will arrive at Amb Andaura at 5.50 pm the next day.In the return direction, Amb Andaura-Nanded weekly special train (05428) will depart every Thursday at 3.10 pm from August 5 and reach Nanded at 9.40 pm the next day.The special train will halt at Poorna, Hingoli Deccan, Wasim, Akola, Malkapur, Khandwa, Itarsi, Habibganj, Bhopal, Bina, Jhansi, Gwalior, Agra Cantonment, Mathura, New Delhi, Panipat, Ambala Cantt (fully reserved train), Chandigarh, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Morinda, Rupnagar, Anandpur Sahib, Nangal Dam and Una stations in both directions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekly-nanded-amb-andaura-special-train-begins-today-291981
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sampingiraj joins RoundGlass Punjab Football Club||Chennai City midfielder Shankar Sampingiraj has joined RoundGlass Punjab Football Club (RGPFC).  With an experience of more than eight years, Sampingiraj has played in both I-League and ISL for teams, including Hyderabad FC, FC Pune City, ATK, Bengaluru FC and Kerala Blasters.  He has also been on two I-League winning sides — Bengaluru FC and ATK. “I observed RGPFC in the I-League in Kolkata last season. Despite being a fresh entrant, it was the most professional club. I am excited to be part of the club and help the team win and achieve its goals,” said Sampingiraj. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sampingiraj-joins-roundglass-punjab-football-club-291982
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjan Sethi is Chandigarh Rugby Football Assn chief||The executive body of the Chandigarh Rugby Football Association unanimously elected Ranjan Sethi as its new president here on Monday. Manpreet Kaur was elected as the general secretary, while Dr Purnendu Ranjan was elected as the treasurer. Other office-bearers are Dr Sangam Kapoor and Dr RN Yadav (senior vice-president I), Sanjay Kurl, Krishan Kumar (senior vice-president II), Deepak Kumar Singh (working secretary), PS Lamba (senior joint secretary), Jayant Atreya and RS Kaura (joint secretaries), Sewa Singh, Sheliender Kaushik, Vipan Kumar and Navnee Dalal (executive members) and Prerna Rani and Radha (ruby players). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ranjan-sethi-is-chandigarh-rugby-football-assn-chief-291984
03-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh: Court frames charges against house owner, man operating Sector 32 PG||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, August 2Jagdeep Sood, Additional Sessions Judge, has framed charges against the two accused in a year-old fire incident at a PG accommodation in which three girls had lost their lives and two others were injured.The charges have been framed against owner of the house Gourav Aneja and Nitish Bansal, who was running the PG accommodation at the house after taking it on rent.The charges have framed under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (whoever does any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), and 337 read with 34 of the IPC (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention).The court has also fixed August 26 for the prosecution evidence.As per the prosecution, Aneja had given the house to Bansal on lease and was running the PG at the house.The Sector 32-D house here had caught fire on February 22, 2020.Ashok Rohilla, additional public prosecutor, argued that besides the person running the PG, the owner was also responsible for the death of the girls.Rohilla said the accused had raised temporary fibre and wooden partition/structures illegally, leaving narrow space for stairs in the building, so as to accommodate a maximum number of students without providing proper ventilation and emergency exit.He claimed that this was done to earn maximum profit while putting the lives of the girl students at risk.The prosecution alleged that when the fire broke out the girls got trapped and three of them died while few others got injured.The fire had broken out on the first floor of the house and three girls – Muskan Mehta, Riya and Pakshi Grover, all aged between 19 and 21 years – died in the incident. At the time of the incident, 17 girls were present in the house.The prosecution also alleged that the building bylaws were violated while operating the PG accommodation.Both accused, meanwhile, pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-frames-charges-against-house-owner-man-operating-sector-32-pg-291987
03-08-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders status quo on petition by HMT Limited||Chandigarh, August 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered the maintenance of status quo on a petition filed by HMT Ltd against the passing of 66KV overhead high tension cable through a heavily populated residential area, school and other installations.The direction by Justice Lisa Gill came on a petition filed against Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd and other respondents by HMT through senior advocate Anand Chhibbar with counsel Lalit Thakur and Shikhar Sarin.Chhibbar submitted the respondent – Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam – in September 2018 had accepted their proposal for alternative route for installation of the 66KV overhead high tension wire to avoid populated residential area and factory premises, where heavy machinery was manufactured and high boom cranes were used for handling material.Chhibbar also submitted impugned communication dated July 26 was received due to some objection raised by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) regarding land still vacant.He pointed out that site plans attached with the petition indicated that route plan now proposed and accepted by the respondent was in fact impractical and dangerous.It was passing through heavily populated residential area, school, factory premises, petroleum pump and LPG godown. Furthermore, respondent – authorities – had gone ahead to seek police help for installation of the lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-status-quo-on-petition-by-hmt-limited-291990
03-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: Council stays Rs 50K costs imposed on DBA president||Chandigarh, August 2 The Bar Council of India (BCI) has stayed the costs of Rs50,000 imposed on Bhag Singh Suhag, president of the District Bar Association, by the Election Tribunal of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. Suhag has challenged the order of the Election Tribunal of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana before the Bar Council of India. The Election Tribunal of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana had imposed a cost of Rs50,000 on Suhag through its order dated July 20 for setting aside ex parte proceedings against him. The Council directed Suhag to pay the amount in the Covid-19 Fund of the Bar Council of Punjab in a week, failing which the order proceeded ex parte against him on July 1, 2021, will become operative. The Tribunal has passed the order in a petition challenging the election process of the DBA held last year. After hearing the arguments, the BCI, in its order, said “the operation of the order of the Election Tribunal is hereby stayed so far as it relates to the imposition of the fine of Rs50,000. Only that part of the impugned order is hereby stayed and it is made clear that proceeding before the Tribunal shall continue to proceed without being affected by the interim order passed by the Bar Council of India.” The BCI has also issued the notices to the parties for September 18, 2021. It has also called all records relating to the matter from the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. The Tribunal in the order passed on July 1 had decided to proceed ex parte against Suhag after none from his side were present during the hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-council-stays-rs-50k-costs-imposed-on-dba-president-291992
03-08-2021||---||Alert sounded in areas close to Sukhna Choe in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, August 2The local Municipal Council today made annoucements asking the slum dwellers and residents living close to the Sukhna Choe to immediately vacate their places and shift to safer locations as a huge amount of water was being released from the Sukhna Lake since the morning.Sources said the Sukhna level was brought down by around two feet by releasing water into the choe. Autorickshaws fitted with loudspeakers kept patrolling the roads in Zirakpur areas situated along the choe making non-stop announcements. Councillors also alerted residents in risk-prone areas.Meanwhile, traffic snarls were witnessed on the Chandigarh-Delhi road. Housing societies on the VIP Road, Baltana, Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla and the Lohgarh road witnessed severe waterlogging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alert-sounded-in-areas-close-to-sukhna-choe-in-zirakpur-291994
03-08-2021||---||Chandigarh registers 23% growth in GST collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2Coming out of the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT has registered a 23 per cent growth in gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in July this year.According to the Ministry of Finance, the GST collection in the UT stood at Rs169 crore in July, which was 23 per cent higher in comparison to the revenue of Rs137 crore received during the corresponding period last year.However, the Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of GST collection during January, April, May and June, 2021.In March, the GST collection was Rs165.27 crore, which was 8 per cent more in comparison to the revenue of Rs153.26 crore generated during the same period last year.The GST collection stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, which was 14 per cent less in comparison to the revenue of Rs172.37 crore received during the corresponding period last year.The GST collection stood at Rs158 crore in December 2020, Rs141 crore in November, Rs151.98 crore in October and Rs141.48 crore in September last year.Earlier figures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-registers-23-growth-in-gst-collection-292015
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclist killed in hit-&-run||Man killed in road mishap in BarwalaPanchkula: A man lost his life in a road accident after he reportedly lost control over his motorcycle and rammed into a truck near Jaloli in Barwala. The truck reportedly applied brakes suddenly that led to the accident. The deceased was identified as Nirmal Singh, a resident of Alipur village in Chandimandir. The victim’s brother, who was riding on another bike, told the police that his brother fell down and received injuries on his face and neck. He died at the PGI during the treatment. A case has been registered. TNSFake FB profile of city SSP created Chandigarh: A fraudster created a fake Facebook profile of UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal and sought financial help from people. The fake profile carried the officer’s picture and friend requests were sent to those already friends with the officer on the social networking site. The fraudster initiated a chat on messenger and asked a person to deposit Rs15,000 through Paytm or Google Pay. The fake profile was later deleted. In the past, fake profiles of several UT cops have been created to dupe people. TNSWorkshop on AI begins at CSIOChandigarh: Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here and the Women in Engineering Affinity Group of Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers are jointly organising a five-day summer school on "Deep Learning for Sensor Signal Analytics", which began on Monday. In his inaugural remarks, Dr Shekhar C Mande, Director-General, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, said artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning was the need of the hour and the laboratories of the council were already using this for the development of related technologies. The keynote lecture on "The Covid Sutra" was delivered by Prof Manindra Agarwal from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. TNSChild labour: Case registeredChandigarh: Over a month after 15 children were rescued from a liquor-bottling plant at Industrial Area, Phase I, the police have registered a case. District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) had conducted a raid on June 29 following a complaint. The team had rescued seven boys and eight girls, all aged 15 to 17. A case under sections 77, 78, 79 of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) Act 2015 and sections 3/1 and 14/1 A of the Child Labour Act had been registered against contractors namely Sanjay, Sandeep, Manoj Yadav and other employers, at the Industrial Area police station. TNS79 widows get ration kitsChandigarh: Balramji Das Tandon Charitable Foundation organised its 20th monthly ration distribution programme on Sunday. A total of 79 widows were given one-month ration kits on the occasion. The programme was launched by philanthropist Sanjay Tandon, son of late Balramji Tandon, in memory of his father. Foundation president Sanjay Tandon said a ration card was issued to the widow family and the kit included 10-kg flour, rice, sugar, pulses, mustard oil, tea, spices, toiletries, milk powder and vegetables. TNSOffice-bearers electedMohali: Surendra Agrawal of Amritsar and Rajneesh Mittal of Mohali have unanimously been elected as the president and the general secretary of the Punjab unit of the All-India Agrawal Conference, respectively, during the elections held at the PCA Stadium in Mohali. Other office-bearers are Anjan Bansal of Batala senior vice-president and Lalchand Goyal of Ferozpur treasurer. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-killed-in-hit-run-292031
