04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal says proposal to appoint full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday described the proposal to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for the Union Territory by divesting the Punjab Governor of this charge as another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city.“We will oppose this tooth and nail. Chandigarh is an inseparable part of Punjab and should be transferred to the parent state as soon as possible,” he said.In a statement here, the SAD president said there was no reason to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for the Union Territory from outside the state.“If at all an Administrator has to be appointed till such time the Union Territory is not transferred to Punjab, the officer should be from the parent state. Earlier also the chief commissioner of Chandigarh used to be from Punjab.”Asserting that all decisions taken at the time of reorganisation of Punjab were being violated one after another, Sukhbir Badal said the Centre was not following the 60:40 ratio for posting of officers in the Union Territory with a majority of officers being from Punjab.“Separate cadres have been created to reduce the strength of Punjab service officers in the Union Territory and now even AGMUT officers are being posted on key posts in utter violation of the 60:40 formula,” he said.Stating that instead of correcting the wrongs being done to Punjab vis a vis Chandigarh, Badal said it was condemnable that the Union government was now planning to dilute Punjab’s role in Chandigarh even further.He said it was unfortunate that the NDA government was following the path of the Congress government by proposing to implement an anti-Punjab move which was also against the spirit of the Constitution.Badal said the SAD had earlier also opposed a move to appoint a separate Administrator for Chandigarh in 2016 by divesting the Punjab Governor of this charge.“We will launch an agitation to ensure this move does not fructify again.”He also requested Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to pursue the case vigorously with the Union government and ensure no anti-Punjab decision was taken by the Centre.“The SAD is ready to approach the prime minister as part of an all-party delegation from Punjab to apprise the Union government of the sentiments of Punjabis on this sensitive issue. If the chief minister does not take any initiative, the SAD will approach the prime minister and demand the proposal is not implemented,” he said.Badal said Punjab had the first right over Chandigarh as the Union Territory was established by uprooting people from villages belonging to Punjab.He said even though Chandigarh was still the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, efforts were on to dilute its stake in the Union Territory on one pretext or another.“The Union government has even replaced Punjabi with English as the official language of Chandigarh even though the area does not have any English-speaking people. Similarly, the parent state is being denied a share in the taxes collected from the Union Territory,” he said adding the SAD would take up all these issues for resolution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhbir-badal-says-proposal-to-appoint-full-fledged-administrator-for-chandigarh-another-attempt-to-dilute-punjabs-claim-292955
04-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Restaurants can open in Chandigarh with 50 pc capacity; classes 7, 8 to start from Aug 9||Chandigarh, August 4The UT Administration has decided to allow all restaurants and eateries to remain open with 50 per cent capacity from 8 am to 10.30 pm in view of the decline in Covid-19 cases.It also ordered that Class 7 and 8 of the schools will also start functioning physically from August 9 subject to parents' consent for sending their wards to the schools.However, online mode of teaching will continue. Detailed order in this regard will be issued by the Secretary, Education.The order shall come into force with effect from August 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restaurants-can-open-in-chandigarh-with-50-pc-capacity-classes-7-8-to-start-from-aug-9-292949
04-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||No new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh for first time since March||For the first time in over five months, Chandigarh reported no new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the UT health department said on Wednesday.Chandigarh saw an uptick in Covid-19 cases in March as the second wave of the pandemic set in.Health officials also said some 91 per cent of the UT’s population has been given at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-for-first-time-since-march-292932
04-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||400 complaints received from three sectors at camp||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3In what shows the extent of inconvenience to the residents due to waste collection charges, about 400 complaints have been received in three days from three Sectors during a special camp held at the Sector 27 Community Centre here.According to area councillor Devinder Singh Babla, around 200 complaints of overcharging were received from Sector 27, 75-80 from Sector 28, and 100 from Sector 30.The camp is being held from 10 am to 12 noon.“It is due to the BJP-ruled MC that the people are facing this problem. Seeing the plight of people, I organised this camp and in three days around 400 complaints have been received from three sectors in my ward,” said Babla.“The MC has issued faulty bills and is overcharging the people,” said the Leader of Opposition in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.“Officials should tell people why they are issuing bills without any notification about the charges being collected on the per kitchen basis. No councillor has knowledge about the rates,” said Babla.He claimed that people who were living in 195-yard area had been charged Rs 100 for waste collection, while those living in 198-yard area were charged double the amount.Some even complained that though they own a three-storey house and had no tenants, still they were charged for all the three floors. Others complained that they were not charged according to the rates decided by the MC.Somila Singh Sandhu, vice-president of the Resident Welfare Association, Sector 27, said: “Can you imagine, people have received bills up to Rs 8,000 for garbage collection. I got Rs 4,000 bill for waste collection. People are fed up with the current system. They were happy with carts and did not want garbage collection through vehicles.”“Almost every house has a problem. In Sector 27-A and B, there are number of senior citizens, the MC forcing them to take rounds of the office even as a third wave of the Covid pandemic is anticipated,” Sandhu added.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC, said: “Since the time the MC introduced its two-bin vehicles to replace the traditional rehirs, people have been facing issues.”“Till recently, both rehris and vehicles were visiting houses in Sector 21 to collect garbage. For the last three days, nobody is coming to pick the waste. It is stinking. People are troubled with all this,” said Bittu.In the waste charges added to the water bills for the first time, the MC did not mention the duration for which a recipient was being charged. Neither did it mention the rates as per which they had been charged.When contacted, Dr Amrit Pal Warring, Medical Officer of Health, MC, said: “We are receiving around 10 to 15 complaints every day and are resolving them on the spot. Whether we get them through emails, phone or letters.”“In this bill, even arrears have been added. From the next month’s billing cycle, there should be no issue. However, for those with any concern about the garbage collection charges, we are here to resolve them,” said Dr Warring.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/400-complaints-received-from-three-sectors-at-camp-292440
04-08-2021||---||23 Zirakpur colonies under scanner for illegal structures||Zirakpur, August 3Nearly two dozen housing societies and commercial structures in Zirakpur have come under the scanner for illegal construction and encroachments after a group of residents submitted the related documents to the district administration recently.Zirakpur tehsildar Punit Bansal has sought details of ownership and khasra number of 23 constructions under the administration’s scanner from the Municipal Council Executive Officer (EO).“We have reverted the file to the Zirakpur EO to give ownership details and other documents so as to ascertain the complete facts of the case,” said Bansal.Earlier, Mohali ADC (General) Komal Mittal had sought a report from the Zirakpur Municipal Council officials in this regard.Sukhdev Chaudhary, president, JAC Resident Welfare Association, and other members had met Mittal and handed over the documents of about 20 colonies to the ADC.Chaudhary said illegal constructions had resulted in a loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-zirakpur-colonies-under-scanner-for-illegal-structures-292441
04-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh admn may open financial bids today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3The UT Administration is likely to open financial bids tomorrow to finally give the Electricity Department into private hands.Sources said the technical bids of all seven firms in the fray to take over the department were approved today.Meanwhile, recommendations of the Empowered Committee were also approved by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today. The recommendations contained the report of the Technical Bids Evaluation Committee.After the opening of financial bids, the UT Administration would recommend the name of the highest bidder to the Union Cabinet for final approval.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.Seven companies - Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company - had submitted their bids.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision of the government to privatise the electricity department by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The High Court was also told that the process of privatisation of the department could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the department was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.Panel recommendations approvedRecommendations of the Empowered Committee were approved by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday. The recommendations contained the report of the Technical Bids Evaluation Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-may-open-financial-bids-today-292442
04-08-2021||Mohali||Shot in the arm for Congress in Mohali||The Congress here today received a shot in the arm after several families, including councillor Labh Singh’s family, from Mataur village joined the party. City Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu welcomed these families into the party fold. Amrik Singh Somal, Senior Deputy Mayor, and Kuljit Singh Bedi, Deputy Mayor, were also present. Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said these families joined the party due to the developmental policies of the Congress government in Punjab and the work being done by Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in the Mohali constituency for the betterment of the area. He said it was the Congress that truly respected its workers and put development policies at the forefront. He said people came to understand that opposition leaders were trying to mislead the people with their folly. Now, they were not going to listen to such leaders. The Mayor said leaders of the opposition parties were only active when elections were near. They were nowhere to be seen in the constituency after the poll. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu regularly visits the Mohali constituency and listens to grievances of residents and resolves them on time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shot-in-the-arm-for-congress-in-mohali-292443
04-08-2021||---||Trials to select men’s senior team conducted||Chandigarh, August 3Despite having three stadiums, including one private facility, the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, conducted trials to select men’s senior team for the BCCI’s domestic season 2021-22 at the Tricity Indoor Cricket Academy, Peer Muchalla, in Zirakpur.The UTCA’s spokesperson said the trials were conducted at an indoor facility considering bad weather and for the benefit of players.“To maintain social distance, the trials were completed in three phases. The first phase of the trials was held on July 10 at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium, here. Due to the lack of favourable weather, the trials were postponed for today. The remaining two phases of the trials were conducted before and after lunch,” said an official commune.“Out of the registered 120 players, 97 appeared for the trials, while four players - Bipul Sharma, Gurinder Singh, Ankit Kaushik and Jaskaran Buttar - are playing overseas cricket with the permission of the UTCA. Trials for all categories of girls will be conducted on August 4. Trials for the remaining categories of boys will be announced later,” stated the UTCA president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trials-to-select-mens-senior-team-conducted-292444
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Court denies bail to accused||A local court has dismissed the bail application of Vishesh Agarwal, who was arrested for allegedly duping a Mani Majra resident of lakhs in lieu of providing injections to treat black fungus.An FIR in the case was registered on the basis of an inquiry conducted on a complaint filed by an owner of GA Healthcare Pharma Company.The complainant alleged the accused told her to deposit Rs50,000 as a token amount for the injections. He also shared bank account numbers with her. To gain her trust, the accused also shared GST number, PAN number and other details. Later, she deposited the money into bank accounts through different transactions.She alleged that the accused neither supplied the injections nor returned the money. The counsel for the accused argued that the accused was falsely implicated in the case and he had duly cooperated in the investigation. Nothing was to be recovered from him.The public prosecutor opposed the bail. He argued that 10 ATM-cum-debit cards of different banks were recovered from the accused through which he withdrew the amount.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused without further delving into the merits of the case and in view of the serious allegations against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-denies-bail-to-accused-292445
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Implement Apartment Act in Chandigarh, say property consultants||The Property Consultants Association, Chandigarh, has demanded the implementation of the Apartment Act in the city. Talking to mediapersons here today, association president Kamal Gupta said: “Floor-wise percentage sale is important as any family member who has got his/her share in the percentage sale property can sell it in the percentage sale only. He or she can sell that much share and not more than the number of shares he/she owns.” Gupta said if a person had purchased the property in percentage from someone else, then he or she would also sell only in the percentage. He raised the question that if a three-storey house on 10 marla in which three families live, then how does it make a difference whether the tenant or owner is living in the house and what difference does it make in public utilities/ facilities? Association chairman Tarlochan Singh Bittu said on one hand the Government of India talks about affordable housing, while on the other it was making life difficult for the common man by bringing such a law in the time of rising inflation. According to him, the government should take decisions keeping in mind the problems and needs of the common man. Vice-chairman Sunil Kumar said it was the need of the hour to implement the Apartment Act.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/implement-apartment-act-in-chandigarh-say-property-consultants-292447
04-08-2021||Sandeep Rana
||Subhash Chawla invites Chandigarh Congress office-bearers, Pardeep Chhabra for meet tomorrow||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 3 Chandigarh Congress unit chief Subhash Chawla today invited Pardeep Chhabra and all the new office-bearers for an introductory meet on August 5. Chhabra, the former president of the city’s Congress unit, has been alleging that he is not being invited to the party meetings or activities since he was removed as the president. Chawla though has maintained that, like all, he was also invited through common party forums, but Chhabra has been making it an issue. To ensure there is no complaint from the former Mayor this time, a general secretary called him, said Chawla. We also messaged the invitation to him.    “We have invited all office-bearers. Chhabra ji has also been invited to the meeting,” said Chawla.  Political observers see it is as a wise move by Chawla and an attempt to checkmate Chhabra. However, it will be interesting to see whether Chhabra attends the meeting or not.  The meeting is scheduled to be held at the Congress Bhawan in Sector 35. “I was not being invited for the past five and a half months, what has suddenly changed? The president (Chawla) could have called me… he used to fix similar conditions when I was the president. For now, I am undecided about my participation,” Chhabra told Chandigarh Tribune.  Earlier, Chhabra had reportedly complained to the party high command that he was not being invited to the party meetings. Chhabra had also floated a forum by the name of Chandigarh Progressive Front and city Congress had complained about it to the central leadership. Unhappy with the new list of office-bearers, Chhabra had recently criticised former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal and Chawla. His aide Sandeep Bhardwaj had also hit out the city unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/subhash-chawla-invites-chandigarh-congress-office-bearers-pardeep-chhabra-for-meet-tomorrow-292448
04-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Accused fail to get respite from court in monkey detention case||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, August 3Dismissing a discharge application filed under Section 245 of the CrPC by tattoo artist Kamaljit Singh and his manager Deepak in the monkey detention case, a local court said prima facie there was sufficient material to proceed against the accused persons.Harlove Singh Rajput, counsel for the accused, had filed the discharge application with the assertion that the Department of Forest and Wildlife through Chief Wildlife Warden had filed a complaint on August 20, last year for proceedings against the accused persons in accordance with law, but the list of prosecution witnesses had not been attached with the complaint.He argued that it was mandatory for the prosecution to file a list of witnesses along with a complaint. Rajput also argued that no monkey (Rhesus Macaque) was found on the premises of the accused persons.The alleged animal has neither been found nor seized by the department from the custody of the accused persons or their premises, and the same has not been brought before the court, he argued.He also said it had not been ascertained, either through scientific examination or through identification that the alleged animal was a protected animal under the schedules provided in the Wildlife Protection Act.In view of these issues, the accused persons are liable to be discharged, said Rajput.Chief Wildlife Warden-cum-Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, Chandigarh, in its reply argued that at this stage, only prima facie case had to be seen by the court.The evidence submitted with the complaint proved that they were in possession of one monkey. Therefore, they committed an offence under Section 51 read with Section 2(16)(b), 9 and 39 of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, said the warden.The warden said a fresh complaint had already been filed as the earlier complaint was not maintainable in the eyes of law and was not filed by competent officials.After hearing both sides, Lovejinder Kaur, Judicial Magistrate Ist Class, said merely on the ground that the monkey had not been recovered from the possession of the accused persons or their premises, the accused persons cannot be discharged.“The documents relied upon by the complainant, along with the complaint, i.e., photographs, videos, prima facie established on record existence of evidence to proceed against the accused persons,” said the court. “Prima facie there is sufficient material to proceed against the accused. Accordingly, the present application stands dismissed,” it added.The court has fixed September 8 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-fail-to-get-respite-from-court-in-monkey-detention-case-292449
04-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh colleges likely to reopen on August 20||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3A detailed order meant for reopening of local colleges and universities will be issued on Friday, stated the office of the Director, Higher Education.The colleges and universities are expected to open on August 20. “Detailed orders will be issued by Friday,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Higher Education.With a sharp decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration had decided to reopen institutions of higher education from August. However, no exact date was issued. A survey has already been carried out by the authorities to assess the number of students and staff members vaccinated with at least a single vaccine jab.Sources said concerns were being raised over conducting both offline and online classes, which will burden the faculty members.“The final directives are expected to be received on Friday. In the coming weeks, colleges will issue notification for all students/staff members. The hostellers will be adjusted as per need. Initial days will be testing for all, but things will be back to normal as the time progresses. Vaccination will be given top priority and permanent vaccination centres will be installed for students. The Panjab University authorities will also release the final notification based on the directives of the Director, Higher Education. Again, the footfall in hostels will be managed by the authorities,” said a source.Management of various institutions claim to be prepared for reopening of campuses.“Our faculty members are already vaccinated and students will be asked to follow the same procedure. We have been coming to colleges, but the option for conducting both online and offline examinations should be taken care of. If exams will be conducted offline, the classes should be also conducted through a single mode,” said a faculty member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-colleges-likely-to-reopen-on-august-20-292450
04-08-2021||Mohali||Chauhan Pratham in Mohali with 99%||With 99 per cent marks, Pratham Singh Chauhan of Gian Jyoti Public School in Phase 2 here has topped in the Class X CBSE exams in the district, the results of which were declared today.Bhavay Wadhwa secured the second position with 98.8 per cent while Manav Mangal Smart School’s Harazeez Kaur and Munliv Kaur Chawla; Suhani and Ishita Garg of Doon International School; and Aditi Sikarwar of Dikshant International School shared the third position with 98.6 per cent marks.Pratham said he concentrated on what was taught at the school and dedicated four hours to self-study every day. He wants to opt for non-medical as the field of further study and pursue robotic engineering. Meanwhile, Bhavay Washwa attended tuition for science and maths and dedicated four hours to self-study every day. Wants to take admission in the non-medical filed and become a software engineer. — TNSFirst in districtSecond in district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chauhan-pratham-in-mohali-with-99-292451
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Book on justice system released||A book of essays on justice system – Intellect’s Pastime – authored by advocate Joginder Singh Toor was released at Law Bhawan here today.  Justice Varinder Singh, former Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court, and Justice Ajay Tewari of Punjab and Haryana High Court released the book. Toor looks at every event and place from the historical point of view. He touches several important questions related to Constitution and justice system, said Justice Tewari.  “A good article instead of answering all your questions, gives birth to several questions. That is what this book accomplishes,” he said. Senior Advocate Manjit Singh Khaira said the book highlighted difference between “constitutionality” and “constitutionalism”.  Senior Advocate Rajinder Singh Cheema was also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-justice-system-released-292453
04-08-2021||Harkanwar Kaur||Chandigarh: Visually impaired girl shows the way with 95.4%||Chandigarh, August 3Gaganjot Kaur, a student of Institute for the Blind, Sector 26, scored 95.4 per cent in her Class X exams, the results for which were declared by the CBSE on Tuesday.With her determination Gaganjot showed that being visually impaired was no hurdle in achieving her dreams. “Students need to focus on their studies to accomplish their goals,” said Gaganjot.Forced to stay away from the school due to Covid-19 pandemic, Gaganjot said apart from the online classes and material provided by the school, she took help from the YouTube application for her studies. Her parents also used to record lectures for her.Inspired by the country’s first visually impaired IAS officer, Pranjal Patil, Gaganjot said: “Nowadays, visually impaired children are not lagging behind anyone.”“Like Pranjal mam, I want to make a mark in life,” said Gaganjot, who aims to become a professor of Hindi language.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-visually-impaired-girl-shows-the-way-with-95-4-292454
04-08-2021||---||Voters turn up in large numbers||Chandigarh, August 3A total of 96.08 per cent polling was recorded in the elections of the principal of technical and professional colleges constituency, while 79.72 per cent polling was recorded for the elections of the staff of technical and professional colleges constituency on the Day 1 of the Panjab University Senate elections today.The voting was held at 28 centres across Chandigarh and Punjab. A total number of 51 voters were listed for the constituency.As many as 49 votes were polled for the elections of technical and professional colleges constituency. The elections of staff of technical and professional colleges constituency witnessed a total of 629 votes polled against 789 registered voters for the constituency.The Panjab University governing body comprises 91 members, 47 of whom are elected from eight constituencies. The remaining are either nominated or ex-officio members. The four-year term of the previous Senate had ended on October 31, 2020.The counting of votes for both technical and professional colleges constituency and staff of technical and professional colleges constituency will be held on August 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/voters-turn-up-in-large-numbers-292455
04-08-2021||---||Sanyam, Vanshika tricity stars with 99.8%||Chandigarh, August 3Two Chandigarh students topped the tricity by securing 99.8 per cent marks in the CBSE Class X examinations. The results were announced today. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the board did not announce a national merit list this year.As no criteria has been laid by the board for deciding the merit list, the two students have been tagged as toppers on the basis of the marks scored in the main five subjects, as given in the CBSE marksheet.Sanyam Agrawal of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Collegiate Public School, Sector 26, secured 100 marks in four subjects – English, mathematics, science and social science. His marks in the main five subjects are 499 out of 500, which translates to 99.8 per cent. He has scored 100 per cent in the best-of-five subjects, which included 100 marks in information technology, an additional subject.He also has a YouTube channel, Learn with Sanyam, having 8,000 subscribers. He started the channel during the lockdown to provide free education to students in various subjects. From video lessons on ‘Differentiation in chemistry’ to lessons on how to overcome problems in life, he has shot over 100 video lessons during the pandemic.The son of Rakesh Agrawal, who is the Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, he has taught many unprivileged students from Class VIII. Sanyam has been associated with NGOs that offer help to the needy. He draws inspiration from his father and has his own way of serving the community. Sharing his examination strategy, he said he used to make his own notes from NCERT books. “I believe in visualising concepts, instead of cramming. I used to study for seven-eight hours a day. I used to finish most of my study during the day and take breaks in the evening to do other activities,” he said.He learnt various computer languages like HTML or Java and aims at getting admission to computer science engineering in top IITs. At the age of five, he also participated in a national chess tournament. Vanshika Bhardwaj of KBDAV School, Sector 7, too, scored 100 marks in English, mathematics, science and social science. She did not opt for additional subjects. Her success strategy is constant revision and regular study of five-six hours a day. While preparing for the exams, she solely depended on NCERT books.She drew inspiration from her paternal uncle, who is a doctor, and wants to follow in his footsteps. “I always ensure that the syllabus is completed two-three times and the time before the exams is spent only on revision,” she said.Vanshika is currently pursuing a medical stream. Her mother Archana Bhardwaj is the sole breadwinner of the family. She had also donated one kidney to her husband, who is bedridden.Sanyam AgrawalVanshika Bhardwaj11 more toppers in tricity On basis of best-of-five subjects||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanyam-vanshika-tricity-stars-with-99-8-292633
04-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh pass %age 97.94, third lowest in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3Chandigarh has hit the third lowest spot in the country with an overall pass percentage of 97.94 in the Class X results declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) today. As many as eight states scored a pass percentage of 100. The lowest pass percentage of 77.9 was scored by Arunachal Pradesh, followed by Sikkim 93.29 and Chandigarh 97.49.A total of 19,009 students appeared for the exam in the UT and 18,618 were declared pass. Girl students fared better with 98.04 pass percentage, while it was 97.8 among boys. Till 2019, Chandigarh (UT) was counted in the Panchkula region of the board and comprised states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K and the UT.From the 2019-20 session, the Chandigarh region comprised J&K, Haryana and the UT of Chandigarh whereas the Panchkula region includes Haryana and Himachal Pradesh states.The overall pass percentage of the Chandigarh region stands at 99.46. Around 96.93 per cent of government school students and 99.70 per cent of private school pupils in the Chandigarh region passed the exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-pass-age-97-94-third-lowest-in-country-292640
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Govt schools in Chandigarh 19.4% jump in pass %age||The government schools in the city recorded a pass percentage of 96.6, seeing a jump of 19.4 per cent, in the Class X CBSE results this year. The pass percentage was 77.2 last year. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools were forced to shut down and the CBSE did not conduct the examinations. The pass percentage of government schools in 2019 was 75.27. In 2017-18, only 48.51 per cent of the students had passed the exams.Out of the 11,291 students, who were assessed this year, results of 11,286 have been declared and 10,905 pupils have come out with flying colours. There are 93 government high and senior secondary schools in Chandigarh. A total of 65 schools have given 100 per cent result. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-schools-in-chandigarh-19-4-jump-in-pass-age-292647
04-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC to pay Rs 10 lakh each to kin of 2 sewermen||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 3The Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) today announced a grant of Rs10 lakh each to the families of two sewermen killed in a mishap recently.The MC, at its General House meeting, also unanimously passed various resolutions, including regarding recruitment of 1,000 sanitation workers. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Commissioner Kamal Garg and councillors were among those present at the meeting.Before starting the proceedings of the House, a two-minute silence was observed to pay tributes to Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, his wife Nirmal Kaur, athlete Mann Kaur, councillor Jasbir Manku’s mother and two sewermen who died in a mishap recently.Councillors of the Opposition raised questions over some of the resolutions stating that their wards were being ignored, but Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said no ward was being ignored. The Mayor managed to calm down the Opposition members by asking them to read the resolutions carefully and then ask questions.He said ward-wise development works were being carried out in Mohali in a systematic manner and these would continue and no one would be discriminated against.The Mayor said a resolution was passed to recruit 1,000 safai sevaks. He said now the corporation would be able to maintain the sanitation system of the city in a better way.He said a resolution was also passed to increase the grant of Gauri Shankar Seva Dal, the body managing a gaushala under the MC. However, Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg said the money should be given to the gaushala authorities according to their daily expenses, which was passed.He said a resolution was passed regarding the grant of Rs4.51 crore received under the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme, under which roads would be constructed in different areas.Sidhu said a resolution was passed to increase the estimates of toilet blocks in Phase 3A, 3B1, 3B2, Phase 7 and 8 and the Industrial Area (Phase 1, 2 and 3) by 25 per cent. Similarly, decisions to float an e-tender for sterilisation of dogs and to shift cows from the gaushala to Bal Gopal Cow Basera Welfare Society at Balongi village were also taken by the House.The Mayor said various resolutions, including division of Mohali into zones for smooth functioning, extension of manual and mechanical sweeping contract for three months and approval of estimates of works of Mohali societies under the PMC Act and the industrial Phase 8B were also passed by the House. A development resolution of over Rs2.5 crore was also passed at the meeting, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-to-pay-rs-10-lakh-each-to-kin-of-2-sewermen-292649
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 5 new Covid cases||Two more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district saw two new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. Two women, aged 30 and 51, both from Sector 17 here, tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, there was no fresh fatality. A total of 4,373 persons were vaccinated at 31 government and three private centres across the district on Tuesday and 1,276 of them got the second dose. TNSTwo cases in MohaliMohali: For the third consecutive day, two persons have been found infected with coronavirus. A case each surfaced in Dhakoli and Gharuan. Meanwhile, no fresh fatality was reported from the district till Tuesday evening while six patients were cured of the disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-5-new-covid-cases-292650
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Car-borne miscreants booked for eve-teasing in Sector 34, Chandigarh||Some unknown persons have been booked for stalking and eve-teasing an 18-year-old girl and assaulting a youth staying in her neighborhood. Sources said the victim, a native of Himachal Pradesh, was staying as a paying guest (PG) in Sector 34. On Sunday evening, she was returning from the Sector 34 market when a few persons in an i20 car started following her.They also eve-teased her. When the victim reached near her PG, a youth riding an Activa, who stays in her neighborhood, tried to intervene, following which the miscreants thrashed him before escaping from the spot. The police said the vehicle had a Ludhiana number. Meanwhile, a case was registered at the Sector 34 police station. The police have started an investigation into it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-borne-miscreants-booked-for-eve-teasing-in-sector-34-chandigarh-292651
04-08-2021||Mohali||Kharar man who made off with car nailed||The police today arrested a Kharar resident for allegedly taking away the car of a Chandigarh resident on the pretext of helping him replace a wheel on July 30.The suspect has been identified as Shivam. He will be produced in a court tomorrow. According to complainant Jashandeep Singh of Jandpur village, he was returning home with his aged mother from Patiala when his car tyre punctured on the Kharar-Landran road around 1.30 pm. A motorcylist stopped and offered him help in replacing the tyre.Later, the suspect got behind the steering wheel and asked the owner to push the car. Taking advantage, he fled the spot with the car, leaving his bike behind. Balongi SHO Rajpal Singh said the bike was registered in the name of the suspect’s mother. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-man-who-made-off-with-car-nailed-292652
04-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||IAF to showcase Dakota aircraft, vintage items at proposed museum in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3Revisiting history, the Indian Air Force (IAF) will showcase World War II-era Dakota transport aircraft among other vintage items at the proposed museum to be set up at the Government Press building in Sector 18 here.The museum will have old aircraft, vintage IAF items, flight simulators and video walls to tell the history of the IAF in general and related world history, which will be of immense interest to students. IAF officials gave a presentation in this regard to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore here today.In principle, both the UT Administration and the IAF agreed to set up a museum at the site, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal, adding that the IAF needed to get approval from the authorities concerned before proceeding further on establishing the museum. The UT explored the option of setting up an IAF museum at the venue after it failed to get any firm on board to run a vintage car and heritage furniture museum in the building, a dream project of the Administrator.Even after floating tenders thrice, no company had expressed interest in running and managing a vintage car museum.As per the terms, the selected company was to establish, maintain and run the museum. On the ground floor of the building, where machines used to run earlier, a vintage car museum was to be built with 50 cars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iaf-to-showcase-dakota-aircraft-vintage-items-at-proposed-museum-in-chandigarh-292656
04-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Calm down! No need to shave legs to use Lake Complex gym||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3Members coming to use the gym at the Lake Sports Complex were shocked to learn about a circular imposing uncanny conditions, including “shaving leg hair, using permitted bad words” and others, on them.However, the circular was found to be fake and was reportedly posted on the notice board by some miscreant on Monday, the day when the complex remains closed. The circular did not carry any official signatures.“The circular is fake. We have not issued any such circular. The miscreant will be spotted and appropriate action taken. The circular doesn’t even carry our notification pattern or serial number,” said Naib Singh, manager of the complex.While the club remains closed on Monday, the restaurant remains open for members and others. The entrance to the complex and restaurant is common. The notice board is located on the way and was reportedly lying unlocked. “The club usually remains closed on Monday. Some miscreant had put this fake circular on the board and clicked pictures in the morning to damage our reputation. Although the entire arena is covered with CCTV cameras, the notice board area is somehow not covered properly. We do have a strict vigilance at all entrances. The miscreant will be spotted soon,” said an official.Stamping of undergarmentsThe circular carried weird instructions for the members. It stated, “For the gym, the users are required to wear proper attire such as gym suits. Special attention is to be paid to undergarments. Only approved undergarments are to be worn. The list and samples of such garments is kept in the office. Members can bring their garments to the office for approval stamping. Members should wear proper shoes and follow good hygiene. Socks must be washed every day. Members found wearing dirty and foul-smelling socks will be fined, if they fail the smell test. The same applies to body odour, please use good body odour.”Please use only permitted bad words in Punjabi!The circular stated, “Gym members lifting heavy weights make loud noise, this is not allowed. Please don’t make loud sounds. Also using foul language is not allowed. The list of permitted bad words in Punjabi is available. Please use only permitted bad words.” Another weird instruction included, “Gym users wearing shorts must shave their legs to maintain decorum. Defaulters will be depilated at sight.”Circular had no signaturesOn reaching the complex, members started clicking pictures of the circular and put it on social media. However, officials said all communications were approved through the general manager. “Some people got excited and posted it on social media. They didn’t approach the office to raise the issue. Also, every circular on the notice board carries the authentication signatures of the general manager, but this circular did not carry any such signatures,” said a senior official of the complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/calm-down-no-need-to-shave-legs-to-use-lake-complex-gym-292659
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Trials for U-19, senior women cricket teams today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trials-for-u-19-senior-women-cricket-teams-today-292661
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Nawanshahr Man held on rape charge||Answer key out for PULEETChandigarh: Panjab University has uploaded the answer key, along with question booklet of PULEET-2021. The test was conducted by Panjab University and is available on the website — exams.puchd.ac.in/show-noticeboard.php. The candidates can file their objections regarding any discrepancy and accuracy of the answers by email at arcet@pu.ac.in by August 5 till 3.30 pm. TNSPatiala archer for world c’shipChandigarh: Patiala archer Sangampreet Singh Bisla has been selected to represent India at the World Archery Championship 2021, scheduled to be held in South Dakota, USA, from September 19-26. Selection trials were held at the SAI centre in Sonipat from August 2-3. Bisla is student of Khalsa College, Patiala, and trains at Punjabi University under coach Jiwanjot Singh Teja and assistant coach Gaurav Sharma. TNSThree nabbed for attacking man, kinChandigarh: The UT police have arrested three persons for attacking a Ram Darbar resident and his family members. Complainant Puran alleged that Sushil, alias Meri, Ajay and other persons attacked him and his family members with sticks and rods at his house on July 31. The police have registered a case at the Sector 31 police station. Later, they arrested Sushil (27), Amit (25) and Amit, alias Sanju (20). TNSOral Hygiene Day celebratedMohali: National Oral Hygeine Day was celebrated by the department of periodontics, Desh Bhagat Dental College, Desh Bhagat University, on Monday. Patients were educated and motivated to maintain oral hygiene. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, shared his words of wisdom with faculty members. Principal Sanjeev Soni presented a vote of thanks. TNSResidents form welfare bodyMohali: Residents of Block B, Sector 123, New Sunny Enclave, Kharar, formed House Owners’ Welfare Association (HOWA). Lokesh Kumar Saini has been elected as the president of the association and Sevak Singh as the general secretary. Besides, Ranjit Singh Dhillon was elected as the vice-president, Harjinder Singh joint secretary, Thakur Kashmir Singh additional secretary, Harichand Chaudhary treasurer and Vinod Sharma additional treasurer of the house owners’ body. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nawanshahr-man-held-on-rape-charge-292663
04-08-2021||Panchkula||Haryana CM Khattar launches ‘Har Hith’ store scheme in Panchkula||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched the first-of-its-kind ‘Har Hith’ store scheme to promote the sale of quality products of daily need at reasonable prices.As many as 2,000 stores will be launched in the first phase – 1,500 in rural and 500 in urban areas. The number of stores will later be extended to 5,000 in the first phase.“These stores will provide a platform to youth franchisees as well as micro small and medium enterprises, government cooperative institutions, farmer producer organisations and self-help groups for increasing their business,” said Khattar while inaugurating a store in Panchkula.As per the scheme franchise policy, people in the age group of 18-35, women, person with special disabilities, young members of families having annual income less than Rs1.80 lakh and those verified under the Mukhyamantri Parviar Uthan Yojana would be given preference.“The state government will also guarantee a minimum monthly income of Rs15,000 per month through these stores. As per the sale provision made in the Har Hith store scheme, the franchise partner, who sells products worth Rs1.50 lakh will earn a marginal profit of 10 per cent that is Rs15,000,” the CM said.The Chief Minister said: “Making Haryana “Berojgar Mukt, Rozgar Yukt” by 2024 is our target and opening of these stores will encourage entrepreneurship and further create an ecosystem that promotes youth to be a part of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal and Cooperation Minister Dr Banwari Lal were also present. — TNS Mudra Loan facilityIf the applicant for the franchise is financially weak, the state government will provide a loan facility under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana without any guarantee. Apply onlineThose interested for the franchise can apply on the official website - www.harhithh.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-cm-khattar-launches-har-hith-store-scheme-in-panchkula-291971
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees four fresh covid infections||No new case, death in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district reported no fresh Covid case on Monday, keeping the overall tally unchanged at 30,641. No death was reported. The Covid toll remained at 376. So far, 30,259 patients have recovered from the infectious disease. The district is left with just six active cases. The recovery rate stands at 98.75 per cent. TNS2 found infected in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: For the second consecutive day, two persons were found infected with the virus in the district, taking the case tally to 68,459. No fresh death was reported, while six patients recovered from the disease. One case each surfaced in Mohali (urban) and Dera Bassi. Of the 68,459 positive cases reported so far, 67,364 patients have been cured. There are now 38 active cases in the district. The death toll stands at 1,057. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-four-fresh-covid-infections-291973
