05-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records one new Covid-19 case||Chandigarh on Thursday reported one new Covid-19 case as the total number of cases reached 61,966.The death toll in the city remains 811.The number of active cases has fallen to 28 as a total of four patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 1,557 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and a positivity rate of 0.06 per cent was recorded.The number of people who have got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine is 6,68,899 while 2,08,739 have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-one-new-covid-19-case-293510
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs disposed of by committee||Villagers meet Mayor ravi kantChandigarh: Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma ordered deputing chief sanitary inspectors area-wise to sort out the waste collection fee issue in villages. Residents from villages under the city MC met Ravi Kant regarding the issue of garbage collection charges. He said CSIs had been asked to fix a time at the local community halls for disposal of the issues. TNSBJP appoints coordinatorsChandigarh: State BJP president Arun Sood has appointed CL Gupta as the coordinator of the department of party generals and publication, Harinder Singh Slatch as the coordinator of department of external affairs, Abhishek Sharma as the coordinator of Namami Sukhna, Gautam Mittal as the coordinator of president office tours and programmes and Prof SC Gupta has been appointed the convener of the teacher cell. TNSWomen’s panel to meet DGPMohali: The Punjab State Women's Commission will hold a meeting with the DGP, Punjab, to chalk out a comprehensive strategy to thwart the menace of cheating by NRIs grooms. Chairperson of the Punjab State Women's Commission, Manisha Gulati, disclosed this after a meeting with ADGP (NRI Affairs) AS Rai here on Wednesday. Gulati said the commission had received a large number of complaints from girls throughout the state regarding cheating by NRI grooms in past few days. "The girls of the state are being exploited financially, physically and mentally by NRI grooms and this menace should be tackled with an iron hand," said Gulati. She said the other officers of the NRI wing should also be present in the meeting with DGP. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drugs-disposed-of-by-committee-293322
05-08-2021||---||Six Chandigarh Congress leaders resign||Chandigarh, August 4Six Congress leaders today resigned from the primary membership of the party.Those who resigned included Jagdeep Mahajan, Rajneesh Bhardwaj, Charanjeet Sharma (all former general secretaries of the city unit of the Congress), Dinesh Sharma (former vice-president), Harvinder Singh Goldy (former secretary), and S Beant Singh (vice-president).The disgruntled members blamed former MP and senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal for the move.Earlier, former president of Chandigarh Congress Pardeep Chhabra’s close aide Sandeep Bhardwaj had also tendered his resignation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-chandigarh-congress-leaders-resign-293319
05-08-2021||Our Correspondent||MP Amar Singh seeks Rs 100 crore for development of Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 4Member of Parliament from Fatehgarh Sahib Amar Singh met Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy and demanded Rs100 crore to develop Fatehgarh Sahib as an international pilgrimage centre and make it part of the international pilgrimage circuit. He submitted a project report to the minister.Talking to the media, Dr Amar Singh said he apprised the minister of the historical and religious importance of Fatehgarh Sahib and urged him to release at least Rs100 crore for developing infrastructure in Fatehgarh Sahib.He said all sites related to the martyrdom of Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh, who were bricked alive at historical Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib for refusing to embrace Islam, besides the most religious place of Muslims, Roza Sharif, considered next to Mecca, and the historical Jain temple of Mata Chakreshwari Devi, must be provided greater access by rail and air.He said during the annual Saheedi Jor Mela, lakhs of devotees across the world came to pay obeisance to Sahibjadas and they must be provided good infrastructure.Dr Amar Singh said he had been raising this issue since 2019 when he spoke in Parliament for the first time. The minister assured him of doing the needful, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-amar-singh-seeks-rs-100-crore-for-development-of-fatehgarh-sahib-293316
05-08-2021||---||Free oxygen concentrators for Mohali Covid patients||Mohali, August 4The Red Cross Society here has come forward to provide free oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients with a dedicated oxygen concentrator bank being set up at the district level.Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Komal Mittal said the oxygen concentrator bank was being run by the Red Cross Society at the District Administrative Complex, Sector 76.This service is for the Covid patients in home isolation, she said.Mittal said concentrators were being provided to patients on return basis for 15 days. A patient will have to initially pay Rs 5,000, which will be refunded when the concentrator would be returned.A patient’s kin has to submit a self-declaration, along with the prescription of the doctor clearly mentioning the need for the concentrator.Mittal said anyone in need can call on 0172-2219526 or contact senior assistant, Red Cross, Mohan Lal Singla at 94174-95806 to obtain the oxygen concentrator.The ADC further said the Red Cross had also installed two medical oxygen supply systems at Civil Hospital, Phase 6. These oxygen plants produce 90 liters of oxygen per minute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/free-oxygen-concentrators-for-mohali-covid-patients-293313
05-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: No respite for accused in Rs 115-crore GST fraud case||Chandigarh, August 4A local court here has dismissed the bail application of Sahil Garg, who has been accused of GST fraud amounting to Rs 115 crore.Garg was arrested following a complaint by the Directorate General of GST Intelligence.The complaint has been filed under Section 132 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 read with Section 20(XV) of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017.As per the complaint, Garg had allegedly generated fraudulent Input Tax Credit (ITC) by creating fake firms and used invoices in the name of bogus firms for passing on inadmissible ITC of more than Rs 115 crore without actual supply of any goods from such firms.The counsel of the accused argued that Garg had been detained illegally by the Directorate General of GST Intelligence and was forced to sign computerised statements to rope him in the case.The officials of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence searched the residential premises of the accused and forcibly took him away to their office on June 17, said the counsel.Meanwhile, the standing counsel for the respondent vehemently argued that Garg was a mastermind in the case and generated invoices by making bogus firms and passed on illegal Input Tax Credit, amounting to Rs 115 crore, to end users/beneficiaries which resulted into huge loss to government exchequer.After hearings the arguments, the court dismissed Garg’s bail application saying that the “allegations against the applicant are grave in nature”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-no-respite-for-accused-in-rs-115-crore-gst-fraud-case-293311
05-08-2021||---||Protest against waste disposal at Sec 23 dumping ground in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 4Members of the Sector 23 Residents Welfare Association here today protested the dumping of waste at the Sector 23 site in violation of the government orders.The residents claimed that waste was still being disposed of at the Sector 23 dumping ground.Though the state government had ordered the Panchkula Municipal Corporation to strictly avoid dumping of garbage at the Sector 23 ground, the instructions are being neglected at the local level, alleged the protesting residents.On June 2, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had given strict instructions to the local authorities to stop garbage disposal at the Sector 23 dumping ground, following which the Panchkula MC began dumping garbage at Jhuriwala.The state has fixed December 31 as the deadline to completely shift the Sector 23 dumping ground.The residents said they had also complained to Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, but to no avail.If no action is taken, we will protest each day for one hour at the Sector 23 dumping ground to highlight our grievances, said the residents.Meanwhile, Sector 25 residents continue to put up their resistance against the Jhuriwala dumping ground, claiming that it would have long-term consequences on the human habitation, environment and flora and fauna. They recently had also approached the NGT constituted committee to look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-waste-disposal-at-sec-23-dumping-ground-in-panchkula-293308
05-08-2021||---||Sports stars from Carmel Convent, Sacred Heart shine bright in Class X exams||Chandigarh, August 4Kashvi Garg, Carmel Convent School, Sector 9, scored 95.8 per cent marks in Class X Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams, results of which were announced on Tuesday. She is an international fencing player and a two-time national gold medallist. She was awarded a commendation certificate by the UT Administration.Hazel, Sacred Heart School, Sector 26, scored 96.2 per cent marks in the CBSE Class X exams. Her score was inadvertently mentioned as 92.6 per cent in these columns on Wednesday. The results were announced on Tuesday. She has represented her school in various inter-school championship and a CBSE north-zone nationals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-stars-from-carmel-convent-sacred-heart-shine-bright-in-class-x-exams-293305
05-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sexual Assault Case: Children’s court upholds conviction of juvenile||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4The children’s court has upheld the conviction of a juvenile in two-year-old case of sexual assault on a two-and-half-years-old girl.The juvenile has challenged the order of the Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, sentencing him to undergo reformation for three years and pay a fine of Rs500, on February 18, 2020.In 2019, the mother of the victim had alleged that the accused took her daughter on the pretext of playing with her. She said when she went to the house of the accused, the accused was sexually assaulting her daughter.The accused challenged the order before the children’s court. The counsel of the accused argued that the findings recorded by the board are based on solitary testimony of the complainant, which was not convincing. The appellant has been falsely implicated in the case, the counsel said.The children’s court stated that considering the stigma attached to the victim of sexual assault in the Indian society, it appears improbable that the mother of a minor child would use her daughter as a tool to settle any alleged grievance. In context of the above discussion, the judgment of the Principal Magistrate is found to be well-reasoned and the present appeal stands dismissed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sexual-assault-case-childrens-court-upholds-conviction-of-juvenile-293301
05-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court dismisses bail plea in 3-decade-old ‘forgery’ issue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Three decades after the revenue record of a village in Mohali was allegedly fabricated before “shamlat deh” land was sold, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of an accused in the case.The order by Justice Avneesh Jhingan came after the Bench was told that alleged kingpin Shyam Lal was absconding and another person Amrik Singh was non-existent. Besides this, the annexure of certain documents was destroyed as soon as the inquiry started.The matter was brought to the notice of the High Court after Rabbi Singh sought an anticipatory bail in an FIR registered for criminal breach of trust, cheating, forgery and other offences on May 8 under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 477-A, 201 and 120-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Vigilance Bureau, Phase 1, Mohali.Justice Jhingan, during the course of hearing, was told that the revenue records of Majrian village in Mohali district were tampered with in connivance with revenue officials as per the FIR. The land in dispute was “shamlat deh hasab rasad jar khewat” in the gram panchayat’s name as the owner till 1991. It was changed and the land was distributed among private respondents.Certain new co-sharers were added and shares of existing co-sharers were increased. Sale deeds were executed after creating a chain of power of attorney (PoA). The allegations against the petitioner were that he was the PoA holder of Amrik Singh, a non-existing person.His counsel contended that the petitioner was engaged in business of trading building material. The main person in sale of land was one Shyam Lal, who had to make certain payments to the petitioner for the material supplied. Instead, he got a PoA executed through Amrik Singh in the petitioner’s favour. The petitioner was only getting commission on sales.Meanwhile, Punjab Deputy Advocate General Monika Jalota submitted that Shyam Lal, after getting bail in another FIR, was absconding and Amrik Singh’s details were unavailable.Justice Jhingan asserted the case, as per the allegations, has tone and tenor of forgery and of economic offence. The issue was more complex than what appeared at its first blush. Each and every accused, including the revenue officials, had a specific role in making the transaction a success. The nature of the land was changed in the revenue records and sale was managed in a way that the transaction remained behind veils. For that, a chain was created.“In the present case, if the petitioner is clothed with the protection of pre-arrest bail, the probe will be affected. The petitioner is one of the ends of the chain, it is through him that true identity of Amrik Singh and thereafter the role of Shyam Lal can be revealed,” Justice Jhingan asserted, while dismissing the plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-dismisses-bail-plea-in-3-decade-old-forgery-issue-293300
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh launches livestock vaccine drive||The UT Animal Husbandry Department today launched the first round of brucellosis vaccine drive at Maloya village to control the livestock disease by 2025 and eradicate it by 2030.The drive was launched under the Central Government’s National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP) for the eradication of foot and mouth disease (FMD) and brucellosis in livestock.The programme aims at vaccinating over 21,000 livestock — cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats and pigs — of Chandigarh for free against the FMD and all bovines female calves against the brucellosis disease.Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Animal Husbandry, said all eligible population female calves would be vaccinated under the programme, which would be concluded in the next 15 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-launches-livestock-vaccine-drive-293298
05-08-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula Fire Dept puts factory owner on notice over ‘flammable liquids’ on premises||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 4The Fire Department has issued a notice to the owner of Colour Udyog, a chemical factory in the Industrial Area Phase -2, for allegedly running a business of highly volatile flammable liquids without obtaining an approval.In its notice issued under Section 263-A of the Municipal Corporation Act, read with Section 22 of the Haryana Fire Services Act, the Fire Department has sought a reply from the owner of the factory, asking him as to why his property should not be sealed in the interest of the public at large.Eight fire incidents in the pastSince April 1991, fire incidents have been reported at the unit at least eight times, the latest being on August 11, 2020. The fire was so intense that vehicles from Kalka, Zirakpur and Dera Bassi were pressed into service. After the incident last year, the police had booked the owner on a complaint of the manager of the adjoining factory.The Fire Department has also asked the factory owner to pay the “heavy cost” borne by it to extinguish the fire at his property on many occasions.The industrial plot was originally allotted to M/S Puri Enterprises by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (now HUDA) in 1985 for setting up a project for manufacturing biscuit. Puri later sold the factory to Ashwani Jindal, who is the current owner.Since April 1991, fire incidents have been reported at the unit at least eight times, the latest being on August 11, 2020. The fire was so intense that vehicles from Kalka, Zirakpur and Dera Bassi were pressed into service.After the incident last year, the police had booked Jindal Sections 285(Negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC on a complaint of the manager of the adjoining factory, VN Luxury House LLP.Tarundeep Singh had alleged their factory, which is owned by Vinay Kumar, had suffered losses in the fire caused due to the negligence on the part of Jindal.Jindal was subsequently arrested in November.Panchkula Fire Officer Gurmail Singh said despite no clearance, the factory had been engaged in chemical production. “We had recovered highly inflammable petroleum products from the premises. No competent authority issued approval to the owner for running such activities in a clear violation of the fire safety rules,’’ he said.A district-level SIT was constituted by the then Panchkula DC to look into the regular fire incidents at the factory.“The forensic experts at Madhuban Lab had found the samples taken from the factory as highly hazardous chemicals. After it was confirmed that the factory violated safety norms, other government departments begun their action. It was pending from our side,’’ he said.The factory owner has been asked to submit his reply within the requisite time or face action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-fire-dept-puts-factory-owner-on-notice-over-flammable-liquids-on-premises-293295
05-08-2021||---||New police station at Panchkula ACP office||Panchkula, August 4A new police station has been established in Panchkula. The ACP office building in Sector 1 has been converted into the Sector 7 police station. It will cater to the complaints from Sectors 1,6,7,8, Kharag Mangoli and Old Panchkula. The areas were previously under the Sector 5 police station.“With this new police station, it will become easier to curb crime in the area. Also, as areas of the Sector 5 police station had been added to this new station, it will ease the burden of the Sector 5 police station. Investigations will also ramp-up,’’ said Mahabir Singh, the first SHO of the police station.He said maintaining law and order and bringing down the crime graph would be his priority.Singh said while sector areas falling under the new police stations had major concerns such as traffic, encroachments, implementation of Covid rules and regulations, areas such as Kharag Mangoli extensively face drug problem and nuisance created by anti-social elements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-police-station-at-panchkula-acp-office-293292
05-08-2021||---||Ambala Division of the Northern Railways collects Rs 3.31-cr fine||Chandigarh, August 4The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has earned revenue of Rs3.31crore from ticket checking in July this year.A total of 794 checks were conducted during the month across the division and about 61,000 cases of irregular travel came to the fore during checking.An amount of Rs3.31 crore was recovered from offenders. To ensure Covid norms, 794 people were fined for traveling without a mask.A special emphasis has been laid to curb the menace of littering among the general public to make railway stations clean. For the purpose, regular checks are conducted over the main stations of the division. “As a result, 212 passengers were apprehended under the Anti-Littering Act and Rs41,120 recovered from them,” said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-division-of-the-northern-railways-collects-rs-3-31-cr-fine-293287
05-08-2021||---||Higher education institutions can reopen from Aug 11 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 4The Director, Higher Education (DHE), Chandigarh, has allowed opening of institutions of higher education for the ongoing classes on or after August 11.“It has been decided to open the institutions of higher education for the ongoing classes on or after August 11, as per academic calendar,” read a circular issued by the DHE.Nod to restarting school for Classes VII, VIIIThe UT Education Department has also given its nod to starting physical lectures for Classes VII and VIII from August 9, subject to parents’ consent for sending wards to schools. However, the online mode of education will also continue.Meanwhile, colleges and other institutions have been asked to follow various conditions before opening the institutions. These conditions include: “The head of the institution to work on all modalities for scheduling/phasing of classes considering Covid-appropriate behaviour. Also, wherever required, the hybrid mode of teaching (online and offline) can be adopted while taking into consideration the academic requirement/circumstances and infrastructure of the institution.”The circular further read: “The head of the institutions will ensure that teaching and non-teaching staff have received at least one dose of vaccination. Only those students (above 18 years), who have received at least one dose of vaccination (two weeks before joining the institutions) will be allowed to attend classes. Decision regarding the exemption for vaccination (due to medical conditions) will be taken by the heads of the institution.”Colleges have been asked to work on opening hostels. “Each college will work out its plan for the opening of the hostel on or after August 11 subject to adherence to Covid norms. Students seeking hostel accommodation are required to submit a negative RT PCR report before occupying hostel accommodation. Covid-appropriate behaviour should be followed strictly. Also, institutional premises should be used only for academic and related activities subject to the adherence to guidelines issued,” read the circular.SUBMIT ADMISSION FORMS ONLINEThe online submission of application form for ongoing classes (BPEd 3rd, 5th and 7th semester and MPEd 3rd semester) for Post Gradate Government College, Sector 11, has started. For detailed admission schedule, students may refer to the respective college website. The DHE also issued that the admission of ongoing classes are non-centralised and will be done by the respective colleges as per the Academic Calendar issued by Panjab University. The online submission of application form for undergraduate classes (3rd and 5th semester) and postgraduate classes (3rd semester) for all government colleges has started. The prospectus containing schedule for online submission of application form and admission process for 1st semester in government colleges and privately-managed aided colleges of Chandigarh will be released soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/higher-education-institutions-can-reopen-from-aug-11-in-chandigarh-293270
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||2 yrs on, ITBP cop held for stalking in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-yrs-on-itbp-cop-held-for-stalking-in-chandigarh-293269
05-08-2021||---||Anindita Mitra is new Chandigarh MC chief||Chandigarh, August 4Anindita Mitra, a 2007-batch Punjab-cadre IAS officer, will be the new Chandigarh MC Commissioner.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs for her appointment as the chief of the Chandigarh civic body.She will be joining on an inter-cadre deputation from the Punjab cadre to the AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segement). She has held various important positions, including SDM in Ropar, ADC in Patiala, DC in Nawanshahr and DC in Hoshiarpur.Anindita is married to Dr SK Raju, Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab.The tenure of the incumbent MC Commissioner, KK Yadav, who is on a deputation in Chandigarh, is coming to an end this month. Amid a Covid surge, a three-year tenure of Yadav, a Punjab-cadre IAS officer of the 2003 batch, was earlier extended for three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anindita-mitra-is-new-chandigarh-mc-chief-293268
05-08-2021||Lalru||Lalru: Youth dies as SUV, mobike collide||A youth was killed while the pillion rider was seriously injured in an SUV-motorcycle collision near Alamgir village on the Ambala-Chandigarh road last night. The deceased has been identified as Mahinder Singh Dutta (21).Sat Prakash Sharma (also 21) was critically injured and is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The duo hailed from Bihar and were living in a rented accommodation at Shakti Nagar, Dera Bassi.The speeding SUV driver, Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi, a resident of Gulabgarh Road, Dera Bassi, fled the spot.The police have registered a case against him under Sections 279, 337, 304A and 427 of the IPC at the Lalru police station.The body of the deceased has been handed over to his kin after a postmortem.Assistant Sub-Inspector Gaurav Sharma said the victims, diploma students at Longowal Polytechnic College, Dera Bassi, were returning home after meeting their acquaintances at Dream House flats on Sitarpur Road near Lalru. A speeding vehicle coming on the main road from the Ambala side collided head-on with a mobike near Alamgir village, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalru-youth-dies-as-suv-mobike-collide-293267
05-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Prayers unanswered, hockey lovers now hope for bronze||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Praying with folded hands, Takdeer Singh Malik, the father of Indian women’s hockey team defender Monika, had never been so tense in his life.His worry, however, was genuine as emotions ran high during the semifinal clash between India and Argentina at the Tokyo Olympics today.Good news for cityIn some good news for the city, javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, a DAV College, Sector 10, alumnus, started his campaign at the Olympics on a positive note. Chopra qualified for the finals with an 86.65m throw in his first attempt. The final is scheduled to be held on August 7.Sitting in a corner of his house, Malik prayed for the Indian team’s success. Though his prayers did not bear the desired fruit, Indian girls managed to win the hearts as they went down fighting against their much fancied rivals.The 2-1 loss to Argentina is definitely not an end of the road for Indian eves as they can still finish on the podium with a win over the Great Britain in the bronze-medal playoff on August 6.“They won hearts with their stellar performance. Yes, I am disheartened, but let’s wait for some more time. Hopefully, they will bag a bronze medal. They played well today. Our girls will bounce back for sure,” said Takdeer, who works as an ASI in the Chandigarh Police.Earlier, the Indian women’s hockey team etched history after they beat world No. 2 Australia in the quarterfinals to enter the Olympic semifinals for the first time.“The women’s team played really well. They defended well, but failed to convert their chances. If they continue to perform like this, they will give a tough fight to the Great Britain. Fingers crossed, let’s see how the match pans out,” hockey coach Gurminder Singh said while describing India’s performance against Argentina.Monika, who is playing in her second Olympics, trained at the Chandigarh Hockey Academy during her formative years.“The match was not easy at all. Argentina was a tough opponent and our girls played like a balanced unit. The result was not in our favour, but the performance indicated that the girls are in high spirits,” said Kapil, a local trainee.“The Indian team fought hard in the final quarter, but Argentina’s experience helped them keep the danger away as they successfully defended their lead. I just wish Indian team overcome the Great Britain and grab their first ever bronze medal,” added Poonam, a hockey player.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prayers-unanswered-hockey-lovers-now-hope-for-bronze-293266
05-08-2021||---||Car owner identified, at large||Chandigarh, August 4The i20 car in which unknown persons had allegedly stalked and teased an 18-year-old girl returning to her PG accommodation in Sector 34 had been sold to a fourth buyer. The police have identified the car owner, who is at large.Sources said the car was registered at an address in Ludhiana. However, the car was further sold thrice.Car was registered on Ludhiana addressThe police said teams were sent to Ludhiana and Kapurthala and to nab the said, who was absconding.“The arrest of the car owner will lead us to the other suspects who were accompanying him at the time of the incident,” said a police official.The victim was returning to her PG accommodation from the market on Sunday evening when the suspects started following her in the car. They passed lewd comments at the victim. However, she ignored them and kept walking.Sources said the suspects then stopped the car and tried to pull the victim. However, she stepped back.A youth riding an Activa stopped and tried to intervene. However, the suspects thrashed him and damaged his scooter.The police said passersby gathered at the spot following which the suspects fled from there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-owner-identified-at-large-293265
05-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma to lay 13 stones in 7 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4With the MC elections just about five months away, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma is on an inauguration spree. He has carried out seven inaugurations in the past fortnight and will now be laying 13 foundation stones in a span of just seven days.From August 9 to 17, except for August 14 and 15, he will be laying foundation stones for water supply, drainage and storm water sewerage system in 13 villages. Each day, he will lay stones of projects in two villages.“All these projects have already been passed and the work has been allotted. Thus, I will be laying the foundation stones. It will be a great relief to villagers. The work is being done after the villages were merged with the MC,” said the Mayor.Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “I condemn this. Before the completion of his tenure, he is just trying to get his name mentioned on the foundation stones. Rather than doing so many inaugurations in villages, he should have got the problems of villages resolved. People in colonies and villages are very fed up of the issues.”The Mayor has already sped up inaugurating projects. In the past fortnight, he inaugurated as many as seven projects. The BJP leader unveiled a green belt in Kajheri and started a plantation drive on July 20. The next day, he opened a Covid vaccination drive in a bus in Sector 22. Ravi Kant inaugurated a water supply line in Sector 52 on July 22. He inaugurated another water supply line in Sector 48 on July 26. The First Citizen launched an open air gym in Sector 22 on July 27 and in Sector 63 on August 2.His inaugurations had earlier inconvenienced local residents as the police had barricaded a large area following an attack on his car during a farmer’s protest in Sector 48. It is yet to be seen how things are going to unfold for the First Citizen when he will visit the villages for laying foundation stones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-ravi-kant-sharma-to-lay-13-stones-in-7-days-293253
05-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Big cheer as City Beautiful scores a zero on Covid turf||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4The city reported no Covid-19 case today for the first time since June 3 last year. With the UT being successful in tapering off coronavirus, it has also vaccinated 91 per cent of its population with the first dose of the Covid vaccine.The first case was reported on March 18 last year with the return of a 23-year-old woman from the UK. Ever since, the UT has braved the first and second wave with the highest single-day cases of each wave being 449 cases (first) and 890 cases (second), respectively.The Director, Health Services, Dr Amandeep Kang, said, “We had been waiting for this day for a very long time and I am glad it has arrived. A lot of efforts have gone into bringing the new case tally to zero in the city.”Sharing the strategy, Dr Kang said, “We increased the RT-PCR testing share to 80 per cent and communicated the test reports to positive patients on the phone within 24 hours. This helped in early isolation of these patients. We did not stop making containment zones even after Covid slowed down in the region. We increased door-to-door vaccination drives in areas where cases broke out recently such as in Sector 38 where two families tested positive. The Administration is leaving no stone unturned to keep the cases under control.”Chandigarh has lost 811 lives to Covid-19 so far. Last month, however, the city witnessed only two Covid deaths. The monthly fatalities have never been so low in the UT.Dr Kang said it was due to rapid coverage of the population with the first dose of the vaccine. “The vaccine reduces hospitalisation and severity of the disease and hence we saw fewer deaths in the recent past,” she said.The positivity rate of Chandigarh last week stood at only 0.2 per cent. For every 100 confirmed cases, 0.1 are currently infected, 99 have recovered from the virus and one has passed away from the virus.So far, 5,256 of every lakh population in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus and 52,409 samples have been tested.Only 6 patients hospitalisedThere are 31 patients in Chandigarh currently infected with the virus, while all others have recovered. Of them, only six patients are hospitalised.While the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, is Covid-free since the past three days as no patient is admitted there, four patients are occupying oxygen beds at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, and two are admitted to the PGI.Seven fresh cases surface in MohaliMohali: Seven new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. Nine patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, three were reported from Kharar, two from Dhakoli and one each from Mohali and Banur. Of the 68,468 positive cases reported so far, 67,379 patients have been cured. TNSFour test positive in Panchkula, no deathPanchkula: The district reported four fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,647. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,259 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 12 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/big-cheer-as-city-beautiful-scores-a-zero-on-covid-turf-293231
05-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Privatisation: Kolkata firm set to take over Chandigarh Electricity Dept||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Kolkata-based Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd has emerged as the highest bidder to take over the UT Electricity Department, quoting five times the reserve price of nearly Rs174 crore.A subsidiary of CESC Limited, a flagship company of RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group, Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd made the highest bid of Rs871 crore, whereas Adani Transmission Ltd quoted Rs471 crore. Among the seven firms in the fray for power distribution in the city, Sterlite Power submitted the lowest bid of Rs201 crore whereas the second highest bid of Rs606 crore was made by Torrent Power.The report on the financial bids will be sent to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for approval. After getting the Administrator’s nod, the report will be sent to the Ministry of Power for final selection of the firm to take over the electricity distribution in the UT.On November 9 last year, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the electricity department.Seven companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Ltd — had submitted their bids.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1 last year stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the electricity department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision of the government to privatise the electricity department by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The High Court was also told that the process of privatisation of the department could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the department was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, on January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the High Court order and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.After the Administration restarted the process, the union again filed a petition in the High Court which again stayed the process on May 28, but the order was stayed by the Supreme Court on June 28, clearing the decks once again for privatisation of the department.About RP-Sanjiv goenka group2.50 lakh consumers in the cityAt present, there are 2.50 lakh power consumers in the city. Nearly 2.14 lakh are domestic consumers and account for more than 87 per cent of the total consumers. The remaining 23 per cent are commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply consumers.How much firms quoted||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/privatisation-kolkata-firm-set-to-take-over-chandigarh-electricity-dept-293225
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will protest if Punjab Governor loses power over Chandigarh: SAD||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today described the proposal to appoint a full-fledged administrator for Chandingarh by divesting the Governor of this charge as another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city.“Chandigarh is an inseparable part of Punjab and should be transferred to the parent state. We will launch an agitation to ensure this move does not fructify”. He also requested the Chief Minister to pursue the case vigorously with the Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-protest-if-punjab-governor-loses-power-over-chandigarh-sad-293196
