06-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports three new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Friday reported three new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of cases to 61,970.A positivity rate of 0.17 per cent was recorded today as 1,798 samples were tested.The death toll in the city remains 811.The number of active cases has fallen to 27 as five patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 61,332 people have so far recovered from the virus.A total of 6,74,190 people have received the first vaccine dose while 2,12,466 have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-three-new-covid-19-cases-293972
06-08-2021||Vijay Mohan||Study validates five active seismic fault lines in north-west India||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6 The existence of five active geological fault lines in the north-western region has been validated in a five-year long research project undertaken by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, in association with Panjab University, Chandigarh, and two other institutions.The Kangra Valley fault in Himachal Pradesh; Pinjore Garden and Jhajra Fault, the Khetpurali Taksal Fault, both in Haryana,  the Himalayan Frontal Thrust along the left bank of the Beas, near Hajipur; and the Himalayan Frontal Thrust in Kumaon Himaalayas along the Gabua-Dhol-Nandpur axis are those that have been authenticated.A fault is a fracture or zone of fractures between two blocks of rock. Faults allow relative movement between the blocks which may occur rapidly, in the form of an earthquake, or slowly over a period of time. The length of a fault may vary from just a few meters to several thousand kilometers.Faults can have a large influence on the mechanical behaviour, such as strength and deformation, of soil and rock masses and their assessment is critical seismic zoning and for planning construction of buildings, roads, bridges, tunnels, pipelines and railroads.The project, tittled “Active fault, paleoseismic and crustal deformation in north-western and Central Himalayas: An integrated approach towards seismic hazard assessment”, was funded by the Ministry of Earth Sciences at a cost of Rs 5.54 crore. It is expected to be complete by September 2021, according to a statement made by the Ministry in the Lok Sabha today.As per the objective of the project, active faults were identified and mapped using satellite data and ground-truthing was carried out in areas like Central Kumaon Himalayas, Chandigarh-Pinjore, Ropar-Hajipur-Pathankot and Kangra.Studies and identificatiuon of faults and rock deformation in areas covering the Dehradun foothills and Central Himalayas from east of Kaladungi till west of Nepal is still under progress, according to the ministry’s statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/study-validates-five-active-seismic-fault-lines-in-north-west-india-293957
06-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh leader Pardeep Chhabra quits Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6 A day after the Chandigarh Congress decided to serve a show-cause notice on him, city unit ex-president Pardeep Chhabra on Friday announced his resignation from the primary membership of the party."An upright man shall never tolerate indignation and lies. Knowing when to walk away is wisdom, being able to is courage, walking away with your head held high is dignity. I resign from the primary membership of the Congress. An official, detailed resignation will follow," the ex-mayor posted on Twitter in the morning.It follows about six months of exchanging of barbs between Chhabra and incumbent president Subhash Chawla. It was in February this year that the party high command had replaced Chhabra with Chawla at the top city unit post. Chhabra has been attacking Chawla and ex-MP Pawan Kumar Bansal Bansal since he was removed as the party president. He has been alleging that he was not being called for party meetings and forums, and was being ignored.The current president, however, has been maintaining that Chhabra was being invited, but was not attending. To throw the ball in Chhabra’s court, the party president on Tuesday invited the former for a meeting and kept proof of the invitation. However, he did not turn up saying he was busy in personal matters.The former Congress councillor has already formed the Chandigarh Progressive Front. As president of the front, he will raise city issues. It is believed that he may fight the forthcoming elections with a few Congress rebels and his associates or may collaborate with some party.On Thursday, in an official statement, the Congress said, “The party took a strong note of the recent actions of Chhabra wherein he has been openly criticising the party leadership, damaging its image and prospects. It was unanimously decided to condemn such anti-party activities and issue a show-cause notice to him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-leader-pardeep-chhabra-quits-congress-293822
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Boy, girl snatch gold chain in Chandigarh||Thieves strike at garment shopChandigarh: A theft was reported from a garment shop at Mani Majra on the intervening night of August 3 and 4. Complainant Rajinder Kumar Jain reported that clothes, artificial jewellery and Rs2,000 were stolen from his shop. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNS Mahajan is BJYM vice-presidentChandigarh: State Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Vijay Rana appointed Dr Shveta Mahajan as the state vice-president of the Yuva Morcha. Mahajan is a PhD in Engineering from the CSIR-CSIO and also holds the first position in the 6th National Seed Congress. TNSProbe ordered to find violatorsMohali: Taking stern action against environmental rule violators, the district administration on Thursday ordered immediate inquiry into the incident of suspected chemical factory discharge, which turned seasonal rivulet’s water red in Dhakoli. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the XEN of the Environment Department would probe the incident and sampling would be done to find the source of chemical and take action. Dayalan said prima facie, it appeared that the chemical belonged to a factory of a neighbouring state. He said teams had been deputed at the site. TNSProspectus releasedChandigarh: Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, released its prospectus for the session 2021-22 here on Thursday. Prof Sanjay Kaushik, Dean, College Development Council, was the chief guest on the occasion. Gurdev Singh Brar, president, Sikh Educational Society, Col Jasmer Singh Bala (retd), Karandeep Singh Cheema, secretary and joint secretary of the society, respectively, and Principal Navjot Kaur were present. The college provides 10 undergraduate, 13 post-graduate and four add-on certificate courses. TNSGolf tourney begins todayChandigarh: Local lad Karandeep Kochhar will play the inaugural Pro-Am Golf Championship at Chandigarh Golf Club starting from August 6. Three junior golfers with one professional golfer will form a team for the tournament. This will be a unique opportunity for the junior golfer to pick up the basics from the master of the game. This is for the first time that amateurs will be playing among the professionals. A total of 15 pro will be seen in action along with category A and B junior golfers. Top golfers, including Kochhar (leader in PGTI merit list), Akshay Sharma, Yuvraj Sandhu, Angad Cheema, Harinder Guta, Abhijit Chadha and Neha Tripathi, the 6th ranked player in the women’s pro order of merit, will be in action. TNSProbables announcedPanchkula: The Panchkula District Cricket Association has selected a probables’ squad for attending off-season camp at Andale Public School, Sector 9. The 25-member squad included Akshay Gupta, Tanish Dhand, Sonu, Atul Deep Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Imran Khan, Sanjeev Kumar, Sameen Ali, Akshdeep Singh, Rajan Kumar, Vivek Vashisht, Nehal Pajni, Mohit Soni, Ashish Kumar, Tinku, Saurav Sharma, Gitank Niranjan, Harsh Rana, Aryan Verma, Nageshwar Diwedi, Vishal Pathak, Milind Kamboj, Mandeep Bhardwaj, Jagdeep Singh and Arun Jaglan. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-girl-snatch-gold-chain-in-chandigarh-293767
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||U-16 Tourney: Mohali’s Bikramjit shines with bat  on opening day||Bikramjit Singh shined with bat as he scored 150 runs to lead Mohali in a commanding position against Ropar on the opening day of the Punjab State Inter-District U-16 Tournament today.Batting first, Mohali scored 280 runs before getting all out in 88.2 overs. Bikramjit scored 150 off 100 balls. He was ably supported by Aryaman (58 off 76 balls). Nishant Negi (3/103), Bhavyam Jain (2/48) and Jatinder Singh (2/61) were the main wicket takers for the bowling side. In reply, Ropar was playing at 4 for no loss in 2.2 overs at the draw of stumps.In other matches, Jalandhar declared their first innings at 307/9 in 83.1 overs against Kapurthala. Abhaydeep Singh (74) and Yuvansh Chopra (69) were the two main performers for the side. Manmeet Singh and Anmolpreet Singh took three wickets each for the bowling side. In reply, Kapurthala scored 5/2 in 4 overs.In another match, Patiala made a strong grip over Mansa. The hosts bundled out Mansa for 81 runs in 61 overs. In reply, Patiala posted 85/2 in 46 overs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/u-16-tourney-mohalis-bikramjit-shines-with-bat-on-opening-day-293762
06-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Two held for duping farmer of Rs 4.5 lakh in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 5The police have arrested Kulveer Kaur and her father-in-law Parminder Singh, both residents of Badwala village in Ropar district, in a case registered against three persons for allegedly duping a farmer of Rs 4.25 lakh on the pretext of getting the posts of driver for his sons in the High Court. The woman’s husband, Gurdeep Singh, has absconded.The police said Gurpreet Singh of Sanipur village had filed a complaint in 2018 to the then SSP alleging that the three suspects had approached him and assured him of arranging permanent jobs as driver in the High Court for both his sons. The suspects told him that Gurdeep worked as the driver of a High Court Judge. They demanded Rs 4.50 lakh each for arranging two posts of driver for his sons.Gurpreet paid them Rs4.5 lakh. However, whenever he asked the suspects to fulfil their promise of getting jobs for his sons, they would make excuses.Gurpreet and his relative went to Gurdeep’s house and demanded the money back but the latter gave him a check for Rs3 lakh which was dishonoured by the bank for unavailability of funds.The district police had investigated the matter and registered a case under Section 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-duping-farmer-of-rs-4-5-lakh-in-fatehgarh-sahib-293755
06-08-2021||Mohali||Mohali MC to hold bicycle rally on Aug 8||The Mohali Municipal Corporation will organise a special bicycle rally dedicated to 75th Independence Day here on August 8.The bicycle rally will be led by Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu. It will be attended by all officers and employees under the leadership of Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg.Disclosing this here today, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said the rally would start from Rose Garden, Phase 3B1, Mohali, at 7 am and end at City Park, Sector 68.Mayor Jeeti Sidhu requested all residents of Mohali to participate in the bicycle rally. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal was also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-to-hold-bicycle-rally-on-aug-8-293750
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sanjay Tandon apprises Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore of issues||The BJP national council member, Sanjay Tandon, today met the Punjab Governor and UT Administrator, VP Singh Badnore, to apprise him of problems of the people highlighted through memorandums.Badnore directed officers concerned to resolve issues.Tandon said the first memorandum was pertaining to pension of retired teachers of government-aided schools. Amid legal complications, retired teachers were deprived of the “Triple benefits scheme”, which Tandon urged for early reinstatement.Whereas in the second memorandum on behalf of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) Resident Welfare Association, Tandon emphasised on ‘need-based changes’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanjay-tandon-apprises-chandigarh-administrator-vp-singh-badnore-of-issues-293746
06-08-2021||Mohali||NPA issue: Doctors’ panel calls off strike||The Joint Government Doctors' Coordination Committee (JGDC) today announced an end to the doctors' strike after the the announcement made by the state finance minister to link the NPA with basic pay.Dr Gagandeep Singh, president, PCMSA, asked the government to issue notification without any delay. He said till then, all doctors would do their job with black badges in protest. He said that the government was asked to reinstate the 25 per cent rate of the NPA and link it to the basic pay. However, the government announced only linking the NPA with basic pay and the rate of NPA stood reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/npa-issue-doctors-panel-calls-off-strike-293734
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Senate Poll: Three elected members of ‘staff of technical and professional colleges’||Panjab University faculty members, Gurmeet Singh, Neeru Malik and Suresh Kumar, have been elected on three seats of the Panjab University Senate for members of the staff of technical and professional colleges constituency.Neeru got 216 votes, while Gurmeet claimed 150 votes. Kumar secured 138 votes.For the three seats, a total of four candidates had contested. Of the registered 789 voters, 629 used their right to franchise. A total of 77 votes were found to be invalid.Polling booths at Chandigarh (254 votes), Fazilka (40 votes), Ferozepur (28 votes), Hoshiarpur (62 votes), Ludhiana (127 votes), Moga (53 votes), Sri Muktsar Sahib (48 votes) and Nawanshahr (17 votes) had witnessed a total of 79.72 per cent polling.Meanwhile, the results of the principal of the technical & professional colleges constituency will be submitted at the Punjab & Haryana High Court. The result has been submitted in a sealed envelope, as per the directions of the court. The results will be announced accordingly, said a spokesperson.Another round of elections will now be held on August 10. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-poll-three-elected-members-of-staff-of-technical-and-professional-colleges-293731
06-08-2021||---||Accountant in police net on charge of embezzling Rs 2 cr from arhtiya in Raipur Rani||Panchkula, August 5The detective staff of the police have arrested a man for allegedly embezzling Rs2 crore from an arhtiya in Raipur Rani.The suspect has been identified as Nitin Singla, a resident of Defence Colony, Ambala Cantonment. He and his brother Harsh Singla are accountants at the arhtiya’s shop in the new grain market in Raipur Rani.Complainant Sanjay Singhal told the police that he came to know about the fraud after farmers complained him that the manager and accountants of my shop were issuing cheques of different amounts in their favour without any procurement and later asking them to repay the amount through cash and cheques in favour of themselves and family members.Singhal subsequently hired a charted accountant to conduct an audit into the alleged misappropriations, following which the embezzlement of Rs2 crore surfaced.The complainant said Singla brothers admitted their offence and assured him of returning the entire amount transferred to bank accounts of their family members.“On July 7, 2021, the two brothers closed their FDRs of Rs26 lakh and Rs24 lakh, respectively, and transferred Rs50 lakh into the account of Singhal’s firm. Though they assured the complainant to transfer the remaining amount from the bank account of their family members, they didn’t do so and rather threatened the complainant with a criminal case against him,” the FIR read.A case was registered at the Raipur Rani police station in this regard under Sections 120-B, 406, 408, 420 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accountant-in-police-net-on-charge-of-embezzling-rs-2-cr-from-arhtiya-in-raipur-rani-293729
06-08-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula Home Guards jawan rejoins duty, says honesty no more best policy||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 5The Home Guards jawan, who attempted suicide after alleged mental harassment by senior officials for stopping a woman officer’s car on July 17, has re-joined the duty after his treatment at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital. However, his perception about honesty has changed altogether.“It was honesty in executing duties that landed me in trouble. It is better that I should let go off my honest-always attitude for the betterment of my family and kid,’’ said Piyush, expressing his anguish.“I lost some of my good friends after this episode. Even those for whom I stood by in the past don’t talk to me anymore. My honesty turned into a bane for me,’’ he added.The 29-year-old said the situation won’t change till the system was changed.“I was wrong that I stopped the woman officer for violating traffic rules. It’s proved that those who try to flatter superiors to keep themselves in their good books are intelligent. If I had thought about my family before the incident, it wouldn’t have caused them to suffer,” he said.On July 17, the jawan on traffic duty had stopped the car of an Indian Defence Accounts Services (IDAS) officer’s at the Majri Chowk for jumping the red traffic signal. He was transferred to the Police Lines following the incident. Alleging mental harassment by senior officials of the Police Department, the jawan tried to kill himself by taking rat poison on the top floor of the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1 on July 29.After the media highlighted the incident, it reached state Home Minister Anil Vij, who directed the DGP to take appropriate action.Subsequently, the police had booked the woman officer and the driver for violating traffic rules and obstructing a public servant in discharging his duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-home-guards-jawan-rejoins-duty-says-honesty-no-more-best-policy-293727
06-08-2021||---||Chandigarh stalking case: 2 days on, suspects still absconding||Chandigarh, August 5Two days on, the unknown persons, who allegedly stalked and teased an 18-year-old girl when she was returning to her PG accommodation in Sector 34, are still at large.The police said though they had the name of a suspect, who is the fourth owner of the I 20 car, there are no further leads. “We don’t have the address of the suspect,” said a policeman.Meanwhile, police teams have gone to different parts of Punjab to gather more information about the suspect that could lead to his arrest. His arrest may further lead to the identification of others suspects accompanying him.The victim was returning to her PG accommodation from a market on the Sunday evening when the suspects started following her in the car. They passed lewd comments at her. However, she ignored them and kept walking.Sources said the suspects then stopped the car and tried to pull the victim into the vehicle. However, she stepped back.A youth riding an Activa stopped and tried to intervene. However, the suspects thrashed him and damaged his scooter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-stalking-case-2-days-on-suspects-still-absconding-293726
06-08-2021||---||NHAI okays alternative route to Jhuriwala site||Panchkula, August 5After getting an approval from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for creating an alternative route to the Jhuriwala dumping ground, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation today claimed that it would clear the garbage piled up in several parts of the city for the past several days soon.The regular clearance of garbage was stopped after the unpaved road towards the dumping ground started caving in and its surface turned swampy due to the heavy rain, making it difficult for garbage vehicles to commute.The garbage lying on the streets had begun to stink, causing grave inconvenience to residents.The chaosA road to the dumping site had caved in. Though the Panchkula civic body had repaired the stretch on Wednesday, it got damaged after the rain again. So, garbage-laden tractor-trailers couldn’t dump the waste at the Jhuriwala dumping ground. They had to line it up along the National Highway 73.Though the civic body had repaired the stretch on Wednesday, but it got damaged after the rain again. So, garbage-laden tractor-trailers couldn’t dump the waste at the Jhuriwala dumping ground. They had to line it up along the National Highway 73.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said they were telephonically given a go-ahead by the NHAI to build a new road towards the Jhuriwala dumping ground. “We will clear the waste piles from across the city by the evening,” he said.Residents’ protestMeanwhile, members of the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of Sector 23 today gathered at the Sector 23 dumping ground after many trollies filled with waste were reportedly unloaded on the road approaching the old dumping ground.After residents block the dumping ground road with their cars, the police reached the spot. The police assured the residents that they will keep a close watch so that waste in not dumped at the old dumping ground.“As there is waste piled up in city everywhere, the civic body is desperate to unload waste at the old dumping ground. If they continue to go against the guidelines of the NGT, we will block the roundabout tomorrow,’’ a Sector 23 resident said.The state has fixed December 31 as the deadline to completely shift the Sector 23 dumping ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nhai-okays-alternative-route-to-jhuriwala-site-293725
06-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Process to fill two posts of DSP underway, says DGP, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5The Chandigarh Police have started the process to fill two vacant posts of the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP). The proposal to hold a meeting of the Department Promotion Committee (DPC) for filling the vacant posts has been sent to the Home Department of the UT Administration.The information in this regard has been given by Sanjay Beniwal, Director General of Police (DGP), in an affidavit filed before the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) Chandigarh. The affidavit was filed on the direction of the CAT.The CAT issued the direction for filing the affidavit while hearing the petition of an inspector, Barjinder Singh, filed through counsel Nitin Sharma, who prayed for convening the meeting of the DPC claiming to be the senior-most inspector in the Chandigarh Police.In the affidavit, Beniwal said the proposal file of the applicant was received on July 19, 2021, and the agenda for filling two vacant posts of the Deputy Superintendent of Police, UT, was forwarded to the Home Department on July 30, 2021.He said as per the notification issued by the Government of India, the post of UT DSP is Group-A post.The chairman or a member of the UPSC is the chairman of the DPC, while other members of the committee include UT Adviser, Principal Secretary (Home) and UT DGP. He said the chairman or the member of the UPSC, being the chairman of the committee, had to provide the date for convening the DPC meeting, for which agenda had already been sent to the Home Department.In its order pronounced on July 28, 2021, the CAT observed that the counsel for the respondents had failed to dispute the fact that the applicant was the senior-most inspector with the Chandigarh Police. He is also unable to dispute the fact that two posts of the DSP are lying vacant in the Chandigarh Police.On the statement of the counsel, the CAT directed the counsel to place on record the affidavit of the competent authority regarding his statement. The Government of India has framed new recruitment rules for the posts of the DSP in a notification issued on January 1, 2021. The applicant has also placed the copy of the recruitment rules before the CAT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/process-to-fill-two-posts-of-dsp-underway-says-dgp-chandigarh-293724
06-08-2021||---||Chandigarh man rents house without informing cops, fined Rs500||Chandigarh, August 5A court has imposed a fine of Rs500 on the owner of a house who gave a portion of the house on rent without informing the police.As per the prosecution, the police carried out a checking in Sector 7, Chandigarh, on December 8, 2018. During the checking, the police team found that Munish Tandon gave the first floor of his house on rent to a person without furnishing details of the tenant to the police.The police alleged that he violated the order passed by the District Magistrate on November 12, 2018, whereby it was ordered that all persons who intend to offer accommodation on rent shall inform in writing the particulars of tenants to the SHO concerned in whose jurisdiction the premises fall otherwise action against defaulters will be taken under Section 188 of the IPC. Hence, offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC was made out and FIR was registered against the accused.On completion of the investigation, a challan was presented in the court. Finding a prima facie case, a notice of accusation under Section 188 of the IPC was served upon the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.Later, the accused confessed his guilt without any pressure and coercion and sought lenient view. TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh, in the order, said since the accused had confessed his guilt with free consent and voluntarily, he was held guilty under Section 188 of the IPC. The court ordered the convict to pay a fine of Rs500 under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-rents-house-without-informing-cops-fined-rs500-293723
06-08-2021||---||Ambala man kills cousin over her love affair, held||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 5The Ambala police today arrested a man for allegedly killing his cousin over her affair with a youth of another village in Naraingarh here.While the deceased has been identified as Komal (26), the suspect has been identified as Praveen (30), a resident of Lalpur village. Praveen was unhappy with Komal’s relation with the boy as he was not as per their status.Komal was the eldest of the four siblings and their parents had died around six years ago. Her body was recovered from their house in Lalpur village on Wednesday.Sanjeev Kumar, in his complaint to the police, said: “Around two months ago, we came to know that my sister, Komal, had an affair with Sahil of Taprian village and she wanted to marry him. My paternal uncle Ram Pal’s son Praveen also came to know about her affair and he strongly objected to it. According to him, Sahil was not as per their status.”On Wednesday, they invited Praveen to discuss the issue and asked him to accompany them to a brick-kiln as they were going to meet Sahil’s uncle regarding their relation. Praveen made an excuse and asked Sanjeev and his maternal uncle that he will come later, but he didn’t reach. Later, they received a call that Komal is lying dead in their house and Praveen had killed her. A case was registered against Praveen under Section 302 of the IPC at the Naraingarh police station.Dhoom Singh, SHO of the Naraingarh police station, said: “Praveen was unhappy because of Komal’s affair with Sahil and he made it a prestige issue. He informed that Sahil used to live just a few kilometres away and he used to visit their (Praveen’s) village often. He was of the view that Komal’s marriage with Sahil will bring dishonour to their family. He repeatedly attempted to persuade Komal, but she was unmoved, following which he killed her. He has been arrested and will be produced in a court on Friday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-man-kills-cousin-over-her-love-affair-held-293722
06-08-2021||---||Solar panels to come up on 43 govt buildings in Panchkula district||Panchkula, August 5In order to develop Panchkula as a solar city, the Haryana Government has already installed solar power plants on the rooftops of 38 government buildings here.The government has also signed an agreement with the Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) to install solar panels on 43 government buildings with a total capacity of 3,500 kilowatts.Stating this, Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh today said Panchkula would be developed as a solar city with a target of meeting its 20 per cent energy requirement from solar/renewable energy sources by 2023-24.Green moveA proposal to install a solar power plant of 500-kilowatt capacity on the CRPF campus in Pinjore has been sent to the Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency.The Municipal Corporation has also earmarked eight acres of land near Naggal village to develop a solar park.LEDs to light up P’kula streetsWork to replace almost 18,000 street lights with LED ones is underway in the district. It will reduce the electricity consumption by 50 per cent, officials said.“To fulfil the objective, a working group has been constituted, which will carry out several activities in a phased manner in three years,” he said.He was presiding over a meeting of departments concerned to review the solar city project at the Mini Secretariat in Sector 1 here.The Deputy Commissioner also directed the Municipal Corporation and the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to identify 10 sites each for setting up e-charging stations.“After finalising the locations for e-charging stations, work will begin immediately,” said the Deputy Commissioner.A proposal to install a solar power plant of 500-kilowatt capacity on the CRPF campus in Pinjore has been sent to the Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency (HAREDA).The MC has also earmarked eight acres of land near Naggal village to develop a solar park.The project to develop Panchkula as a solar city was announced in the 2021-22 state Budget earlier this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/solar-panels-to-come-up-on-43-govt-buildings-in-panchkula-district-293721
06-08-2021||---||Realtors’ unfulfilled promises: Capt Amarinder Singh asks Principal Secretary, Housing, to hold investigation||Mohali, August 5Taking a serious notice of real estate developers not providing facilities promised to buyers in Mohali, Kharar, Kurali and New Chandigarh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has handed over the investigation in the matter to the Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban Development Department.In a letter to the CM, Lok Sabha MP from Anandpur Sahib and former Union Minister Manish Tewari had recently raised the issue of developer not fulfilling their obligations after selling plots and flats to people who invested their hard-earned savings.In his reply to the MP, Capt Amarinder Singh said, “I have directed the Principal Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development, to look into the matter and submit a report in a fortnight.”It is pertinent to mention here that residents of Mohali, Kharar, Kurali and New Chandigarh had apprised the MP of the problems they were facing at the hands of real estate developers, including lack of basic amenities.Ten days after registering cases against 48 builders for raising illegal colonies in Kharar and Balongi areas, Mohali SSP Satinder Singh had on July 27 constituted a special investigating team (SIT) under SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal to look into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/realtors-unfulfilled-promises-capt-amarinder-singh-asks-principal-secretary-housing-to-hold-investigation-293720
06-08-2021||Panchkula||Two cases of coronavirus, no fatality in Panchkula||The district on Thursday reported two fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,649. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,261 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 12 cases are active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-cases-of-coronavirus-no-fatality-in-panchkula-293719
06-08-2021||Mohali||In Mohali, four test positive for Covid||Four fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 68,472. No fresh death was reported, while three patients recovered from the virus. All four cases surfaced in Mohali subdivision. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-four-test-positive-for-covid-293718
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one Covid case, no death||The city on Thursday reported just one coronavirus case. The overall tally has reached 61,966. The Covid toll remained at 811. Four persons were cured of the disease, taking the number of recoveries to 61,127. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-covid-case-no-death-293717
06-08-2021||---||Youth killed as truck rams bike near Nada Sahib Gurdwara||Panchkula, August 5A 27-year-old motorcyclist was killed after a container truck ran over him near Nada Sahib Gurdwara here on Wednesday evening.The deceased was identified as Vishav Kochar, alias Shunty, a resident of Raipur Rani.After the accident, passersby and locals gathered at the spot and rushed the injured youth to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where doctors declared him dead.The police nabbed the truck driver and impounded the vehicle. The suspect has been identified as Hari Krishan, a native of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The victim’s uncle, Sushil Kumar, told the police that speeding and rash driving by the truck driver led to the accident. A case was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-killed-as-truck-rams-bike-near-nada-sahib-gurdwara-293716
06-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration shortlists three for post  of PEC Director||Chandigarh, August 5The UT Administration today shortlisted three candidates for the post of Director, Punjab Engineering College (PEC), here.As many as 36 candidates appeared before the selection committee, which was headed by UT Adviser Dharam Pal. The committee, which comprised the directors of the IITs, Ropar and Roorkee, the Additional Secretary, HRD, and the UT Finance and Education secretaries, selected three candidates on the basis of their merit. The names will be submitted to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore tomorrow to take a final call on selection of the candidate. The post was lying vacant for the past several months after Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC, had resigned in December last year. Sanghi (54) had joined PEC from the IIT, Kanpur, in January 2019, and his term was to end in January 2024. The Department of Technical Education, UT, had, earlier this year, invited applications for the post of Director, PEC, on a contract basis for a period of five years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-shortlists-three-for-post-of-pec-director-293715
06-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Men’s hockey bronze: Chandigarh announces award for 2 ex-CHA trainees, but will it deliver!||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5The bronze medal finish of the India men’s hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics has perhaps brought obvious tension for officials of the UT Administration along with immense happiness.The Director Sports announced that two former trainees of the Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA) - Rupinder Pal Singh and Gurjant Singh - will be suitably awarded as per the Chandigarh Sports Policy.However, in reality, several international players of the city are already waiting to get suitably rewarded for several years. As per the policy, it was announced that city players will be rewarded with cash awards. In this particular case, both Rupinder Pal Singh and Gurjant Singh represented Punjab and played for Chandigarh only during their stay at the CHA.Step far away from realityIn 2015-16, it was announced that city players, who participate in the Olympic Games, Hockey World Cup, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games, Youth Olympic Games, Youth Asian Games, Youth Commonwealth Games and Afro-Asian Games, would be awarded on a par with the amount being announced by Punjab and Haryana on the day of achieving any position or participation. The Haryana Government announced to give Rs2.5 crore to each player from the state, while the Punjab Government announced Rs1 crore each for its players in the Indian team. If one goes by the Chandigarh Sports Policy, the Administration now has to give at least Rs2.5 crore to each player — perhaps a step far away from reality.Players await promised awardsLocal players, who represented Chandigarh in various international championships, are still waiting cash awards. “It’s been over seven years now, but there’s no response from the UT Administration. It’s a welcome step that the authorities decided to honour the players, who are born outside Chandigarh and played in their academies, but the players born here and represented the city in international championship should also get their dues,” said Atul Kumar, international handball player, who played in Asian Games (2014 & 2018) and SAAF Games (2016).The Administration claimed that several players from these academies (hockey, football and cricket) and other players from Chandigarh, including Arjuna Awardee international footballers Sandesh Jhingan and Gurpeet Singh Sandhu, Anirudh Thapa and many more, have played several international championships in various disciplines.Process delayed, not overMeanwhile, Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, said the process was delayed, but would be streamlined. “We are not denying awards to players. Everyone will get it. There’s a delay as policy matters take time to get finalised. The process of giving awards to international players is under process and exists as per the sports policy. It will be implemented soon after consideration with the higher authorities. Both players had played for Chandigarh and are eligible to get awards from Chandigarh. This is a big achievement. After Friday’s match (women’s bronze medal), we will pursue the matter with the higher authorities. Our three former trainees are playing in the Indian women’s hockey team also,” said Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mens-hockey-bronze-chandigarh-announces-award-for-2-ex-cha-trainees-but-will-it-deliver-293714
06-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Dream come true, can’t repay Chandigarh Hockey Academy for all it did: Gurjant Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5“We can’t repay for what we have learnt at the Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA), but it’s now time to see what the UT Administration does for us,” said Gurjant Singh, a former trainee of the CHA and striker of the Indian hockey team, which won a historic bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, while talking to Chandigarh Tribune from the venue of the games.Two former trainees of the CHA — Gurjant Singh and Rupinder Pal Singh — played a vital role in the Indian team’s bronze medal win. “We have said it earlier also. We started learning our basics of the sport at the CHA. Whatever the CHA gave us, we can’t repay. Not only us, the academy has produced several international hockey players. Now, it’s time for the UT Administration to decide how it appreciates our efforts and hard work,” said Gurjant. When told that the Punjab Government had already announced a cash reward of Rs1 crore for each player (from Punjab) and whether they would shift to Chandigarh if the UT Administration doubled the prize money or gave more than the amount, Gurjant said, “We will see after the announcement.”PM’s tweet#Striker Gurjant Singh’s exceptional skills on the field and determination inspire every youth to excel in sports. His contribution to the team and Indian Hockey is indelible. Best wishes to him for his future endeavours. #Tokyo2020‘An amazing feeling’This is an amazing feeling. We are happy. The aim was always to win a medal for the nation. We did it and we are happy about it. There’s no doubt that the entire squad played like a unit. This is a dream come true and the entire country is celebrating and so are we.Rs Gurjant Singh, ex-CHA trainee & Indian hockey team strikerHe appreciated the entire team’s efforts and maintained that this win would change the perspective of the nation towards hockey. “This is an amazing feeling. We are happy. The aim was always to win a medal for the nation. We did it and we are happy about it. There’s no doubt that the entire squad played like a unit. This is a dream come true and the entire country is celebrating and so are we,” said Gurjant.While Gurjant stayed at the CHA from 2005 to 2011, drag flicker Rupinderpal Singh was part of the CHA from 2002 to 2008. He had also taken admission to SGGS College, Sector 26.Meanwhile, city hockey lovers were immersed in joy with the historic win. Since state-run academies are closed owing to the Covid pandemic, the celebrations were restricted to the online mode. “Both (Rupinder and Gurjant) had a long association with the CHA. Despite facing odds, they practised well and achieved excellence. They have won many tournaments together and achieved laurels at various stages,” said Gurinder Singh, coach, CHA. Rupinder’s mentor and former CHA hockey coach Jasbir Singh Bajwa had died in 2011. However, he still remembers him as one of the finest coaches. “The Indian hockey team created history after winning the bronze medal. We at Hockey Chandigarh congratulate each and every member of the team,” said Anil Vohra, general secretary, Hockey Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dream-come-true-cant-repay-chandigarh-hockey-academy-for-all-it-did-gurjant-singh-293713
06-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: Road caves in near Sector 20 petrol station, commuters harried||Chandigarh, August 5A half inner road stretch of Sector 20 remained closed for commuters after a part of it caved in.The road caved in three days ago, but till today, the restoration work was not started. However, the area has been barricaded by the police.Commuters are facing inconvenience as they have to take another route to cross that road. “It must be repaired as soon as possible as someone may fall inside the big pothole,” said Ramnik, a motorcycle rider.“Though barricading has been done, it is not proper. The need of the hour is to cover this caved-in road. Children may fall here. It will also lead to breeding of mosquitoes due to the rains,” said Kishore, a shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-road-caves-in-near-sector-20-petrol-station-commuters-harried-293712
06-08-2021||---||3 flats of Chandigarh Housing Board go for over Rs1 cr each||Chandigarh, August 5The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has earned Rs9.81 crore from the auction of 12 dwelling units. The total reserve price of these units was Rs8.34 crore, which was revised to Rs9.22 crore.The CHB received the highest bid of Rs1,07,81,113 for a three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 against the reserve price of Rs1 crore. It was followed by an MIG flat in Sector 63, which was sold for Rs1,07,11,117 against the reserve price of Rs90 lakh. The third highest bid of Rs1,01,01,100 was received for a two-bedroom flat in Sector 49 against its reserve price of Rs1 crore.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 46 built-up dwelling units on freehold basis in Sector 38(West), Sector 49, Sector 51 and Sector 63. However, a total of 30 e-bids were received for 12 dwelling units. The bids were opened today.“Even after a considerable increase in the reserve price of some dwelling units, the CHB has received consideration of an average 6.5 per cent above the reserve price. However, if the amount of the highest bid is compared with the reserve prices as per the earlier e-tenders, the CHB has received 17.59 per cent above the earlier reserve prices,” said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.Based on location, view and number of available units, it was decided to go for dynamic reserve prices for some units and accordingly, the reserve prices were enhanced on experimental basis, he added.For many dwelling units, though single bid was received but it was considerably higher than the reserve price, he said. Garg said, “The highest bidder will have to deposit 25 per cent of the bid amount after adjusting the earnest money deposit within five working days of the closure of the bid. In case the bidder does not deposit the required amount within the stipulated period, the earnest money will be forfeited and the bidder will not have any claim to it, whatsoever. Further, the bidder will be blacklisted from bidding for any CHB property in future.”During the past four months, the CHB has sold 87 residential properties on freehold basis in four e-auctions and earned total revenue of Rs70.60 crore, he said, adding that the board had also earned Rs4.73 crore from the sale of nine commercial properties on leasehold basis.Garg said e-tendering for 151 commercial units and 38 residential units on leasehold basis was underway and the last date for submission of e-bids was August 10, till 10 am. For the remaining 34 residential units on freehold basis, the next e-tender could be invited after about 15 or 20 days, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-flats-of-chandigarh-housing-board-go-for-over-rs1-cr-each-293711
06-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chinks in Chandigarh Congress wide open||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5The city Congress today decided to serve a show-cause notice on former president Pardeep Chhabra for his “anti-party” activities.At a meeting, which was attended by local unit president Subhash Chawla, former party MP Pawan Kumar Bansal and newly appointed office-bearers, it was resolved to serve a show-cause notice on him. “A senior member among the office-bearers proposed to serve a notice on him for his anti-party activities. Later, all members resolved the same,” said a senior party leader.In an official statement, the Congress said, “The party took strong note of the recent actions of Chhabra wherein he has been openly criticising the party leadership, damaging its image and prospects. It was unanimously decided to condemn such anti-party activities and issue a show-cause notice to him.”Party leaders said due process would be followed in this regard. If he still did not stop his activities, strict action will be initiated against him.Earlier in the day, Chhabra, in a message to Chawla, showed his inability to attend the meeting due to “being busy in personal matters”. But, alongside he also attacked the local unit president for his previous statements. Chhabra has been attacking Chawla and Bansal since he was removed as party president in February this year. He has been alleging that he was not being called for party meetings and forums, and was being ignored.However, Chawla has been maintaining that he was invited, but did not come. To throw the ball in Chhabra’s court, the party president on Tuesday invited the former for a meeting today and also kept proof of the invitation. However, he did not turn up.He said all sections had been given due representation and appealed all to work for strengthening the party.The party also decided to launch an agitation on the issues of water and garbage collection charges.Bansal said, “The present BJP government is losing public support, both at the Centre and the city level. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is becoming unpopular because of his inept handling of various national issues. At the local level also, the BJP-led Municipal Corporation has failed on all fronts. The Congress stands a fair chance to win the municipal poll, to be held in December this year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chinks-in-chandigarh-congress-wide-open-293710
06-08-2021||---||Prime common land in Mohali leased to Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu for a pittance||Chandigarh, August 5A gaushala registered at Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s Mohali address is in the eye of a storm for getting over 10 acres of prime land in a Mohali village.While Balbir Sidhu has denied any wrongdoing, social activists are alleging foul play. According to information, the land belonging to the Balongi village panchayat has been allotted on lease for 33 years to Bal Gopal Gau Welfare Society, which is registered at Sidhu’s Phase 7 house. It is alleged that the land has been leased at the rate of Rs 25,000 per acre annually, while the market rate is much higher.Rs 100-cr land usurped, order CBI probe: SADRTI activist Parvinder Singh Kittna has written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and demanded a vigilance probe into the matter. Kittna said it was a clearcase of grabbing village panchayat land.Another activist Satnam Daun said it was not the issue of only one village, but land sharks were eying prime land of several villages in Mohali. He alleged the panchayats were being forced to pass resolutions to hand over the land to private individuals.Have done nothing wrongI had promised in my election manifesto to make Mohali stray cattle-free. Have I built a house there? I am spending from my own pocket to feed the cows. —Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health MinisterThe state Health Minister denied any wrongdoing and said he had been working for the welfare of people. “I had promised in my election manifesto to make Mohali stray cattle-free. Have I built a house there? I am spending from my own pocket to feed the cows,” he said.When asked that while there was already a government-run cattle shed in the district, why he felt the need to get another one registered in his name, Balbir Sidhu said the cowshed had failed and a large number animals had died of hunger there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prime-common-land-in-mohali-leased-to-punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-for-a-pittance-293545
