07-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 4 new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported four new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a news bulletin from the union territory’s administration showed on Saturday.The UT has 26 active cases at the moment, with an average positivity rate of 0.17 per cent over seven days.Some 1,652 samples were tested over the last 24 hours, the bulletin shows. Chandigarh’s fatality count stands at 811.Meanwhile, some 7,29,822 people have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the UT, the bulletin shows. Of this number, 2,17,801 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-covid-cases-294453
07-08-2021||---||Woman duped of Rs 50,950 by Facebook friend in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 6A woman was allegedly duped of Rs50,950 by a fraudster, who befriended her on Facebook.According to the police, the complainant, a resident of Sector 44, reported that an unknown person sent her a request on Facebook and claimed that he was a pilot with British Airways.The suspect started chatting with the complainant and expressed the desire to send her a gift. The suspect insisted that the complainant receive the gift.Later, an unknown person called the complainant and introduced himself as a customs officer. He asked the complainant to deposit Rs50,950 as customs charges.Unaware that she was being fooled, the complainant deposited the money in a back account provided by the suspect. However, she did not receive the parcel.She later realised that she has been duped and submitted a complaint to the police, who registered a case of cheating at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-duped-of-rs-50-950-by-facebook-friend-in-chandigarh-294047
07-08-2021||Mohali||Panchkula mill behind chemical discharge in Dhakoli nullah||In a prompt action against violators, the Mohali Administration today established the source of suspected chemical discharge which turned water of Singh Nullah, a seasonal rivulet, red in the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur.A team headed by engineer Rantej Sharma, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), under the supervision of Executive Engineer, Environment, Lavneet Dubey, conducted a thorough probe into the incident in collaboration with a team from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HPCB) and samples were collected for detailed analysis.Sharma said it was suspected that the colour of the water had turned red due to the chemical waste emanating from a factory in the neighbouring state of Haryana.The inquiry established the fact that the main source of the suspected chemical was a paper mill in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, Panchkula.“This is a clear case of violation of norms and stern action is being recommended. The case will be raised on different official levels as the matter relates to the other state,” said Girish Daylan, Deputy Commissioner, Mohali.He said teams had been commissioned at the site since yesterday to find the source of the chemical and samples of the same had been sent to the lab for detailed analysis.Now the onus is on the HSPCB as the source is located in their jurisdiction, Daylan said, adding that the PPCB team had also found the underground pipe which was being used to flush the suspected chemical into the rivulet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mill-behind-chemical-discharge-in-dhakoli-nullah-294048
07-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||F Bar firing case Chandigarh: Fresh summons issued to Inspector||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Tej Pratap Singh Randhawa has issued fresh summons to former SHO of the Sector 26 police station Poonam Dilawari to stand trial as an accused on the complaint of Gunkaran Singh, owner of F Bar restaurant.In the complaint, Gunkaran alleged that he was falsely implicated and wrongfully confined by these officers at the police station in 2018 in an alleged firing case at the bar.He alleged that after illegally arresting him in a bailable offence and wrongfully confining him, the accused also threatened him.The court issued fresh summons after the accused failed to appear before the court for hearing.The court, in the order, said “The summons sent to Inspector Poonam Dilawari were received back with the remarks that she is on leave till August 6, 2021. The court issued fresh summons to her for November 8, 2021. The summons sent to retired sub-inspector Malook Singh were received back unserved with the remarks that he had retired in 2019 and his present address was not available.”The alleged firing incident took place at a party organised by BJP leader Sehdev Salaria on the evening of November 19, 2018, at the restaurant/bar, F Bar.Gunkaran said he was not present when the alleged incident took place. When manager Rahul informed him regarding the alleged firing by Salaria’s guests, he directed him not to touch anything and asked him to inform the police about it.Rahul informed the police around 1 am on November 20, 2018. He alleged that he was called to the Sector 26 police station around 3.45 pm and was arrested in the case by accused police officers without any evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/f-bar-firing-case-chandigarh-fresh-summons-issued-to-inspector-294049
07-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: Interviews put off, JDS post vacant since November 2019||Chandigarh, August 6Waiting since 2019, the process to fill the post of Joint Director, Sports, has again hit a roadblock as interviews, scheduled for today, were postponed indefinitely.After getting no response from the UPSC on promoting local coaches to the post of Joint Director, Sports, (JDS) or fixing a criteria for filling the vacancy, the UT Sports Department had advertised the post in March.The circular was sent to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and all heads of the UT Administration for appointment of the JDS on deputation.Sources claimed that two candidates were called to the office of the Advisor to the UT Administrator for today’s interview. However, the interviews were postponed at the eleventh hour.The sources confirmed that a former Joint Director Sports, who had applied for the post, along with a female candidate, was called for the interview.Interestingly, the tenure of the Secretary Sports, head of the UT Sports Department, will come to an end later this month.Secretary Sports KK Yadav is well aware about the structure of the Sports Department and officials want the decision to be made with his consultation, said a source.“The interviews were postponed for the reason best known to the authorities. It’s been over 20 months now, but the post is still lying vacant. It’s pretty bad on administration’s part that instead of having a regular JDS, the post is being filled on deputation,” said an official.The appointment is important in terms of no effort being made to promote coaches even after an initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1997.Ad for post in March||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-interviews-put-off-jds-post-vacant-since-november-2019-294050
07-08-2021||---||2 UPSC aspirants hang themselves to death in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 6A 30-year-old UPSC aspirant reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his rented accommodation in Sector 37 here today. No suicide note was recovered from the spot.The victim has been identified as Ankit Chahal, a native of Sonipat, Haryana.Ankit’s friend found him hanging in the washroom, following which he informed the police.The police reached the spot and shifted the body to a mortuary at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, Chandigarh.Meanwhile, an inquest proceeding has been initiated into the matter at the Sector 39 police station.In another incident, a 29-year-old UPSC aspirant committed suicide by hanging herself at her house in Sector 38 here this evening.The victim has been identified as Simran. The girl was alone at the house when she took the extreme step.On returning home, the victim’s family saw her hanging, following which they informed the police. The police have initiated an inquest proceeding into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-upsc-aspirants-hang-themselves-to-death-in-chandigarh-294051
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Harjeet Singh Sandhu appointed Assistant Estate Officer, Chandigarh||In a minor reshuffle, Harjeet Singh Sandhu, SDM (Central), has been appointed as the Assistant Estate Officer (AEO), Chandigarh, relieving Manish Kumar Lohan, from the charge of the AEO.As per the order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, has been given the additional charges of SDM (Central) and Land Acquisition Officer, which were earlier with Harjeet Singh Sandhu.Manish Kumar Lohan, who has been relived from the charge of the AEO, has been given the charge of Joint Secretary (Home), including Jails; Joint Secretary (Cooperation); Joint Secretary (Housing); Joint Secretary (Labour); Joint Secretary (Employment) and Joint Chief Electoral Officer. Earlier, these departments were held by Tejdeep Singh Saini and Jagjit Singh, both PCS officers.Recently, the Haryana Government had also turned down the request of further extension to two HCS officials, who have already completed the deputation period of three years in the UT Administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harjeet-singh-sandhu-appointed-assistant-estate-officer-chandigarh-294053
07-08-2021||Mohali||U-19 Cricket Tourney: Mohali, Bathinda to clash for title||Mohali will face Bathinda in the final of Punjab State Inter-District U-19 One-Day Cricket Tournament at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here on August 8.In the semi-finals held today, Mohali defeated Amritsar by five wickets, while Bathinda qualified for the title clash on the basis of league points.The first match between Mohali and Amritsar was reduced to 34 overs. Batting first, Amritsar lads posted 124 runs before getting all out in 33 overs. In reply, Mohali lads posted 125/5 in 33 overs.The second semi-final between Bathinda and Moga was abandoned due to rain. Bathinda qualified for the final on the behalf of most number of wins in the league stage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/u-19-cricket-tourney-mohali-bathinda-to-clash-for-title-294054
07-08-2021||---||2 arrested with 15 stolen motorcycles in Lalru||Lalru, August 6The police have arrested two members of a gang involved in theft and sale of bikes. They also recovered a total of 15 stolen motorcycles from their possession. One of the gang members is still absconding.The arrested suspects have been identified as Dev Kumar, a resident of Samalheri, and his friend Vikram Singh, alias Vicky, a resident of Balopur.The suspect, who is absconding, has been identified as Jai Prakash, brother of Dev Kumar. The police had arrested Vikram on July 20.The suspects were produced before a court, which sent them to police remand. Hunt is on to nab the absconding person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-with-15-stolen-motorcycles-in-lalru-294052
07-08-2021||---||Garbage issue continues to haunt Panchkula residents||Panchkula, August 6Despite an assurance from Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh, mounds of garbage were still not lifted from various parts of the city, including the Mansa Devi Complex area and Sector 4.Kulbhushan Goyal, MayorOver 100 garbage tractor-trailers have already unloaded waste at the Jhuriwala dumping ground. As the quantum of waste piled up across the city was too much, it will take some time. We will clear the garbage from the entire city by Saturday.The Mayor said, “Over 100 garbage tractor-trailers have already unloaded waste at the Jhuriwala dumping ground. As the quantum of waste piled up across the city was too much, it will take some time. We will clear the garbage from the entire city by tomorrow.”On Thursday, the MC had got a clearance from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to create an alternative route to the Jhuriwala dumping ground after the old stretch caved in due to heavy rain.As garbage vehicles couldn’t reach the Jhuriwala dumping ground, there was no regular clearance and the waste had started piling up in several parts of the city.After approval from the NHAI, the civic body started work to construct a new road towards the Jhuriwala dumping ground for emergency use.Reacting to allegations from the Sector 23 RWA that garbage was being dumped at the old dumping ground in their sector, Goyal said their protest was totally political.“Those engaged in resistance over the garbage issue were members of the Opposition party,” he said.The members of the Sector 23 RWA had blocked the path of garbage vehicles which were approaching the old dumping ground.Citing violation of NGT guidelines and instructions from the Chief Minister, the residents had threatened to intensify their protest if the “MC continues to go against higher authorities by dumping garbage at the old dumping ground”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-issue-continues-to-haunt-panchkula-residents-294055
07-08-2021||---||Possible third wave: Chandigarh Adviser takes stock of situation, visits GMSH-16||Chandigarh, August 6To take first-hand stock of the ground situation, UT Adviser Dharam Pal, along with Principal Secretary Health Arun Kumar Gupta, Director Health Services (DHS) Dr Amandeep Kang and other senior officers of the Health Department, took a round of the GMSH-16 here today.The UT Adviser inspected the working of the PSA oxygen generation plant, which was installed during the second surge of Covid-19. The DHS informed the Adviser that an additional PSA plant with 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) capacity will be installed shortly.The Adviser also visited the liquid oxygen plant facility and the adjoining oxygen manifold area in the hospital.The hospital has recently increased the ICU bed capacity from eight to 20 to meet the demand of Covid patients. The soon-to-be-made operational ICU would have state-of-the-art ventilators, beds and multipara monitors.He also visited the Radiology Department and the blood bank. The officials also took a round of the Covid vaccination centre at the GMSH-16 where the Advisor interacted with beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/possible-third-wave-chandigarh-adviser-takes-stock-of-situation-visits-gmsh-16-294056
07-08-2021||Mohali||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu refutes land-grab charges||Rejecting the allegation of grabbing ‘shamlat’ land in Balongi under the garb of a trust, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said the land was for a ‘gaushala’ and the local panchayat had given it willingly.Also read: Prime common land in Mohali leased to Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu for a pittanceNot used for any commercial purposeThe land was dedicated for the well-being of abandoned bovine and not for commercial purposes. If anyone wants to know the purpose, he may visit the site to see the work being done here. — Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health MinisterAddressing the media at Bal Gopal Gaushala Welfare Society, Sidhu said some people were trying to politicise the social work, and added the allegation levelled against him was baseless politically motivated. He said the land was dedicated for the well-being of abandoned bovine and not for commercial purposes. “If anyone wants to know the purpose, he may visit the site to see the work being done here,” he said.Putting a question mark on allegations of his political rivals, Sidhu said, “Have we made any mistake to construct a ‘gaushala’? I made a commitment to the people of Mohali that I will make this city stray animal-free so that road mishaps can be prevented and precious lives can be saved.” He said the land was lying unused and being encroached upon by people but now, the panchayat was getting income from lease deeds.Anurag Aggarwal, trustee of the society, said to date, more than Rs 1 crore had been invested to construct the cowshed. The money had been donated by trustees or raised from people through voluntary donations.Meanwhile, former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh today urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately order a CBI probe into the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-refutes-land-grab-charges-294145
07-08-2021||---||High Court Judge loses Rs 25,500 in online fraud in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 6A Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge lost Rs 25,500 to the online fraud.In a complaint to the police, Justice BS Walia reported that he had an SBI account at the High Court branch and had been using the Internet banking through the SBI Yono app.On August 4, he was remitting some money through the app. However, after filling the beneficiary’s name, the app stopped and on attempt to relog, it started showing invalid request.A few hours later, the complainant received a message along with a link on his mobile phone, mentioning that his SBI bank account had been blocked and the KYC needed to be updated to restore the account.The complainant tried to update the KYC by clicking on the link and during the process, he received OTPs which were filled, but the attempts were inconclusive.The complainant then sent a messenger to the bank branch at the High Court to check the issue. However, in the meantime, he received a message that Rs5,500 and Rs20,000 had been debited from his account.The police were informed following which a case of cheating was registered at the Sector 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-judge-loses-rs-25-500-in-online-fraud-in-chandigarh-294057
07-08-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court issues notice to Punjab||Chandigarh, August 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to the state of Punjab on a petition seeking directions to hold an inquiry into the role and conduct of the school authorities, allegedly leading to the murder of a resident student of a “meritorious school of Punjab”.Petitioner Tarsem Singh, through senior advocate RS Bains with advocate Loveneet Thakur, contended this was not the only incident of death of a meritorious student in a residential accommodation. Directions were also sought for setting up a committee to inquire into the causes and suggesting remedies to prevent such incidents at meritorious schools.The Bench was told 10 meritorious schools were set up in 2014 under a government project to make quality education available to bright students scoring 80 per cent and above. The aim of these schools was to address financial issues of meritorious students. Intelligent students from the weaker section were provided accommodation, education, food and other facilities free of cost.The petitioner’s son secured admission to senior secondary residential meritorious school in Mohali. In March 2020, he died under mysterious circumstances. It was told by the school administration that he had committed suicide. When the petitioner reached the hospital and saw the body, he found injuries.It was found during the investigation that two classmates were bullying him. They physically assaulted the victim. When he fell unconscious, they made it look like a case of suicide. The body was located by a student. But the school administration did not immediately take him to a hospital. Rather, they took him to an ordinary medical store from where he was again brought back to the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-issues-notice-to-punjab-294060
07-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation can’t charge 20% penal interest: Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6In a relief to allottees of leasehold properties, the Court of Additional Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer, Municipal Corporation (MC), has ordered that the civic body cannot charge 20 per cent penal interest on account of non-payment of ground rent and can only charge 10 per cent interest.Advocate Vikas Jain Finally, the MC has agreed that interest on ground rent @ 20 per cent was being charged wrongly without any notification and rules. The imposition of 10 per cent interest is also illegal being charged under the Estate Rules 2007 as in the present case, the site is governed by the terms and conditions of rules, which were applicable when the site was allotted. In the present case, no notification for charging interest for non-payment of ground rent was adopted by the MC.The order came in the case of Lok Priya Buildwell Private Limited, lessee of hotel site of Hotel JW Marriot in Sector 35-B.The Estate Officer directed the MC Estate Office to calculate the outstanding amount of ground rent at 10 per cent as per the provisions of the lease rules and intimate the lessee, Lok Priya Buildwell Private Limited, within seven days.The lessee has also been directed to pay the dues within 30 days from the issuance date of the demand notice, failing which the office would be at liberty to initiate action as per the rules applicable in the present case.The directions came after the court of UT Adviser on October 22, 2020, had set aside the resumption order issued to the hotel by the Estate Office branch of the MC.The firm had filed a revision petition against the order passed by the Chief Administrator in respect of the site. The petition was filed by Advocates SK Jain and Vikas Jain.In the petition, Advocate Vikas Jain contended that the Estate Office had wrongly charged 20 per cent interest on account of non-payment of ground rent while applying condition five of the allotment letter and that the said condition applied to non-payment of principal amount of premium and not non-payment of ground rent.The petitioner further stated that Rule 13 of the Chandigarh Leasehold of Sites and Building Rules, 1973, states that only six per cent interest can be charged for non-payment of ground rent and till date it was actually paid.“The Chandigarh Administration has not issued any notification for the imposition of interest at 20 per cent and without any notification, it is illegal and liable to be set aside,” he said.In reply, the MC submitted that it was clearly mentioned in Clause 5 of the allotment letter that in case the petitioner failed to make payment of outstanding dues, then he is liable to pay 20 per cent interest on account of non-payment of ground rent.The MC further stated that, “The Chandigarh Leasehold of Sites and Building Rules, 1973, governing the allotment of the site had mentioned 20 per cent penal interest.”The UT Adviser had set aside the impugned orders passed by the Chief Administrator and remanded the case back to the Additional Commissioner, MC, for a fresh decision.In his order, the Adviser had stated, “It is clear that condition five of the allotment letter providing 20 per cent interest is applicable only to non-payment of the principal amount premium. It is also a fact that there is a separate provision for non-payment of ground rent under the act as well as in the allotment letter. Since the Additional Commissioner has not applied the relevant rules while passing the impugned orders, therefore the revision petition deserves to be accepted.”The counsel for the petitioner said the MC was charging 20 per cent interest on non-payment of ground rent from public illegally for so many years in spite of having knowledge that 20 per cent interest can’t be charged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-cant-charge-20-penal-interest-court-294058
07-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Down, but not out: Indian hockey girls set new benchmark despite losing bronze medal playoff to Great Britain in Tokyo||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6“Our girls have given a new dimension to the Indian women’s hockey. They played well, but lost the bronze by a whisker,” said Takdeer Singh, father of Indian women’s hockey team defender Monika Malik after the side went down fighting against the Great Britain at the Tokyo Olympics.Takdeer Singh Malik, Monika’s fatherNo doubt, our team’s performance was exceptional. The coming years will be exciting.Indian women’s team lost 4-3 in the bronze-medal playoff.Sitting in the pooja room of his Sector 44 based house, Singh kept praying for India’s success during the entire match. Though his prayers went unanswered, he was happy with the team’s performance.“The girls registered a great comeback. They had their share of chances, but they lost it. A defeat offers many lessons and they will gain a vast experience from this result,” said Singh, who works with the Chandigarh Police.“There’s no doubt that our team’s performance was exceptional and the coming years will be exciting. They have set a benchmark and youngsters will now have to push it further,” he added.Takdeer also thanked the Haryana Government for announcing a cash award of Rs 50 lakh each to the Haryana players who represented the Indian women’s hockey team in Tokyo. Monika plays for Haryana in the national circuit.“I thank the Haryana Government for appreciating the team’s achievement. Finishing fourth in the Olympics is not an easy thing. The players should be appreciated in the right manner. I wish, the Indian team continues to bag laurels in the coming years so that every household has at least one Monika playing for the country,” said Singh.Monika has a long association with Chandigarh. She used to train under Rajinder Singh, Nisha Sharma and Manjeet Kaur at the Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA) during her formative years and lived in the city from 2007-12.Besides Monika, the current Indian team features two other CHA products – Sharmila Devi and Reena.“The side played well. They really played well in the last two quarters. The defence played deep, midfielders held possession and strikers made good opportunities. We had a good penalty corner conversion rate. Overall we did well. I must say that the Indian future is heading in the right direction,” said hockey coach Gurminder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/down-but-not-out-indian-hockey-girls-set-new-benchmark-despite-losing-bronze-medal-playoff-to-great-britain-in-tokyo-294062
07-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh spent Rs 55L on Covid ads||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6The Chandigarh Administration has incurred an expenditure of Rs 55 lakh against the Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package for the year 2020-21, as per the financial management report.Punjab incurred a whopping Rs 20.11 crore on Covid related advertisements, which is the third highest after Maharashtra (Rs 26 crore) and Kerala (Rs 22 crore). Haryana spent Rs 3.71 crore, while Delhi spent over Rs 1 crore from the Central fund.The data was tabled in the Lok Sabha on July 30 by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in response to a query related to the funds spent for advertisements on Covid-19.The Union Health Ministry carried out a comprehensive and sustained campaign against the Covid-19 during 2020 and 2021 by deploying various media platforms to carry out awareness across the country. Some campaigns were released in print and electronic media during the initial outbreak of the pandemic in 2020 and an expenditure of Rs 19.66 crore was incurred on these.During the financial year 2020-21, funds to the tune of Rs 8257.88 crore were released to the states and union territories under the India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package.An expenditure to the tune of Rs 209.03 crore had been reported by the states and UTs till June 2021.The other platforms deployed for dissemination of information on the Covid-19 included the pre-caller tune on mobile phones, inter-personnel communication through Asha workers and leveraging of field-level network of various ministries, like the Ministry of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development and the PIB network of the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting.The civil society organisations, development partners, etc. were also used to spread the awareness about the Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-spent-rs-55l-on-covid-ads-294059
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||97-year-old woman found murdered at Sector 8 house in Chandigarh||A 97-year-old woman was found murdered at her house in Sector 8 here today.The victim has been identified as Joginder Kaur, who stayed alone at her house.Sources said the victim’s throat was slit and the house ransacked.The police were informed following which they rushed to the spot. The forensic team also reached there.The body was shifted to the mortuary at the GMSH-16.A case of murder has been registered at the Sector 3 police station and an investigation initiated into it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/97-year-old-woman-found-murdered-at-sector-8-house-in-chandigarh-294061
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested with ganja in Chandigarh||Woman’s chain snatched in cityChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a gold chain from a woman in Sector 47. According to the police, the suspects snatched the chain from the victim near a park in the sector. A case has been registered. TNSLubana is Youth Cong presidentChandigarh: Manoj Lubana ‘Mouji’ has been appointed as the president of the Chandigarh Youth Congress and Prikshit Rana as the vice-president. They were appointed by Srinivas BV, president, Indian Youth Congress. Lubana comes from a non-political middle-class family. He started his political career from Khalsa College in Chandigarh. He has discharged several duties at various positions such as Zila Parishad member from Kishangarh. He joined SOPU in 2011 to become its victorious president in 2012. He joined the NSUI in 2013. Till 2019, he played a pivotal role in winning four elections for the organisation. He was also appointed as the national coordinator of the NSUI and the secretary of the Haryana Youth Congress. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-with-ganja-in-chandigarh-294063
07-08-2021||Mohali||Man killed in group clash in Mohali, another injured||A 35-year-old man was killed with a sharp weapon while another sustained serious injuries in a clash between two groups over old an enmity near Pakka Darwaza on the Arya College road in Kharar here on Thursday night.The deceased has been identified as Rakesh Kumar, a taxi driver, while Jatinder Kumar sustained a fracture in a leg.A case was registered against eight suspects. Three of them, namely Gopal Krishan, Madhav and Suman Kumar, have been arrested. Another suspect is identified as Chintu Singla, a Kharar resident.Kharar City SHO Ashok Kumar said the incident was the result of a feud between two groups of scrap collectors.They had an argument around 10 pm on Thursday, following which Rakesh and Jatinder were attacked by the other group. They were taken to the Civil Hospital, Kharar. However, doctors referred them to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where Rakesh died.The deceased's kin said there were major sharp weapon-inflicted injuries on head, neck and back on his body.DSP Deepak Rai said, "The police are investigating the matter further. The other suspects would be arrested soon."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-in-group-clash-in-mohali-another-injured-294064
07-08-2021||Mohali||Covid-19: 8 found infected in Mohali||3 test positive in Chandigarh, no fatalityChandigarh: The city on Friday reported three new cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of five patients were cured of the disease during the past 24 hours. — TNSOne fresh case in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Friday reported just one case of coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 30,650. With no new death, the Covid toll remained at 376. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-8-found-infected-in-mohali-294065
07-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Pradeep Chhabra quits Congress, lashes out at former Chandigarh MP Pawan Kumar Bansal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6A day after the city Congress decided to serve a show-cause notice on him, former city unit president Pradeep Chhabra today resigned from the primary membership of the party.Pradeep Chhabra, Ex-City Congress Chief‘Knowing when to walk away is wisdom’An upright man shall never tolerate indignation and lies. Knowing when to walk away is wisdom, being able to is courage, walking away with your head held high is dignity.“An upright man shall never tolerate indignation and lies. Knowing when to walk away is wisdom, being able to is courage, walking away with your head held high is dignity. I resign from the primary membership of the Congress. An official, detailed resignation will follow,” the former Mayor posted on Twitter in the morning.In his resignation letter to national party president Sonia Gandhi, he levelled several allegations against former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal.“...I was being treated as a puppet, who was controlled by Bansal...after 2013, the party has gone into a coma. No other party worker but only Bansal is responsible for the electoral loss here...he has been running the party like a private company and obliging only people close to him,” he alleged.On reasons behind the tussle, he alleged, “In 2020, I had started a rasoi with the slogan, “Congress ki rasoi, bhukha soye na koi”, for helping people suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead of being happy, Bansal was angry with me. Due to his ego, I was removed from the post of president without any intimation. I was happy with the change in the leadership, but I wasn’t happy with the way it had happened. Since the change in the leadership, Bansal and current president Subhash Chawla had sidelined me from all meetings of the city Congress. When I asked Chawla why I wasn’t being called for the meetings, he replied that first I had to apologise to Bansal for my behaviour and if he gives his consent, only then I would be called for the meetings.”Bansal said, “Whatever he has said does not deserve my version.” His resignation follows nearly six months of exchange of barbs between Chhabra and Chawla. It was in February this year that the party high command had replaced Chhabra with Chawla at the top city unit post.Chhabra has been attacking Chawla and Bansal since he was removed as the party president. The former Congress councillor has already formed the Chandigarh Progressive Front. As president of the front, he will raise city issues. It is believed that he may fight the forthcoming elections with a few Congress rebels and his associates or may collaborate with some party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pradeep-chhabra-quits-congress-lashes-out-at-former-chandigarh-mp-pawan-kumar-bansal-294066
07-08-2021||Amit Bathla||Surprise Inspection: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij calls on Sector 5 police station in Panchkula, suspends four||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 6Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij conducted a surprise inspection at the Sector 5 police station today, “raising eyebrows of policemen on duty”. From scrutinising records, inquiring about the action taken on FIRs and reprimanding policemen for a defunct toilet, Vij sought accountability for nearly every task at the police station.Expressing anger over “no order” in the operation of the police station, Vij did not hesitate to say that he felt like suspending every policeman at the police station.During the inspection, he came down heavily on the SHO, Inspector Lalit Kumar, for his failure to act on complaints and maintenance of the police station and later ordered his suspension.Three other policemen — Sub-Inspector Mandeep, exemptee Head Constable Dimple and Constable Ajay Kumar — were also placed under suspension.He also found that maintenance of records was not up to the mark and complaints were not being converted into FIRs. No policeman was deployed on sentry duty during his visit.Also, there was no entry record of arrival/departure of all enrolled police officers.“It’s a first-of-its-kind police station where no cop is deployed on sentry duty. Anyone can check in, loot and go without any scrutiny,” Vij said while speaking to mediapersons.Vij also sought an action taken report on all FIRs filed in the past one month at the police station. Besides, he ordered the police to file an FIR against a complainant, who, after levelling serious charges such as kidnapping and torture, reached a compromise with the suspect. “We can’t allow anyone to waste the time of the police,” he said.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh and Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa were also present during the inspection. He directed senior officials to ensure timely registration of FIRs in pending complaints.Fake currency caseWhile checking random files, Vij came across a fake currency complaint submitted by a bank in which the police apparently did not take any action and register an FIR. He also found counterfeit currency notes in the complaint file.“They (police officials) didn’t investigate who’s circulating fake currency. What is its source? There can’t be a bigger offence than this in the country,’’ he said.Sources in the police, however, claimed that as per the RBI, at least five or more pieces of counterfeit currency should be detected by the bank in a single transaction and further submitted to the local police authorities for the registration of an FIR.“In this particular case, the number of counterfeit notes submitted to the police was less than five. Hence, they didn’t register an FIR,” they said.Finally, FIR registeredAfter Vij’s action, the police registered an FIR in the fake currency case under Sections 489 A (counterfeiting currency notes or bank notes) and 489 B (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes) of the IPC.Comes down heavily on SHO in PanchkulaWhy no action in Home Guards case?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surprise-inspection-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-calls-on-sector-5-police-station-in-panchkula-suspends-four-294067
