08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 4 new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported four new cases of Covid-19, taking the total infection count to 61,978, according to the medical bulletin.No fatality was reported on Sunday. The death toll stands at 811, it said.The number of active cases in the city stands at 25, while 61,142 people have recovered from the infection, it added.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-covid-cases-294893
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rains lash Chandigarh and surrounding areas||Heavy rains lashed Chandigarh and its surrounding areas on Sunday, providing relief to the people from sultry weather conditions.Heavy showers also lashed its adjoining towns—Mohali in Punjab and Panchkula in Haryana, officials said.Motorists had to slow down the speed of their vehicles as many roads were flooded with water for some time.Sultry weather had prevailed at many places in Punjab and Haryana including Chandigarh during the past few days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heavy-rains-lash-chandigarh-and-surrounding-areas-294856
08-08-2021||---||First-ever book on history of ITBP released||Chandigarh, August 8The Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) has brought out the first-ever book detailing its history and role. It was released by Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami at the ITBP Academy in Mussoorie on Sunday.Tittled ‘History of ITBP’, the book has been published to make a reference volume of factual history and knowledge available to officers and jawans, which will also be useful for administrative and training purposes for in depth details about the force.There was no such book on the ITBP available till this publication. It contains historical achievements of the force since its inception and reflects different facts and facets about developments in the force over the years. Approximately 1,000 exclusive historical photographs have been included in the book.The 640-page volume has been prepared after extensive research over a couple of years. It includes various landmarks of the ITBP in last six decades such as its role in border management, important benchmarks, reforms, restructuring and administrative changes, bank security duties in Punjab during the 80s and 90s, counter insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir, duties in left wing extremism affected state of Chhattisgarh, achievements in training, sports and adventurous sports as well as rescue and relief operations conducted by the ITBP.Prepared by the operations branch and public relations office of the force, the book will be provided to all ITBP formations and training centres. Based on feedback, future editions will be published in the due course as and when needed.Raised on October 24, 1962, in the aftermath of the Chinese aggression, the history of the ITBP is still little known. The book includes decade wise history, history of various important arms of the Force, relevant accounts of retired officials and appendices and is supported by detailed bibliography.The ITBP is responsible for management of the 3,844-km long border with China along the Himalayas in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, manning posts at an altitude of up to 21,000 feet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-ever-book-on-history-of-itbp-released-294832
08-08-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Broad daylight murder in Mohali: Police under fire over law & order||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 7With the cold-blooded killing of Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera in broad daylight, the Mohali police are under fire for deteriorating law and order situation in the district. That the murder happened in the tricity — hub of the political activity — and with the Assembly elections in sight, it has given fodder to the political parties to train their guns on the Congress–led state government.Brother contested MC pollMiddukhera was married around two years ago and was living in Homeland Society before he shifted to his brother Ajaypal’s house in Sector 71, Mohali, a few months ago. Ajaypal had unsuccessfully contested the last Mohali MC poll from ward number 38.The Bambiha group’s claimIn a Facebook post, the Davinder Bambiha group stated that Middukhera was working for the Lawrence Bishnoi group and passing on the information to them. He was also responsible for killing of Gur Lal Brar and Rana Sidhu in the past.Victim went to meet realtorVikramjit Singh, aka Vicky Middukhera, who hailed from Lambi in Muktsar, had gone to meet a real estate consultant in Sector 72, Mohali, regarding a property-related matter, the police said.9 bullet woundsTwo masked men opened fire as soon as Middukhera sat in his SUV in a Sector 72 parking lot around 11.30 am. He ran for safety towards a nearby park by scaling the boundary wall, but assailants chased him down and pumped in nine bullets before fleeing the spot. Blood marks were seen on parked cars, road and the boundary wall.Police reach spot after half an hourPanic gripped the area as the bullet-ridden body lay in the park. A PCR vehicle arrived at the scene nearly half an hour later and took him to the hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead.The shooting incident, which took place next to a residential area in Mohali, comes at a time when the security is at its peak in view of the Independence Day celebrations. Shopkeepers in the area said the incident does not inspire much confidence in the public about khaki. They claimed that it took around half an hour for the police to reach the spot after the firing.‘Jungle raj’ in Punjab: ChandumajraThe killers were so brazen that they indulged in this dastardly act in full public view in a busy area. Punjab had descended into ‘jungle raj’ during the Congress rule. — Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, ex-MP and senior leader of SAD‘Crime at peak, what’s govt doing?’The CCTV footage of the murder is a true reflection of the state of law and order in Punjab. Armed robberies, murders and snatchings have become the order of the day. What is the state government doing?  — Bunty Singh Romana, President, Youth Akali DalThe Youth Akali Dal (YAD) has demanded a high level probe into the incident.YAD president Bunty Singh Romana said, “The CCTV footage of the murder is a true reflection of the state of law and order in Punjab. Gangsters lodged in jails in foreign countries are calling the shots through phone calls. Not only this incident, we demand a probe into all crime incidents in the district. Armed robberies, murders and snatchings have become the order of the day. What is the state government doing?” Former MP and senior leader of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra visited the residence of the former Student Organisation of India (SOI) president and expressed his condolences with the bereaved family.Chandumajra also demanded a probe and said, “It is clear from the CCTV footage that this was a targeted killing and that the killers had been assigned the job of eliminating Middukhera. The killers were so brazen that they indulged in this dastardly act in full public view in a busy area.” Punjab had descended into ‘jungle raj’ during the Congress rule, he said. The SAD leader said this was the reason why repeated targeted killings were taking place in Punjab with the Middukhera shootout being the third such incident in the past one week alone. Chandumajra also urged the Mohali SSP to take all necessary steps to nab the culprits and bring them to book. He also condemned the police for showing laxity in the city, saying that the very fact that gangsters were moving at will in the city was an indictment of the Mohali police and its policing system. AAP spokesperson-cum-Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said, “Today’s killing of a youngster in Mohali shows that there is ‘jungle raj’ in Punjab. This is an unfortunate incident.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/broad-daylight-murder-in-mohali-police-under-fire-over-law-order-294651
08-08-2021||---||Two sharpshooters of Davinder Bambiha gang in police net||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 7The Sector 26 crime branch of the local police today claimed to have arrested two sharpshooters of Davinder Bambiha gang.‘Had murdered gangster on June 15’The suspects, identified as Saurabh, alias Mau, and Arjun, alias Ajju, both residents of Ambala, were nabbed on Friday evening. The police recovered a 9-mm pistol from their possession.They were the prime accused in the murder of a 35-year-old man, Jeetu, alias Diwakar, in Ambala Cantontment on June 15 this year, the police said, adding that the victim was a local gangster.The two notorious criminals were previously working for the Lawrence Bishnoi gang but later joined the rival Davinder Bambiha gang.The suspects had committed several heinous crimes in different districts of the region in the past, added the police.Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Raj Kumar said a team of the crime branch, led by Inspector Aman Kumar, rounded up the suspects near an eatery on the Nalagarh road in Pinjore after receiving secret information about their presence in the area.“During the initial interrogation, it came to light that the suspects were roaming around to carry out a crime, apparently attack members of the rival gang. They were waiting for instructions from their accomplice Diljeet, alias Babu, but got nabbed,” said Inspector Aman Kumar, incharge of the Sector 26 crime branch.“Both suspects are also facing several cases, including murder, attempt to murder, Arms Act and assault, in Ambala, Yamunanagar and Dera Bassi (Mohali) among other districts,” he added. The suspects were produced in a local court today, which sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-sharpshooters-of-davinder-bambiha-gang-in-police-net-294652
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Police rule out robbery motive in 97-yr-old woman’s murder||A day after the murder of a 97-year-old woman at her house in Sector 8 here on Friday, the police today ruled out the robbery angle in the case.The police said the jewellery on the body of the deceased was found intact and no loss of cash or valuables was reported till now, although victim Joginder Kaur’s throat was slit and the house ransacked.Cops are also probing the case from the property dispute angle. The police today questioned Surender Kaur, the daughter-in-law of the deceased, and verified the facts of the case from the domestic helps Bharat and Bhavna. The police are scanning the CCTV footage and verifying the statements of the daughter-in-law, domestic helps and one more suspect.The victim used to stay alone and had a strained relationship with her daughter-in-law. The body was shifted to the GMSH. The autopsy will be conducted after taking the consent of the deceased’s children, who are arriving from abroad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-rule-out-robbery-motive-in-97-yr-old-womans-murder-294653
08-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh aviary to have over 40 species of exotic birds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Much to the delight of city residents, the aviary coming up at Nagar Van (city forest) near Sukhna Lake will house over 40 rare species of exotic birds.Being established on more than four acres of land by the UT Forests and Wildlife Department, the aviary will have 1,470 exotic birds of 46 species.As per information, the aviary will have separate enclosure for aquatic and terrestrial birds. The heights of the enclosures have been designed keeping in view the flight of the birds. Apart from free flight, the best possible natural habitat will be provided to the birds for nesting and breeding, said a source. A committee constituted for the project had conducted a study about the habitat of the area, flora, and water quality before selecting the birds for the aviary, the source added. The bird aviary will be a major tourist attraction in the city and visitors will be able to have a glimpse of the exotic birds from a close look.As the work on the aviary is in the final stages, the UT Forests and Wildlife Department has planned to open it after the rainy season.“The bird aviary will be thrown open to the general public after the monsoon season,” said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT. “The bird aviary will also have beautiful landscapes, which will attract visitors from outside the city as well,” Dalai added. The bird aviary is being developed on the pattern of Jurong Bird Park in Singapore, said another source. Spread over 100 hectares in and around the Sukhna Lake reserve forest area, Nagar Van has facilities such as walkways, jogging trails, nature trails, shallow water bodies, sheds for visitors, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-aviary-to-have-over-40-species-of-exotic-birds-294654
08-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Tricity cheers as India’s gold drought ends||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7As javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra won an elusive gold at the Tokyo Olympics to end India’s 100-year old medal draught in athletics (track and field), the sports enthusiasts across tricity erupted in joy.Golden words“Kuch bada karna hai toh uskay liye mehnat karni padegi (I will have to work hard to achieve something big),” Neeraj had told The Tribune in 2015 when he was asked about traveling from Panipat to Chandigarh and Panchkula for practice. He just had one aim: “100m achieve karna hai, par bahut mehant lagegi. Bhagwan aur apka saath raha toh pakka hoga. Thoda time lagega… (I want to achieve 100m mark. But I will have to work hard. With God’s blessings and your support, it would happen. It will take some time).”India has now won two individual gold medals in the Olympics, and incidentally, both the athletes have a deep connect to the city, giving the residents all the more reasons to celebrate their success.Thirteen years after Chandigarh shooter Abhinav Bindra had brought India its first individual gold medal at the Beijing Olympics, Neeraj, who spent his formative years in the city, topped the podium in Tokyo with a throw of 87.58m.On his way to creating history, Neeraj also fulfilled one of the last wishes of former India sprinter Milkha Singh, who wished to see the country win an Olympic medal in athletics.Neeraj started his sporting career training under coach Naseem Ahmed at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Panchkula from 2011-15. Later, athletics coach Ravinder Chaudhry, who is also the secretary general of the Athletics Federation of India, brought him to Chandigarh.Neeraj pursued his BA (first year) from DAV College, Sector 10, in 2014-15 and gave a glimpse of his talent during the inter-college championship. He later represented Panjab University in the All India Inter-University competition in Patiala, where he created a new meet record. After his stupendous effort, the budding javelin thrower joined the Indian Army ranks as a Subedar and honed his skills at the Army Sports Institute. However, he never forgot his relation with Chandigarh, his alma mater, and the local media.“I never imagined him playing in the Olympics... and gold medal was not even in the wildest of my dreams. It is the result of his sheer hard work and dedication towards his goal,” said an elated Naseem Ahmed.“He was happy with the conditions (in Tokyo). The only worry for him was the wind. By God’s grace, he performed well,” Ahmed added.Recalling his association with Neeraj, the coach said: “Back in 2011, he was a normal boy, who used to come here for training. However, with the passage of time, he displayed immense grit and desire to succeed.”“He was keen on achieving the best and today was the day,” said Ahmed. “He got right kind of facilities and exposure to see this day. During his stay here, he made many friends and whenever he visits the city, he makes sure to spend time with all of us.” Meanwhile, Ravinder Chaudhry defined Neeraj as a determined young boy who was living to win the Olympic medal for his country. “He won’t sleep tonight. For the past three years, he was living for this day,” said Chaudhary. “Last night, he promised me that he would give his best and he did it. He was very confident.”Jeev thanks NeerajWhile the entire country celebrated Chopra’s feat, there’s one man for whom his achievement was really special. Jeev Milkha Singh, while talking to The Tribune team said “it is a dream come true”. “Dad will be crying in joy. His dream has come true,” said Jeev.“Not only did he win us the first ever athletics gold medal in the Olympics, he dedicated it to my father. The Milkha family is grateful for this honour. Dad waited for this moment for so many years,” added the celebrated golfer.SK Joshi, former athletics coach, UT Sports Department, also expressed his joy at Neeraj’s superlative effort.“He used to practice at various places. Sometimes, he would come to Sector 7. The arena between the athletics track used to be empty. He used to practice here alone. I just wish Milkha could have lived for few more days to see this moment. I am really happy to see this lad bring glory to the country,” said Joshi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-cheers-as-indias-gold-drought-ends-294655
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four contract virus in Chandigarh, five recover||Three test positive in Mohali, no deathMohali: The district reported three fresh cases of Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 68,483. Meanwhile, no new death was reported till Saturday evening while two patients were cured. The three new cases surfaced in Kharar subdivision. — TNSNo case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported no fresh case of Covid-19, keeping the overall tally unchanged at 30,650. With no new fatality, the Covid toll also remained at 376. A total of 30,264 patients have recovered from the disease so far, while 10 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-five-recover-294656
08-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Municipal Corporation all set to earn Rs78L annual revenue||Tribune News SeviceChandigarh, August 7The cash-starved Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) is all set to earn Rs78 lakh annual revenue from its two office spaces at the new overbridge in Sector 17.The two commerical spaces on second and third floor were constructed in 2013 and had been lying vacant despite repeated attempts of the corporation to give them on rent.Finally, Bank of Baroda is going to take both spaces on rent for 10 years. In a decade, the MC will earn Rs7.80 crore.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune Municipal Corporation Commissioner KK Yadav said, “It’ll be a big boost for our revenue. The issue was pending for a long time and we kept working on it. Earlier, there was an offer for one floor, but we wanted to give both spaces due to feasibility issues. Now, the Bank of Baroda is taking them on rent.”The civic body will give 4,334 sqft carpet area each on second and third floors. In all, 8,664 sq ft carpet area will be taken by the bank. The total covered area is 15,166 sqft. The bank will be paying Rs6.50 lakh per month rent.Meanwhile, the MC House given approval to increase the contract period from five to 10 years. After five years, there will be an increase of 10 per cent in the monthly license fee.On bank’s request the civic body has also done all necessary works required to make the building functional. An amount of Rs50 lakh has been spent on this purpose.Earlier, the corporation had invited expression of interest from government offices, corporations, banks, public sector undertakings (PSUs) and companies for these office spaces, but did not fund any takers.Realising that its rental was on the higher side the Municipal Corporation authorities offered the two floors at slashed rate of Rs75 per sqft month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-corporation-all-set-to-earn-rs78l-annual-revenue-294657
08-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||MACT awards over Rs10 lakh compensation  to wife, kids of 54-yr-old man killed in accident||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, August 7The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal Chandigarh (MACT) has directed an insurance company, driver and owner of a vehicle to release Rs10,57,640 compensation to the wife and three children of a person, who died in an accident in 2018.The claimants filed the claim petition under Section 166 and 140 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, seeking compensation from driver and owner of the vehicle, which was allegedly involved in accident and an insurance company, on account of death of the victim, Dilbag Singh, in an accident on February 18, 2018 .The petition was filed by Baljeet Kaur, wife of the deceased and his three children. In the petition Baljeet stated that the accident took place when Dilbag was going from Bhago Majra village to RKM Factory, Landran, on his bicycle on February 18, 2018.She, along with her brother, was following him on a motorcycle, said Baljeet. When they reached near Landran College a speeding car came from behind and after overtaking their motorcycle hit bicycle, which victim was riding, Baljeet added. Dilbagh fell on the road and received serious injuries, said Baljeet. He died on the spot, Baljeet added.Dilbagh was taken to the Civil Hospital, Phase VI, Mohali. An FIR was also registered on February 18, 2018, under Sections 279, 304-A and 427, IPC, at the Sohana police station, SAS Nagar.Dilbag was 54 years old at the time of the accident, said Baljeet. He was working as security guard with Security Services and was posted at RKM Builders, near CGC College, Landran, Baljeet added. He was earning Rs15,000 per month, said Baljeet.Claimants suffered a huge loss due to his untimely death. They were dependent upon his income. Baljeet prayed for the compensation of Rs75,00,000. After hearing arguments the MACT stated that owner, driver and insurer of the car involved in the accident were jointly liable to pay compensation of Rs10,57,640 to victim’s family.The order further stated: “The victim’s wife will be entitled to 70 per cent share while her children will get 7.5 per cent share each out of the total compensation amount.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mact-awards-over-rs10-lakh-compensation-to-wife-kids-of-54-yr-old-man-killed-in-accident-294658
08-08-2021||---||Design Innovation Centre  apparatus granted patent||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Medical devices group from Design Innovation Centre (DIC) at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University, has been granted a patent for the invention titled “Wearable apparatus for determining goniometric readings of a body portion of a subject”.A team of students, including Rashi, Sahil, Varun and Poojita, from different engineering branches of the UIET led by faculty investigators Dr Prashant Jindal from the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Dr Mamta Juneja from the Computer Science and Engineering Department took more than three years for developing this invention.It is a device designed and fabricated within the lab at the UIET in consultation with physicians, which would ease diagnosis and early detection of finger/hand related joint disorders.This motion and grip sensing glove can be used to capture movement of individual fingers and joints of a human hand, along with gripping capacity/force, which provides valuable information to physiotherapists, orthopaedics and surgeons for early detection and diagnosis of various defects leading to loss of strength in joints, nerves and muscles.This invention was fully funded by the MHRD, Design Innovation Centre, which went through different stages of progression, including national and international events, organised by the Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC). This invention has also been granted a seed funding of Rs4 lakh by the AICTE for upgrading it into a start-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/design-innovation-centre-apparatus-granted-patent-294659
08-08-2021||---||BJP leader, supporters join Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7A few persons joined the Congress while some others left the party today.Dr OP Verma, a BJP leader, and Bhagat Raj, a Scheduled Caste employees’ leader, along with their supporters, joined the Congress in the presence of former Union Minister and treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal and CTCC president Subhash Chawla.According to party general secretary and chief spokesperson HS Lucky, both leaders, along with their supporters, today formally joined the Congress and pledged support to the party.Welcoming both leaders, Chawla assured them that the party would fully utilise their services and give them important assignments in future. Lucky said these leaders would further strengthen the party.Dr Verma said he joined the Congress unconditionally and would not seek party ticket for the forthcoming Municipal Corporation elections. “I will work for party candidates in the city,” he added.Cong leaders resignMeanwhile, Congress’ ex-block president Harjinder Singh Bawa and nine former office-bearers resigned from the primary membership of the party. They are said to be close associates of former Congress city unit president Pardeep Chhabra.In their letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi they stated, “We are hurt due to the treatment meted out to Chhabra.” They blamed Bansal for the development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-leader-supporters-join-congress-294660
08-08-2021||Zirakpur||2 Zirakpur docs held in medical negligence, overcharging case||The police have arrested Muneesh Goel and Parveen Goel, doctors of New Lifeline Hospital, in a case related to medical negligence and overcharging in treatment of Paramjeet Singh, who died on May 14, 2021. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to one-day police remand.Sources said one more complainant, a Yamunanagar resident, had recorded his statement with the police. Paramjeet Singh (37), suffering from Covid, was admitted to the hospital on April 26. He died after 15 days treatment at the hospital.The family of the deceased had alleged doctors’ negligence and overcharging for treatment following which a panel was constituted and an FIR registered against the hospital management. The probe panel recommended strict action and registration of case against the hospital authorities. The panel stated that there was overcharging and lapses in medical record management by the hospital authorities.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-zirakpur-docs-held-in-medical-negligence-overcharging-case-294661
08-08-2021||---||Day after Vij’s surprise inspection: Address irregularities in police stations —  Panchkula CP||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 7A day after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij suspended four policemen, including the SHO, for “negligence in duty” during his surprise inspection at the Sector 5 police station, Commissioner of Police (CP) Saurabh Singh today gave strict instructions to address irregularities prevailing in police stations/units.He said any type of negligence in the functioning of police stations would not be tolerated.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa presided over a meeting with all ACPs and in-charges of police stations over the issue.Handa instructed all SHOs to promptly convert complaints, including those related to online frauds and crime against women, received in their respective police stations into FIR without any delay.Directions were also issued on deployment of security guard in police stations.During his inspection, Vij had reprimanded the SHO and other police officials at the Sector 5 police station for not taking any action on pending complaints. Also, no cop was deployed on sentry duty during his visit.The DCP also asked the police officials to strengthen law and order situation in the district and crackdown on hookah bars, gambling, illegal weapons, sale of illicit liquor and drug smuggling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-vijs-surprise-inspection-address-irregularities-in-police-stations-%E2%80%94-panchkula-cp-294662
08-08-2021||---||BJP holds Tiranga Yatra to pay tributes to martyrs||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 7Amid fears of a possible third wave of Covid-19, the BJP took out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in the honour of martyrs here today. Those participated in the rally defied Covid-19 norms such as wearing a face mask and observing social distancing.People came to attend the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ on tractors, jeeps, cars and two-wheelers holding Tricolour in their hands. The yatra was led by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and former Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria. It began from Shaheed Major Sandeep Sankhla Chowk and culminated at Bhagat Singh Chowk.Prominent persons, who were seen without a face mask, included Gupta, also an MLA from the Panchkula constituency, and district BJP president Ajay Sharma.Several persons were seen riding two-wheelers without helmets, thus violating the traffic rules. However, the police didn’t any action against the violators.Addressing the gathering, Gupta said: “The Tiranga Yatra was organised to pay homage to the martyrs. It’s an occasion to remember those who made the supreme sacrifice for the independence of the country. We live peacefully in our houses because our soldiers guard the frontiers to protect the country.”In his speech, he also remembered freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev, Kartar Singh Sarabha and Madan Lal Dhingra.Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa didn’t respond to calls despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-holds-tiranga-yatra-to-pay-tributes-to-martyrs-294663
08-08-2021||---||Minister gives grants for works at Mohali villages||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 7Punjab Health and Family Welfare and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said a new wind of development was blowing in the Mohali Assembly constituency. Due to this, the Opposition had no issues against him and was trying to mislead people and gain political mileage.He was speaking at a programme organised to distribute grants for development at various villages in the Assembly segment today.Balbir Singh Sidhu said the issue of the Bal Gopal Gaushala land was as clear as glass. As the Opposition did not have any issue, it was now trying to make it a political issue. He said anyone could see the lease deed of this land or ask the panchayat in this regard.Meanwhile, Sidhu gave Rs5.50 lakh for the construction of two cemeteries at Daun village, Rs7 lakh for construction of a boundary wall of a graveyard, Rs5 lakh for the boundary wall of cemetery at Ramgarh village, Rs6 lakh for outfall drain of Chappar Chiri Kalan and Rs2.50 lakh for the repair of a dharamsala. A grant of Rs8.70 lakh was also provided for the construction of streets and drains at Bharonpur village.Harkesh Chand Sharma, Political Secretary to the Health Minister, Ajmer Singh, sarpanch of Daun village, Naresh Neshi, Nambardar Harbans Singh, Charanjit Singh, Saleem Khan, Pramod Kumar, Gurmeet Singh, Jaswant Singh (all panches), Capt Pyara Singh, sarpanch of Chappar Chiri Kalan, and Sudesh Kumar Goga, sarpanch of Bharonpur, were among those present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-gives-grants-for-works-at-mohali-villages-294664
08-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Property grab: Cops get prosecution sanction against Inspector Rajdeep||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The UT police have received the prosecution sanction against Inspector Rajdeep Singh arrested in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh.The police have submitted the sanction order before a local court. The next hearing in the case has been fixed for August 13.The police had arrested Rajdeep Singh, former SHO of the Sector 39 police station, on the charges of not taking any action on an initial complaint filed against some of the accused who allegedly forcibly occupied the house in Sector 37. As per the FIR, the accused allegedly sold a house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 fraudulently.The police alleged that the accused confined Mehta in a room and took his signatures on papers after torturing him. Rahul Mehta was later abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat from where he was shifted from one place to another. It is alleged that an imposter, Rahul Mehta, was produced before the office of sub-registrar at the time of execution of sale deed of the house.The police have so far arrested Sanjiv Mahajan, Arvind Singla, Khalinder Singh Kadiyan, Gurpreet Singh and Satpal Dagar in the case. Ashok Arora, another accused, has filed an anticipatory bail application before the court.The police have alleged that the accused was the Station House Officer of the Sector 39 police station and being the in-charge of the police station he, in connivance with co-accused, played an active role in grabbing the property.The police alleged that the accused was duty bound to take action on the initial complaint. In utter disrespect to his duty, he not only lodged a false DDR, but also destroyed vital piece of evidence in support of the complaint i.e. medical certificate with respect to mental condition of victim Rahul Mehta.Meanwhile, the police have also filed a supplementary chargesheet against accused Arvind Singla, Khalinder Singh Kadiyan, Gurpreet Singh and Daljit Singh before the court.In the earlier hearing of the case, Special Public Prosecutor Manu Kakkar sought adjournment for filing the challan against the remaining four accused. The police have already filed a chargesheet against other accused - Sanjiv Mahajan, Rajdeep Singh, Manish Gupta and Satpal Dagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-cops-get-prosecution-sanction-against-inspector-rajdeep-294665
08-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19: Centre agrees to revise UT’s vax target population||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7After the UT quotes the projected population of Chandigarh from six different sources, the Centre finally agrees to revise the vaccination target population of the city from 15 lakh to over seven lakh.UT Adviser Dharam Pal confirmed that the Centre had finally agreed to correct the figures. “We had discussed the issue with the Secretary, Health, Government of India, and he has agreed to correct the figures,” said the Adviser.Pal had also written to Dr Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary, Government of India, requesting him to revise the target population of the UT for the Covid vaccination (above 18 years age group) to 7,29,822 from 15,75,709 as mentioned by the Centre.In the letter, the UT Adviser had cited six different sources as per which the population of Chandigarh was between 11,00,000 to 12,15,000.“As per the 2011 Census, population of Chandigarh was 10,55,450. Considering the decadal growth of 17.2 per cent, it will be approximately 12,36,987 in 2021. And 18 years above population is approximately 7,29,822 (59 per cent of the total population),” read the letter.It was also mentioned in the letter that as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the mid-year population of the UT as on October 1, 2020 was 12,02,000. Also, according to the Rural Health Statistics 2019-20, the city’s population was 11,98,000.As per the Election Commission of India, the total population of Chandigarh in 2021 is 12,05,443, while the Projected Census Population in age cohort (above 18 years) is 8,98,448.The letter further read, “Keeping in view the mentioned data, it is evident that the target population – above 18 years – is not 15,75,709. The target population of Chandigarh for Covid vaccination may be revised to 7,29,822.”Recently, the ministry had tabled a report on vaccination coverage (with regard to the first dose) in the Lok Sabha as per which Chandigarh’s coverage stood at only 33 per cent due to erroneous target set by the Centre.Chandigarh has so far administered first dose to 94 per cent of the target population, while 29.84 per cent population has received the second also. Only 43,740 people are remaining to be vaccinated for the first dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-centre-agrees-to-revise-uts-vax-target-population-294666
08-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||‘Exceptional’ Aditi brings cheer to country’s golfers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The 23-year-old Indian golfer, Aditi Ashok, who finished a creditable fourth in the Tokyo Olympics, drew praise from the young and old golfers of the city with legendary Jeev Milkha Singh leading his ilk in wishing her.Explaining her feat as “exceptional”, Jeev said Aditi had shown great strength and boosted the morale of the country’s young golfers.“She has given the best performance. She has done something exceptionally well. She has age by her side and she is definitely going to take India to new heights,” said the ace golfer.“Her finish at the Tokyo Olympics will surely boost the youngsters and promote the sport,” an elated Jeev added.Aditi, who had been one of the most consistent golfers in the first three rounds, missed out on a medal by whisker as she finished just two shots behind the gold medallist Nelly Korda of the USA. Aditi’s fourth place finish is the best by an Indian in the Olympics. She shot a 3-under 68 in the fourth and final round today.“It was a flawless round. She carried her game well. The country is proud of her and all the golfers of India are proud of her. She shouldn’t be disheartened and should keep working hard. She is an amazing gofer,” said Jeev.“The fourth-place finish by Aditi is as good as a podium finish,” said former India golfer and Arjuna awardee Harmeet Kahlon.“It is a watershed moment for the Indian golf and will encourage hundreds of young girls and boys to pick up the sport,” he said.“With Aditi’s fantastic performance, India has arrived on the world golf map and it will help put golf in the list of priority disciplines for the 2024 Paris Games, the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics and the 2022 Hangzhou Asian Games,” Kahlon added.Meanwhile, city’s young golfers Karandeep Kochhar and Aadil Bedi, who have played alongside Aditi in various national and international events in the past, also congratulated her.“We have played together at the junior level. It’s motivating to see young Aditi playing so well. This performance will boost the youngsters in forthcoming international events,” said Bedi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/exceptional-aditi-brings-cheer-to-countrys-golfers-294667
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Insurance firm asked to pay interest on delayed payment||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has directed an insurance company to pay interest on the maturity amount released to a consumer six months after due date.Shelly Dhawan, a resident of Sector 36, Chandigarh, alleged that she had obtained a policy from Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited in the name of her minor daughter and deposited yearly premiums from 2004 to 2019.She said the insurance company was to pay first payout of Rs81,096.47 against the policy by March, 2020, but it failed to release the due amount despite repeated requests and emails.The insurance company denied all the charges, saying that they paid a net amount of Rs82,482 as first payout on September 14, 2020 by crediting it in the bank account furnished by the complainant and the remaining amount was to be paid on attaining the age of 19, 20 and 21 years, respectively.The company pleaded that there was a slight delay in the payment due to the closure of the office in view of the Covid-19. After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the complainant was entitled for the interest on the payout amount of Rs82,482 for the delayed period.The commission thus directed the insurance company to pay her an interest at nine per cent per annum on the amount of Rs82,482 from the due date to the day it is paid.The commission further said it was not imposing any cost or compensation on the company taking a lenient view due to Covid-19 situation which hampered the payment in time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-firm-asked-to-pay-interest-on-delayed-payment-294668
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Gold chain snatched||PGI doctor’s laptop stolenChandigarh: A PGI doctor has reported that his laptop was stolen from the Department of Cardiology. Dr Shivendra Rai of Sector 15 stated that the incident took place on August 5. A case under has been registered. TNSAthletics c’ship from August 13Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletics Association will conduct the 1st Chandigarh State U-23 Championship 2021-22 at the Sector 7 Sports Complex on August 13 and 14 under the aegis of the Athletics Federation of India. Athlete studying, residing or working in Chandigarh will be allowed to participate in this state championship. The athlete who is born on or after September 29, 1998, will be eligible to participate in this championship. Interested athletes can send their entries to the organisers before August 9. Top performers will participate in the 1st National Open U-23 Athletics Championship scheduled to be held in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, from September 27 to 29. TNSTennis tourney from tomorrowMohali: Roots Tennis Academy, Zirakpur, will host All-India Tennis Association (AITA) U-18 National Ranking Championship from August 9 onwards at the academy. Interested players are advised to register themselves at the tournament venue before August 8. TNSHusband booked in dowry caseChandigarh: A city resident has alleged that her husband and others, all natives of Sangrur, harassed her to bring more dowry. A case under Sections 406 and 498A of the IPC has been registered at the Women police station, Chandigarh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gold-chain-snatched-294669
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||GGDSD, Sector 32||DAV College, Sector 10Chandigarh: DAV College Principal Dr Pawan Kumar Sharma, along with Dean (Admissions) Dr Sutapa Saryal and other faculty members, released the college and hostel prospectus for the session 2021-22 on Saturday. DAV College has been ranked among the top colleges of India by India Today (2020-21) and NIRF (2019-20), Government of India. TNSMCM College, Sector 36Chandigarh: Mehr Chand Mahajan (MCM) DAV College for Women, Sector 36, released its college and hostel prospectus here on Saturday. College Principal Dr Nisha Bhargava and members of the prospectus committee unveiled both the prospectuses. Aspiring students can find all relevant information in the prospectus pertaining to admission, including glimpses of international and national achievements of the college. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ggdsd-sector-32-294670
08-08-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Neeraj Chopra dedicates gold to Milkha Singh, fulfils his wish of Olympic medal in track and field events||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Legendary Milkha Singh’s famous wish of seeing India win an Olympic medal in track and field event could not be fulfilled in his lifetime, but javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who won the gold medal with a throw of 87.58m at the Tokyo Olympics, has done it barely two months after the death of the Flying Sikh on June 18, 2021.Jeev Milkha Singh thanked Olympic gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra after he dedicated his gold to legendary Milkha Singh. Milkha Singh’s constant refrain in his lifetime was that he wished to see India winning Olympics gold in track and field events before he breathed his last.Jeev said, “Dad from above is crying in joy. His dream has come true. Proud moment for India. I salute him for his determination and hard work. God bless him.”The Flying Sikh came close to win an Olympic medal in the 1960 Games only to finish 4th in the final of men's 400m.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neeraj-chopra-dedicates-gold-to-milkha-singh-fulfils-his-wish-of-olympic-medal-in-track-and-field-events-294473
08-08-2021||Mohali/Muktsar||Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera shot dead in Mohali||Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Mohali on Saturday.Four armed men fired around 10 bullets at the young leader in the Mataur market at around 10.30 am before fleeing the spot.He tried to run away from the spot when two youths started firing at him, but the assailants fired more bullets at him.SSP Satinder Singh and the DSP rushed to the spot.Middukhera had come to meet his friend in an SUV near a property consultant’s office at a market in Mataur.He was taken to hospital in a PCR van from the spot. Empty shells have been recovered from the spot. Police are scanning the CCTV footage from the area.A rival gang, Davinder Bambhia's group, claimed the murder through a Facebook post later on Saturday evening. The post cited "personal rivalry" for the killing, and said Middukhera was working against the Lawrence Bishnoi gang despite several warnings. Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said police are still working on the case.''No arrest has been made so far. Lucky Khuda Lahora, a gangster held up in a jail in Armenia, is one of the suspects in the case,'' he said.Middukhera was a student leader and was once president of the Student  Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), Panjab University, Chandigarh. Later, he joined the SAD's student wing Student Organisation of India (SOI).Following his mass appeal among the youth, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had made him president of SOI's Chandigarh unit. He actively campaigned for the SAD in the Assembly and parliamentary elections in Punjab.From his college days, he was known for amicably resolving disputes among students and youth in the tricity.He had got married two years ago and was close to a number of MLAs in Punjab and Haryana besides to some Punjabi singers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-akali-dal-leader-vicky-middukhera-shot-dead-in-mohali-294390
08-08-2021||---||Mohali court denies bail to Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini in corruption case||Mohali, August 7In a setback to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, a special court here on Saturday rejected the anticipatory bail application in a corruption case filed against him by the Vigilance Bureau, Punjab.Additional District and Sessions Judge Parminder Singh Grewal, while rejecting the anticipatory bail, observed that the case was registered after a detailed inquiry by the VB, on the complaint of the Joint Director Vigilance, and was based on documents. The court has observed that Saini had asserted in his petition that he was not known to Nimratdeep Singh and his father and had met them during signing the rent agreement and the agreement to sell. However, Saini’s own accounts show that he had paid Rs 45 lakh to Nimratdeep and his father prior to signing the rent deed.Saini had filed the plea for seeking anticipatory bail through his counsel HS Dhanoya and APS Deol in the court of the Additional Sessions Judge on Thursday.Saini and six others were booked by the Vigilance Bureau under Sections 109, 120-B of the IPC and the PC Act recently. Saini is accused of helping Punjab XEN Nimratdeep Singh in amassing assets beyond his known sources of income.The Vigilance team had also raided Saini’s residence in Sector 20 here to arrest him and it continued searching his house for hours.Deol, counsel for Saini, argued that the case was the outcome of political vendetta and in line with the three earlier cases registered against Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-court-denies-bail-to-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-in-corruption-case-294376
