09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 6 new Covid cases||Chandigarh on Monday reported six cases of Covid-19, taking the total count to 61,984, according to the medical bulletin.With no death reported on Monday, the toll figure stood at 811.The number of active cases in the city was 27 while the number of recoveries 61,146. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-6-new-covid-cases-295287
09-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir ||Flood gate of Sukhna Lake opened as water level reaches near danger mark||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 9One of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake was opened at 11.30 am on Monday after its water level reached 1162.5 feet, just 7 inches below the danger mark of 1,163 feet.UT Chief Engineer CB Ojha said the gate was opened as a precautionary measure only for an hour.The water level in Sukhna Lake on Sunday evening had reached 1,162. 3 feet,  9 inches below the danger mark, due to the rain in the catchment area of the lake.On August 2, the water level of lake had reached 1,161.4 feet, 1.8 feet below the danger mark.  On July 28, the water level in the lake was recorded at 1,159. 9 feet.The two floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake reached the danger mark. Before this, on September 24, 2018, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two flood gates of the lake. At that time, the gates were opened after a gap of 10 years. After floodgates are opened, the Sukhna Choe carries the excess water of the lake to the Gaggar river. The gate was shut at 12.45 pm and now, the water level has come down to 1161.8 feet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flood-gate-of-sukhna-lake-opened-as-water-level-reaches-near-danger-mark-295199
09-08-2021||Zirakpur||3-year-old girl dies of ‘diarrhoea’ in Zirakpur||Livewire Centre log 42-run winChandigarh: In an inaugural match of the Ashwani Luthra Memorial T20 Tournament, Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated Godrej Cricket XI, Mohali, by 42 runs. Batting first, LWCC posted 136/5 in 20 overs. In reply, Godrej XI scored 94 runs in 15.3 overs before getting all out. TNSCricket trials begin todayChandigarh: The Union Territory Cricket Association, Chandigarh, will conduct trials to select U-16 team for the BCCI’s domestic season 2021-21 at the Tricity Sports Academy, Peermuchalla, Zirakpur, from August 9. The association received a total of 843 applications for the trials. TNSPGI doctor gets NAMS fellowshipChandigarh: The National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS) honoured Prof Baljinder Singh from the Department of Nuclear Medicine, PGI, with the award of Fellowship of the Academy. The Fellowship Award of the NAMS is a lifetime recognition and acknowledgment of academic excellence and professional achievements in the field of medical sciences bestowed upon PGI’s Prof Baljinder Singh in the field of nuclear medicine. TNSUT DC empanelled for Joint Secy postChandigarh: Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar of the Haryana Cadre has been selected among 49 officers of the 2005 batch of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) who have been empanelled for holding the post of Joint Secretary or equivalent at the Centre. TNSOver 100 units of blood collectedRopar: A total of 125 units of blood were collected at a blood donation camp at the Anandpur Sahib Civil Hospital near here on Sunday. The camp was held in the memory of Shadi Lal Angra, a social activist and former president of the Anandpur Sahib Municipal Committee. It was organised by Shadi Lal Angra Memorial Society on his 40th death anniversary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-year-old-girl-dies-of-diarrhoea-in-zirakpur-295163
09-08-2021||---||Man held with 500-gm charas in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 8A 35-year-old man has been arrested with 500 gm of charas. According to the police, the suspect, Sandeep, a resident of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra, here, was nabbed on the road between Shahpur Colony and Sector 40, on August 7.The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-500-gm-charas-in-chandigarh-295162
09-08-2021||Mohali||Swachh Bharat Mission: Cycle rally held in Mohali to spread awareness||As part of the sanitation campaign being run by the Mohali Municipal Corporation, a bicycle rally was taken out from Rose Garden, Phase 3B1, here, to spread awareness about the Swachh Bharat Mission.The rally was flagged off by Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg. Led by Brig HPS Bedi, Director, “Dil Se Cycle Group”, the rally was attended by doctors, senior lawyers, teachers, schoolchildren, councillors among others. It culminated at City Park, Sector 68. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swachh-bharat-mission-cycle-rally-held-in-mohali-to-spread-awareness-295161
09-08-2021||---||MP Manish Tewari opens bus stop at Majri||Mohali, August 8Manish Tewari, Member of Parliament (MP) from the Anandpur Sahib constituency, inaugurated a bus stop at Majri here today. The bus stop has been constructed under the MPLAD funds.It was a pending demand of people who had to wait for buses braving the sun and rain. “Now, people will not have to face the vagaries of weather while waiting for the mode of transportation,” said Tewari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-manish-tewari-opens-bus-stop-at-majri-295160
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four more Congress leaders resign in Chandigarh||Four more Congress leaders from Mani Majra have resigned from the primary membership of the party. Balwant Singh, Parveen Kumar Sharma, Dalbir Singh and Bharat Kumar, who were earlier office-bearers in the party, resigned on Sunday."We feel suffocated under city unit president Subhash Chawla. We are also hurt by the way the previous president, Pardeep Chhabra, was treated by the party," they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-congress-leaders-resign-in-chandigarh-295159
09-08-2021||---||97-year-old woman’s murder: Chandigarh police yet  to make any breakthrough||Chandigarh, August 8While the UT police are yet to make any breakthrough in the murder of a 97-year-old woman at her house in Sector 8 here, today they verified the route that the victim’s daughter-in-law took while on her way to a gurdwara on the day of the incident.Joginder Kaur was found dead at her house on Friday evening. Her throat was slit with a knife.The victim’s daughter-in-law, who stays separately in one portion of the house, had told the police that she had gone to a gurdwara at the time of the incident, following which they verified the route taken by her.Meanwhile, the police also checked the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area.A police official said they were working on various theories and verifying the facts. Various persons were being questioned in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/97-year-old-womans-murder-chandigarh-police-yet-to-make-any-breakthrough-295158
09-08-2021||---||3 held for house trespass, molesting Panchkula woman||Panchkula, August 8The police have arrested three persons for allegedly molesting a woman after trespassing into her house in Raipur Rani. The suspects have been identified as Surjeet, Mohan and Devendra.According to the police, the victim lodged a complaint with the Mauli police post on August 6 stating that the suspects entered her house forcibly and molested her.“The trio attacked me with a sharp weapon. As I shouted for help, my daughter came to my rescue. They also misbehaved with her. A neighbour heard us screaming for help. When he entered the house, the suspects fled the spot,” the complainant told the police.The woman said before leaving the spot, the suspects threatened to kill her if she informed police or the village panchayat about the incident.A case under Sections 323, 34, 354, 354-B, 452 and 506 of the IPC was registered at the Raipur Rani police station.2 held for trespass, assaultThe police have arrested two men in another case pertaining to assault on a woman and her husband after trespassing into their house in the jurisdiction of the Raipur Rani police station. The suspects have been identified as Mohit Kumar and Arjun Kumar, both residents of Toda village in Raipur Rani. The incident took place in the morning of August 6. A case was registered at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-house-trespass-molesting-panchkula-woman-295157
09-08-2021||Open house||Open house: Rational, transparent billing can mitigate residents’ suffering||Revert to previous collection methodResidents are already facing many problems in the ongoing pandemic besides paying hefty bills. Senior citizens are most harassed as handing over waste to the Municipal Corporation staff is an uphill task. Those, who stay on first or second floors, are the worst affected. People, who stay out of Chandigarh also have to pay garbage collection charges. So, the MC should revert to previous garbage collection method.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhQUESTIONA drive has been launched for the implementation of the Apartment Act in Chandigarh. If the Act comes into force, will it prove a boon or bane for residents of the City Beautiful?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.comPeople need patienceIt was decided that water bills will be charged according to the size of the plot (house). If electricity/water bills are fair enough according to the reading taken by the person concerned how can there be discrepancy collection charges. In this case UT residents need to be patient and support the change in garbage collection method.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaPublish charges in newspapersThe Municipal Corporation should release a notification in newspapers regarding waste collection charges for transparency and convenience of residents. Also, if charges are to be collected on the basis of number of kitchens, then the civic body should first conduct a survey of all households and then formulate a policy for waste collection charges.Rahul Garg, ChandigarhAnother way to fleece UT residentsThe Municipal Corporation has replaced slow moving manually drawn carts with motor vehicles to transport household waste just to save time and efforts of its own staff. This change does not benefit residents. There is no justification for including additional charges in water bills. Now, residents spend extra to buy separate bags for segregating dry and wet waste. This is an anti-people act and must be stopped.SC Luthra, ChandigarhCheck bills before dispatchThe Municipal Corporation has got surplus man power, which can easily check all bills before dispatching these to consumers. Officials, who inflate water bills, should be accountable for discrepancies. Relying on computers should be avoided in the interest of consumers.KC Rana, ChandigarhStakeholders not consultedThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation changed the waste collection method for houses without consulting residents or stakeholders, which created confusion. The traditional method was working smoothly and without any complaints or dispute between residents and waste collectors for the last many years. The MC should revert to old tried and tested system.BS Cheema, MohaliCollect charges under separate headsIt’s ridiculous that the UT Municipal Corporation has started adding garbage collection charges in water bills. This is a known fact that the expenses and income of any department are recorded under different heads. How can the MC add garbage collection charges in water bills? Waste collection charges and water bills should be collected under separate heads.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurCivic body’s move can’t be justifiedAdding garbage collection charges to water bills by the Chandigarh MC can’t be justified. The two charges must be levied and collected separately so that residents know how much they pay for garbage collection and consuming water. A single bill for availing two different amenities adds to confusion. Even after paying hefty bills garbage is not collected properly and on time.Simran Sidhu, Chandigarh‘Rehriwalas’ preferredMost residents prefer ‘rehriwalas’ as they go door-to-door even floor- to-floor for collecting garbage. This traditional garbage collection method suits senior citizens and residents, who live on upper floors. Secondly, ‘rehriwalas’ have fixed time for waste collection. No one knows when trucks will turn up for collecting waste. Besides, their visits are less frequent. It’ll be better if ‘rehriwalas’ collect waste from homes and dump it in trucks.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhCollect funds from advertisementsIt’s responsibility of the Municipal Corporation to collect household waste. Already residents pay property tax, cow cess, water and electric bills, besides bearing other expenses. The MC should make efforts to increase its income by leasing out space for advertisements and through other sources rather than clubbing hefty garbage charges with water bills.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliA few teething problemsThe Administration is trying to make the City Beautiful actually beautiful. In the race for maintaining cleanliness UT is way behind. The Administration wants to make life easy for residents keeping and improve city’s ranking in ‘swachhta’. So, it changed door-step garbage collection method. There are some teething troubles, but we need to support the new garbage collection system in the city.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaMC’s White elephant schemes of no useResidents can’t benefit from white elephant schemes of the Municipal Corporation (MC). Such schemes/plans are beneficial only for the MC. Hike in fuel prices, wear and tear of trucks and salaries of the staff manning vehicles have added to the garbage collection cost. Garbage collection through traditional ‘rehris’ gives employment to many people. It is best and cost-effective way of providing services to UT residents on door step.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhGive payment options to residentsGarbage collection charges were added to water bills even for those areas where residents had already paid for the service to ‘rehriwalas’. There is no system in place for grievance redressal. Officials just pass the buck when it comes to bill rectification. Why not the MC allow residents to choose option for paying garbage collection charges to ‘rehriwalas’ or the amount be added to water bill?Suresh Verma, ChandigarhMC should have consulted residentsWaste collection charges added to water bills confuse residents. There is no mention of the time period for which waste collection charges have been added. Only mentioned is the huge amount in water bill. People find no logic behind this new garbage collection project. Some RWAs say the new garbage collection method is of no use. They want to continue with hand-drawn carts for door-to-door garbage collection. Besides, the MC should have consulted residents before implementing the new system.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaLet RWAs handle waste collectionThe Municipal Corporation should not take responsibility for door-to-door garbage collection in the UT. Let the RWAs and mohalla societies handle the task at their own level. Residents of multistorey houses are not at ease with the new waste collection system. Secondly, payment of garbage collection charges to ‘rehriwalas’ may differ from society to society and area to area. The civic body should rectify their bills.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliCharges based on garbage generatedThis new garbage collection project seems a bit irrational. Residents must be charged on the basis of garbage generated in their respective households. Besides, they already pay many taxes. The Municipal Corporation vehicles don’t come regularly for collecting waste. The MC should make everything clear on the ground and not just on paper so that people don’t get confused on receiving water bills in which garbage collection charges have been added.Anita Tandon, KhararStreamline garbage CollectionOver six months have passed since door-to-door garbage collection started, but the Municipal Corporation has failed to streamline the process. Besides, garbage collection charges added to water bills are riddled with issues. There is no clarity on how charges are calculated. The MC is legally bound to mention on the bill how charges are levied. Worse, the garbage collection system is also replete with issues.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAllow part paymentThe hefty waste collection charges included in water bills are burning a hole in pockets of UT residents. Ironically, under construction houses are also receiving bills in which garbage collection charges have been added. Apart from explaining the rationale behind overcharging, the civic body should also specify how arrears have been levied. Plus, the MC should extend the last date for payment of bills or allow part payment of bills for giving relief to residents.Akash Kumar, ChandigarhSeparate bills for garbage collectionGarbage collection charges should not be added to water bills. A separate on monthly basis should be generated for garbage collection for each household. Already, there were numerous complaints of hefty water and electricity bills received by UT residents. The Municipal Corporation needs to streamline its billing process to avoid confusion among residents.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMc should be appreciatedThe Municipal Corporation should be appreciated for adding garbage collection charges with water bills. The best thing the MC can do is to check the number of gas connections in a particular house. More the number of gas connections more will be garbage collection charges. Officials can check the number of kitchens in houses to avoid any confusion in bills.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhTake care of elderlyThe Municipal Corporation (MC) should lift garbage from residents door step. Garbage should be lifted from homes of elderly and working couples. Residents pay lump sum amount to ‘rehriwalas’ for lifting waste from their door step. The MC must conduct a survey to find the quantity of waste generated in households and fix garbage collection rate accordingly.Paramjeet Singh, ChandigarhRedress consumers’ grievancesHefty waste collection charges pinch residents. Those, who earlier paid Rs150 to Rs200 per month for garbage collection, are now paying Rs3000 or more as the amount is added to water bills. Also, bills have to be prepared properly. The MC staff should release garbage collection tariff for transparency and redress consumers’ inflated bills related grievances.Charu Malhotra, MohaliUniform, Clear-cut policy neededThe Municipal Corporation (MC) introduced fleet of garbage collection vehicles in the UT, but the service did not improve. The collection of domestic waste by ‘rehriwalas’ is still continues. There is confusion regarding payment of garbage collection charges. The MC should frame a clear cut and uniform policy for garbage collection and fix realistic charges for providing this service.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhUpdate MC recordsHouse occupancy records of the Municipal Corporation (MC) are not complete. Residents are not sure that correct waste collection charges are being levied by the MC. The charges are three to four times higher as compared to those fixed by RWAs and should be reduced considerably. RWAs may be taken into loop for fixing waste collection charges. The period for garbage collection charges are levied should clearly be mentioned in water bills.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhNeed to take an urgent callThe UT Municipal Corporation (MC) replaced traditional ‘rehris’ with twin bin vehicles for garbage collection in the city. It started adding garbage collection charges to residents’ monthly water bills. Residents claim that they are receiving hefty water bills. The authorities concerned should allay unfounded fears of residents by making them aware of the ground-level situation. They should give more options to residents to pay garbage collection charges.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhMC should keep city cleanPaying for availing services provided by the Municipal Corporation (MC) is justifiable, but there has to be transparency in collection of taxes and charges. Residents should be informed well in advance about any new charges levied by the MC/Administration. Hidden garbage collection charges should never be added to water bills. Moreover, it is primary responsibility of the MC to keep the city clean?Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhMC has to pay salariesAdding garbage collection charges to water bills is justified. The Municipal Corporation has to pay salaries to its workers, who collect garbage from each sector. City residents are bearing financial losses due to the ongoing Covid pandemic. So, garbage collection charges should be lowered or waived off in case lockdown or curfew is imposed in the UT.Saikrit Gulati, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-rational-transparent-billing-can-mitigate-residents-suffering-295156
09-08-2021||---||Dictatorial rulers threat to democracy: Rajdeep Sardesai||Ropar, August 8Senior journalist and consulting editor of the India Today group Rajdeep Sardesai said democracy in the country was at risk during these days due to dictatorial attitude of rulers and weak Opposition.Sardesai, who was keynote speaker at a seminar organised by the District Press Clubs Association, Rupnagar, here today said while government in Centre as well many states were leaving no stone unturned to damage the democratic set-up, other pillars of democracy including media and even judiciary, also failed to do what was expected from them during such times.People were being tried for sedition or anti-national activities after they criticised government’s policies, he added. Expressing his concerns he, however, showing optimism said this was not the first time when the country witnessed such situation. Since Independence the country had gone through such circumstances several times and the masses had always shown the door to people responsible for it, he added. “The Covid 19 and economy are major challenges being faced by the country, but nobody has the time to discuss these issues in parliament. Bills are being passed without debate,” he said.“It seems the parliament has been turned into cabinet meeting where the government will only put its point of view and others would not be allowed to speak,” he added.Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tiwari was chief guest on the occasion. District Press Clubs Association, Rupnagar president Bahadurjeet Singh welcomed guests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dictatorial-rulers-threat-to-democracy-rajdeep-sardesai-295155
09-08-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Declare Jeanneret’s sculpture ‘art treasure’, Advocate Ajay Jagga writes to Chandigarh Administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8Reminiscent of City Beautiful's modernistic, Corbousieresque architectural identity, the broken sculpture at the Grade II heritage building Government Nursery School of Sector 16, which was designed by Swiss architect and Le Corbusier's cousin Pierre Jeanneret, doesn't even find a mention in city's catalogue on inventory of heritage articles.In his letter to the UT Administration, e-mailed to UT Advisor Dharam Pal, Advocate Ajay Jagga, who is also the member of UT's Heritage Items Protection Cell, has called for including Jeanneret's sculpture in the list of UT's heritage assets along with notifying items designed by him as 'art treasures'.On July 10, a report published in the Chandigarh Tribune had put the spotlight on the neglect of a priceless sculpture designed by Pierre Jeanneret. The artwork had been found broken in three pieces by local guide Sanjeev Sharma.Jagga wrote: "In order to protect and conserve city's heritage, a detailed compilation was prepared of inventoried items, which mainly includes furniture apart from wooden models, other models and even electrical lamps etc. However, the sculpture designed by Pierre Jeanneret, which was existing at Government Nursery School, Sector 16, is not part of the inventory. Since this sculpture was designed by Pierre Jeanneret, this too should be considered and added to the inventory of heritage articles."Jagga stated that the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had clearly conveyed that the way forward is to get these items notified as art treasure, as defined under section 2(b) of the The Antiquities And Art Treasures Act, 1972. "Since all these articles are human work of art and less than 75 years old and the author of the art is not alive so these are covered under the definition of Art Treasure. Once these articles are notified as art treasure, it shall not be lawful for any person, other than the Central Government or any authority or agency authorized by the Central Government in this behalf, to export these articles. This step will prevent the smuggling of these items," he wrote in his letter.Apart from mentioning ways in which city folk can be sensitised about their heritage, Jagga states: “A regular Heritage Audit team can be constituted by the Administration, which will conduct annual audit of the heritage articles. Each audit is likely to provide a huge amount of information about the state of heritage in various departments, alongside an overview of the heritage assets."When contacted, UT Advisor Dharam Pal said, "This should be discussed in the committee to device the way forward also. We will look into what can be done and take a decision on this soon."Sorabh Arora, director, Cultural Affairs, UT, informed, "We are in talks with the French Government, through the French Embassy, regarding identification of original works of Jeanneret and Corbusier, restoration and legal framework on how to protect and preserve them. They had to come and discuss these issues on heritage in March this year, but the visit was postponed due to Covid's second wave. We are hoping to meet this year."Jagga on the other hand leaves us pondering over a thought: "As a nationalist, I don't want to give this idea to the any country that we are not owning our heritage. I say, UT is the owner of these items and it must make a proper claim of exclusive rights on these items so that no one else can," he said, when contacted about the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/declare-jeannerets-sculpture-art-treasure-advocate-ajay-jagga-writes-to-chandigarh-administration-295154
09-08-2021||---||Rain pours misery, water enters houses in Mohali||Mohali, August 8Heavy rain that lashed the city for about half an hour resulted in waterlogging in Phase 3B1 here this afternoon. There was knee-deep water on most of the roads here, leading to problems for residents.Jaspreet Singh Gill, two-time councillor from Ward No. 6, said there was waterlogging in the area after the rain, which started around 2.30 pm. He said rainwater had entered more than 50 houses in an area. It not only damaged furniture, but also electronic items in houses.Jaspreet Singh Gill said sewer water started overflowing from toilets, leading to foul smell in houses. He immediately called fire brigade officials. Two fire tenders, which were pressed into service, took half an hour to drain out the accumulated water. Gill said he got the road gullies cleared this year too, but heavy rain resulting in waterlogging in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-pours-misery-water-enters-houses-in-mohali-295153
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||4 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, no death||9 infected in Mohali, no fatality reportedMohali: Nine Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 68,492. No fresh death was reported, while four patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each was reported from Dera Bassi, Boothgarh and Kharar, two from Dhakoli and four from Mohali (urban). TNSNo fresh case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no fresh coronavirus case on Sunday. The overall tally remains at 30,650. The fatality count is 376. There are 10 active cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-no-death-295152
09-08-2021||---||Avoid last-minute visit to vaccine centres, Panchkula residents urged||Panchkula, August 8The Panchkula Health Department has urged residents to avoid coming to Covid vaccination centres in last minutes of the drive for seamless inoculation experience and facilitating optimum utilisation of vaccine dosage.As vaccination takes place up to 3 pm in the district, health officials have asked the beneficiaries to reach the centres by 2:30 pm.The officials said when beneficiaries reach the vaccination centres minutes before the closure time, they had to keep them waiting for others to join to open a new vial. “If no other person arrives, we have to open a new vial for just one beneficiary. It leads to wastage of vaccine,” said District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan.“We try to open a vial only after at least 10 people reach the centre. Hence, we ask residents to cooperate and try to reach the centres by 2:30 pm. We also have to keep the beneficiaries under observation for an hour,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-last-minute-visit-to-vaccine-centres-panchkula-residents-urged-295151
09-08-2021||---||Tributes paid to Major Sandeep Shankla in Panchkula||Chandigarh, August 8Tributes were paid to Major Sandeep Shankla of 18 Dogra to mark his 30th martyrdom day at his memorial in Panchkula today. He was decorated posthumously with the highest peacetime gallantry award, the Ashok Chakra.Among those who paid floral tributes at the memorial were Gian Chand Gupta, Speaker of the Haryana Legislative Assembly, Gen VP Malik, former Chief of the Army Staff, Sandeep’s parents Lt Col JS Kanwar (retd) and Manju Kanwar, officers of the Dogra Regiment as well as veterans. Wreaths were also laid on behalf of the GOC-in-C, Western Command, and the Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula.During a counter-terrorist operation in Jafarkhani village in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on August 8, 1991, Maj Shankla had made the supreme sacrifice while leading a daring raid that had resulted in the elimination of nine terrorists and the apprehension of 22 others.In the same operation, Sep Swaran Singh was posthumously decorated with the second-highest peacetime gallantry award, Kirti Chakra, while Capt BJS Sandhu received the Shaurya Chakra. The battalion was awarded five Sena Medal, two Army Chief’s commendations and one Army Commander’s commendation in the operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tributes-paid-to-major-sandeep-shankla-in-panchkula-295150
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake water level only 9 inches below danger mark||The water level of Sukhna Lake this evening reached 1,162.30 feet due to rain in its catchment area. The level is just nine inch below the danger mark of 1,163 feet.On August 2, the water level of the lake had reached 1,161.40 feet, which was 1.6 feet below the danger mark. On July 28, the water level in the lake was recorded at 1,159.90 feet, said an official of the UT Engineering Department.He said the water level was expected to rise further if rain continued in the region.The official said the floodgates of the lake would be opened if the water level reached the danger mark.“At present, the water level is below the danger mark, but the Administration is ready to deal with any kind of situation,” said the official.The two floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake reached the danger mark. Before this, on September 24, 2018, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two floodgates of the lake. At that time, the gates were opened after a gap of 10 years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-water-level-only-9-inches-below-danger-mark-295149
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana-cadre IAS officer Nitin Kumar Yadav’s wife ends life in Chandigarh||An Indian Postal Service officer, wife of a Haryana-cadre IAS officer, reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself at a government accommodation in Sector 18 this evening. She was 45 and posted in Chandigarh.The victim has been identified as Meenakshi Yadav, wife of Nitin Kumar Yadav. She was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead.Sources said the victim was depressed. Nitin’s name had been recommended for the post of Home Secretary by the UT Administration to the Ministry of Home Affairs for approval. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sector 19 police station.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-cadre-ias-officer-nitin-kumar-yadavs-wife-ends-life-in-chandigarh-295145
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||‘Chased’ by bouncers, youth run over by SUV in Chandigarh||A 26-year-old youth who, along with his two friends, had come for a party at a club in Sector 26, was killed after being hit by a speeding SUV late last night. The victim was being reportedly chased by bouncers following a fight when the incident took place.The police said the victim, Pradeep, along with his friends Parshant and Anil, had come for a party at a club, ASOD, and the trio took liquor at the club.It is alleged that they had an argument with a few girls sitting on the next table after which the girls complained about the matter to the club manager, who called bouncers. Anil, in his statement to the police, alleged that they were thrashed by the bouncers after which he was asked to leave from the rear gate, while Pradeep and Parshant were taken outside from the front gate. Pradeep was also thrashed outside the club and was chased by the bouncers following which he escaped towards the slip road and got hit by a white Fortuner that sped away towards the grain market chowk. On the other hand, it is being alleged that Pardeep threw stones at the club door following which he was chased by the bouncers. The victim, resident of a village near Chandimandir, was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, by his friends in an auto, where he succumbed to his injuries.The police were informed, who reached the spot and initiated an investigation. A case against the unknown car driver has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. The autopsy of the victim, who worked as a dog trainer, was conducted and the body handed over to the family. Meanwhile, another case against the club owner and manager has been registered under Section 188 of the IPC for opening the club beyond the permissible time limit. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the club was being scrutinised.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chased-by-bouncers-youth-run-over-by-suv-in-chandigarh-295144
09-08-2021||Mohali||Gangsters, snatchers having a free run, say panicky residents of Mohali||The alleged gang war and firing spree that was witnessed near a residential area in Mataur yesterday has left the city residents scared. With two gangs posting Facebook messages, one claiming the responsibility for the murder and the other vowing to avenge it, there are apprehensions about escalation in the situation.Politicians, office-bearers of RWAs, senior citizens and women slammed the police for failing to provide a safe environment to the general public. They complained that the law and order situation in Mohali was going from bad to worse.There is no fear of law among anti-social elements. Gangsters, snatchers and robbers are having a free run, they said.Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said, “The law and order situation is bad. Imagine gangsters on a firing spree in a marketplace and the PCR nearby had to be informed by the public. This is the state of affairs in Mohali today.” “The state government and police officers are responsible for it. In this way, the dark days of militancy will be back soon. Snatchings have become so common. When the Mohali SSP joined here, he had said that no senior citizen would required to visit the police station. But now, senior citizens fear coming out of their home,” said Sethi.On Saturday morning, eyewitnesses of the Vickey Middukhera murder, had said the laxity of the police was there to see for everyone. The police took half an hour to arrive at the spot and shopkeepers in the market said there was panic in the area after the incident.Satvir Dhanoa, former councillor and president of the Citizen Welfare and Development Forum, said, “We are going through a bad phase. The police are there for politicians only.”“Jee hazoori, favourable transfers, plum postings is what they do in Mohali district most of the time. Such a shocking incident took place in broad daylight but I did not see a single naka on the city roads. It was as if nothing had happened. Just a routine affair. The police consider its job done by recording the statements and doing paperwork,” Dhanoa added.Former principal Sawaran Choudhary, who was the first traffic marshal in Mohali, said, “People have lost confidence in the police. There is no fear of law among the criminals.”“Every day there are reports of snatching, armed robberies in the city. Mohali has become notorious for snatching. Senior citizens, especially women, feel insecure in houses for the fear of snatchers. Things have gone out of control,” said Choudhary. Residents said there were certain pockets where crime was “virtually unchecked”. The airport road, Kharar-Landran road, Balongi and Mataur are the hotspots, they claimed.Surjeet Kaur, a private school teacher in Sector 117, said, “After sunset, the Kharar-Landran road becomes a hub of criminal activities. There is no police patrolling on this stretch. It is unsafe for women and elderly. There is a constant fear of snatchers.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangsters-snatchers-having-a-free-run-say-panicky-residents-of-mohali-295137
09-08-2021||Mohali||Middukhera murder: Leads point to gang war, says Mohali SSP||A day after the daylight murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera, the Lawrence Bishnoi group vowed to avenge the death soon, affirming the police suspicion of a gang war.The Davinder Bambiha group, in a Facebook post, claimed the responsibility for the murder, stating that Middukhera was working as an “informer of the Bishnoi group”. Middukhera was also “helping Bishnoi in extortion” by passing on phone numbers of Punjabi singers and businessmen, the group added. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “It looks like a case of gang war, Bishnoi’s Facebook post in support of Middukhera points towards it. We are working on the case. Maybe, we are able to make a headway in the case tomorrow.”Under pressure to solve the case as early as possible, the police have been conducting raids and rounding up suspects to get crucial leads, but have been left empty-handed till now.The police have recovered empty shells from the spot and the CCTV footage of the area is being scanned.Sources said the dump data of the area and the call list in the deceased’s phone were being scrutinised to know who all were in contact with him.The Mohali top cop said a property consultant, who was a friend of the deceased, had disclosed that Middukhera came to meet him and buy a property. The duo talked for around 30 minutes but the deal did not materialise and he left the office, said the SSP. The CCTV footage shows that during the firing, one of the assailants was holding the gun in his left hand and the police are looking for further clues to solve the case. The police said at the time of the incident, the deceased too had a licensed pistol in his SUV. However, he did not get the time to take it out and instead chose to run for cover. “The pistol and the SUV have been taken in possession by the police after the incident,” said an official who is part of the investigation. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/middukhera-murder-leads-point-to-gang-war-says-mohali-ssp-295136
09-08-2021||---||SGPC fumes, claims ‘Amritdhari’ Sikh aspirants for Patwari post ‘harassed’ in Chandigarh||Amritsar, August 8The SGPC has taken stern notice of ‘Amritdhari’ Sikh candidates being forced to remove ‘kirpan’ before taking the examination for patwari post at a college in Sector 32, Chandigarh, on Sunday.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur demanded strict action from the Chandigarh administrator against the officials concerned and also asked the Chief Minister to intervene as such a decision “could never be tolerated in the Punjab capital”.“India is a multi-religious country whose Constitution allows everyone to live according to their own faith. In such a situation, forcing Sikh candidates to remove ‘kirpan’ to sit for the exam has hurt the sentiments of the community,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur.The SGPC president alleged it seemed all this had been done intentionally as after protest by candidates, they were allowed to sit for the test by putting tapes on their ‘kirpans’ to cover them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sgpc-fumes-claims-amritdhari-sikh-aspirants-for-patwari-post-harassed-in-chandigarh-294904
