10-08-2021||Chandigarh||NIT Kurukshetra professor Baldev Setia is now PEC’s new director||The Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has appointed Baldev Setia as its new director, the institution said in its statement on Tuesday.A graduate of Civil Engineering in 1985 and post-graduate of Water Resources Engineering in 1992, both from Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra, Setia has been a professor in the Department of Civil Engineering of National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, since 2006, the statement said.He has over 35 years of experience in teaching, research, consultancy, and administration and got his Ph.D. at the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (India) in 1998.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nit-kurukshetra-professor-baldev-setia-is-now-pecs-new-director-295779
10-08-2021||Amarjot Kaur
||Chandigarh Admn plans to relocate Jeanneret’s sculpture||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 9 The UT Administration is planning to relocate Pierre Jeanneret’s sculpture, which was found broken at Government Nursery School, Sector 16, and get its authenticity established, according to sources.  According to the sources, the UT Urban Planning Department has also issued a communication in this regard. Though there have been rumours that the sculpture is to be shifted to Le Corbusier Centre, it has been confirmed in the communication that it has been planned to relocate it to Jeanneret House in Sector 5. On July 10, Chandigarh Tribune had carried an article on the sculpture’s broken condition at the school and 20 days later, the UT had tasked Le Corbusier Centre and Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi with its restoration work.  Experts say the UT Administration will not have much problem establishing the sculpture’s authenticity. “There’s nothing to prove about this sculpture. It is by Pierre Jeanneret. Its picture is in Marg Magazine and it’s an accountable source,” said Sangeeta Bagga, principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture. She added: “This is a sculpture of learning so we cannot disassociate the environment of learning from the sculpture. We should keep it there.” Hailing the department’s move to restore the sculpture, Kunal Mathur, who earlier shared a picture of him atop the sculpture with Chandigarh Tribune, said: “I am happy that the department is keen to restore the sculpture. Its authenticity, however, can’t be questioned and can be easily established as I have shared a picture of mine, posing on top of the sculpture, with my mother. I have fond memories of my late father who was there when this sculpture was being made. I was with him and saw it being made.”  Despite repeated attempts, the director, Le Corbusier Centre, refused to answer calls or reply to texts sent by the correspondent regarding the future course of restoring the sculpture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-plans-to-relocate-jeannerets-sculpture-295553
10-08-2021||---||Class VII-XII: 23.7 per cent students back to school in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 9Around 23.7 per cent students of class VII to XII at government schools are attending physical classes, revealed the data shared by the UT Education Department today. The government schools opened for classes VII and VIII after a gap of one year today.Of those physically attending classes, a majority of students are from class IX and X. Only 11 per cent students are from junior wings i.e. class VII and VIII, which shows that there is still some amount of hesitancy among the parents of younger children.Today, a total of 15,763 students attended classes in government schools. The schools have been shut for almost a year since the pandemic hit the city in March last year. The schools reopened several times during this period but were again shutdown as cases started rising in August last year, and then in March this year.The number of students coming to schools barely touched 3,000 last year as the fear of Covid loomed large. This time, Chandigarh has achieved a remarkable feat of 95 per cent Covid-19 vaccination coverage with first dose and daily cases have been ranging between three and five. While the parents of students of higher classes are willing to send their wards to schools, those of younger children are still hesitant in view of no vaccine for children and their susceptibility to the virus.The UT Health Department has ensured that the school staff are vaccinated so that children attend schools in a safe environment.Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: “Physical attendance in classrooms is quiet encouraging. Our heads and inspecting officers are keeping a close watch regarding the Covid protocol. The field trial is scheduled for next month but safety and health of our students and teachers remain our first priority.”Meanwhile, private schools in the city have not opened up for classes VII and VIII yet.“In the wake of the random reports of rising numbers of positive cases in some states, most parents are not willing to send their kids to schools, though the latter are excited about the reopening of schools and are looking forward to meet their friends. Even though the private schools have not opened up yet, the kids are insisting upon parents to send consent forms for sending them to schools.“However, practically speaking, since the kids are not being vaccinated and most of the hospital OPDs have not started functioning yet, it is not an easy decision for parents to send their kids to schools. The administration should review the situation practically, and open schools only when the situation is so safe to open up all medical facilities and hospitals too,” said Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents’ Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-vii-xii-23-7-per-cent-students-back-to-school-in-chandigarh-295554
10-08-2021||Panchkula||BJP ruining democratic values: Congress||On the 79th anniversary of the Quit India movement (also known as “August Kranti din”), the local unit of the Congress today staged a protest against the Modi government over various issues such as its alleged dictatorial attitude, farm laws, inflation, skyrocketing fuel prices and Pegasus report. The party accused the BJP of ruining democratic values.The Congress workers, led by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan and Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary, staged the protest at Majri Chowk. Chander Mohan said: “It’s a day of pride for us as on this day in 1942, freedom fighter and Kalka-born Aruna Asaf Ali had hoisted the Tricolour at the Gowalia Tank Maidan in Bombay after the Bombay Session of All-India Congress Committee.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-ruining-democratic-values-congress-295555
10-08-2021||---||Mohali's all-rounder Amanjot Kaur gets maiden Indian team camp call||Chandigarh, August 9All-rounder Amanjot Kaur, daughter of a Mohali-based carpenter, got her maiden Indian probables squad (women) call for the upcoming Australia tour, from the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) today.The 20-year-old all-rounder has already played for India-A team in the Challenger Trophy for U-19 and U-23 categories. After playing for Punjab, she is now registered with the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh.Two other players Tanya Bhatia and Harleen Kaur, who are already part of the Indian senior team, from Chandigarh are also called for this camp.Amanjot practises under local coach Nagesh Gupta, who is working with the UT Sports Department. She will leave to attend the probables camp, to be held at the NCA, Bangalore, tomorrow. She idolises Team India all-rounder Hardik Pandya, and thus improved her game to perfect both her batting and bowling.Today, the BCCI called 35 players for the preparatory camp. “I am happy to get a call for senior’s camp. I was added to the WhatsApp group today. The final team will leave from Bangalore only. I am taking this opportunity as a platform to showcase my talent.“If I get selected in the final squad, it will be completely due to my performance. In the past, I have played well for the India-A squad and also managed to put up a good score in the domestic circuit. During the lockdown restrictions, I made sure that I keep up my fitness at the highest level,” said Amanajot.When asked about the family’s support, she replied: “Despite odds, my father supported me. He never let me down on any front. He always makes sure that I get a good kit, good bat and good coaching. I think it’s my time to make him proud and happy,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohalis-all-rounder-amanjot-kaur-gets-maiden-indian-team-camp-call-295556
10-08-2021||---||The Tee Box Pro-Am Golf Championship: Karandeep Kochhar claims title||Chandigarh, August 9Karandeep Kochhar won the professional category title, while Akshay Sharma claimed the second position on the concluding day of The Tee Box Pro-Am Golf Championship today. He scored a round of 6-under 66 and Sharma scored 5-under 67 to claim the second position.Kochhar’s team of Ajaypal Singh Bajwa, Ram Singh and Sakshi Mehta claimed the team’s title with a score of 130.4 points, while Abhijit Chaddha’s team of Mehar Nijjar, Prateet Singh and Charvi Vaid were runners-up with a score of 130.8 points.Harjai Milkha Singh claimed boys’ tile (11 to 12 years), followed by Neil Jolly at second position. In the boys’ 9-10 years event, Danish Verma claimed the top position and Kairav Singh finished second. In the girls’ category (9-10 years), Ojaswani Saraswat claimed the title. Sohraab Singh and Fatehvir Singh claimed the title of boys’ (7-8 years) category, while Malhar Aulakh and Upraj Singh Mehdiratta won the title in the girls’ (7-8 years) event.Upraj Singh Mehdiratta and Nihaal Cheema were the winners in the 6 years-and-below event, followed by Nihaal Cheema at second position. Gairat Kaur Kahlon won the girls’ (6 years and below) event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-tee-box-pro-am-golf-championship-karandeep-kochhar-claims-title-295557
10-08-2021||---||Mohali civic body given control of industrial areas||Mohali, August 9Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) Ltd today handed over the maintenance and upkeep of Phase VIII-A and VIII-B of Industrial Area here to the Municipal Corporation.Addressing the gathering, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora termed this development as an essential need, and added that the MC had sufficient funds for the maintenance and upkeep of these industrial areas. Exhorting officials of the MC to take this as a challenge, Arora said Mohali was becoming a hub of industrial activities and if they could provide basic infrastructure at the earliest, then the city had the potential to earn the distinction of becoming a major industrial town of the state.Cabinet minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said this was the need of the hour as these industrial areas needed to be revamped in respect of infrastructure. Citing a sorry state of affairs in these areas, he expressed confidence that the MC would now be able to transform these areas in a big way and develop these into a model industrial area. Demanding more funds from the Industries and Commerce Minister to revamp the infrastructure in Mohali, Sidhu said he had no political legacy. “Our political roots go deep into people. The people of the constituency are like a family to us,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-given-control-of-industrial-areas-295558
10-08-2021||---||Youth Cong workers gherao Haryana Staff Selection Commission  office in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 9Workers of the Youth Congress today laid siege to the office of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) in Sector 2 to protest the cancellation of examination for recruitment of male police constable and demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter, alleging corrupt practices by senior officials of the HSSC.Led by a former NSUI state president, Divyanshu Budhiraja, the workers broke the barricades put up by the police to stop them and laid siege to the office. They raised slogans against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Budhiraja, while addressing the protesters, said: “The arrest of a few youths from Kaithal for leaking the papers is just a show-off. The paper leak has a direct connection with senior officials of the HSSC. The CBI should be directed to look into the matter.”The protesters brought with them a memento which they said they wished to present to the HSSC Chairman “for setting a new record of paper leaks”.The HSSC on August 7 cancelled its written examination for the posts of male constables. Saturday was the first day of examination and candidates appeared for the paper across the state in two shifts.Papers were also scheduled for Sunday, but the HSSC cancelled the exams without giving any reason for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-cong-workers-gherao-haryana-staff-selection-commission-office-in-panchkula-295559
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Proposed exotic bird aviary near Sukhna Lake illegal: Maneka Gandhi to Chandigarh||Raising the issue of an exotic bird aviary being set up in the city, former minister and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi has said “this is illegal and no one is allowed to sell birds in the country”.Also read: Chandigarh aviary to have over 40 species of exotic birdsIn a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Maneka said it had been brought to her notice that the UT Administration had brought out a tender to buy 1,500 rare exotic birds for a walk-in aviary at Nagar Van (city forest) near Sukhna Lake. “This is illegal. No one is allowed to sell birds in this country and sellers are regularly caught and jailed. Many of these birds are not bred in India but smuggled from other countries where these are becoming increasingly rare.”All legal aspects taken care of’In response to the letter, Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said all legal aspects had been taken care of in regard to the aviary. A necessary clarification would also be submitted to the Union Ministry, he said, adding that looking at the size of the aviary, no unethical treatment would be meted out to the birds housed there. It was being set up in the larger interests of the public, he said, adding that the birds would get a natural habitat and also get food and water. Besides, veterinary experts would be there to take care of the birds. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proposed-exotic-bird-aviary-near-sukhna-lake-illegal-maneka-gandhi-to-chandigarh-295560
10-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||SOP for probe fails to find favour with HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9The standard operating procedure (SOP) prepared by the UT Director General of Police (DGP) for investigating the bank fraud cases has failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi also directed the DGP to take appropriate action for review and modification of the SOP prepared. Justice Tyagi, in February, had asked the police chiefs of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to prepare and circulate within three months the SOPs for probing such cases.Justice Tyagi had asserted that waiver of part or entire bank loan obtained by a fraudster was a fraud on the Constitution and investors and was impermissible.Modify procedureThe court told the Chandigarh DGP to review and modify the SOP for investigating bank fraud cases. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi asserted undue emphasis had been placed on investigating the role of bank officers/officials by investigating officers as far as the UT was concerned.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Tyagi asserted undue emphasis had been placed on investigating the role of bank officers/officials by the investigating officers as far as UT Chandigarh was concerned. Undue emphasis had also been placed on compliance with the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the policies adopted by the banks, he said.Justice Tyagi added such matters would generally be covered by the internal departmental proceedings and internal audit reports of the banks concerned. As such, investigation in this regard would be wastage of the investigating officers’ valuable time. It would also shift the focus and divert the attention to secondary matters, instead of focusing and paying attention to the primary matter of investigation into offences of fraud/forgery and collecting valuable evidence in this regard.“Therefore, the Director General of Police, UT, Chandigarh, is directed to take appropriate action for review and modification of the SOP prepared,” Justice Tyagi concluded.The High Court, on a previous date of hearing, had asserted that RBI’s 2019-20 annual report showed frauds involving Rs1 lakh and above reported by banks and financial institution shot up by 28 per cent in volume and 159 per cent by value. The number jumped to 8,707 involving Rs1,85,655 crore in 2019-20. Public sector banks topped the list with 4,413 cases involving Rs1,48,400 crore.The Bench had added a fraudster was required to be vigilantly prosecuted, sternly punished and disqualified for future loans from other banks till repayment to prevent cheating of financial institutions one after the other.Delay in probe enabled offenders to tamper with/destroy evidence, adversely affecting credibility and efficacy of criminal justice administration system as offenders roamed free enjoying fruits of crime, the Bench had observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sop-for-probe-fails-to-find-favour-with-hc-295561
10-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Coaching institute asked to refund Rs 44K fee to 
Chandigarh student||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a coaching centre to refund the fee to a student who left the institute midway alleging unsatisfactory service.Jai Krishna Das Saini, a resident of Sector 37, Chandigarh, said he took admission in the institute for the preparation of JEE (Mains) and JEE (Advance) as well as for the board exams.He said the institute assured that the class strength would be 30:1 and would help prepare for JEE as well as board examinations. Accordingly, he paid Rs1,10,055 fee to the institute. After he joined the institute, the classes became overcrowded with the passing of time and the teaching so imparted by teachers at the institute was found to be unsatisfactory. They were also not imparting coaching for board examinations. Therefore, he left the institute in October 2019 and sought refund of the remaining fee, but to no avail.The institute filed a reply and denied the charges. It said the institute supplied study material to the complainant costing around Rs5,500 and he attended the classes from May 22, 2019 to October 7, 2019. Thereafter, he left the institute voluntarily. It also submitted that the institute was only liable to refund 25 per cent of the total amount only when the student leaves the institute within three months by giving genuine and acceptable reasons.It said the complainant never raised any concern with the institute regarding study. He voluntarily left the institute without any specific reason on October 7, 2019 and sought refund of his money.After hearing the arguments and examining the records, the commission held the institute guilty of deficiency in services. The commission said since the complainant attended the classes for 4½ months and had also been provided with study material by the opposite party, so he was not entitled for full refund. He was rather entitled for refund of 40 per cent of the amount paid by him to the institute (including charges of study material provided by the opposite party).In view of this, the commission directed the Institute to refund an amount of Rs44,022 to the complainant (i.e. 40 per cent of Rs1,10,055). The order should be complied with by the opposite party within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of its copy, failing which it would be liable to pay additional cost of Rs15,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coaching-institute-asked-to-refund-rs-44k-fee-to-chandigarh-student-295562
10-08-2021||Zirakpur||Six of 2 gangs arrested for loot, carjacking in Zirakpur||The police arrested six members of two gangs for forcibly taking away a vehicle at gunpoint on June 24 and looting a house in Lohgarh on June 22.The suspects arrested for looting a house at gunpoint in Sharma Estate here on June 22 have been identified as Captain, alias Kapil, currently residing in Burail, Naseem Ahmed and Javed Ahmed, presently residing in Bhabat. They all are natives of Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.The vehicles used in the crime have also been recovered. A total of six persons were involved in the incident. Of this, four persons arrived on motorcycles and two suspects came in a separate vehicle, which was stolen earlier. Three suspects are yet to be arrested. The police are yet to recover the looted jewellery from them.The police said Captain had hatched a plan to loot Jaidev, regional manager of Muthoot Finance, after he withheld his Rs7,000 for the woodwork done by him four years ago. The suspects looted jewellery worth Rs11.80 lakh and Rs20,000 from the house after taking three people hostage.Zirakpur DSP Amroz Singh said in another case Vijay Sharma, a resident of Sector 66, Mohali, was robbed of his car and valuables at gunpoint on June 24 around 2.45 am.The police arrested three members of a gang in this connection. They have been identified as Jaspreet Singh, alias Nupi, a resident of Dhadi village, Kiratpur Sahib, Jaswinder Singh, alias Binder, a resident of Fatehpur Banga in Kiratpur Sahib, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Sorav, a resident of Bunga Sahib village, Kiratpur Sahib.A stolen car and ammunition used in t he crime have also been recovered from their possession. The police are investigating the matter.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 379-B, 506 and 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act at the Zirakpur police station. Looted house at gunpointThe suspects arrested for looting a house at gunpoint in Sharma Estate here on June 22 have been identified as Captain, alias Kapil, currently residing in Burail, Naseem Ahmed and Javed Ahmed, presently residing in Bhabat. They all are natives of Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.Robbed man of car, valuablesZirakpur DSP Amroz Singh said in another case Vijay Sharma, a resident of Sector 66, Mohali, was robbed of his car and valuables at gunpoint on June 24 around 2.45 am. The police arrested three members of a gang in this connection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-of-2-gangs-arrested-for-loot-carjacking-in-zirakpur-295563
10-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Pandemic takes a toll on CITCO, Chandigarh MC’s food outlets||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9Losses due to the Covid-19 has led to the closure of some of the popular government-leased out food joints in city.The agencies have surrendered the operations of CITCO’s ‘Stop n Stare’ in Sector 10, Sector 34 based ‘Drop in’, and MC’s food joint in Shanti Kunj, Sector 16.The authorities have now invited expression of interest from interested parties for licensing out these outlets.For ‘Drop in’, the interested parties can submit their bids till August 18. For ‘Stop n stare’, the last date for applying is August 16. Authorities invite expression of interestFor Shanti Kunj outlet, along with four shops each at the Terraced Garden in Sector 33 and Shivalik Garden, Mani Majra, open auction will be held on August 26. These outlets will be given on monthly rent basis.Anurag Sharma, who was running the ‘Drop in’ and ‘Stop n stare’ outlets, said: “There were huge losses due to Covid. There was no footfall owing to the closure of educational institutions. To top it all, few customers who used to visit also stopped coming as the authorities opened a testing centre right in front of the Stop n Stare entrance.”Sharma also blamed the UT Administration for the closure of ‘Drop in’.“At the time of taking the premises, it was allowed to run a pub there. But after I took over, the liquor license was not granted. I was asked to contact different departments and it did not work out. Thus, I have surrendered,” he said.Prem Pal, CITCO Union president, felt: “CITCO should run the operations itself rather than privatising it. If CITCO outlets were in losses earlier, they were due to its bad policies.”As far as Shanti Kunj is concerned, according to information, in December 2019 it was allotted to a contractor. But, in March 2020, Covid hit its operations and the contractor surrendered. Since then, there were no takers for it despite repeated attempts of the MC.Meanwhile, visitors miss the outlets at these popular places. All of these are lying closed and dumped. Due to closure, their maintenance has also taken a toll and the outlets present a picture of neglect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pandemic-takes-a-toll-on-citco-chandigarh-mcs-food-outlets-295564
10-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Synthetic track still a dream for Chandigarh athletes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9From politicians to officials everyone danced to the tunes of dhols soon after javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra created history by winning a gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics. However, when it comes to laying of a synthetic track in Chandigarh, no one is bothered to contribute.Champions are obviously made with sheer dedication, but they need a favourable environment to blossom. Chopra was lucky enough to get the right guidance and right exposure at a right time, but that isn’t the case with many other athletes.The case for laying the city’s first synthetic track is not new. Announcements were made on a number of times in the past but nothing moved on ground.After making several promises, the project to lay an all-weather synthetic track made of polyurethane was finally put on paper in 2012. However, the plan remained restricted to official files for one year.In 2013, when the film ‘Bhaag Milkha Bhaag’ – based on the life of iconic sprinter Milkha Singh – was released, the authorities restarted the process. It was decided to lay a full-fledged 10-lane track, but the lack of space forced the planners to think on a seven-lane track instead.The Sector 46 Sports Complex was shortlisted for the project and the planning committee raised the demand for acquiring some area of the Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, touching the boundary of the sports complex, to make enough room for the laying of the turf.With the space being a constraint, the project was later shifted to the Sector 7 Sports Complex and an estimate of Rs 3.90 crore was submitted for laying an eight-lane synthetic turf at the site.“Nothing has changed in Chandigarh since he (Neeraj) last played here. No development on Panjab University grounds, no development on the Sector 7 Sports Complex… it’s all the same. But when it comes to celebrating the victory, they will all rush to dance,” said an athletics coach. “Having a synthetic track is a basic need these days, but not for Chandigarh it seems,” said the coach.Chopra participated in the 2015 Panjab University inter-college meet and before that he used to train at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Panchkula.When this reporter tried to get a comment from Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar on the issue, his office replied: “Sir will think and reply.”Chopra represented DAV College at the same PU grounds and nothing has changed since then, apart from fencing the arena. The same is the case with the Sector 7 Sports Complex.In 10 years, Chopra with his determination could win a gold medal for the country in the Olympics, but the authorities concerned couldn’t ensure a synthetic track for city athletes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/synthetic-track-still-a-dream-for-chandigarh-athletes-295565
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket Tourney: Mohali beat Bathinda, claim title||A fine contribution by Jahsanjot Singh (66) and Aryan Bhatia (55) helped Mohali win the Punjab State Inter-District U-19 One-Day Cricket Tournament. The hosts registered a 26-run over Bathinda (by VJD method) in a rain-interrupted match.Batting first, Mohali lads posted 242/5 in 50 overs. Bhatia and Jahsanjot raised a 64-run partnership for the fourth wicket. Bhatia was trapped in front by Delove Kumar Goel for 55 off 69 balls and Jahsanjot posted unbeaten 68 off 63 balls.Earlier, Jobanpreet Singh and Rushil Srivastva opened the innings and raised a 55-run partnership. However, the partnership was broken after Jobanpreet was run out for 29 off 42 balls. Srivastva and Bhatia added 44 runs for the third wicket. Srivastva fall prey to Abir Kohli for 52 of 81 balls. Goel (2/36) was the lone main wicket taker for the bowling side.After the rain interrupted the match, the target was revised to 128 runs in 26 overs. However, Bathinda lads could only score 102/2 in 26 overs. Uday Partap Sharan (37) and Shiv (31) were the two main run scorers for the side. Raguvar Narang (2/22) was the main wicket taker for the bowling side. The winners were awarded Rs50,000 and a winners’ trophy, while the runners-up bagged Rs25,000 and a trophy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-tourney-mohali-beat-bathinda-claim-title-295566
10-08-2021||---||Power Privatisation in Chandigarh: Panel gives nod to highest bidder||Chandigarh, August 9The Empowered Committee on privatisation of the UT Electricity Department has given its approval to the highest bid quoted by Kolkata-based Eminent Electricity Distribution Limited.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the report of the committee would now be submitted to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for approval.After getting a nod from the Administrator, the report would be sent to the Ministry of Power for further action. However, the final call on the issue would be taken by the Union Cabinet.Eminent Electricity Distribution Limited – a subsidiary of CESC Limited, which is a flagship company of RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group – had submitted the highest bid of Rs871 crore. The amount is five times the reserve price of nearly Rs174 crore. The financial bids were opened on August 4.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department and seven companies – Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company – had submitted their bids.Meanwhile, the UT Powermen Union has given a call for one-day strike on Tuesday to protest the UT Administration’s decision to privatise the Electricity Department.The UT Administration though warned that the government employees participating in the strike would be liable to disciplinary action.“The Chandigarh Administration has always been sympathetic to the genuine demands of the electricity employees and there is no cause for any strike by the employees,” stated the Administration.“The principle of ‘no work, no pay’ shall be strictly enforced. The employees are, therefore, advised to attend duty. The defaulting employees will also be liable for other disciplinary action,” the Administration added.Necessary arrangements for maintaining the continuity of power supply has been made, but chances of failure of power supply due to any untoward incident cannot be ruled out.The authorities requested the public in general to contact complaint centre in their area for any electricity related complaint. Besides, they can also contact the control room.The public is also requested to keep a vigil on the electricity lines and in case they find anyone indulging in sabotage, they may inform the police control room and contact following numbers: 0172-2703242 (control room Sector 17), 0172-2740475 (control room Sector 9) and 0172-4639999 (citizen facilitation centre), the Administration added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-privatisation-in-chandigarh-panel-gives-nod-to-highest-bidder-295567
10-08-2021||---||Accused facing rape charge denied bail||Chandigarh, August 9A court has dismissed the bail application of an accused, Ritik Sharma, facing charges under Sections 376 (rape) of the IPC and Section 6 (sexual assault on child) of the POCSO Act, 2012.The police had arrested the suspect after registering a case against himon a complaint of the victim’s father in February this year.The counsel for the accused claimed that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. He also argued that the victim had been examined, who had not supported the case of prosecution.The public prosecutor opposed the bail application stating that the allegations against the petitioner-accused were grave in nature. The public prosecutor argued that the investigating agency had investigated the matter and zero FIR was registered on a complaint of the victim’s father.After hearing the arguments, the court denied the bail to the accused, saying that the allegations against the petitioner-accused were grave in nature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-facing-rape-charge-denied-bail-295568
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sumit Rajain of Sector 19-C govt school brings laurels||Cyclist hit by car, diesChandigarh: A cyclist was killed after being hit by a car at Sector 52. Vivek, a resident of Sector 52, reported that the cycle, being ridden by his grandfather Kailash, was hit by a car near the D park in the sector. The victim, a resident of Burail, Sector 45, was injured and rushed to the PGI, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police have booked the driver, Kiranpal Singh. TNSWomen attend health talkChandigarh: As many as 50 women from Dhanas attended a health talk on ‘mental health problems in women’ at Faith Hospital here. The talk was organised in collaboration with NGO Naya Sawera Welfare Society. Addressing the talk, Dr Damanjit Kaur, senior psychiatrist, said women’s mental health was multi-factorial, which was determined by both biological and social factors. TNS100 screened at health campZirakpur: As many as 100 people were screened at a free multi-specialty health camp organised by Amcare Super-Specialty Hospital, Zirakpur, at Baltana to mark its 4th anniversary on Monday. The camp was organised in collaboration with NGO Nayi Kiran. TNS2 bodies found near rly lineChandigarh: Two unidentified bodies were found near the railway line in Chandigarh on Monday. While the one body was found lying near the Chandigarh-Mohali railway line about 7:00 am, the other was located on the side of the railway line near Mani Majra in the afternoon, said Raj Kumar, SHO, Chandigarh GRP. “It seems they were hit by a speeding train,” said Raj Kumar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sumit-rajain-of-sector-19-c-govt-school-brings-laurels-295569
10-08-2021||---||Youth’s death in mishap: Chandigarh cops collect CCTV footage to identify SUV||Chandigarh, August 9The UT police today collected the footage of CCTV cameras installed outside showrooms at the Sector 26 market to identify the white Fortuner that sped away after hitting a youth, who was being reportedly chased by bouncers, resulting in his death.The police said since the incident was reported from a slip road, there was a possibility that the SUV might have been captured in cameras installed at the market. The police said the footage of cameras installed in the club was also scrutinised to establish the chain of events. The victim, Pradeep, along with his friends Parshant and Anil, had come for a party at a club, ASOD, and the trio took liquor at the club.Anil, in his statement to the police, alleged that they were thrashed by bouncers after which he was asked to leave from the rear gate, while Pradeep and Parshant were taken outside from the front gate. Pradeep was also thrashed outside the club and was chased by the bouncers following which he escaped towards the slip road and got hit by a white Fortuner that sped away towards the grain market chowk.Club manager, owner heldClub manager Sahil and owner Ajay Gupta were arrested today and released on bail for opening the club beyond the permissible time limit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youths-death-in-mishap-chandigarh-cops-collect-cctv-footage-to-identify-suv-295570
10-08-2021||---||Water near danger mark, Sukhna floodgate opened||Chandigarh, August 9One of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake was opened at 11.30 am today after its water level reached near the danger mark of 1,163 ft.Due to rain in the city and the catchment area of the lake, the water level today reached 1,162.5 ft, just 7 inches below the danger mark. However, the gate was closed around 12.45 pm after the water level came down to 1,161.8 ft.UT Chief Engineer CB Ojha said the gate was opened as a precautionary measure only for nearly an hour.Closed after over an hourThe water level in Sukhna Lake yesterday evening had reached 1,162.3 ft, 9 inches below the danger mark and on August 2, the water level of lake had reached 1,161.4 ft, 1.8 ft below the danger mark.The two floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake had crossed the danger mark. Before this, on September 24, 2018, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two floodgates of the lake. At that time, the gates were opened after a gap of 10 years. After opening of the floodgates, the Sukhna choe carries the excess water of the lake to the Ghaggar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-near-danger-mark-sukhna-floodgate-opened-295574
10-08-2021||---||Middukhera murder case: 2 days on, police ‘zero in’ on two assailants||Mohali, August 9Two days after Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, a Youth Akali Dal leader, was shot dead by four assailants in Sector 71, the police have reportedly identified two of them, one who fired at the victim and another who was sitting in the car.Meanwhile, two suspects have also been rounded up from Ropar and Kurali in connection with the stolen vehicle used in the crime.The name of Vinay Deora, brother of gangster Lavi Deora, has also cropped up during the probe, but the police refused to confirm it.Sources said two persons, similar in appearance to the assailants, were seen near the deceased’s house in Sector 71 early morning on the day of the crime.Unanswered questions The CCTV footage showed that one of the two assailants who fired at Middukhera held the pistol in his left hand. Sources said Vinay Deora too had been spotted by the police several times operating with his left hand.Hours after the murder, the Davinder Bambiha gang, through a Facebook post, had claimed responsibility, but the post has now been deleted. The police have not been able to figure out whether the Facebook posts, ‘zero in’ on 2 assailants that of the Bambiha group claiming responsibility of the murder, and the retaliatory post by the Lawrence Bishnoi group of avenging the murder, were made from a mobile phone or a computer. The exact location from where the messages were posted too remains an unsolved puzzle.However, it has been confirmed that the weapon used in the crime was a 30 bore pistol. The vehicle used in the crime was stolen and the registration number affixed on the white car was fake.DSP Gursher Singh Sandhu said, “We are working on the case. Several suspects have been questioned. The leads are being developed.”Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “We are verifying the Facebook posts, the people behind it and the locations from where they are being made. All aspects of the case are being investigated. The suspects will be arrested soon.Gangsters Buddha, Aman to be grilledGangsters Sukhpreet Buddha and Aman were brought on production warrants from two different jails of Punjab for questioning in the case. They were produced before the court for police remand, said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/middukhera-murder-case-2-days-on-police-zero-in-on-two-assailants-295580
10-08-2021||---||Five cases in UT||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-cases-in-ut-295582
10-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Diarrhoea outbreak in Zirakpur's Baltana?||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 9A day after a three-year-old girl died allegedly due to diarrhoea, another person succumbed to the infection in the Baltana area of Zirakpur today, while the condition of three more is stated to be critical.The deceased, Ravinder Kumar (30), of Ekta Vihar used to work as a labourer.Yesterday, three-year-old Sunaina had died after complaining of vomiting and loose motions.A total of 171 more cases were reported from Ekta Vihar, Ravindra Enclave and Harmilap Nagar in Baltana today. Around 60 patients have been admitted to the Civil Hospital in Panchkula.Interestingly, the civic body has so far failed to find the source of contamination.Girish Verma, Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Zirakpur, who visited the area, said the civic body was checking the source of impurity in drinking water as there was a suspicion of sewage getting mixed with the supply.A nine-year-old boy had died due to cholera outbreak in the adjoining Abheypur village in Panchkula last month.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, while confirming the death of Ravinder Kumar, said the “deceased had complained of vomiting and loose motions and died today”.She said they had carried out a door-to-door survey of 426 households in the area and distributed 300 packets of ORS and 1,000 tablets of chlorine.Besides, blood and stool samples had been collected to verify the cause of the infection. Water samples were also being tested, Dr Kaur informed.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the water supply to the area had been stopped and residents were provided drinking water through tankers.Dayalan said he had also sought a report from the Sub-Divisional Magistrate.He said a medical camp had been set up and health workers, along with an ambulance, had been stationed in the area.Meanwhile, senior SAD leader and local MLA NK Sharma visited the affected area and blamed the Congress government for the outbreak, saying that “they completely failed to do their job”.Sharma demanded that a “murder case” be registered against the officials who were responsible for the contamination of water. He also sought Rs25 lakh as compensation for the families of each victim.60 admitted to Civil Hospital in PanchkulaA total of 171 more cases were reported from Ekta Vihar, Ravindra Enclave and Harmilap Nagar in Baltana on Monday. Around 60 patients have been admitted to the Civil Hospital in Panchkula. The civic body has so far failed to find the source of contamination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diarrhoea-outbreak-in-zirakpurs-baltana-295586
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress leader Pardeep Chhabra asked to take his resignation back||Former head of the city’s Congress unit Pardeep Chhabra today claimed that he had been asked by Chandigarh Congress in-charge Harish Rawat to withdraw his resignation.“He (Rawat) asked me to withdraw my resignation. I shared my concerns with him and he said he will take it up with the party high command,” claimed Chhabra, who had resigned from the primary membership of the party on Friday.His resignation, however, has not been accepted so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-leader-pardeep-chhabra-asked-to-take-his-resignation-back-295588
10-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Relief in site, 15-foot-high boundary wall coming up at Dadu Majra dumping ground||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9In a major relief to Dadu Majra residents and commuters, Chandigarh Smart City Limited has started work on constructing a 15-foot-high boundary wall around the waste dumping ground. It is aimed at stopping leachate coming from the dumping ground on the road and the residential area.The work started a week ago and has a three-month deadline. Harjinder Singh, chairman of the Dadu Majra Residents Welfare Association, said, “The leachate often comes on the road and is risky for commuters. It also causes foul smell in the area. If built properly, the wall will rid people of the leachate of rainwater entering the area from the dumping ground. However, the construction of this wall has left no scope for the widening of this narrow road.” In June, there was more trouble for residents as dirty water from the waste dump flooded the nearby street at Dadu Majra after a part of the then existing old boundary wall gave way.‘Will rid people of leachate’Leachate often comes on the road and is risky for commuters. It also causes foul smell in the area. If built properly, the wall will rid people of the leachate of rainwater.—Harjinder Singh, Chairman of the Dadu Majra RWAWork underway on war footingThe work is going on a war footing. The 15-foot-high boundary wall will not let any trash or dirty water enter the residential area. It will be a big respite for people.— Ravi Kant Sharma, MayorResidents living close to the boundary wall are having a tough time as rain and dirty water flowing from the dump compounds their problem. Bike riders often skid due to slippery conditions caused by the leachate.“The work is going on a war footing. The 15-foot-high boundary wall will not let any trash or dirty water enter the residential area. It will be a big respite for people,” said Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. NP Sharma, General Manager, Smart City, said the work would be completed in three months.The work is part of the sanitary landfill site project being undertaken by Smart City through a private agency at Dadu Majra. The 8-acre site will be used for dumping non-recyclable solid waste generated in the city. The site will be covered with another boundary wall. The waste dumped there will be covered at all times. No foul smell will be generated at the site. The leachate, which comes on the road and the neighbouring colony, would be treated and sent through the sewerage. It will be done in a scientific way and there will be no pollution, according to officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relief-in-site-15-foot-high-boundary-wall-coming-up-at-dadu-majra-dumping-ground-295598
10-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Chandigarh-Manali highway full of potholes, hoteliers upset||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 9Hoteliers of Kullu and Manali are upset with the poor condition of the Chandigarh-Manali national highway, which has affected their business in the past few years.The highway is full of potholes between Sundernagar and Pandoh in Mandi district due to the ongoing work of the Kiratpur-Manali road widening project. The road stretch between Mandi and Pandoh has become prone to landslides due to deep cutting of hills in the area.The highway has remained blocked due to frequent landslides during this rainy season. The damaged highway has become a death trap for motorcyclists, especially those travelling during night, as they fail to negotiate potholes.Rajender Mohan, a councillor of the Municipal Corporation Mandi, has also raised the issue with the district administration. He has urged the Deputy Commissioner to ask the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to repair and maintain the road to avoid fatal accidents.Tourists facing inconvenienceThere is urgent need to accomplish the construction work of the highway in the stipulated time. Due to the poor condition of the highway, tourists travelling to Kullu and Manali are being inconvenienced. —Hem Raj Sharma, HotelierHem Raj Sharma, a hotelier in Manali town, says, “There is urgent need to accomplish the construction work of the highway in the stipulated time. Due to the poor condition of the highway, tourists travelling to Kullu and Manali are being inconvenienced. It takes them long hours to reach Manali, making the journey cumbersome”.Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association Manali, says, “The state and Central governments should ask the authorities concerned to speed up the construction work on the highway and complete it in a time-bound manner. Due to the delay in the completion of the road project, the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali is suffering”.“Kullu and Manali lack good air connectivity because of the delay in the expansion of the Bhuntar airport. As a result, the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali is facing difficulties in attracting high-end tourists. This road project is the lifeline of the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali and we are waiting desperately for its completion,” he adds.Naveen Mishra, Director of the NHAI in Mandi, says that efforts are being made to complete the project in time. “We are hopeful that the highway stretch between Sundernagar and Nerchowk will be completed by November this year, while the stretch between Nerchowk and Pandoh will take at least one year because of the tough terrain”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-manali-highway-full-of-potholes-hoteliers-upset-295367
10-08-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s NGO had plan to build ‘banquet hall’ on gaushala land in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9Though Health Minister Balbir Sidhu has been claiming that there will be no other activity except keeping stray cattle on the 10-acre panchayat land allotted for a gaushala to his NGO, it has come to light that there was a plan to build a banquet hall on it.Never knew thisThe only proposal cited by the NGO for taking land from us was gaushala. There was no mention of either a banquet hall or a temple. Bahadur Singh, Balongi SarpanchMeant for poorThe plan to build a banquet hall was not for commercial activities, but functions to be held by the poor people. — Naresh Kansal, NGO General SecretaryLast week, the Health Minister had come in the eye of the storm when over 10 acres of prime land of Balongi panchayat in Mohali was allocated to Bal Gopal Gau Basera Welfare Society, an NGO registered at his Mohali residence address. The minister is also president of the NGO.The minister had claimed that the land would solely be used to take care of stray cattle and there will be no other commercial activity on the premises. However, as per the documents in possession of The Tribune, there was a plan to build a banquet hall on the land. As per a resolution of the NGO prepared in October last year and signed by its general secretary Naresh Kansal, besides gaushala, mandir and diagnostic centre, building of a banquet hall was also part of the plan.Besides, it has been mentioned that trustees would bear the expenses of the building. Kansal claimed the banquet hall was to be built not for commercial activities, but the poor people so that they can hold their functions.However, neither the panchayat nor villagers are convinced with anything other than the gaushala. Balongi Sarpanch Bahadur Singh said the only proposal cited for taking the land from them was gaushala. “There was no mention of either banquet hall or a temple,” he said.Under the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act 1961 there is no provision to build any religious establishment on the panchayat land. All attempts to contact the Health Minister remained futile as his staff refused to connect to him. The land in Balongi was allotted on 33 years lease to the society at Rs 25,000 per acre annually, much lower than the prevailing market rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhus-ngo-had-plan-to-build-banquet-hall-on-gaushala-land-in-mohali-295343
10-08-2021||Archit Watts||Middukhera Murder: Revenge posts surface, Punjab cops fear gang war; vigil up||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 9The intelligence wing and organised crime control unit of the state police are on high alert as the chances of a gang war are reportedly high after the broad daylight murder of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky Middukhera, in Mohali on Saturday.It’s a personal loss: SukhbirCM must call all-party meet: AAPA few hours after Vicky’s death was confirmed, a post on the Facebook page in the name of gangster Davinder Bambiha had taken responsibility of the murder. On Sunday, two posts in the names of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and gangster Sampat Nehra vowed to avenge Vicky’s murder.Notably, the state government is already under fire over the present law and order situation and the state election are also due early next year. Further, these posts doing rounds on the social media have triggered panic among commoners.A farmer today requested the district administration to increase his quota to carry cartridges from 25 to 50, citing the present situation in the state. “Those living in the outskirts of villages are most vulnerable. So, we should be permitted to carry double the amount of cartridges for security reasons,” he said.A retired police officer, who closely watched such activities during his service, said: “Almost every month, one such horrific incident is taking place in the state. Most of these youngsters, who are involved in criminal activities, were once friends during their student life. Later, they split into separate groups and now running after each other. Most of them are fitness freak, well-connected and belong to well-off families. Just a few of them did not grow from student politics and directly entered the world of crime. Every time a gang acts, the other tries to react and the police try to thwart such incidents.”A senior police officer said: “Vicky had mass appeal among youngsters and friends in all political parties, who are sulking now. It is our duty to keep a watch on all developments. We have seen some Facebook posts related to Vicky’s murder as well.” Sources said the police had prepared a dossier of all those involved in major brawls recently and keeping a tab on their activities. “Independence Day is approaching and if a similar incident happens at this juncture, it will bring a bad name to the police. We have been told to increase vigil,” said sources in the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/middukhera-murder-revenge-posts-surface-punjab-cops-fear-gang-war-vigil-up-295352
10-08-2021||Mohali||Now, pay Mohali water bills online||Punjab will soon introduce online payment of water supply bills in all villages across the state in a phased manner.Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Razia Sultana announced this while launching an online billing and revenue monitoring system for payment of water supply bills in villages of Mohali district. After successful completion of a pilot project for seven months, the online system would be introduced in all districts of Punjab soon, she added. Sultana said rural consumers would get their bills through SMS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-pay-mohali-water-bills-online-295363
