11-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 5 new cases of Covid-19||Five new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Chandigarh on Wednesday as the total number of cases reached 61,997.The number of active cases is 35 as one patient has been discharged, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The death toll in the city remains 811.As many as 1,842 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and a positivity rate of 0.27 per cent was recorded.The number of people who have got the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine is 7,11,341 while 2,29,923 have got both the doses. As many as 7,868 people were vaccinated on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-5-new-cases-of-covid-19-296248
11-08-2021||---||Ban on meat shops near IAF station in Mohali||Mohali, August 10The district administration today imposed a ban on opening of meat shops and dumping its waste within an area of 1,000 meters from the Air Force Station.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan issued the orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (Act No. 2 of 1974). The orders will remain in force till September 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ban-on-meat-shops-near-iaf-station-in-mohali-295847
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm activists protest at Chandigarh Mayor’s event, detained||Members of the BKU Charuni, formerly Naujawan Kisan Ekta, protested in Sector 44-A, where city Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma was scheduled to visit. However, six of them were rounded up and taken to the Sector 36 police station. They were released after two hours when the event ended.The road, starting from Krishna Mandir to the turn near Sood Bhawan, was barricaded.Kirpal Singh, president of the unit, said: “We got to know about the event at noon and around 10-15 of us gathered there to stage a symbolic protest as per a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. We raised slogans against the farm laws, but were rounded up by the police.” He said: “We were taken to the police station at 1 pm and released a few hours later.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-protest-at-chandigarh-mayors-event-detained-295849
11-08-2021||---||Aryan, Sarthak to vie for tennis title in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 10Aryan Thakur will face Sarthak Arora in the boys’ U-18 final during the ongoing Roots-AITA U-18 National Ranking CS3 Tennis Championship.In the semi-finals played today, Thakur defeated Chahalpreet Singh 9-6 and fourth seed Arora ousted Harmanjit Singh 9-3.In the girls’ U-18 quarterfinals, Gursimrat Kaur defeated third seed Radhika Vasudeva 8-6. Diva Bhatia blanked Kanak Shekhawat and Harleen Kaur outclassed Vanya Arora by identical scores of 8-0. Isheeta Midha defeated Sidhak Kaur 8-7(5) in another match.Results (pre-quarterfinals)Girls (U-18): Isheeta Midha bt Riya Kaushik 8-7(8), Sidhak Kaur bt Anusha Verma 8-4, Kanak Shekhawat bt Ira Chadha 8-3, Diva Bhatia bt Sargun Singh 8-2, Radhika Vasudeva bt Radha Sadhra 8-1, Gursimrat Kaur beat Ayushi Prajapat 8-2, Vanya Arora bt Khushleen Kaur 8-3, Harleen Kaur bt Shrawasti Kundilya 8-0.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aryan-sarthak-to-vie-for-tennis-title-in-chandigarh-295850
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Unknown car driver booked for cop’s death in Chandigarh||Almost one and a half months after a UT police constable died in a road accident, the police registered a case against an unknown car driver.An unknown vehicle had hit Constable Ranbir Singh near the Sector 35/36 Small Chowk on June 25. He was admitted to the GMCH-32, where he succumbed to his injuries on June 26. The police have registered a case against the unknown car driver at the Sector 36 police station on the complaint of Head Constable Bhim Singh of PCR. The victim was posted at the Police Lines, Sector 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unknown-car-driver-booked-for-cops-death-in-chandigarh-295851
11-08-2021||---||One nabbed for theft at Panchkula house||Panchkula, August 10The Crime Branch of the Panchkula police today claimed to have nabbed a person for stealing a laptop and gold and silver jewellery from a house in Sector 25 here.The accused has been identified as Gobind Kumar, a native of Samaspur village in Hardoi district of Uttar Pradesh and presently living in Bhana village near Sector 25, Panchkula. The accused was today produced in a court, which remanded him to four-day police custody.The police said Pawan Kumar, a native of Busana village in Sonipat district and presently living in Sector 25, in his complaint, stated that he went to his native place on July 30. When he returned home on August 2, he found the lock of the main door broken.He said when he went inside the house, he found household items scattered. After checking, he found that a laptop, gold earrings, a gold nose pin, six silver bracelets, other silver jewellery, a ceiling fan, a gas cylinder, a bag, a folding, utensils and some clothes were missing.A case against an unidentified person was registered under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station. The police said further investigations in the case were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-nabbed-for-theft-at-panchkula-house-295852
11-08-2021||---||Lalru man arrested for firing at car occupants||Panchkula, August 10The Crime Branch of the Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested a suspect for opening fire at a car with an intention to kill its occupants in Raipur Rani here on July 12.The accused has been identified as Sarvjeet, alias Jani, a resident of Dharamgarh village near Lalru in Mohali district. He was produced in a court, which remanded him to four-day police custody.The police said Sumit Chhabra, a resident of Ward No. 1, Raipur Rani, in his complaint, had stated that he, along with his brother, is running a shop, “Chhabra Mobile and Repair Shop”, at Trilokpur Chowk in Raipur Rani. After closing the shop on July 12, they were returning home in their Alto car around 8.30 pm. When he was getting his vehicle refuelled at a petrol station, three motorcycle-borne miscreants came from the backside of Shiv temple and fired at his car.He said they escaped unhurt in the mishap, but both front window glasses were damaged. A piece of the broken glass had hit an eye of his brother. The miscreants had covered their faces. They could not note down the registration number or make of the motorcycle.A case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the suspects. The Sector 10 Crime Branch would be investigating the case further to arrest two other suspects involved in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalru-man-arrested-for-firing-at-car-occupants-295853
11-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Hitting Chandigarh cop at naka: Charges framed against 22-year-old accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10A court has framed charges against a 22-year-old youth, Paras Arora, who was arrested for allegedly hitting ASI Ramesh Chand of the UT police with his car at a naka in Sector 20 here.The court has framed the charges against the accused for offences punishable under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) of the IPC.The police have registered the FIR against the accused on a complaint of constable Parvesh, who, along with ASI Ramesh Chand and other officials, was deployed at a naka on April 10, 2021, in Sector 20.Constable Parvesh said Ramesh Chand noticed a car coming towards the naka. When he signalled the driver to stop the vehicle, he allegedly hit him and fled the spot.Due to the impact, ASI Ramesh Chand flung into the air and fell on the right side of the car. The car driver managed to flee from the spot.He said Ramesh was rushed to the GMCH-32. He was later discharged from the hospital. After verifying the registration number of the vehicle, the police arrested Paras Arora.The police produced the accused in a court, which sent him to jail on April 11. The ASI was later admitted to the PGI, Sector 12, where he died of Covid.The police have already filed the chargesheet in the case. They added Section 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) of the IPC against the accused in the chargesheet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hitting-chandigarh-cop-at-naka-charges-framed-against-22-year-old-accused-295863
11-08-2021||---||Notify Apartment Act for commercial units: Chandigarh Traders||Chandigarh, August 10Clamour grows for the implementation of the Apartment Act in the city. The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM), an apex body of traders, has demanded the Apartment Act to be notified for commercial establishments also for the benefit of small and medium traders and sale of property in parts by the heirs.During the executive committee meeting, Charanjiv Singh, president of the CBM, lauded the roll of different Market Welfare Associations in supporting anti-Covid measures and vaccination campaigns for shopkeepers by the government.He appealed to the market associations to take over management of parking lots for the benefit of traders and customers.“Organised parking will bring more customers to markets. A majority of the market associations are ready to accept the Municipal Corporation offer to manage parking on nominal charges in various sector markets on V-4 roads. First 10 minutes from the entry proposed to be free,” he said.Sanjeev Chadha, general secretary of the, CBM, took up the issues related to parking management being given to the Market Welfare Associations of 16 markets of the city. On his referendum, a majority of the market associations said nominal fee was must to smoothly run the parking in sector markets. He also echoed the need to make provision for on-the-spot e-payment for any encroachment by traders without lifting the goods to save time and inconvenience.Mahesh Budhiraja strongly advocated the need to notify the Apartment Act in the city for the benefit of small and medium traders and liquidation of property by the heirs. Issue was supported by most of the members.Diwakar Sahoonja, chief spokesperson, suggested the CBM to evolve some kind of e-portal with free listing and nominal charges from some technical firm to assist conventional retailers of the city to be hi-tech and match the competition of large online corporate to cater to city consumers and that of nearby region by doing online trading and sale promotion.Meanwhile, the executive committee approved 11 new membership applications from different markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notify-apartment-act-for-commercial-units-chandigarh-traders-295862
11-08-2021||---||Solar plants inaugurated at 2 Maloya schools||Chandigarh, August 10UT Adviser Dharam Pal inaugurated a 250kWp solar power plant each at Government Model High School-I and Government Model High School-II, Maloya, here today.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Science and Technology and Renewable Energy, and Debendra Dalai, Director, Science and Technology and Renewable Energy, and CEO, CREST, UT, were also present on the occasion.These solar plants have been installed on the rooftop and the parking area of the schools at a cost of Rs2.2 crore, which includes operation and maintenance cost for 10 years and executed by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science & Technology Promotion Society (CREST). These plants would generate approximately 6,50,000 units of electricity annually.The chief guest appreciated the efforts taken by CREST in developing Chandigarh as a model solar city. He appreciated the lead taken by CREST in installing 45MWp solar rooftop plants on government buildings as well as private buildings, including residential houses, in the city so far.The installation of new solar power plants will reduce the electricity bill of both schools and also generate revenue for the UT after transfer of excess electricity generated by the solar power plant to the grid of Electricity Department, UT. The payback period of the solar power system installed will be approximately six years.The Adviser also interacted with the students attending offline classes at Maloya schools to take their feedback on the Covid protocol being followed during the classes.The function was attended by Dr Abdul Qayum, Additional CEO, CREST, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director Higher Education, UT, school principal and officers from the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/solar-plants-inaugurated-at-2-maloya-schools-295854
11-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Adviser Dharam Pal opens air quality monitoring station in Sector 22||Chandigarh, August 10The UT Administration is making continuous efforts in monitoring the air quality of the city. As a step forward, a Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) installed at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 22 here was inaugurated by UT Adviser Dharam Pal today.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Environment-cum-Chairman, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), and Debendra Dalai, Special Secretary, Environment, and Member Secretary, CPCC, were also present on the occasion.The air quality monitoring station has been installed by the CPCC to monitor various parameters of ambient air quality on a real-time basis.Through this system, a large number of parameters can be monitored simultaneously such as PM10, PM2.5, CO, SO2, NOX, NH3, O3, Benzene, Xylene and Toluene. This instrument also monitors meteorological parameters such as temperature, humidity, rainfall, wind speed, wind direction and solar radiation. Further, this system automatically calculates air quality index (AQI) on the basis of various parameters that will be reflected in the display board, which is easy for common man to understand the quality of air.The function was attended by Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Rajiv Tewari, Director Public Relations, school principal and other officials from the Administration.However, five manual air quality monitoring stations and one CAAQMS in Sector 25 are already operational in the city.Debendra Dalai said one more air quality monitoring station installed in Sector 53 would be commissioned soon.Apart from air quality monitoring stations, an outdoor air purifier being installed at the Transport Chowk on Madhya Marg would also be made operational soon, he said, adding that it would be the tallest air purifier in the country and cover nearly 500m area around it. The purifier would be equipped with sensors to measure air quality index and live readings would be displayed on a board.About the systemThrough this system, a large number of parameters can be monitored simultaneously such as PM10, PM2.5, CO, SO2, NOX, NH3, O3, Benzene, Xylene and Toluene. This instrument also monitors meteorological parameters such as temperature, humidity, rainfall, wind speed, wind direction and solar radiation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-dharam-pal-opens-air-quality-monitoring-station-in-sector-22-295861
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Motorcyclist dies, kin hurt in accident in Chandigarh||A 45-year-old man was killed, while his wife and daughter were injured after the motorcycle they were riding was hit by another motorcycle on the road from Khuda Lahora towards Dhanas.According to the police, complainant Reena, a resident of Sector 12, reported that her parents Raju and Sheela had come to pick her up at her house on August 8. The trio was going on a motorcycle to the house of the complainant’s parents in Sector 38 (West) when a speeding motorcycle coming from the opposite side hit their motorcycle. The motorcyclist, Rajan, a resident of Nayagaon, was also injured.The complainant and her parents were injured and rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Later, Raju succumbed to his injuries.The police have registered a case against the suspect biker at the Sector 11 police station. He was arrested and later released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motorcyclist-dies-kin-hurt-in-accident-in-chandigarh-295855
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Youth convicted in 4-year-old molestation case in Chandigarh||A local court here has convicted Ratandeep in a four-year old molestation case.In her complaint, the victim, who was then a student of a government school, had claimed that Ratandeep, along with two other persons, followed her when she was returning from the school.She alleged that Ratandeep stopped her near Sector 41-42 roundabout and told her to accept her friendship offer. When she refused, the accused forcibly took her to a nearby park and threatened her.When someone came for her help, the accused injured him.The victim said when she raised the alarm, the accused ran away from the spot.The police registered the FIR in the case in September 2017. The accused was booked under Sections 341, 354, 506 and 34 of IPC and later arrested.Counsel Dikshit Arora argued the case on behalf of the complainant.The quantum of sentence will be pronounced on August 12. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-convicted-in-4-year-old-molestation-case-in-chandigarh-295856
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Senate poll: Over 90% voting recorded||Over 90 per cent voting was recorded in the Panjab University Senate elections for both teaching department professors and associate & assistant professors.For professors on the staff of the teaching departments, 260 votes out of total 279 registered voters (93.19 per cent) were polled at five polling booths.At Panjab University auditorium, 245 votes were polled. Six votes were polled at the PU Regional Centre, Muktsar, four at the PU Regional Centre, Ludhiana, and five votes were polled at the PU SSGR Centre, Hoshiarpur.Meanwhile, for the associate and assistant professors on the staff of the teaching constituencies, 402 votes out of total 439 were polled at five different polling booths.As many as 350 votes were polled at the PU auditorium, six votes were polled at the PU Regional Centre, Muktsar, three at the PU Rural Centre, Kauni, 11 votes were polled at the PU Regional Centre, Ludhiana, and 32 at the PU SSGR Centre in Hoshiarpur.A total of 91.57 per cent polling was recorded for this constituency. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-poll-over-90-voting-recorded-295858
11-08-2021||---||Khuda Ali Sher roads in need of attention||Chandigarh, August 10The roads in Khuda Ali Sher village are in a bad shape and the ongoing monsoon season has only added to the woes of residents.The road leading from Khuda Ali Sher to Saketri is crying for attention. The stretch is dotted with potholes posing a great risk to the commuters, particularly the two-wheeler riders.“The road is in an awful state. It has not been repaired for a long time. Besides damaging vehicles, it is also leading to mishaps,” rued Mahesh, a Khuda Ali Sher resident.Col (retd) Sarpratap Singh, who frequents the road, said: “This road gives a bumpy ride to the commuters. The authorities should pay heed to it.”The inner roads in the village are also in a bad state.MC officials said re-carpeting work had been stopped due to monsoon. After September, all the affected roads will re-carpeted in a phased-manner, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khuda-ali-sher-roads-in-need-of-attention-295859
11-08-2021||---||Class XI admissions begin today in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 10Online admission process for Class XI in city’s Government Senior Secondary Schools will commence from August 11. The last date for filling the registration form will be August 19.This year, a total of 42 senior secondary schools will be open for admission, which includes two upgraded senior secondary level schools. Apart from this, seats have been increased in the commerce and humanities stream in two schools.Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: “With an array of competent faculty and well maintained infrastructure, smart classrooms and state-of-the-art sports complexes, it is worth mentioning that the performance of the government schools of the UT has increased by leaps and bounds in the recent years.”“The aspirational value of government schools of Chandigarh is very high and there shall be at least 15,000 candidates, who will be saving their valuable time by avoiding the long queues of waiting for the admissions, especially in the current scenario owing to Covid-19 pandemic,” said Brar.Admission procedureThe registration form is to be filled online at www.chdeducation.gov.in or www.nielit. gov.in/chd, stated the School Education Department.The form will be accepted with a registration fee of Rs 130 payable through net banking/credit card/debit card.After logging in on the website, a candidate shall generate his/her account by filling in the basic details, the department said, adding that after the candidate fills in the details a unique ID and password shall be generated, which the candidate shall have to keep safe for any future reference. There is only one registration form for all the streams.Candidates scoring above 60 per cent have to fill up a minimum of 10 options of schools and streams of his/her choice.Those having 60 per cent or below need to fill in a minimum of 15 options for the choice of school/stream.The department further stated that the students who had passed Class X exam from board other than the CBSE; the candidates who had passed compartment exam; Class X exam in any year except 2021; and the candidates claiming benefit for reservation under any category shall have to submit a scanned copy of the relevant certificate/documents to claim the reservation.A candidate can edit the submitted registration form till last date of the filling of the form.In case of any discrepancy/objection after the common merit list has been displayed, the candidates can submit the objection through email on a specified proforma by logging in with his ID and password, the department stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xi-admissions-begin-today-in-chandigarh-295857
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Five cases in Chandigarh||Four test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: With the surfacing of four new cases, including three males and one female, in the past 24 hours, the overall Covid tally in the district has increased to 30,654. There was no fresh fatality on Tuesday. The district has witnessed 98.73 per cent recovery rate and the positivity rate stood at 0.59 per cent. TNSNine new cases in Mohali district Mohali: Nine new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Tuesday, while four patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, three each were reported from Dhakoli and Kharar, while one each was reported from Gharuan, Boothgarh and Mohali. Of the 68,502 cases reported so far, 67,398 have recovered. There are now 47 active cases. The toll in the district stands at 1,057. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-five-cases-in-chandigarh-295870
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Man ends his life at Mani Majra||Gun stolen from guard’s activaChandigarh: A gun, left by a security guard in his Activa, has been stolen. Complainant Nand Lal, a resident of Dadu Majra Colony, reported that he was working with a security agency and was deputed with a cash van of a bank. He said on August 9, while heading for duty, he stopped at an e-Sampark centre in Sector 23 to pay the electricity bill of his house. He forgot his double-barrelled 0.12 bore gun in his Activa, which was parked in a parking lot. On returning, the complainant found the gun stolen. The police were informed following which a case of theft was registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNSProspectus releasedChandigarh: Guru Gobind Singh College for Women (GGSCW), Sector 26, released its prospectus for the session 2021-22. The prospectus was unveiled by IAS Gurdev Singh (retd). Sikh Educational Society chief and Principal Dr Jatinder Kaur was also present on the occasion. TNS50 new courses at Rayat BahraMohali: Rayat Bahra University has introduced over 50 new industry-driven job-oriented courses to ensure the students get placements on completion of their respective course. Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Vice-Chancellor Dr Parvinder Singh and Gurinder Singh Bahra, vice-president, Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions, disclosed this to media on Tuesday. These courses have been designed by the experienced faculty of the university who explored the job potential in different sectors to decide on the new courses, they said. TNSDBU induction programmeMohali: Desh Bhagat University (DBU) conducted its induction programme for students of different streams on Tuesday. The aim of the programme was to made students aware about the academic and training facilities available at the university. The programme was inaugurated by Chancellor Dr Zora Singh. On the occasion, Singh also congratulated Indian athletes who brought laurels to the country in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics. Singh said the university would host the winners. TNSAll the best!All-rounder Amanjot Kaur, daughter of a Mohali-based carpenter, being felicitated by UT Cricket Association head Sanjay Tandon before she leaves for Bengaluru to attend an Indian team probable camp at the National Cricket Academy, in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Tribune photo: Manoj MahajanQuit india: webinars organisedPatiala: The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) observed the anniversary of the Quit India Movement along with the students of various schools and universities. District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Rajinder Agarwal said webinars were organised in collaboration with legal literacy clubs, government schools and universities. Secretary of DLSA and CJM Parminder Kaur said students were briefed on the freedom fighters. TNSTwo arrested for attacking lawyerChandigarh: The UT police have arrested two owners of an eatery for attacking an advocate with a sharp weapon, who had gone to purchase food at their outlet on the intervening night of August 5 and 6. Complainant Simranjit Singh (35) alleged that Akash, alias Ashu, and Vikas Sharma, alias Vicky, both residents of Sector 56, attacked him with a sharp weapon at Joy Food shop in Sector 40. The victim, who suffered injuries, was taken to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. The police have registered a case. TNSUnknown person booked for theftChandigarh: An unknown person has been booked for allegedly stealing valuables from the ‘safe’ of a room in Taj Hotel, Sector 17. According to the police, complainant Dushiant Sharma, a resident of Barnala, reported that he stayed in the hotel from June 30 to July 1. After checking out, the complainant realised that he forgot valuables in the safe of the room. The complainant informed the hotel to check the safe after which he was informed that the safe was already opened and it was empty. The police have registered a case at the Sector 17 police. TNSGiddha marks Teej celebrationsZirakpur: Haryali Teej was celebrated with fervour at a housing society, Trishla City, here on Tuesday. Harish Gupta, Managing Director, who organised the event, said a ramp walk was organised for women. Ikwinder Singh, mother of Miss India Hasleen Kaur, and Priyanka Chadha, Mrs Himachal Pradesh, were the judges. Mamta Sood was declared as the Trishla Queen - 2021, while Geeta was first runner-up and Yashu Sharma second runner-up. The programme began with the lighting of a ceremonial lamp. It was followed by dance by children and giddha. TNS17-run win for Surya TowerMohali: Surya Tower defeated Dashmesh Enclave by 17 runs in the first Zirakpur Housing Society Cricket Tournament here on Tuesday. Surya Tower scored 169 runs in 20 overs with the help of Dinesh Chaudhary (57) and Rahul Verma (37). Mukesh Walia and Vijay Bains claimed three wickets each for the bowling side. In reply, Dashmesh Enclave scored 152 runs in 20 overs. Mubarak (34) was the lone run scorer for the side. Roshan and Narendra claimed two wickets each for the bowling side. TNSJatinder wins caddies’ tourneyChandigarh: The 1st Caddies Golf Tournament, conducted by Chandigarh Golf Club, concluded here on Tuesday. Sonu was the best scorer. Jatinder Singh, Naubat Ram and Radhey Sham claimed the first three positions, respectively. A total of 77 caddies participated in the championship. President Ravibir Singh, vice-president Dr GS Kochar, Captain Arvind Bajaj and Chairman of the tournament Gurpreet Bakshi awarded the winners. TNSBikers snatch mobile phoneChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a mobile phone from a 19-year-old youth in Sector 32 here. Complainant Anurag Maurya, a resident of Sector 31, reported that he was returning from Mohali on his cycle when the miscreants snatched his mobile phone near St Anne’s School on August 9. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-his-life-at-mani-majra-295869
11-08-2021||---||Prof Baldev Setia appointed Punjab Engineering College Director||Chandigarh, August 10The UT Administration has appointed Prof Baldev Setia as the Director of Punjab Engineering College (PEC).Setia, who is currently posted as a professor at the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, has been appointed for a period of five years.The Administration had on August 5 short-listed three candidates for the post. As many as 36 candidates had appeared before the selection committee which was headed by UT Adviser Dharam Pal.The post was lying vacant after Prof Dheeraj Sanghi had resigned in December last year. Professor Setia has 34 years of experience in teaching/research/consultation and three years of experience in administrative/technical education management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prof-baldev-setia-appointed-punjab-engineering-college-director-295860
11-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Poor response to Chandigarh Housing Board auction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has received a poor response to an auction held for its commercial as well as residential properties on a leasehold basis. The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 151 commercial units and 38 built-up dwelling units on a leasehold basis. The last date for the submission of e-bids was August 10 and the bids were opened today.A total of five e-bids were received against 151 commercial units and the CHB could sell only three units to the highest bidders. The total reserve price of the three commercial units was Rs1.54 crore, while the total of the highest bids received against these units was Rs1.57 crore.Similarly, 15 e-bids were received against 38 dwelling units and only five units could be sold to the highest bidders. The total reserve price of the five dwelling units was Rs2.46 crore, while the total of the highest bids received against these units was Rs2.77 crore.A flat in Sector 38 (West) was sold to the highest bidder for Rs82.72 lakh against the reserve price of Rs75 lakh, while the highest bid for a commercial unit in Mani Majra was Rs52.52 lakh against the reserve price of Rs51.39 lakh.“The CHB has received an average of nearly 12.60 per cent above the reserve price for residential units and nearly 6.50 per cent above the reserve price for commercial units,” said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.In a previous e-auction of commercial and residential properties on a leasehold basis held on July 1, the CHB had received 16 e-bids against 156 commercial units and only 12 units could be sold to the highest bidders. Similarly, six e-bids were received against 11 dwelling units and the CHB could sell only two units to the highest bidders.Since the financial bids were opened today, the highest bidder is required to make the payment within five working days to avoid forfeiture of EMD and blacklisting from future tendering processes of the CHB.Next auction soonOn the next auction, Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said e-tenders would be invited after about 10 to 15 days for 34 freehold residential units, 33 leasehold residential units and 148 leasehold commercial units.What was on offerThe CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 151 commercial units and 38 built-up dwelling units on a leasehold basis. Five e-bids were received against 151 commercial units and the CHB could sell only three units. Similarly, 15 e-bids were received against 38 dwelling units and only five units could be sold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-response-to-chandigarh-housing-board-auction-295864
11-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Ride a bicycle at Rs 10 from tomorrow in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10A ride under the public bike sharing project will be paid from August 12 when the first phase of the initiative will be launched in the city.A bike can be taken for a ride at Rs10 for every half an hour. Those opting to become a member by paying an annual fee of Rs500 will be charged half the amount. Since May 27, there were no charges for taking a bike under the project.From August 12, 1,250 bicycles will be available at 155 docking stations in the city. By the end of this year, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), through a private agency, hopes to make 617 docking stations working with a total of 5,000 bicycles.e-cycles on the same rates will also be available at the stations for people who do not want to pedal. Old people may take benefit of it.KK Yadav, MC Commissioner and CEO, CSCL, said, “Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore will inaugurate the first phase of the project at Shanti Kunj, Sector 16.”“All bicycles come with GPS-enabled locking arrangement and will be monitored at a control centre with a 24x7 helpline facility,” added NP Sharma, Chief General Manager, CSCL.The project is being implemented and operated by Smart Bike Tech Private Ltd, Hyderabad, for 10 years on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis.At least nine bicycles will be available at every station. One can pick a cycle from one station and leave it at any other station in any sector.Significant places in the city like Rock Garden, Punjab and Haryana High Court, Sukhna Lake and PGI, and Sectors 17, Sector 22, Sector 34, Sector 35 and Sector 43 have docking stations under the project.The ride and payment will be done through ‘Smart Bike’, a mobile application, which can be downloaded from Google Play Store.So far, rides were free as the city had participated in India’s ‘Cycle4Change Challenge’, which was conducted by the Smart Cities Mission, Ministry of Housing and Urban affairs. In this competition, Chandigarh was one of the 11 cities selected to receive Rs1 crore from the ministry.The city has around 200-km cycle tracks. Recently, street lights were also put up on the tracks to further promote cycling culture in the city.Grab one from 155 docking stations in cityHow to operateAbout public bike sharing project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ride-a-bicycle-at-rs-10-from-tomorrow-in-chandigarh-295866
11-08-2021||---||Theft at jewellery shop in Mani Majra||Chandigarh, August 10Two thieves made off with jewellery from a shop at Mani Majra here in the wee hours of Tuesday. The incident was caught on CCTV cameras installed at the shop.Sources said two suspects, who had arrived on a motorcycle, broke into Luxmi Jewellers at Subhash Nagar. The owner, who stays adjacent to the shop, heard some noises and came out of the house to check. By then, the thieves were escaping. The owner tried to catch them, but they managed to flee.The police were informed about the incident at 3.52 am. Cops from the IT Park police station reached the spot and initiated an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-jewellery-shop-in-mani-majra-295865
11-08-2021||---||Middukhera murder case: Mohali police get gangster Bhupi Rana’s custody||Mohali, August 10The Mohali police today got three-day remand of gangster Bhupi Rana from the Dera Bassi court in connection with the Vicky Middukhera murder case.Rana, lodged in the Kurukshetra jail, was produced in the court this morning amid heavy police presence.The police suspect that the Bhupi Rana group works in close association with the Davinder Bambiha group, which claimed the responsibility for Middukhera’s murder, and his questioning might lead to inputs in the case. Mohali DSP Gurpreet Singh Bains said, “Rana was produced in the court in connection with an old case pending in Dera Bassi. He was brought on a production warrant from where the court remanded him in police custody for three days. Investigation is still going on in the Vicky Middukhera case and nothing can be said about it.”Sources said the police today questioned gangsters Sukhpreet Buddha and Aman Jaito in the case. Buddha was arrested from Romania on August 12, 2019, with the help of the CBI.Meanwhile, the gang war that played out in the market place in Sector 71 in which the Youth Akali Dal leader was shot dead in a cold-blooded manner is being simultaneously fought on Facebook. Hours after the murder, the Davinder Bambiha group had claimed the responsibility of the murder over personal reasons.A day later, the Lawrence Bishnoi group vowed to avenge Middukhera’s death. Now, gangster Sampat Nehra, an ally of Bishnoi group, threatened in a Facebook post that Middukhera’s death will be avenged with the death of four members of the rival gang. Middukhera had played an active role in supporting Bishnoi and Nehra in the student politics around 2010.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/middukhera-murder-case-mohali-police-get-gangster-bhupi-ranas-custody-295868
11-08-2021||Jalandhar||ED raids house of naib tehsildar, 13 other places across Chandigarh and Punjab||The Enforcement Directorate teams today raided 14 locations across Chandigarh and Punjab under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the wrong mutation case of 1,295 acres of shamlat land of Seonk village of Mohali.In November last year, the Vigilance Bureau had arrested the then naib tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, patwari Iqbal Singh, property dealer Sham Lal, nambardar Gurnam Singh and two others in the case. The ED had lodged an Enforcement Case Information Report into the matter in March this year.On Tuesday, the ED teams raided 14 sites, including Dhoot’s house in Chandigarh, two premises at Hoshirapur and his in-laws place in Ludhiana; and six other locations at Mohali, including those of patwari and property dealers.The ED officials said some evidences had been recovered from all locations, which would help in following the money trail of the proceeds in the alleged crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-raids-house-of-naib-tehsildar-13-other-places-across-chandigarh-and-punjab-295970
11-08-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Samples of tap water fail test in Baltana||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, August 10All four tap water samples collected to check contamination failed the test conducted by the Health Department today.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “Bacterial contamination has been confirmed in all four samples. It was found that the tap water was not fit for drinking.” Health officials said a water sample taken from the main tank was found fit for drinking, but there was contamination in the lines.Several taken ill in Dera BassiIn Dera Bassi, a large number of people fell ill due to contaminated water in Shivpuri Mohalla on Tuesday. They are being treated at various private hospitals, according to residents. People in Shivpuri Mohalla adjoining the Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway have been facing drainage problem for a long time. This street is much lower than the highway where there are about 15 houses. Residents said many were suffering from stomach ache, vomiting and diarrhoea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samples-of-tap-water-fail-test-in-baltana-295867
11-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||More diarrhoea cases surface in Zirakpur's Baltana||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 10Two days after the outbreak of diarrhoea, the civic authorities in Zirakpur today claimed to have found the source of contamination of water at Ekta Vihar Colony near Baltana and fixed the problem.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon Medical team, ambulances in placeMedical camps are being held in colonies. A medical team and ambulances have been stationed there and free medicines are being provided.The Executive Officer of the Zirakpur MC said water and sewer pipes were passing through the area near the water tank at Ekta Vihar. He said few years ago, there was a leakage in the sewer pipe and the contractor, instead of replacing the pipe, had used a rubber pipe to check the leakage. He said with the passage of time, the pipe had worn out, resulting in leakage, which contaminated the water in three colonies — Ekta Vihar, Ravindra Enclave and Harmilap Nagar in the Baltana area.He said they had now fixed the leakage and added that action would be taken against the guilty contractor for not replacing the damaged sewer pipe.Two persons, including a three-year-old girl, have died of diarrhoea in the Baltana area. A few weeks ago, a nine -year-old boy had died due to the outbreak of cholera in the adjoining Abheypur and Budhanpur villages in Panchkula. Zirakpur MC president Udayvir Dhillon said they had now fixed the problem and fresh water supply had been resumed in all three colonies. He said the water pipes were laid during the tenure of the Shiromani Akali Dal, but it never repaired these.Meanwhile, 55 fresh cases of diarrhoea were reported from the three colonies. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said medical camps were being held in all three colonies and they were keeping a close eye on the situation. She said a medical team and ambulances had been stationed in the area and free medicines were being provided to the affected people.Pipe had worn out over timeThe Executive Officer of the Zirakpur MC said water and sewer pipes were passing through the area near the water tank at Ekta Vihar. With the passage of time, a pipe had worn out, resulting in leakage, which contaminated the water at Ekta Vihar, Ravindra Enclave and Harmilap Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-diarrhoea-cases-surface-in-zirakpurs-baltana-295832
