12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports seven new Covid cases||Chandigarh on Thursday reported seven cases of Covid-19, taking the total count to 62,009, according to the medical bulletin.The count also includes five cases which were not reported earlier.The toll stood at 811.The number of active cases in the city was 37 while the number of cured persons was 61,161. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-seven-new-covid-cases-296738
12-08-2021||Gurnaaz Kaur||Chandigarh-lad Mubarak Sandhu turns author with his fictional work, Boris – The Last Qahn Alive||Something that started as a discussion between two friends sitting countries apart in 2015 has finally culminated into a fiction novel, titled Boris – The Last Qahn Alive.“My friend lives in New Zealand. On one phone call over six years back we both decided to write a book. I took it very seriously and began to scribble thoughts around it whenever I found time from work. He, on the other hand, got busy and let the idea be. But by then I had already had a story in mind,” says city-lad Mubarak Sandhu.Characters got created in his imagination and their dialogues started ringing in his ears. Every now and then this first-time author sat with a pen and paper to give it shape. But it was during the lockdown last year that he was able to do justice to his hidden talent of writing.“The process had begun much before, but there was a lot on my plate. When we got hit by this pandemic, suddenly I had so much time to myself.” The adversity proved a blessing for him as he was finally able to give his undivided attention to his maiden project.Published by Notion Press Pvt. Ltd, the novel narrates the story of Boris, who lives with a group of nomads but belongs to the legendary race of Qahns whose leader, Yura, once sacrificed his own self to save the kingdom and its people when attacked by the ferocious King of Seabed – Crato.Boris, unknowingly, faces the same responsibility, which is to save the Kingdom of Ekaardus during Crato’s next invasion, by killing him with the Spear of Neutrality. What happens later, especially towards the end, is bound to make the readers ponder.And Mubarak says there will be a sequel to this book that will reveal the remaining story. Confident about bringing out the second part by next year, he has decided to become a full-time writer. “When I compare my life before and after the lockdown, I see how much I love to write and how I kept procrastinating it for five years because there were other things that took away all my time.”To be able to write, Mubarak says, is about a flow. And he doesn’t want anything to break it now.He was successfully running an event company and organizing beauty pageants when Covid-19 hit us all.Instead of feeling discouraged, Mubarak found an opportunity in it and is confident that like all his other projects, he will be a successful author. “There were some challenges and too many confusions at every step of the way in publishing a book but that’s because I was not at all aware. How to find a publisher, what goes into marketing, it was all very new but now I have a fair idea as I release my book.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-mubarak-sandhu-turns-author-with-his-fictional-work-boris-%E2%80%93-the-last-qahn-alive-296590
12-08-2021||---||Man duped of over Rs 2L in online fraud in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 11Two cases of online fraud were reported in the city today.A complainant, Paramjit Simgh Battu of Sector 38 reported that unknown person called on his mobile phone regarding the verification of a new credit card and took details, including CVV number of his HSBC credit card and the OTP. He came to know someone had made three transactions of Rs48,480, Rs98,101 and Rs98,101 from his account.A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station.In the other incident, a woman was duped of Rs80,000. A resident of Maloya complained to the police that a person promised her a job at the PGI, Chandigarh, and made her deposit Rs80,000. However, the suspect neither provided her job nor returned her money.The police have registered a cheating case at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duped-of-over-rs-2l-in-online-fraud-in-chandigarh-296303
12-08-2021||Tribune News Serevice||Independence Day: Mohali police step up vigil in district||Mohali, August 11The police have stepped up vigil in view of the Independence Day celebrations in Mohali district. Dera Bassi DSP Manoj Gorsi led a flag march by the police today. Dera Bassi SHO Jatin Kapoor and Lalru SHO Bhinder Singh took part in the flag march.The flag march, which passed through bus stand, was taken out on the Barwala road and the Ring Road.Gorsi said the checking of vehicles entering the city was going on. The police are also checking people staying in hotels, PGs, guest houses and dharamsalas. He appealed to the people of the city to report any suspicious person to the police immediately.In Mohali, too, the police were seen patrolling the roads in the afternoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/independence-day-mohali-police-step-up-vigil-in-district-296307
12-08-2021||---||12 Chandigarh police stations get solar plants||Chandigarh, August 11UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today inaugurated solar power plants of 12 police stations. The inaugural function was held at the Sector 17 police station.The solar plants have been installed at a cost of Rs1.62 crore and are of 325 kW capacity.The solar power plants will generate approximately 4,22,500 kWh (units) of electricity annually.Speaking on the occasion, the Administrator said the installation of solar power plants will reduce electricity bills approximately by Rs20 lakh annually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-chandigarh-police-stations-get-solar-plants-296308
12-08-2021||---||Resolve GST, VAT issues within time frame: Chandigarh DC||Chandigarh, August 11A meeting of the Trade Welfare Board held today under the chairmanship of Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner (DC) -cum -Excise and Taxation Commissioner, UT.Issues relating to GST and VAT were discussed in detail. The DC directed the officials concerned to examine the issues subjectively and to sort them out within a specified strict time frame. The issues raised by the representatives will be taken up on priority by the department.The meeting was attended by RK Popli, Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner; Sorabh Kumar Arora, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner; Heena Talwar, ETO (GST), and the representatives of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Chandigarh Business Council, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, Industries Association of Chandigarh and the Laghu Udyog Bharti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/resolve-gst-vat-issues-within-time-frame-chandigarh-dc-296314
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rakesh Tikait visits Matka Chowk in Chandigarh||Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait visited Chandigarh this evening. He toured across the city and met farm activists at Matka Chowk and at the Sector 37-38 roundabout. The protesters had gathered at the roundabouts in large numbers to get a glimpse of Tikait.At Matka Chowk, Tikait met Labh Singh, who has been protesting at the site since March 6. He also joined the Teej celebrations at the roundabout of Sector 37 and 38.“Display the Tricolour on your cars on August 15,” he told the protesters, inviting them to take part in a motor rally on Independence Day.When contacted, Tikait’s associate Billu Pardhan said: “Tikait will stay in Chandigarh tonight. He attended a mahapanchayat in Nahan.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rakesh-tikait-visits-matka-chowk-in-chandigarh-296312
12-08-2021||---||U-16 Cricket Tourney: Harish of Moga shines with bat against Mohali||Chandigarh, August 11Moga’s Harish Kumar came up with a brilliant 119 off 217 balls to help his team score 270 runs against Mohali, on the opening day of the Punjab State Inter-District U-16 Tournament today. Mohali, in reply, posted five without any loss at the end of day’s play.Batting first, Moga scored 270/ 6 in the allotted 90 overs. Kumar’s innings was studded with 15 boundaries. His innings was supported by Gubaljeet Singh (53). Kanwarvir Singh (3/69) was the lone notable wicket taker for the side. In another match, Patiala bowlers restricted Bathinda to 70 runs.Damanpreet Singh (4/26) and Vyom Chugh (2/24) wrecked Bathinda innings. In reply, Patiala were playing at 86 in 39 overs at the draw of stumps. Anantbir Singh (41) and Prabhjit Singh (30) were on the crease. Jalandhar posted a solid 364/4 before declaring their innings against Hoshiarpur. Their innings was bolstered by Manvir Singh Heer (151 off 150 balls with 20 boundaries and two sixes) and Arjun Rajput (108 off 121 balls with 11 boundaries and four sixes). In reply, Hoshairpur was reduced to 27/2 in 13 overs. In another match, Barnala scored 167 runs against Sangrur with the help of Vansh Goyal (53) and Anmol Singh Mann (47). Rajvir Singh claimed a five-wicket haul, while Gursimrandeep Singh (3/50) and Krrish Sharma (2/29) also chipped in for the bowling side. Sangrur ended the opening day at 63/5 in 46 overs.Fazilka lads bundled out on 38 runs against Ferozepur. The latter posted 181 runs in 49.4 overs to claim a a 143-run lead. Gurdaspur registered a 70-run lead over Nawanshahr, Ropar-Ludhiana match has been started at Government College, Ropar. Ludhiana won the toss and opted to field first.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/u-16-cricket-tourney-harish-of-moga-shines-with-bat-against-mohali-296319
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Supreme Court stays survey of residential units sold outside family||The Supreme Court has stayed the order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, wherein the Chandigarh Administration was directed to carry out a survey to identify residential properties which have been sold to a person outside the family of the original owner since December 2019.A local resident filed a petition in the apex court against the order issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on July 27.The High Court had asked for a physical inspection of such buildings to find out whether the sale has actually led to the buyers occupying independent floors in an otherwise composite dwelling unit. Only those residential properties were to be checked which were transferred or sold to a person outside the family of the original owner, after December 31, 2019, and where the pattern of share(s) is 50%, 30% or 20%.The court was hearing a bunch of petitions pending since 2016 seeking prohibitory orders on conversion of residential plots into apartments. Residential plots in Chandigarh are meant to be used as single-dwelling units. However, in the recent years, these are being sold floor-wise to multiple owners.In 2001, the Administration notified Chandigarh Apartment Rules, 2001, whereby even single residential units, wherever they existed, could be subdivided into apartments but were repealed in October 2007. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/supreme-court-stays-survey-of-residential-units-sold-outside-family-296305
12-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Parts of recarpeted roads in Sector 22, 35 give way in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Newly recarpeted roads in Sector 35 and 22 have started breaking.In Sector 22, a part of the road in front of Aroma Hotel is broken while another part of the road in the Sector 22 parking lot is badly damaged. These roads were recarpeted recently. Also, the road at the entrance of the Sector 35-C parking lot, which was recarpeted about two months ago, is broken.“We are amazed to see the roads breaking about one or two months after these were recarpeted. An inquiry should be conducted into the work carried out by contractors,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chairman, FOSWAC, an umbrella body of RWAs.“We had got the recarpeting work done in the Sector 35 market after repeated requests. But it is surprising to see that the roads have started cracking after sometime,” added a shopkeeper at the Sector 35-C market.MC officials stated that the issue was not with the road recarpeting. It was due to lack of arrangements for drainage of water that roads at these spots got damaged.Ravinder Sharma, MC Executive Engineer for Sector 22, said, “In Sector 22, the road stretch is good barring the spots where water accumulates. Earlier, there was no road gully. After several requests were made to the wing concerned, a road gully has been built there. We will repair the affected area.”The road work was carried out by Kher Construction.“I have also noticed the damaged part in Sector 35. There is no road gully there. However, we will repair it,” said Ajay Kumar Garg, Executive Engineer of the area. The road was recarpeted by NH Company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parts-of-recarpeted-roads-in-sector-22-35-give-way-in-chandigarh-296311
12-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Only one Covid patient avails of Ayushman Bharat benefit in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Centre’s Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) seems unpopular in Chandigarh for Covid treatment as only one coronavirus patient in Chandigarh availed of the benefit of the scheme for concession in treatment during the pandemic.For the financial year 2020-21, only one Covid hospital admission was authorised for treatment in Chandigarh, while 5,378 non-Covid admissions were authorised in the city under the scheme.When the pandemic broke out, initially, existing treatment packages were used for providing Covid-related treatment. Later, special packages for treatment and testing of Covid were introduced. Many state governments decided to make Covid testing and treatment free for all residents. While some states/UTs used the Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY system, the others made it free.During the second wave, many patients of Chandigarh were admitted to private hospitals. Despite this, there were a few takers for the benefit provided under the scheme.The Director, Health Services, Dr Amandeep Kang, said: “Chandigarh government hospitals had provided free Covid-19 treatment, including medicines, covid markers, MRI scans, etc. Many patients of the city had got treatment in government facilities where there was no need for availing the benefit under the AB-PMJAY. However, patients who were admitted to private hospitals of Chandigarh had to use Ayushman cards for getting concession in treatment.”The AB-PMJAY is an entitlement-based scheme. The entitled beneficiary may directly visit any empanelled hospital (public or private) for availing treatment. However, to increase health awareness among beneficiaries, Ayushman cards are issued to them.A total of 18 private hospitals in Chandigarh are empanelled under the scheme of the Centre, while eight hospitals are from public sector. Chandigarh was sanctioned Rs 1.84 crore during 2020-21 from the Centre under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Around 18,405 Ayushman cards have been generated in Chandigarh from January 2020 to June 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-one-covid-patient-avails-of-ayushman-bharat-benefit-in-chandigarh-296304
12-08-2021||---||3 more held for Kharar murder||Mohali, August 11Three persons booked for the murder of taxi driver Rakesh Kumar in Kharar on August 5 were arrested today and remanded in five-day police custody. Deepanshu, Mayank Agarwal and Rajesh Kumar surrendered in the court today.Kharar City SHO Ashok Kumar said the five suspects arrested earlier in the case had been remanded in judicial custody by the court.On August 5, a 35-year-old man was killed with a sharp weapon while another sustained serious injuries in a clash between two groups over old enmity near Pakka Darwaza on the Arya College road in Kharar.The deceased was identified as Rakesh Kumar, while Jatinder Kumar sustained a fracture in a leg. A case under Section 302 was registered against eight suspects at the Kharar City police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-held-for-kharar-murder-296316
12-08-2021||---||Follow National Green Tribunal instructions in letter and spirit, officials told||Mohali, August 11Additional Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, Komal Mittal today said every department should ensure strict adherence to the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).Presiding over a meeting of the District Environment Committee, Mittal said the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had issued instructions to the departments concerned pertaining to safeguarding of environment and would apprise the NGT about the actions being taken.Komal Mittal, ADC, MohaliAll departments should fulfil their responsibilities in letter and spirit.During the meeting at the District Administrative Complex here, the ADC also reviewed the work of various departments regarding solid waste management, medical waste, e-waste, water conservation and sewage treatment.She instructed various departments to abide by the directions given by the NGT. “Each and every department should fulfill its responsibilities in letter and spirit,” said Mittal.The ADC strictly instructed that any laxity in this regard “can’t be tolerated” and “appropriate action will be taken” against the erring department.ADC (Development) Himanshu Aggarwal directed the officers to ensure timely implementation of the decisions being taken during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/follow-national-green-tribunal-instructions-in-letter-and-spirit-officials-told-296313
12-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Municipal Corporation forms panel for vendors’ rehabilitation||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 11The Mohali Municipal Corporation today constituted the Town Vending Committee to rehabilitate the vendors under the Street Vendors Act.The committee included representatives of street vendors, police administration, business community and social organisations.The committee will coordinate between the street vendors and the MC in Mohali and initiate plans for the rehabilitation of the rehri-fari (vendors) holders.Besides Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, councillor Narpinder Singh Rangi and Victor Niholka were present in the meeting.Divulging details about the committee, Sidhu said he had announced the Town Vending Committee under the powers vested in him by the House.Members of the committee include councillors Kamalpreet Singh Bani and Jaspreet Singh Gill; DSP (Traffic) Guriqbal Singh; Manjeet Kaur, manager, PNB (Municipal Bhawan); Chief Sanitary Inspector Sarabjit Singh; Jaswinder Sharma, senior advisor, Sarvahitkari Kalyan Society; S Chaudhary of the Mohali Senior Citizens Association; Balkaran Singh Bhaati of Ajit Park Neighborhood Association; Munish Singla of the Mohali Grocery Merchant Association; and street vendors Vijay Kumar, Manjit Singh, Satpal Singh, Parshotam Lal, Maya and Ram Kumari.Sidhu said the members of the committee should “take up the work diligently and fulfill their responsibilities to ensure the right to earn a living for the vendors”. The Mayor said people of Mohali should also benefit and illegal occupations should be eradicated.“The Town Vending Committee has been constituted with the participation of the representatives of all the sections,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-forms-panel-for-vendors-rehabilitation-296315
12-08-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Broken sculpture hurts architect from Corbusier team||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Jeet Malhotra, who worked closely with Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret in the 50s, has expressed his anguish over the broken condition of Jeanneret’s sculpture at the Government Nursery School in Sector 16.Jeet’s son and senior advocate Meet Malhotra while writing to the UT Adviser on behalf of his father requested the Administration to take all possible care in respect of both the school building and Jeanneret’s sculpture on its premises.Jeet Malhotra (92) was also the Chief Architect, Punjab.“My father recently learnt that a sculpture by Monsieur Jeanneret has fallen into a state of neglect and resultant disrepair. This has anguished him greatly. The Nursery School, Sector 16, was a building the design of which my father assisted Monsieur Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret,” wrote Meet.“I would also like to take this opportunity to bring to your notice the original blueprints and drawings of Chandigarh, sector drawings and drawings of major and landmark buildings of Chandigarh are languishing in the office of the Chief Architect, UT of Chandigarh. These drawings are, quite literally, historical documents and need to be preserved, both in physical form as well as on microfilm.”While speaking with this correspondent over the phone, Meet said, “I got to know about Jeanneret’s broken sculpture from Chandigarh Tribune’s news reports shared among common groups.”“Initially, I didn’t tell my father because I feared it would harm his health, especially at his age. But when I did, he was very hurt,” said Meet.Earlier, on July 10, Chandigarh Tribune had reported about Jeanneret’s sculpture and run a three-part series tracing its history.On August 2, UT Adviser Dharam Pal conveyed to the newspaper that UT’s Le Corbusier Centre and Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi had been roped in for the sculpture’s restoration work.In a recent communication, as informed by sources, the UT Urban Planning Department has issued an order for restoring the sculpture, establishing its authenticity and relocating it to Jeanneret House in Sector 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/broken-sculpture-hurts-architect-from-corbusier-team-296317
12-08-2021||---||4 Mohali schools shut over non-compliance of Covid norms||Mohali, August 11The Sub-Divisional Magistrates of three sub-divisions conducted a surprise check of the schools in their respective areas and ordered closure of four schools due to non-compliance of safety protocols.After 27 students tested positive in four districts of Punjab, the Mohali administration has decided to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of the school staff.Girish Dayalan, DC, Mohali We have asked for an FIR to be registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against the management of the schools – who called teachers/staff without being fully vaccinated – in violation of the orders, and putting the health of students at risk.District administration teams, in collaboration with the Education Department, inspected Jitender Veer Sarvhitkari Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 71, and Smart Wonder School, Sector 71, under the supervision of SDM, Mohali, Harbans Singh to know about the vaccination status of the teaching staff.The vaccination record of school staff was checked thoroughly for the safeguard of students.Harbans Singh informed that Sarvhitkari School principal Kavita Attri had not taken even a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while seven teachers had been administered only one dose of the vaccine.Sweeper and babysitter also have not been administered a single dose of the vaccine, he said.“Orders have been issued to close the school till further instructions due to non-compliance of Covid protocols. Record of Smart Wonders School was found appropriate during the checking,” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.SDM, Kharar, Aakash Bansal, meanwhile, visited DAV Model Senior Secondary School, Kurali, and found that 18 staff members had been administered only a single dose of the vaccine, which is a clear violation of the norms.Bansal also said the presence of students exceeded 80 per cent of the total strength, which was against the 50 per cent norm.Meanwhile, Dera Bassi SDM conducted checking at two schools – Manav Mangal Smart School, Zirakpur, and Delhi World Public School, Zirakpur.During the inspection it was found that 52 staff members of Manav Mangal Smart School had not been administered the second dose of the vaccine, whereas 27 staff members of Delhi World Public School had received just one dose of the vaccine.The SDMs concerned have issued the orders to close the schools till further directions.The administration has also asked the police to “register FIR against the erring schools”, who called teachers/staff without being fully vaccinated and putting the health of students at risk.“The police have been told to take stern action against the erring schools for violations of the administrative orders,” said Dayalan.“We have asked for an FIR to be registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against the management of the schools – who called teachers/staff without being fully vaccinated – in violation of the orders, and putting the health of students at risk. The reasoning that they weren’t due for their second dose, is not a valid excuse, as they just ought not to have come (to school),” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-mohali-schools-shut-over-non-compliance-of-covid-norms-296318
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||CTU employee held for theft in Chandigarh||Woman’s purse snatched in Sec 35Chandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant allegedly snatched a woman’s purse in Sector 35. The purse contained Rs3,000 and an ATM card. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSU-19 team: Cricket trials todayChandigarh: The Haryana Cricket Association will conduct trials to select the U-19 team at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 19, on August 12 (3 pm). The players born on or after September 1, 2002, will be eligible for the trials. They can contact Surinder Singh Bhaiji, secretary, Chandigarh Cricket Association (affiliated to Haryana). TNSAryan, Diva win tennis titlesChandigarh: Top seed Aryan Thakur defeated Sarthak Arora in straight sets 6-1, 6-2 to win the boys' final on the concluding day of the Roots-AITA U-18 National Ranking CS Tennis Championship. Diva Bhatia won the girls' U-18 title by registering a comeback win 1-6, 7-5 (10-6) over Harleen Kaur Dhanda. In the semifinals, Harleen defeated Gursimrat Kaur 9-3 and Diva ousted Isheeta Midha 9-3. TNSBadminton meetMohali: The Mohali District Badminton Association will organise the Veterans Badminton Championship 2021-22 from August 13-14 at the Sector 78 Sports Complex. Those interested can submit their entries at the tournament venue, the sports body said here on Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-employee-held-for-theft-in-chandigarh-296323
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old girl hit by mobike, dies in Chandigarh||A 18-year-old girl was killed after being hit by a motorcycle near the CSIO gate at Sector 30 today.The police said a Bullet motorcycle hit a pedestrian, identified as Priyanshi Gupta, who was pursuing a diploma in computer science and was residing at a girls’ hostel on the CSIO campus.She was rushed to the GMCH-32 where she later succumbed to her injuries.The police said the bike was being ridden by Beant Singh (38), a resident of Kharar. A case has been registered against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-year-old-girl-hit-by-mobike-dies-in-chandigarh-296321
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to celebrate Teej festival at Rose Garden||Despite the threat of a third wave of Covid-19, the local Municipal Corporation will organise a one-day Teej programme at Rose Garden, Sector 16, next week.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Art, Sports and Culture Committee of the MC held here last evening. The meeting was chaired by Shipra Bansal, a nominated councillor.Shipra said, “This time due to Covid precautions, no cultural programme will be organised and the final date will be decided on August 14 with the consent of all members of the committee after convening a meeting at the MC office.”During the meeting, it was decided that a simple function will be organised at the Rose Club, Sector 16, to mark the Teej celebrations and only a ceremonial swing will be installed at the venue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-celebrate-teej-festival-at-rose-garden-296320
12-08-2021||---||As poll nears, councillors raise issues with Chandigarh Adviser||Chandigarh, August 11In the run-up to the civic body elections, a meeting, chaired by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, was held today to address the grievances and demands of councillors from Ward No. 21 to 26.Among those present were Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, Principal Secretary (Home) Arun Gupta, Finance Secretary Vijay N Zade, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar and councillors Gurpreet Singh, Davesh Moudgil, Bharat Kumar, Anil Kumar Dubey, Jagtar Singh and Vinod Aggarwal. Councillors raised the demand regarding development-oriented projects in their wards. The Adviser assured them in this regard and directed the departments concerned to work speedily in this direction by following a deadline.The Adviser asked the departments to examine all issues and submit recommendations for the completion of work pertaining to primary health centers/dispensaries, community centres, approach/link roads, traffic lights, Sampark centres, bus queue shelters, bus stands, sewer systems, repair of stairs and water tank of EWS flats in Ram Darbar, sports complexes, reconstruction of Government Model High School, Karson, Ram Darbar, Phase I, and a marriage palace at Hallo Majra, development of a green belt at Raipur Kalan, earmarking of vending lots and to take up with the railway authorities the construction of a flyover/underpass to cross the railway line between Kishangarh village and the Mani Majra police station.On the beautification of the city at the entry and exit points, the Adviser said these were the face of the city and must be maintained well.The Adviser said since road and horticulture were the main features of the city landscape, their proper maintenance was the need of the hour. He directed that area XENs/SDOs/JEs of these wings would be accountable in case of any lapse on this count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-poll-nears-councillors-raise-issues-with-chandigarh-adviser-296322
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Five test positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh||The city on Wednesday reported five cases of Covid-19 and no virus death. One more patient was cured of the disease. TNS2 fresh cases in Panchkula, no fatalityPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported just two fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 30,656. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,270 people have recovered from the disease so far, 10 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. TNSThree contract infection in MohaliMohali: Three new cases of Covid-19 — one each from Dhakoli, Kharar and Mohali — were reported from the district on Wednesday. Four patients have recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. The district tally stands at 68,505 and 67,402 have been cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-five-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-296324
12-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Once an aspiring boxer, now parking attendant in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Going through a tough time, 23-year-old Ritu, a national-level boxer and volleyball player, is working as a parking attendant to make the ends meet.The youngster, who was forced to leave her studies after passing senior secondary exams four years ago, has given up hope of donning the boxing gloves again and instead wants a better job to sustain her family, including an ailing father. Ritu’s three siblings also work as labourers to earn a living.“I have played in two SGFI nationals as a boxer and volleyball player. But after passing my Class XII exams, I was forced to look for a job as my father was keeping unwell. All of us (four siblings) do some kind of work as daily wagers,” said Ritu. Asked whether she wanted to pursue studies, Ritu said it won’t help her cause.“Neither restarting boxing, nor pursuing further studies will help me. I want a respectable job,” said Ritu.“My father is ailing and cannot work. We all had to work as daily wagers to support each other. At this moment, I just can’t restart from the scratch. I think, achieving any milestone in sports is very difficult in the present circumstances,” she said.“I was assured by many people of monetary help or supporting my boxing career, but I just wanted a stable and respectable job,” added Ritu, who lives in Dhanas village.Asked whether she had any regrets about leaving sports midway, Ritu said she had never planned her life this way.“There were no plans of pursuing sports. Like any other sportsperson, I used to enjoy playing. Neither there were any plans of pursuing my career in sports. I had dreams of going to college and living a normal life, but destiny has pushed me here to manage the parking lot,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/once-an-aspiring-boxer-now-parking-attendant-in-chandigarh-296291
12-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Tokyo Olympics special, gave us new identity: Monika Malik||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Once frustrated over not getting proper attention a few years ago, the two-time hockey Olympian Monika Malik now believes that the team’s fourth finish at the Tokyo Olympics has brought new identity for all members of the Indian women’s hockey team.Back to her house in Sector 44 here, Monika will soon rejoin the squad for the next year’s World Cup and other tournaments. One of the most experienced defenders of the side, Monika said the entire team was disheartened on missing the bronze by a whisker.“This Olympics has given us a new identity...not only to us but to all athletes. Each and every team member was disheartened after losing the bronze medal match. We were confident of winning the medal. At the end, we have to accept our mistakes,” she said.On her future plans, she said, “As long as I am fit, I will keep playing for India...at least till the next Olympics.”Wish to see Janneke as head coachWhile talking about Indian team’s former coach Sjoerd Marijne, the 27-year-old defensive midfielder said the Dutchman was behind the team’s success. “He just thanked each one of us. He wished to go back to his family. The coaching staff really changed our perspective towards the game. We experienced all types of tactical play in this tournament,” said Monika.When asked who would she like to see as Marijne’s replacement, Monika said: “I would love to see Janneke Schopman (team’s analytical coach) to take over the responsibility. She supported Marijne and the entire squad like a pillar.”Motivation must for girlsTalking about the odds she faced, Monika said she spent her early days of career at the Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA). “I still remember the day when I wanted to leave the academy and return home. There was a time when I refused to stay back at the hostel due to the warden’s strictness and the coach’s training pattern. My parents would come to meet me every day.They motivated me and to this day, I thank them for not letting me leave the hostel. Girls need such support to tackle life’s odds.”“My father would bring almonds from Delhi and crush it to make a shake for me... such little things just help one sail through tough times,” said Monika.She also remembered Olympian Rajinder Singh, a former coach of CHA. “He taught us well and made us tough enough to deal with every situation. He would make an average player an exception on the field. He helped me learn the basics,” she added.The Haryana-born girl, whose father Takdeer Singh works as an ASI with the Chandigarh Police, remained in the academy from 2007-12 and later moved to her state to pursue higher studies.“Girls should opt for any kind of sport at a young age. There’s no dearth of talent. The government should channelise it in the right direction by introducing infrastructure, schemes and motivation,” said Monika.Besides her, the current Indian team featured two other CHA trainees – Sharmila Devi and Reena.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tokyo-olympics-special-gave-us-new-identity-monika-malik-296290
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||VP Singh Badnore flags off electric bus in Chandigarh||In order to reduce air and noise pollution and dependence on fossil fuels, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today flagged off an electric bus from the Raj Bhawan in the presence of UT Adviser Dharam Pal and other senior officials of the Administration. He also travelled on the bus from the Raj Bhawan to the Sector 17 police station.The proto-bus will run on a trial basis for approximately 20 days. Initially, during the trial, the bus will operate on the PGI-Mani Majra route via Madhya Marg. The bus will operate for the public tentatively from the first week of September. Nineteen buses are likely to be received by September 30 and another 20 by October this year. The procurement of another 40 electric buses is under process and these are expected to be received next year.After being charged, the bus will be able to cover a distance of nearly 130 km and it will take nearly two to two and a half hours to fully charge the bus. The procurement of the buses will give a major boost to the plan of the UT to replace its entire fleet of 358 diesel buses of the CTU with electric buses by 2027-28.More buses comingThe bus will operate for the public tentatively from the first week of September. Nineteen buses are likely to be received by September 30 and another 20 by October this year. The procurement of another 40 electric buses is under process and these are expected to be received next year.Eco-friendly bus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vp-singh-badnore-flags-off-electric-bus-in-chandigarh-296297
12-08-2021||---||Diarrhoea outbreak: Lives lost in Baltana, Zirakpur authorities unmoved||Zirakpur, August 11Twenty new cases of diarrhoea were reported from Ekta Vihar in Baltana today. Five patients were referred for hospitalisation while an equal number of patients were discharged from the hospital today.“Five patients have been referred to the Community Health Centre in Dhakoli. Patients who have complained of vomiting and loose motions have mild diarrhoea-like symptoms,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali.Kuldeep Bawa, Dera Bassi SDM ‘Matter being probed’We are probing the matter as to how the contamination took place. We will fix responsibility for this negligence and action will be taken shortly. The contamination has been plugged now by the Zirakpur Municipal Council.With new cases being reported every day, the administration is yet to identify erring officials, whose negligence led to the death of two persons and hundreds of cases with diarrhoea-like symptoms. Despite several cases of diarrhoea being reported from neighbouring Panchkula weeks ago, officials of the Zirakpur Municipal Council and the administration failed to wake up to the threat here. As a result, a three-year-old girl, Sunaina, and a 30-year-old mason, Ravinder Kumar, had to pay the price with their lives.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “We are probing the matter as to how the contamination took place. We will fix responsibility for this negligence and appropriate action will be taken shortly. The contamination has been plugged now by the Zirakpur Municipal Council.”Zirakpur MC officials said the exact location of the contamination had been found near House No. 249 in Ekta Vihar in Baltana where tap water was getting contaminated with sewage water.The officials said the contamination with sewage water took place due to an old, worn-out pipeline in the area and had been fixed. Two-three more leakages were found today and were plugged. The officials concerned have been directed to take all steps to check contamination.Wadhwa Nagar, Sadashiv Enclave, Hem Vihar and Golden Estate are among the areas that get tap water supply from here. The civic body has made arrangements for water tankers to cater to these residents.“All new cases reported today are from houses next to the place where the contamination was detected,’’ said a health official.He said the water sample taken from the main tank had been found fit for drinking, but there was contamination in the lines. In Dera Bassi too, several people fell ill due to contaminated water in Shivpuri Mohalla.More leakages foundZirakpur MC officials said the contamination with sewage water took place due to an old, worn-out pipeline in the area and it had been fixed. Two-three more leakages were found on Wednesday and were plugged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diarrhoea-outbreak-lives-lost-in-baltana-zirakpur-authorities-unmoved-296292
12-08-2021||Aditi Tandon||Chandigarh, Himachal top elderly care index||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 11Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Rajasthan are offering the best elderly care, reveals the first national “Quality of Life for Elderly Index” that assesses preparedness of states/UTs for the challenges posed by the ageing Indian population.Rajasthan with the score of 54.61 leads the rankings in the aged category; Himachal (61.04) is the top ranker in the relatively aged states category with Uttarakhand and Haryana bagging the second and third spots and Punjab eighth.Among UTs, Chandigarh is the leader with a score of 61.81. It also leads India on the income security for elderly pillar with the highest score of 61.54 as against the national average of just 33.03. Himachal and Haryana are among better performers on income security with scores of 55.70 and 49.56. Most states finished below the national average on this parameter.On social well-being, Himachal is among the top four performers with Meghalaya, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Mizoram. The index, prepared by the Institute for Competitiveness, maps the states/UTs on four pillars of elderly well-being — financial, social, health and income security.The rankings have been published in four categories — aged states (elderly population more than 5 million), relatively aged states (elderly population below 5 million), UTs and northeastern states.Nationally, the health system pillar of the elderly has the highest score of 66.97, followed by 62.34 in the social wellbeing category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-himachal-top-elderly-care-index-296443
12-08-2021||New Delhi||Chandigarh, Himachal, Rajasthan lead 1st national ranking on quality of life for elderly||Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Chandigarh lead the first national rankings on the Quality of Life for Elderly Index. This was released on Wednesday by the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister.The Index has been created by the Institute for Competitiveness to assess the challenge of ageing in India and determine the preparedness of states to deal with a rising elderly population.India is currently enjoying the demographic dividend but will be growing older, with persons above the age of 65 becoming the fastest-growing age group by 2050. Greying is not very rapid in India, as only 8.6 pc of its population are elderly. However, by 2050 the elderly population will grow by three times to 319 million, accounting for 19.5 pc of the total population.Further, there will be a significantly higher proportion of women than men in the higher age cohort due to higher life expectancy, marking an increase of 21.07 years over 19.10 years in their male counterparts.“India needs to grab the current opportunity to continuously evolve the systems and start putting positive change in motion for the next decades. The Index on Quality of Life for Elderly 2021 represents a beginning,” says the report, which separately ranks states and UTs on the elderly wellbeing index.Rajasthan is the top scorer in the aged states category defined as states with an elderly population of more than 5 million.Himachal Pradesh leads in the Relatively-Aged States section (below 5 million population).Mizoram leads in the North Eastern States category and Chandigarh among all UTs.The report identifies the regional patterns of ageing across the Indian States and assesses the overall ageing situation in India. The report presents a deeper insight into how well India is doing to support the well-being of its ageing population.The Index framework includes four pillars: Financial Well-being, Social Well-being, Health System and Income Security, and eight sub-pillars: Economic Empowerment, Educational Attainment & Employment, Social Status, Physical Security, Basic Health, Psychological Wellbeing, Social Security and Enabling Environment.Chairman, Economic Advisory Council to the PM Bibek Debroy said, “India is often portrayed as a young society, with a consequent demographic dividend. But, as with every country that goes through a fast process of demographic transition, India also has a greying cum ageing problem. EAC-PM requested Dr Amit Kapoor and his team at Institute for Competitiveness to report on an issue that is often not mentioned- the problems faced by the elderly.”The health system pillar of the elderly observes the highest national average of 66.97 at an all-India level, followed by 62.34 in the Social Well-being category.Financial Well-being observes a score of 44.7, which is lowered by the low performance of 21 States across the Education Attainment and Employment pillar, which showcases scope for improvementStates have performed particularly worse in the Income Security pillar because over half of the States have a score below the national average, i.e., 33.03 in Income Security, which is the lowest across all pillars. These pillar-wise analyses help states assess the state of the elderly population and identify existing gaps that obstruct their growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-himachal-rajasthan-lead-1st-national-ranking-on-quality-of-life-for-elderly-296199
