14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports two new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported two cases, taking the city’s infection tally to 62,028, according to a medical bulletin.The total count also includes two positive cases which were not reported earlier.  The death toll stood at 811. The number of active cases in the city rose to 44 from 42 on Friday while the number of cured persons was 61,173. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-new-covid-19-cases-297603
14-08-2021||---||Two cops among four killed in road accident in Ambala||Ambala, August 14Four persons, including two policemen, were killed after they were mowed down by a truck on the National Highway-44 in Ambala on Saturday morning.The deceased cops were identified as ASI Nasib Singh and constable Balvinder Singh, while the other two victims were identified as Manish and Pradeep of Yamunanagar.As per the information, Manish and Pradeep were on their way towards Ambala City when their car collided with a Canter. Following a complaint in the control room, a police PCR reached the spot and started investigation. Meanwhile, a truck mowed down the four victims. While Nasib, Manish and Pradeep died on the spot, Balvinder was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to injuries. The bodies were shifted to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City.Meanwhile, the accused truck driver managed to flee. After getting information, IGP Bharti Arora and SSP Hamid Akhtar reached the Civil Hospital. Later, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij also visited the hospital to meet the kin of victims. A case has been registered at the Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-cops-among-four-killed-in-road-accident-in-ambala-297553
14-08-2021||---||UT again opens Sukhna flood gate after water level reaches near danger mark||Chandigarh, August 14One of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake was on Saturday opened at 1 pm after its water level reached near the danger mark of 1,163 feet. Due to rain in the city and catchment area of the lake, the water level reached 1,162.7 feet, just 5 inches below the danger mark.An official of the UT Engineering Department said the gate would be closed after the water level came down to nearly a foot in the lake. Earlier this week on Monday, the department had to open the gate for nearly 1.15 hour when the water level had reached 1,162.5 feet.The two floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake had crossed the danger mark. Before this, on September 24, 2018, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two flood gates of the lake. At that time, the gates were opened after a gap of 10 years.  After opening of the floodgates, the Sukhna Choe carries the excess water of the lake to the Ghaggar river. Last year, the floodgates were opened when the water level had reached 1,163.4 feet and gush of water led to flooding in the Baltana area of Mohali district. To avoid repeat of such a situation, the department had decided to release water in small amounts, said sources in the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-again-opens-sukhna-flood-gate-after-water-level-reaches-near-danger-mark-297549
14-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Panel orders probe into plots sold by builder in Mullanpur sans govt nod||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13While ordering an inquiry into selling plots and collecting money from buyers without requisite permission from the government, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has restrained M/s Manohar Infrastructure and Constructions Pvt Ltd from transferring, alienating or creating third party interests in the project/properties at its Mullanpur project in favour of any person in any manner, except without prior permission of the commission till the disposal of inquiry.The commission has directed the Income Tax Commissioner, Chief Town Planner, Punjab, and Chief Administrator, PUDA, Punjab, SAS Nagar, Mohali, to find out how much amount has been collected by the builder from prospective buyers in respect of the project starting from 2011 till January 25, 2017.The commission has pronounced the order on complaints by consumers. The complainants approached the commission after the builder failed to deliver the possession of the plot in their project named ‘Palm Garden’, Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, Mohali.They have alleged the possession has not been offered despite the fact they paid substantial amount against total sale consideration of the plots for the period from October 30, 2011, to March 3, 2015. They said they booked the plot in 2011, but neither the agreement has been executed nor possession has been delivered till the date of the filing of complaints. It was promised to be delivered in two years.The complainants also alleged that the project has been launched in the absence of necessary approvals/sanctions from the competent authorities i.e. in complete violation of Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act 1995 (PAPR Act) and other relevant rules and regulations applicable to the project.However, the builder denied the allegations on various grounds. The builder argued that it would not make any difference regarding the title of plots/flat(s), if the project was approved later on, as all irregularities stood compounded when notification exempting the provisions of PAPR Act was issued in favour of the company on January 25, 2017.While directing the builder to refund the amount to consumers, the commission also took note of the money collected by the builder before the permission was granted.The commission noted that the records show that the opposite parties have collected Rs4,22,90,88,666 from prospective buyers till July 31, 2017, but their names have not been disclosed before the commission. The commission noted that the opposite party violated conditions and collected the said amount from allottees. “In the peculiar circumstances of this case, the commission is of the view that for protection of the interests and rights of the consumers, an inquiry is required to be conducted in the matter,” states the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-orders-probe-into-plots-sold-by-builder-in-mullanpur-sans-govt-nod-297398
14-08-2021||Mohali||Chitkara University collaborates with Canadian varsity||Chitkara University announced an international collaboration with the University of Windsor, Canada, to support transnational education and student mobility. The agreement was virtually signed by the Dr Robert Gordon, Vice-Chancellor, University of Windsor, and Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor of Chitkara University, today.Under the agreement, Chitkara University faculty will be mentored by Odette faculty (University of Windsor), who will provide feedback and support and share their knowledge, skills and experience while fostering a connection with students in India who can transition to Windsor after completing the first two years at Chitkara.The partnership with Odette Business School at the University of Windsor will allow students to specialise in areas of the high market demand, including accounting, human resources, supply chain and business analytics, marketing, and strategy and entrepreneurship, while saving international tuition fee for students in India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-university-collaborates-with-canadian-varsity-297399
14-08-2021||---||Chandigarh cyclists to unfurl Tricolour at Hussainiwala||Chandigarh, August 13A group of 10 cyclists, including seven from Chandigarh, will pedal to Hussainiwala border in Ferozepur on Independence Day where they will unfurl the Tricolur and pay homage to the martyrs.The ‘Jashn-e-Azadi’ ride will feature an 11-year-old schoolboy, Tanmay Rawat, and 55-year-old Natinder Dhillon.Cyclist Vikrant Sharma said the purpose of organising the ride was not only to inculcate the spirit of patriotism in people but also to generate passion for cycling.Sharma said the cyclists would leave Chandigarh on August 14 morning and travel through Sirhind, Khanna, Ludhiana by-pass and Moga.On August 15, with the support of the BSF, the cyclists will conclude the ‘Jashn-e-Azadi’ ride with the hoisting of the Tricolor at Hussainiwala in company of the local people and jawans, he said. The group will also pay homage to the martyrs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cyclists-to-unfurl-tricolour-at-hussainiwala-297400
14-08-2021||---||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to unfurl national flag in Mohali||Mohali, August 13Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu will unfurl the national flag during the 75th Independence Day celebrations at Government College in Phase 6 here on Sunday.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said as the I-Day celebrations would be held in a subdued manner this year in the wake of the Covid pandemic, only contingents of the Punjab Police and NCC cadets would take part in the parade.He said as per the state government’s guidelines, Independence Day would be celebrated across the state amid safety measures and crowd restrictions due to the pandemic.Taking stock of the arrangements for the event and witnessing the full-dress rehearsal, Dayalan said owing to the Covid crisis, the I-Day celebrations would be restricted to hoisting the national flag followed by an address by the chief guest and prize distribution.He said no public gathering would be held on the occasion and no schoolchildren would be involved in the event. There would also be no cultural programme. Adhering to safety protocols, complete sanitisation of the venue would be ensured.Dayalan was accompanied by Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Komal Mittal, Assistant Commissioner (General) Tarsem Chand Sharma, SDM Harbans Singh, MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg and Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-to-unfurl-national-flag-in-mohali-297401
14-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board allows inspection of units prior to submission of bids||Chandigarh, August 13For the convenience of buyers of residential as well as commercial properties, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to allow prospective bidders to inspect the units prior to the submission of their bids.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said cleaning, whitewash and minor repairs of the vacant built-up units had been taken up and to facilitate the inspection, stickers had been pasted on all vacant units, their Google location had been shared on the website and site offices had been set up at different locations.The CHB has so far conducted 8 e-auctions of its built-up residential units (freehold and leasehold) and built-up commercial units (leasehold) and sold 87 residential units on a freehold basis and earned Rs70.60 crore revenue. Similarly, the CHB earned Rs4.52 crore from the sale of seven residential units on a leasehold basis and Rs6.30 crore from e-auction of 12 commercial units on a leasehold basis.He said 34 residential units on freehold basis, 33 residential units on leasehold basis and 149 commercial units on leasehold basis would be put up for sale in the next e-auction from August 20.The public notice for the e-auction would be issued in the next week and e-tendering would start from August 20. The units would be available for inspection from tomorrow onwards, he said.He said the residential units on freehold basis would be allowed for inspections on every Saturday from 10 am to 5 pm, residential units on leasehold basis on every Wednesday and commercial units on every Friday.Garg said a detailed exercise was undertaken to identify more vacant properties and about 30 built-up properties could be identified and included in the e-tender process.Meanwhile, the CHB has received some suggestions from the general public to improve the functioning and simplify the process in the board.Accepting the suggestions, Garg said now e-bid submission would be allowed up to 10 am and the e-bids would be opened on the same day at 10.15 am. Further, the year of construction of each of the unit has been provided on the CHB website. Units available for inspection from TodayAs many as 34 residential units on freehold basis, 33 residential units on leasehold basis and 149 commercial units on leasehold basis would be put up for sale in the next e-auction from August 20. The public notice for the e-auction will be issued next week and e-tendering will start from August 20. The units will be available for inspection from Saturday onward, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-allows-inspection-of-units-prior-to-submission-of-bids-297402
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Independence Day Cup final today at Chandigarh Golf Course||KS Brar and Brig Gill will face APS Kahai and Gauhar Pruthi in the final of the Independence Day Cup, which will be played on August 14 at the Chandigarh Golf Course.Brar and Gill won their first three matches by the 15th hole. However, the duo faced tough competition in their semi-final match against Virian Khosla and Col Mohan Singh. One down with one to play, Brar and Gill won the 18th hole to take the match into a playoff and claim victory with a par on the first playoff hole. The other finalists, APS Kahai and Gauhar Pruthi, faced strong opposition from the likes of Jaspreet Bakshi, Arvind Bajaj and MP Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/independence-day-cup-final-today-at-chandigarh-golf-course-297403
14-08-2021||Mohali||Teachers climb atop water tank despite ban in Mohali||Within 24 hours after the district administration issued order prohibiting protesting employees from climbing atop water tanks, mobile towers and roofs of government buildings, a few teachers climbed a water tank in Kumbhra village today. They are protesting the non-fulfillment of their demands.After receiving the information, the police immediately reached the site and asked them to climb down.Meanwhile, the district administration has issued orders for allowing peaceful protests at designated spots in the district. District Magistrate Girish Daylan said protests could be held at Dasehra Ground, Phase 8, Mohali, Panchayati land at Chappar Chiri Kalan, Football Ground, Darpan City, Kharar, and at a vacant land near Focal Point, Mubarakpur Road, Dera Bassi.Girish Dayalan said the protesters should ensure Covid-appropriate behavior and compliance with other guidelines. He said the violators would attract criminal penalty as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-climb-atop-water-tank-despite-ban-in-mohali-297404
14-08-2021||---||111 to get commendation certificate in Chandigarh on I-Day||Chandigarh, August 13For rendering outstanding services, the Chandigarh Administration will honour 111 government employees and others with commendation certificates on Independence Day.A majority of the awardees include frontline workers, who will be honoured in recognition of their services during the second wave of the pandemic.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT; Dr Manjeet Singh, District Immunisation Officer, Dr Preet Mohinder Kaur, Medical Officer; Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, Health Department; Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Nodal Officer, Covid Transport; Dr Manjeet Singh, Nodal Officer (oxygen); Dr Sanjeev Palta, Nodal Officer (ICU), GMCH; and Dr Manpreet Singh, Nodal Officer (oxygen), GMCH, are among the achievers from the healthcare workers category.Dr Neeza Singh, Librarian, TS Central State Library; Dr Sudha Katyal, Principal, Government Home Science College, Sector 10; Dr Seema Jaitely, Assistant Professor, Government Home Science College; and Sapna Nanda, Principal, Government College of Yoga Education & Health, will be awarded for meritorious service in the office of the Director, Higher Education. Other awardees are Vinay Verma, Manish Sawhney, Mohan Lal and Ram Dass from the Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology Department, along with Jatinder Pal Singh, Sports Department, Rakesh Kumar, Sanitary Inspector, Municipal Corporation, and Yash Pal Batra and Ashok Singla from the Chandigarh Housing Board and Jatinder Singh, Forester, Forests & Wildlife Department.In the field of social welfare, the award will be conferred upon Prem Nath Shammi, Sadhvi Neelima Vishvas, Rajan Mahajan, Sanjay Rana and Ravinder Singh Rawat.In the field of public service, Kandhari Beverages, Rotary Satellite Club for Chandigarh, Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, Be Sure Buddy, Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society, Competent Foundation and Bharat Vikas Parishad, Amardeep Singh United Sikhs and Karan Gilhotra for setting up mini-Covid care centres during the peak of Covid pandemic.Meanwhile, two journalists — Naina Mishra, Staff Correspondent, The Tribune, and Rajinder Singh Nagarkoti — will also be awarded on the occasion. Apart from reporting on Covid, the two went an extra mile for arranging ICU beds, medicines and oxygen cylinders for virus-affected patients during the second wave of the pandemic.Police Medal for 8UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore will confer Administrator’s Police Medal for distinguished or meritorious services on eight personnel — Inspector Amanjot Singh, HC (PR) Jasbir Kumar, ASI (LR) Gulzar Singh, HC Malwinder Singh, HC Munish Kumar, HC Yashpaul Dhiman, HC Charanjit Kaur and Senior Constable Sandeep Kumar — of the Chandigarh Police on Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/111-to-get-commendation-certificate-in-chandigarh-on-i-day-297405
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh residents booked for assaulting couple||Juvenile apprehended for robberyChandigarh: The UT police have apprehended a 16-year-old boy for robbery. Two unknown persons had robbed a Mauli Jagran resident, Jagannath, on August 11. The suspects had dragged the victim in the forest area and attacked him with a knife before robbing him of his mobile phone and a purse containing Rs250 and documents. A case was registered. The minor has been sent to the Juvenile Home in Sector 25. — TNSJind man nabbed for cheating in examChandigarh: The UT police have arrested Pardeep, a native of Jind, Haryana, for cheating during an examination conducted for various posts of Group-C (multi-tasking staff) category at an examination centre in 3BRD, Air Force station, Chandigarh. The police had received a complaint from Davinder Singh Saini, Group Captain, Station Security Officer, following which a case was registered. —TNS3 held under NDPS ActChandigarh: The UT police have arrested three persons, natives of Himachal Pradesh, while possessing 25.50 grams of heroin. According to the police, Ranjit Singh (25), a native of Mandi, Vinay Dhiman (29) and Yogesh Kumar (27), both residents of Bilaspur, all occupants of a taxi, were arrested from Sector 36 while possessing heroin. —TNSGangster Bhupi’s remand extendedDera Bassi: The court today extended the remand of gangster Bhupi Rana to four days. The police produced him before the court in connection with the murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera. On August 10, the Mohali police got three-day remand of Rana from the Dera Bassi court. Rana, lodged in the Kurukshetra jail, was produced before the court amid heavy police presence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-residents-booked-for-assaulting-couple-297407
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Disgruntled ex-Chandigarh Congress chief Pardeep Chhabra joins AAP||In a turn of events, Pardeep Chhabra, a former president of the Chandigarh Congress, joined the Aam Admi Party (AAP) in presence of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in New Delhi today.Chhabra, a former Mayor, had resigned from the primary membership of the Congress party last week.For the past six months, Chhabra had been at loggerheads with incumbent city Congress head Subhash Chawla. In February this year, the party high command had replaced Chhabra with Chawla. Chhabra has been attacking Chawla and former Congress MP Pawan Kumar Bansal since he was removed from the post of the city party president.Chhabra said he had joined the AAP unconditionally and he would not fight the forthcoming municipal elections scheduled to be held later this year. Chhabra also said he would work to strengthen the AAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disgruntled-ex-chandigarh-congress-chief-pardeep-chhabra-joins-aap-297408
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Court imposes  Rs 500 fine on 11 SAD workers||A local court has imposed a fine of Rs 500 each on 11 workers of the SAD for violating the order of the District Magistrate, Chandigarh. The case was sent to the court by the officer-in-charge of Police Station 26, Chandigarh, for trial in connection with the offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC.According to the prosecution, all leaders being party workers of SAD were found raising slogans against the government on August 9 last year in the area of the road separating Sector 26 and 7 in Chandigarh, thereby violating the order of the District Magistrate issued under section 144, CrPC, on July 9, 2020.An FIR was registered against the accused and on completion of the investigation, a challan was presented. Finding a prima facie case, a notice of accusation under section 188 of the IPC was served on the accused to which they pleaded guilty and did not claim trial. The court in the order says that since the accused persons have confessed their guilt, they are held guilty under section 188 IPC and ordered to pay a fine of Rs 500 each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-imposes-rs-500-fine-on-11-sad-workers-297409
14-08-2021||Mohali||Man found dead at Teedan village in New Chandigarh||Man found dead on railway tracksDera Bassi: An unidentified man died after being hit by a train on the Ambala-Kalka railway tracks here on Thursday night. The railway police have taken the body into their custody. Police in-charge Rajinder Singh Dhillon said they received information around 10 pm on Thursday that a man was found dead near the Dera Bassi level crossing. TNSHygiene NOC mandatoryChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation (MC) has made it mandatory for all schools, institutions, hotels, restaurants, all eateries, coffee shops and bakeries to obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) on health and hygiene. The MC has directed all such establishments to obtain an NOC from it within a month from the issuance of the public notice, which was issued today. Action will be taken against the violators as per relevant rules. TNSMahaBachat fest till tomorrowChandigarh: Big Bazaar is back with the savings festival of the year - MahaBachat. In addition to Big Bazaar stores, for the first time ever this mega event will be celebrated online on the Big Bazaar app and its ecommerce site- shop.bigbazaar.com that is on till August 15. MahaBachat offers consumers with the biggest deals and offers across food, fashion, home and electronics. TNSStudents get DiplomasChandigarh: The 56th convocation of the Indo-Swiss Training Centre (ISTC) was held at the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here on Friday. Diplomas were awarded to students passing out from the centre. This was the first physical event organised at the CSIO since the onset of the pandemic. Prof Arvind, Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, Patiala, was the chief guest. He said the knowledge and skills acquired during the course of studies held the real values. TNSQuiz contest on Charak SamhitaMohali: A quiz on ‘Charak Samhita’ for students of BAMS was organised by Desh Bhagat Ayurvedic College and Hospital to mark the birth anniversary of Maharishi Charak. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, Desh Bhagat University, congratulated the faculty and students for the successful completion of 25 years. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-at-teedan-village-in-new-chandigarh-297411
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||I-Day celebrations: No traffic on roads nearby Parade Ground||Roads around the Parade Ground in Sector 17 will remain closed to traffic in view of the Independence Day function on August 15.In an advisory issued here today, the UT Administration stated that restrictions would remain in force from 6.30 am till the time the Independence Day function gets over.As per the advisory, the road stretch from the roundabout of Sector 16/17/22/23 up to Gurdial Singh Petrol Pump, Sector 22-A, on Udyog Path; from the old District Courts, Sector 17, up to Shivalik Hotel; and from the Lyon’s restaurant light point near the MC office in Sector 17 up to the Parade Ground will remain closed to traffic.Also, no general parking shall be allowed in the parking area in front of shops in the Sector 22-A market, the advisory stated.Special inviteesSpecial invitees having authorised car parking labels will have to approach the Parade Ground from the roundabout of Sector 16/17/22/23 (cricket stadium chowk) and park their vehicles in the parking area in front of the Sector 22-A market, it added. Meanwhile, buses coming towards ISBT, Sector 17, shall be diverted towards the ISBT Chowk, Sector 17, from Kisan Bhawan Chowk and Piccadilly Chowk via Himalaya Marg and shall reach ISBT, Sector 17, from the turn near Gurdial Singh petrol pump, the advisory mentioned.Further, in order to decongest the area at the time of dispersal, traffic coming from the 17/18 light point, Aroma light point, Sector 18/19/20/21 chowk and cricket stadium chowk will be diverted for over half an hour from 11.30 am to 12.15 pm. The Administration has also requested the invitees to be seated latest by 8.30 am.Special invitees/attendees have been urged to enter Parade Ground from Gate No. 1, 3, 4 and 5. The attendees need to carry an original photo ID card and desist from bring any objectionable articles to the venue, stated the advisory. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-day-celebrations-no-traffic-on-roads-nearby-parade-ground-297413
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||7 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, 10 in Mohali||Chandigarh on Friday reported seven new cases of Covid-19 taking the total tally in the city to 62,024. However, the death count remained static at 811 with no new casualty. Also, 10 patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours. — TNSNo case for 2nd day in PanchkulaPanchkula: Panchkula reported zero Covid cases for the second consecutive day on Friday. As a result, the tally remained unchanged at 30,656. The Covid death toll also stayed at 376. While 30,272 people have recovered from the disease so far, there are eight active cases in the district. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. — TNS10 get infected in Mohali districtMohali: After more than a month, the Covid positive cases touched the double-digit mark in Mohali as 10 new infections were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total tally in the district to 68,521. The district had recorded 11 cases on July 8. No death was reported in the district till Friday evening while two patients have recovered from the infection and discharged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-10-in-mohali-297417
14-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Cholera outbreak: More areas in Zirakpur's Baltana report cases, count 427||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 13Sixteen more cases of cholera surfaced in the Baltana area of Zirakpur today, taking the total infection count to 427.Also, 20 more patients have been admitted to the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Dhakoli since last evening.According to the Health Department, the fresh cases were reported today from the Yog Vihar, Ravindra Enclave, Golden Estate, Ekta Vihar and Hem Vihar areas of Baltana. The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said all cases that surfaced in the area today were “mild in nature”. She said medical camps were being held in all affected colonies for the past five days.“Aggressive sampling is being done in all affected colonies and medical teams and ambulances have been stationed in the area. We are also providing free medicines to the affected people,” she said. Girish Verma, Executive Officer, Zirakpur Municipal Council, said they had found leakages in supply lines at three more places in the Baltana area and these had been plugged. “We are checking the other pipelines also,” said Verma. Two persons, including a three-year-old girl, have succumbed to the infection in the past three days.Senior SAD leader and Dera Basssi MLA NK Sharma, meanwhile, visited Baltana and interacted with the residents. The legislator also arranged a medical camp in the area. “Owing to the negligence of the authorities, diseases are spreading in the district of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu,” Sharma asserted and demanded action against the officials responsible for the negligence.Preventive careDr BS Chadhok, national adviser, Indian Institute of Homoeopathic Physicians, said people in the affected areas should take ‘Arsenicum Album 200’ as a preventive measure. He said critical patients should take three drops of the medicine after every one hour for about a week to recover fully. Dr Chadhok urged the Mohali Deputy Commissioner to distribute the medicine to the people in the affected areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cholera-outbreak-more-areas-in-zirakpurs-baltana-report-cases-count-427-297420
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cook held for murder of 98-year-old woman of Sector 8, Chandigarh||A 31-year-old cook, who lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic, has been arrested by the police for the murder of a 98-year-old woman of Sector 8.The victim, Joginder Kaur, was found murdered in her house on August 6. Her maid, Bhavna, had stated that she had gone for an evening walk and on returning home, she found Joginder Kaur lying unconscious with blood oozing out of her throat. Bhavna called her husband and the police were informed. A PCR team rushed the victim to the GMSH, Sector 16, where she was declared brought dead.The police said during the course of investigation, Kailash Bhatt, a native of Uttarakhand, who, along with his wife and an 18-month-old son, was residing at the servant’s quarter of a house in Sector 8, was apprehended.Kailash’s questioning revealed that he worked as cook and lost his job during the lockdown. He was under debt and had to pay his two-wheeler’s instalments. He decided to break into the victim’s house and steal money and valuables to meet his financial needs.Sources in the police said Kailash knew the victim’s maid and her husband since they were also from Uttarakhand. “The accused was aware that the elderly woman lived alone in the house and he could easily steal valuables from there,” the sources added.The police said the accused broke into the victim’s house. The elderly woman saw him and raised the alarm. Fearing that he might get caught, the accused attacked the woman with a knife and fled the spot.The police have recovered the clothes and shoes which the accused was wearing when he perpetrated the crime. These will be sent to a forensic lab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cook-held-for-murder-of-98-year-old-woman-of-sector-8-chandigarh-297427
14-08-2021||New Delhi||No separate Administrator for Chandigarh: MHA||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) today said the Centre had neither taken any decision on divesting Punjab Governor of the responsibility of the Chandigarh Administrator nor any such proposal was under consideration.A spokesman for the MHA said: “It is clarified that the Centre has not taken any decision of divesting the Punjab Governor of his responsibility of the Chandigarh Administrator; and, neither is any such proposal under contemplation.”The clarification follows a Twitter post of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in which he said: “Met & urged Home Minister Amit Shah to review the Union govt’s decision to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh by divesting Punjab Governor of this charge. It’s another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city which is totally unacceptable (sic).” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-separate-administrator-for-chandigarh-mha-297295
14-08-2021||---||Not considering appointing independent administrator for Chandigarh: MHA||Mukesh RanjanTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 13The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday clarified that the Centre has not taken any decision of divesting Punjab Governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh Administrator and also there is neither any such proposal under contemplation.An MHA spokesperson’s clarification has come in view of a Twitter post of SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal in which he said: “Met & urged Home minister Amit Shah to review the Union govt’s decision to appoint a full-fledged administrator for Chandigarh by divesting Punjab governor of this charge. It’s another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city, which is totally unacceptable”.In another tweet Badal said: “Have conveyed to the HM that there is no reason to appoint a full-fledged administrator for the UT from outside Punjab. Till the UT is not transferred to Pb, the officer should be appointed from the state. Chandigarh is inseparable from Pb & must be transferred to it ASAP”.The MHA spokesperson, while countering the claims made by the SAD leader, said it was clarified that Sukhbir Singh Badal “has not raised this issue with the Union Home Minister “. He went on to add: “The apprehension expressed in Shri Sukhbir Singh Badal’s tweet that he met and urged the Union Home Minister to review the Union Government’s decision to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh by divesting the Governor of Punjab of this charge, is unfounded.”The MHA official further said, “It is clarified that the Union Government has not taken any decision of divesting Punjab Governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh Administrator; and, neither is any such proposal under contemplation”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-considering-appointing-independent-administrator-for-chandigarh-mha-297129
14-08-2021||---||Neeraj Chopra suffering from high fever, unable to attend Haryana felicitation ceremony; Vinesh Phogat skips event||Panchkula, August 13Olympics gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra was unable to join the Haryana government's felicitation ceremony due to high fever.Also read: Neeraj Chopra suffering from high fever, tests Covid negativeHe joined the ceremony online from his home in Khandra, Panipat. In his message, he urged the government to keep supporting athletes.Wrestler Bajrang Punia was present at the function. Haryana Chief Minsiter Manohar Lal Khattar too could not attend the function due to bereavement in the family as his younger brother Gulshan Khattar past away due to an illness on Friday.Wrestler Vinesh Phogat, tennis player Sumit Nagal, shooter Manu Bhaker and boxers Amit Panghal, Vikas Krishan and Manish Kaushik, discus thrower Seema Poonia, who could not perform upto their expectations in the Tokyo Olympics, did not attend the function.Manu Bhaker said she could not join the function due to ''unavoidable circumstances''. Their family members, however, collected the cheques worth lakhs and gift hampers on the stage.The ceremony was marred by the absence of many of the awardees despite government showering cash awards, jobs, gift hampers. Only Neeraj Chopra disclosed the exact reason for his absence.One of the two hockey men's team player Sumit Kumar too was not present. Left embarrassed with the several absences, the Haryana government officials said the awards will be delivered at the athletes home. Vinesh Phogat’s brother had attended on her behalf.  The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) has temporarily suspended star grappler Vinesh Phogat from all wrestling activities for ‘gross indiscipline’ during the Tokyo Olympic Games. Vinesh, who lost in the quarterfinals of the 53kg freestyle category in Tokyo, has been issued a notice in this matter and has been given time until August 16 to reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neeraj-chopra-suffering-from-high-fever-unable-to-attend-haryana-felicitation-ceremony-vinesh-phogat-skips-event-297110
