15-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh educational institutes, schools to be closed on August 16||Chandigarh educational institutes and schools will remain closed on August 16, 2021, (Monday), the UT government announced on Sunday evening.Notice:"As per directions of Governor Punjab -& Administrator, UT Chandigarh, Sh.V.P.Badnore, all educational institutions in Chandigarh will remain closed on Monday, 16th August."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-educational-institutes-schools-to-be-closed-on-august-16-297939
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police will soon set up online cybercrime reporting portal: Badnore||Chandigarh Police plans to set up an online cybercrime reporting portal. This was announced on Sunday during the 75th Independence Day function by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.A cyber forensic training laboratory for preventing cyber-crime against women and children would also be set up, said Badnore, adding that "the Chandigarh Police is also developing a mobile app for registration and investigation of E-FIR purposes".Recalling the achievements of the Chandigarh Administration, Badnore said: "We have successfully vaccinated 7.2 lakh people, above 18 years of age with the first dose of Covishield, and achieved a 100 per cent target by August 14, 2021. This will act as a primary intervention in protecting the city against any future surge in Covid-19 infection.”"We must be very clear that the pandemic is not over, and it will not be over until and unless the transmission is controlled. More than our usage, Vaccine hesitancy is a major barrier to vaccine uptake and the achievement of mass immunity. To substantially reduce morbidity and mortality from COVID-19, we must all be vaccinated," he continued."It took a herculean effort on the part of our government to manage one of the biggest vaccination programs, that has already saved many lives, and the count is growing each day. In an attempt to cover the maximum population, door to door vaccination was started. Special vaccination camps are being conducted at the places witnessing maximum footfall, for Persons with Disabilities, their Caregivers and Senior Citizens of UT Chandigarh", Badnore said."The City has also begun vaccinating pregnant women to reduce the risk of disease to the expectant mother and child. We also managed the oxygen supply in such a way that despite some shortage there was no crisis. Oxygen generation plants were installed in GMCH 32, Sector 48 Hospital, GMSH 16, and the supply was managed through rational distribution"."There was swift coordination in Tri-city to help each other with liquid oxygen in case of any crisis. We have planned expansion of ICU at GMSH 16 and Covid Pediatrics Hospital at Sector 45 Civil Hospital to keep ourselves ready to tackle any emergency during this ongoing pandemic", Badnore added."I would like to express our gratitude to the voluntary organisations/NGO’s for their support in making the Mini Covid Care Centers functional in the City. 300-bed facilities were operational and other 200 beds facilities were at standby in no time. Thousands of patients were treated at these Centres with unparalleled professional medical care"."I feel happy in announcing that the Administration had taken up various visionary steps which would take Chandigarh to the threshold of a new development era. I wish to highlight some of these", Badnore said.HIGHLIGHTS: 1. The overall pass percentage for class 10th in this session is 96.6%, which is 19.4 % higher from last year. The pass percentage for class 12th in this session is 98.7 %, which is 7.1 % higher than compared to that of the previous session, 2019-20. I congratulate the students of Class X and XII for showing such an exceptional result. 2. India will be represented in PISA 2021 by Chandigarh because of its superior performance on MHRD’s Performance Grading Index (PGI) for State and UT education systems.  3. Chandigarh Administration has taken a step forward to extend financial & educational assistance to COVID orphaned children, children who lost one parent due to COVID and COVID positive children of UT Chandigarh through “PARVARISH Scheme”. 4. The Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan completes its first year today. To combat the menace of substance abuse preferably among children of Chandigarh, the Social Welfare department has sensitized masses through various media platforms. 5. Chandigarh has achieved most of the goals set by the NITI Aayog in the third edition of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) India Index 2020-21. 6. We have successfully completed the construction of 4 schools (Raipur Kalan, Industrial Area Phase –III, Maloya Pocket No. 1 and PGI) which will be made operational shortly. Further, two new school buildings of GHS-Mauli Jagran and GPS-Dhanas are nearing completion and will be made functional by end of this academic year.  7. Two Mini-Sports Complexes with Swimming Pools and Indoor Badminton Courts have been made functional in GMSSS-8 and GMSSS-27. 8. We have allotted 1707 flats to the families staying in Pre-Fab Shelters under Affordable Rental Housing Complexes Scheme, and steps have been taken to allot flats to the eligible residents of the Colony No.4  9. We have begun the first electric bus in the city and other 39 busses will be functional and running in the city by the end of September.  10. The first Material Recovery Facility – cum – Garbage Transfer Station has been made functional at 3BRD STP site, Industrial Area, Phase II, and the construction of other two is in process.  11. Chandigarh has started the largest Public Bike sharing Project in India with 25 docking stations and 175 bikes, which is to be scaled up to 5000 bikes by June 2022.  12. To meet the future demand of power and to provide reliable service to the consumers, work has been initiated to strengthen the 66 KV substations at water works sector 39.  13. We are also in the process of completing the construction of Billiards & Snooker facility at Sports Complex at Sector-42, Up-gradation of Football Stadium, Sector-17, New Emergency and Trauma Block at GMCH-32, New UT Secretariat building, Sports Injury Centre, Sec-32, Sports Complex at Industrial Area, Phase-II, Ramdarbar. We will also have a Mother and Child Care Centre (341 bedded) in GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 (404 beds) soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-will-soon-set-up-online-cybercrime-reporting-portal-badnore-297935
15-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19: Chandigarh achieves 100% first vaccine dose target||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14On the eve of Independence Day, Chandigarh achieved a milestone in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic by vaccinating 100 per cent of its 18 plus population with the first dose of the vaccine.October target for full immunisation of adultsThe UT Administration has now set a target of October to achieve full immunisation of the whole adult population. Currently, 33.43% of the adult population has been fully vaccinated in Chandigarh.On being asked what it took to achieve a 100 per cent target, the Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, Dr Amandeep Kang, said: “We had turned city buses into vaccination centres and deployed our health teams for the task to vaccinate people who could not come to the centres. We started vaccinating residents through door-to-door campaigns. The health volunteers would go to each house and encourage the eligible individuals to take the shot at these mobile vaccination centres.”Chandigarh has completed the first-dose vaccination of 7,32,369 people, which accounts for 100.35 per cent coverage. On Saturday, Chandigarh vaccinated the highest number of 13,032 beneficiaries. “There may have been people from other states who got vaccinated in Chandigarh. No separate data is maintained for such people. They may have been counted in Chandigarh itself, hence the vaccination coverage will cross 100 per cent. As per the guidelines, anyone can get vaccinated in any part of the country irrespective of his residence. The aim is to vaccinate all.”“Some workers from Baddi have also been coming to us for two days and we vaccinated them also. However, if they keep coming to us, then we will maintain a separate vaccination record,” she added. The UT Administration has now set a target of October to achieve full immunisation of the whole adult population. At present, 33.43 per cent of the adult population has been fully vaccinated in Chandigarh.While Chandigarh has achieved a remarkable feat of 100 per cent coverage of Covid-19 first dose vaccination of the eligible population, 41 per cent of total population under 18 years of age is still without vaccination and remains susceptible to the virus.The total population of Chandigarh is estimated at 12,36,987 and 59 per cent of it (7,29,822) is above 18 years and eligible for vaccination. Chandigarh had vaccinated 99.1 per cent of them with first dose till Friday.“While a majority of children may not contract severe Covid-19 and results of sero survey suggest that at least 70 per cent of them have formed antibodies against the infection, it should be reiterated that children should wear masks and schools should ensure proper social distancing. We have to keep our children safe now,” said Dr Kang.An eminent epidemiologist, Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, said: “There is plenty of evidence that schools do not pose additional risk to children. Even when schools were closed, we know through a sero survey that children have been infected. The risk of children getting infected at other public places is far higher than schools. The evidence is that vaccination of children is not a pre-requisite to open schools.“There is more evidence needed. As and when vaccines become available, scientists and experts would take a call on that. Till then, schools should be open and parents should not be in rush to get children vaccinated. However, the adults should be vaccinated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-achieves-100-first-vaccine-dose-target-297781
15-08-2021||Mohali||Seven more test Covid +ve in Mohali||Two contract infection in ChandigarhChandigarh: The UT on Saturday reported two cases of Covid-19 and no fresh fatality. Meanwhile, two patients were cured of the disease during the past 24 hours. — TNS2 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported two fresh cases of novel coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 30,658. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,272 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 10 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-more-test-covid-ve-in-mohali-297782
15-08-2021||Mohali||20 more cholera cases surface in Baltana||Fresh 20 cases of cholera have surfaced in more colonies of the Baltana area of Zirakpur taking the count to 447. Twenty patients have been admitted to the Community Health Centre in Dhakoli.All leakages pluggedThe Municipal Council authorities have found leakages at four places which had been plugged. Girish Verma, Executive Officer, Zirakpur Municipal Council, said they had carried out a checking exercise in all colonies in the Baltana area and no further leakages were found.Two persons, including a three-year-old girl and a 30-year-old man, have died of cholera in the past six days in the area. Cases were reported yesterday from Yog Vihar, Ravindra Enclave, Golden Estate, Ekta Vihar and Hem Vihar.Meanwhile, eight persons, out of a total of 16 cholera patients admitted to the Community Health Centre at Dhakoli, were discharged after treatment. A 4-year-old boy was brought to the medical camp today by his parents in a critical condition. As there was no ambulance on the spot, he was taken to the Dhakoli Hospital in a three-wheeler which was being used for creating awareness among the people.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said medical teams had been stationed in the colonies at Baltana. All cases reported today were mild. Medical camps had been held in all colonies for the past six days. She said they were carrying out aggressive sampling in all colonies of the area and medical teams and ambulances had been stationed in the area. Medicines were being provided to the affected people free of cost.Teams from the Health Department provided chlorine tablets to every household in the ward and advised residents to use boiled and chlorinated water for consumption. Besides, blood and stool tests of seven new patients were carried out. The team also took the samples of potable water from several houses today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-more-cholera-cases-surface-in-baltana-297783
15-08-2021||Mohali||Hit-and-run claimed 7 lives in Mohali last week||Seven young lives have been snuffed out in four separate hit-and-run cases in the past one week in Mohali. This is at a time when there is an increased police presence ahead of the Independence Day celebrations.Three youths on a motorcycle were hit by a speeding SUV coming from the Chandigarh side while they were crossing the Phase 7-8 light point on the night of August 11. Phase 1 resident Neeraj, 30, and Muktsar resident Sonu Singh were declared brought dead at the Phase 6 Civil Hospital. Their unidentified friend died during the treatment at the GMCH in Sector 32, Chandigarh.The incident was caught on the camera but the police have been unable to identify the SUV driver. A case was registered at the Phase 8 police station.On August 10, two scooter-borne girls, Khushpreet Kaur and Aradhna Minhas, were hit by an unidentified vehicle near the Kumbhra light point. They were returning home in Phase 7 after paying obeisance at Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara. The duo died on the spot. A day earlier, Baltana resident Rahul, 32, was coming home on his motorcycle after duty around 4 am when a speeding car, coming from the Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara side, hit his bike near the Sector 68-69 crossing. The victim was rushed to the hospital where he died during the treatment. A case in this regard was registered at the Phase 8 police station.An unidentified vehicle hit Matran resident Gurpreet Singh, who was riding a motorcycle, near Sector 82. The victim was admitted to a hospital in Sohana where doctors declared him dead. A case in this connection was registered at the Sohana police station on August 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-and-run-claimed-7-lives-in-mohali-last-week-297784
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna floodgate opened for 2 hrs||The UT Engineering Department today opened one of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake after the water level reached near the danger mark of 1,163 feet.As a precautionary measure, the floodgate was opened around 1 pm when the water level reached the 1,162.7 feet, just five inches below the danger mark, said an official of the department. He, however, said the gate was closed around 3 pm.It was a second time within a week when the authorities have to open the floodgate. On Monday, the floodgate was opened for 1.15 hours when the water level reached 1162.5 feet, just 7 inches below the danger mark of 1,163 feet. yesterday, the water level in the lake was 1,162.20 feet, but it reached 1,162.7 feet after rain in the area and catchment area of the lake, forcing the department to open the floodgate.An alert was sounded in the neighbouring areas and to avoid flooding downstream, the water was released in a small quantity, he said, adding that the Mohali Administration was also informed in advance about the opening of the floodgate. Officials of the department were present at the lake to monitor the situation.The water level in the lake on August 8 had reached 1,162.3 feet, 9 inches below the danger mark, due to the rain in the city and the catchment area of the lake. On August 2, the water level reached 1,161.4 feet, which was 1.8 feet below the danger mark. With the late arrival of the monsoon, the water level in the lake was recorded at 1,159. 9 feet on July 28.Two of the three floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake crossed the danger mark and reached 1,163.4 feet and the gush of the water led to flooding in the Baltana area of Mohali district. After the opening of the floodgates, the Sukhna Choe carried the excess water of the lake to the Ghaggar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-floodgate-opened-for-2-hrs-297785
15-08-2021||---||Restricted entry to Chandigarh from  8 am till noon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14There will be restricted entry for people coming to Chandigarh for about four hours in the morning due to the security arrangements for the Independence Day celebrations. Police personnel will man the entry and exit points at Chandigarh borders. Sources said only the entry of ambulances, people involved in essential services would be allowed from 8 am to around 12.15 pm till the Independence Day celebrations are over at the Parade Ground, Sector 17. “Although the deployment of the police at the entry/exit points will start from 6 am, entry of people is restricted from around 8 am. Commuters will only be allowed to enter Chandigarh after checking." said a policeman.As many as 3,800 police personnel, including the traffic police, Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), paramilitary force, mounted staff, the Police Control Room (PCR) wing will be on high alert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restricted-entry-to-chandigarh-from-8-am-till-noon-297786
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Assault victim succumbs to injuries, 1 held||A 24-year-old youth of Hallo Majra, Vipin Kumar, who was admitted to the GMCH-32, following an assault that took place on August 12, succumbed to his injuries last night. Shish Pal, alias Kala (28), has been arrested for culpable homicide not amounting to murder while his brother, Gulli, has absconded.In his complaint to the police, the victim’s sister alleged that Kala and Gulli were known to her brother. On August 12, she received a call from Vipin, who pleaded for help as the two brothers assaulted him. She rushed to the spot near a dispensary in Ram Darbar where she found Vipin in an injured condition. Residents alleged that the duo were notorious for attacking people with sharp weapons. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.Sector 31 SHO Narinder Patial said: “Suspect Shish Pal has been arrested. His brother Gulli will be arrested shortly.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assault-victim-succumbs-to-injuries-1-held-297787
15-08-2021||---||Teenager was driving Merc at 120 km/hr: Chargesheet||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 14The police in their chargesheet filed in the Court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) stated that Samrat, an 18-year-old Mercedes driver, did not have a driving licence and was driving the car at 120 km per hour, killing three persons and injuring three others in an accident on March 20 this year.The caseThe accused, Samrat, a resident of Sector 34-D, mowed down three persons and injured three others with his speeding Mercedes car near Radha Soami Chowk in Sector 76 here on March 20. After the accident, he, along with his two friends, fled the spot.New sections addedThe police have added Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the IPC to the case and removed Sections 304-A and 324 of the IPC.The police have added Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the IPC to the case and removed Sections 304-A and 324 of the IPC.Gursher Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), who is the investigating officer in the case, filed the chargesheet in the court on Friday.The chargesheet further stated that the accused, Samrat, who was driving the Mercedes bearing registration number CH01CA1869, jumped the traffic lights and rammed his car into an Ertiga car and two cycles, leaving three persons, including a cyclist dead, and three others critically injured. He later rammed his car into a railing. The accused, along with his two friends, fled from the spot even after sensing the serious condition of the victims and didn’t even inform the police or ambulance. The car was registered in the name of his father, Ranpreet Singh.The other sections included in the case are Sections 181 (no person shall drive a motor vehicle in a public place and shall be shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term), 183 (whoever drives a motor vehicle in any public place when he is to his knowledge suffering from any disease or disability to be a source of danger to the public) and 184 (driving dangerously) of the Motor Vehicle Act.During the hearing, Samrat, who is out on bail, sought some documents from the police related to the case. The court has fixed August 31 as the next date of hearing.The accused, Samrat, a resident of Sector 34D, belongs to the family of Weldon Opticals in Chandigarh. He mowed down three persons and injured three others with his speeding Mercedes car near Radha Soami Chowk in Sector 76 here on March 20. After the accident, he, along with his two friends, fled the spot.The deceased were identified as Ram Prasad of Mataur, Ankush Narula of Zirakpur and Dharampreet of Gholumajra village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teenager-was-driving-merc-at-120-km-hr-chargesheet-297788
15-08-2021||---||2 months on, Hallo Majra getting dirty water supply||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14Several parts of Hallo Majra have been getting dirty drinking water supply for the past two months.‘People Forced to buy bottled water, install RO systems’The urban areas of Chandigarh get water from canal while rural ones are supplied water drawn from tube-wells. The water supplied to our area is not drinkable at all. People are forced to buy bottled water or install reverse osmosis (RO) systems — BS Rawat, Former General Secretary, Hallo Majra Deep Complex Welfare AssnThe water also emanates foul smell. Despite complaints, the Municipal Corporation has not fixed the problem. Residents lamented that the issue had always been there, but the problem got bigger during monsoon.Hallo Majra resident Gurleen Sabharwal lamented, “This is a basic human right to have fresh and clean water, but we are being supplied something as bad as sewage. How will people of Hallo Majra live?”“Even after repeated complaints for more than a year, we get this surprise every year. People are falling ill by drinking the dirty water but the authorities do not bother. Public representatives visit our area only for votes,” she added.BS Rawat, former general secretary, Hallo Majra Deep Complex Welfare Association, said, “The urban areas of Chandigarh get water from canal while rural areas are supplied water drawn from tube wells. The water supplied to our area is not drinkable at all. People are forced to buy bottled water or install reverse osmosis (RO) systems.”When contacted, area councillor Bharat Kumar said, “Sometimes, water gets mixed with sewage or rainwater here. We have not got many complaints this year. When we get some complaint, we get it resolved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-months-on-hallo-majra-getting-dirty-water-supply-297789
15-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Cornea donation dips 81% in one year, Covid to blame||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14The cornea collection and transplantation has been hit in the past one year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Only 170 corneas were collected during the year 2020-21, of which 161 were transplanted in Chandigarh hospitals.The cornea collection has dipped by almost 81 per cent from the last year as 904 corneas were collected in the year 2019-20, out of which 618 were transplanted.In 2018-19, 1,150 corneas were collected in Chandigarh and 698 were transplanted.Dr SS Pandav, Professor, Advanced Eye Centre, PGI, Chandigarh, said: “Last year, we had mainly Covid-19 patients admitted to our hospital and we do not collect corneas of Covid positive patients for transplantation. Moreover, patients did not turn up for transplantation as other services were almost shut.”“The cornea transplantation is now picking up in our institute and patients who require it are visiting the centre,” he said.Prof Jagat Ram, ophthalmologist and Director, PGI, said: “Due to Covid-19 pandemic last year, there was hesitancy among people due to transmission. Organ donation and eye donation have been affected.”There are three functional eye donation centres in Chandigarh.Chandigarh has received Rs4 lakh under the National Programme for Control of Blindness (NPCB) in 2020-21.The Department of Health & Family Welfare runs a National Programme for Control of Blindness & Visual Impairment under the National Health Mission (NHM).The National Eye Donation fortnight is observed every year from August 25 to September 8 to create awareness about the importance of eye donation and to motivate people to pledge their eyes for donation after death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cornea-donation-dips-81-in-one-year-covid-to-blame-297790
15-08-2021||---||Villagers raise objections over waste collection fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14A delegation of residents from Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu villages here has raised 10 objections over the garbage collection charges being sent along the water bills.They have submitted the objections to the Municipal Corporation Commissioner’s Office. They demanded that their suggestions should be implemented as residents are troubled due to “overcharging” for the collection of waste by the MC.In a letter to the Municipal Corporation chief, residents stated that the rates were too high for villagers. They demanded that collection charges in shops in villages should be fixed at Rs150 per month per shop.The residents of these villages lamented that floor-based garbage charges were not justified as only one family was residing in a house.The residents also demanded that the garbage collection charges should be sent separately.The villagers said the charges sent together for six months are too high and cannot be paid by them due to the Covid-induced financial issues.The delegation further demanded that all religious places, schools, anganwadi centres and those into farming should be exempted from these charges. They also held a protest against “overcharging” of rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-raise-objections-over-waste-collection-fee-297791
15-08-2021||---||Sector 24 man gets one-yr RI in cheque-bounce case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14Gurdeep Kaur, Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMIC), has sentenced a Sector 24 resident, Vinod Kumar, to undergo one-year rigorous imprisonment in a cheque-bounce case.The court also directed the convict to pay a compensation of Rs1.50 lakh to the complainant. In case of default of payment of the compensation amount, the convict will have to undergo an additional simple imprisonment of six months.Anil Kumar, a city resident, had filed the case through counsel Paras Money Goyal against Vinod Kumar under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.In his complaint, Anil said the accused took a friendly loan of Rs2 lakh from him and assured to pay it in August, 2017. The accused issued a cheque on August 21, 2017, drawn on State Bank of India, Sector 12, Chandigarh, for a sum of Rs2 lakh in the favour of the complainant. When he presented the cheque for encashment, it was dishonoured on August 24 with the remarks “Funds Insufficient”.The complainant said he served a legal notice on the accused on August 25. Since the accused failed to pay the amount to the complainant within the statutory period, he was constrained to file the complaint before the court.In preliminary evidence, complainant himself appeared as a witness. He also tendered his affidavit along with the documents and closed his preliminary evidence.On appraisal of the preliminary evidence adduced by the complainant, the accused was summoned to face trial. On appearance, accused Vinod was admitted to bail and a notice of substance of accusation was served upon him.The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The accused took the plea that he never borrowed a sum of Rs2 lakh from the complainant. Therefore, no legal liability exists towards him against the cheque in question.After hearing the arguments and examining the records, the court observed that the complainant had succeeded in proving its case. While holding the accused guilty of offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, the court sentenced the convict to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year.The court has also directed the convict to pay Rs1.50 lakh as compensation to the complainant. In default of the payment of the compensation amount, the convict will undergo an additional simple imprisonment for six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-24-man-gets-one-yr-ri-in-cheque-bounce-case-297792
15-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bank dishonours cheque sans valid reasons, fined||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14Terming the act of dishonouring a cheque without valid reasons as deficiency in service, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has directed a bank to pay a compensation of Rs5,000 to a consumer for causing mental agony, harassment and loss of reputation. The Commission has also directed the bank to pay Rs5,000 as litigation cost to the consumer.Jyoti Khemka, a city resident, approached the Commission after her cheque was dishonoured despite having sufficient amount in the account.In the complaint filed before the Commission, Jyoti said she had an account with Canara Bank, Nangia Park, Shakti Nagar, in Delhi. She purchased a car for which she drew a cheque on June 27, 2020, from her savings bank account for Rs6.95 lakh. On the basis of her creditworthiness, the vendor sanctioned the sale on June 28, 2020. On June 30, 2020, the complainant was informed by the vendor that her cheque had been dishonoured and the sale was consequently cancelled.Due to this, she served notices on the bank (opposite party) asking the reason behind dishonouring the cheque on July 9, 2020. In response to this, the opposite party informed her that the cheque was dishonoured due to mismatch of her signatures.The bank contested the complaint and filed its written reply. It pleaded that the signatures of the complainant differ from the actual signatures available in the bank records. Pleading that no cause of action accrued at any point of time for the complainant to file the complaint, a prayer was made for its dismissal.After hearing the arguments and examining the records, the Commission noted that the bank had not adduced/produced any documentary evidence by way of any certificate/ report from any authorities or handwriting expert that the signatures of the complaint on the cheque and the one in the records differ materially.The Commission said: “We are of the concerted opinion that by not honouring the cheque, the bank has indulged in unfair trade practice and there has been deficiency in service on part of the bank. It has also caused mental agony and harassment to the complainant by causing loss of reputation. In view of this, the bank has been directed to pay Rs5,000 as compensation for mental agony, harassment and causing loss of reputation and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-dishonours-cheque-sans-valid-reasons-fined-297793
15-08-2021||---||Carrom ranking tourney begins||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14The 23rd edition of the St Stephen’s Carrom Ranking Tournament started at St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, here, today.In the men’s singles, Mohd Hassan, Mohd Talib, Mazhar Khan and Sanjay Negi entered into the semi-finals.In the pre-quarter finals, Himanshu Shekhar thrashed Prince in straight games by 25-00, 25-00; Gopal Kakkar bt Trivik Kapoor 25-00, 25-00; Paras Arora bt Sonu Kumar 25-00, 25-00; Sanjay Negi bt Surjith 25-00, 25-00; and Tasavar Ali bt Kushal 25-00, 25-00.In the men’s quarters, Mohd Talib defeated Himanshu Shekhri in straight games by 25-12, 24-22. After making a lead of one game, Talib had to face a tough fight in the second game to finish at 24-22. Mazhar Khan defeated Gopal Kakkar by 25-15, 21-08, while Sanjay Negi thrashed Paras Arora by 25-00, 25-00. Second seed Mohd Hassan thrashed Tasavar Ali in straight games by 25-00, 25-00.In the women’s singles, Sangini Mamgain bt Renu Yadav 25-00, 25-00; Nidhi Gupta bt Reena 25-00, 25-00; and Vaidhavi Mamgain bt Manisha 25-00, 25-00.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carrom-ranking-tourney-begins-297794
15-08-2021||---||Dinosaur park, otter house open at Chhatbir zoo||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, August 14Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated a dinosaur park at Chhatbir zoo here today during a virtual ceremony on the eve of Independence Day.To provide scientific informationChhatbir zoo, in collaboration with Altrview Group, developed the dinosaur park on the PPP mode in which lifelike interactive robotic models of dinosaurs are being exhibited. A sum of Rs5 crore has been spent on the project. The park will also provide scientific information on dinosaurs.The one-of-its-kind dinosaur park will cope with the international standard of zoo education to understand about prehistoric dinosaurs.Chhatbir zoo, in collaboration with Altrview Group, developed the dinosaur park on the PPP mode in which lifelike interactive robotic models of dinosaurs are being exhibited. A sum of Rs5 crore has been spent on this project. This park will also provide scientific information about dinosaurs.The dinosaur park is being developed as an interactive and entertaining zoo education activity, which will provide useful scientific awareness in an interesting way.An otter house has also been developed at Chhatbir zoo. The smooth-coated otter (Lutrogale perspicillata) is an active and playful animal. Chhatbir zoo recently created a new naturalistic exhibit for this species. The exhibit has been created with see-through-glass so that visitors can enjoy the playful underwater movements of the otters.A sum of Rs35 lakh has been spent for the creation of this otter house. From today onwards, visitors can explore these two newly added features at the zoo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dinosaur-park-otter-house-open-at-chhatbir-zoo-297795
15-08-2021||Mohali||Mohali SDM reviews I-Day arrangements||Sub-Divisonal Magistrate Mohali Harbans Singh and Assistant Commissioner (G) Tarsem Chand Sharma today reviewed the arrangements of the Independence Day celebrations at Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh Shauraya Chakra Vijayata Government College at Phase 6.Harbans Singh said only four contingents of the Punjab police, a contingent of NCC cadets of the Phase 6 Government College and a contingent of Brass Band of the Punjab Police would take part in the march past.Accompanied by Tehsildar Vikas Sharma and Sub-Registrar Ravinder Bansal, the SDM said Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu will be the guest of honour.Senior citizens to be felicitatedThe district authorities will felicitate five members — Jagmohan Singh Thukral (82), Swaran Chaudhary (81), Sukhwinder Singh Bedi (67), Manjit Singh Sawhney (72), Harinder Pal Singh Harry (65) — of the Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association during the I-Day event at the government college. They are being honoured for their contribution to society during Covid.Agriculture Minister to hoist national flag in P’kulaPanchkula: The city police have made elaborate security arrangements in view of the Independence Day celebrations and issued a traffic advisory. Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal will hoist the national flag at Panchkula on the eve of the 75th Independence Day tomorrow.The event will take place at Indradhanush Stadium in Sector 5. Sector 144 of CrPC has been imposed within 1 km area of the venue of celebration. As many as 800 police personnel will be deployed to ensure security, maintain law and order. As per police officials, intensified checking is being carried out at 27 naka points. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sdm-reviews-i-day-arrangements-297796
15-08-2021||Amit Bathla||Dog-bite cases see a dip in Covid times||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 14The number of dog-bite cases has come down significantly after the pandemic hit the district, courtesy lockdown restrictions.According to the data from the Civil Hospital, as of July this year, there were 3,053 cases in Panchkula — the lowest in the past few years.Compared to the current year, the number of cases in the corresponding period in 2020 was 3,630. Between January and July 2019, the city had recorded 6,277 cases.Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation said it was working to eradicate rabies and control the stray dog population in a “humane way” as against its earlier plan to address the issue by confining the street dogs at the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound.Maneka Gandhi, the BJP leader and animal rights activist, had opposed the civic body’s move by approaching Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar through Twitter.After her intervention, the MC had formed a monitoring and implementation committee for the management of stray dogs and their population and controlling rabies with a humane approach.The panel had then decided that captured stray dogs will be brought to the Sukhdarshanpur centre only for treatment, vaccination and sterilisation purposes and would be returned to their original locations thereafter.As per the Animal Birth Control (Dog) Rules notified in December 2001 under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, stray dogs can only be removed from their habitat for treatment and immunisation against rabies.An NGO looks after the work of sterilisation of dogs on behalf of the Municipal Corporation.In April, the civic body had fixed a target to cover 5,000 dogs under its sterilisation drive to control the number of stray dogs in the city.For the sterilisation of each dog, the MC pays Rs1,134 to the NGO.Civil Surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said lockdown restrictions were the reason for the significant decline in the dog-bite cases.SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), said: “A significant drop in the dog-bite cases is not a result of the efforts put in by the civic body, but restrictions due to the Covid-induced lockdowns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dog-bite-cases-see-a-dip-in-covid-times-297797
15-08-2021||---||Minister opens 100-bed facility||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 14Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health and Family Welfare Minister, today inaugurated a temporary 100-bed hospital facility under BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences at Phase 6 here today. He also initiated nine other services and projects in a virtual mode.The services include information about birth and death through an online portal and obtaining certificates through private hospitals, starting attestation of testimonials by the NRI cell through sewa kendras, facility of web portal for obtaining info under the RTI Act, inaugurating new IT block building at Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh Government College for Rs183.87 lakh. He also inaugurated the new premises of the Mataur and Zirakpur police stations, a dinosaur park and outer house at the Chhatbir zoo, along with laying the foundation stone of a sewage treatment plant at Zirakpur in a virtual mode.Sidhu said the temporary hospital would efficiently cater to the healthcare needs of people amid the possibility of a probable third wave. The project would cost Rs5.67 crore and would comprise eight ICU bed (level 2 and level 3 care), he added.Sidhu said Mohali was rapidly emerging as a frontline city on the global map in terms of infrastructure. He said multinational companies were setting up business in Mohali because the city had excellent connectivity and a robust road network besides top-notch health and educational facilities.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan and SSP Satinder Singh, ADC (G) Komal Mittal, ADC (D) Himanshu Aggarwal, Govt Medical College Director-Principal Dr Bhavneet Bharti, Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur, Medical Superintendent Dr Navdeep Singh and Chattbir zoo Director Naresh Mahajan were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-opens-100-bed-facility-297798
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||100 participate in Teej event||The Chandigarh unit of the Akhil Bhartiya Mahila Aggarwal Sammelan organised an event to mark Teej at Kalagram, Mani Majra, here today.Unit president Dr Sheenu Agarwal said about 100 women of the tricity participated in the programme.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and his wife Bimla Gupta, Anju Goyal, wife of Panchkula’s Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, and Ranju Parsad, head postmaster, appreciated the organisers.They said such events are very important in preserving the heritage of the nation so that the future generations can also take pride in the national culture.Gathering by TrustPanchkula: Teej was celebrated by the Uthan Charitable Trust in Panchkula on Friday. Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, former Mayor, Panchkula, was the chief guest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-participate-in-teej-event-297800
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal constructions continue outside ‘lal dora’||Despite a ban on construction outside the ‘lal dora’ in villages, the violation of the norms continues unabated.Illegal constructions were being reported from various villages, including Darua, Dadu Majra and Dhanas.A senior official said the illegal construction had increased after 13 villages were included under the purview of the Municipal Corporation. He said most of the constructions in these areas had been carried out for renting out small flats, which also do not meet the safety standards.Last year, the UT Administration had decided to set up special cells to be headed by the respective SDM of the area to identify and take action against unauthorised constructions in various parts of the city and outside the ‘lal dora’ of the villages. However, illegal construction goes on unchecked as hundreds of houses have been constructed outside the ‘lal dora’.Ruchi Singh Bedi, SDM (East), said a team would be sent to check the unauthorised constructions in Darua village and if found illegal, the structures would be demolished. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-constructions-continue-outside-lal-dora-297801
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Traders honour woman player||Members of the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, honoured Ritu (23), a national-level boxer and volleyball player, who is working as a parking attendant to make the ends meet.Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi and general secretary LC Arora said to celebrate Independence Day, members of the association also honoured Ashish Malik, Sanitary Inspector, Sector 17, with a certificate of appreciation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-honour-woman-player-297802
15-08-2021||---||‘Cadet Talk’ at Carmel Convent||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14A series of inspirational talks, ‘Cadet Talk’, was inaugurated at Carmel Convent School, Chandigarh, by Col Amitesh Verma, Deputy Group Commander, on Friday.Cadets dwelled on ‘handling peer pressure’. The ‘Cadet Talk Logo’ and YouTube channel were also launched.Other schools, including St Kabir Public School, Guru Nanak Public School and Government Model High School, Sector 20, also participated.Among others present were CO of 1 CHD Air Squadron, Group Captain MR Pandeya, CO of Naval Wing, Capt CV Chikkara, Principal Sister Mary Supreeta and Care Taker Officer Preeti Swami.The programme ended with the national anthem played by the school band.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cadet-talk-at-carmel-convent-297803
15-08-2021||---||6 booked for assaulting, robbing father-son duo in Pinjore||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 14Six persons have been booked for assaulting and robbing a man and his son at Pinjore here.The local police have booked 6 persons for allegedly assaulting an owner of a cattle feed shop and milk dairy, his son and robbing them of Rs 1.52 lakh, a gold chain after trespassing into their house in Pinjore.The suspects have been identified as Hakimdeen, Rafiq, Seena, Ali Mohammed, Aslam and Sain Mohammed.Complainant Jaidev (50), a resident of Raipur village and the owner of a cattle feed shop and a milk dairy, alleged that Rafiq owed him Rs19,735 for a purchase made in the past. He said he had asked Rafiq on a number of occasions to clear his dues but the suspect used to ignore him and stopped answering his phone calls.“As he was not responding to my calls, I called him (Rafiq) from an acquaintance’s number on August 12 around 6:30 pm, but he started abusing, refused to pay the money and even intimidated me. On August 13, Rafiq, along with other suspects, trespassed into my house with sticks and ‘khoncha’. They assaulted me and my son Ujjawal with the weapons. They also took Rs1.52 lakh from my pocket and snatched a golden chain my son was wearing. Before leaving, they even threatened to kill my whole family,” the complainant stated.Both victims were taken to the subdivisional hospital in Kalka from where they were referred to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.A case under Sections 148, 149, 323, 325, 379-B, 452 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-booked-for-assaulting-robbing-father-son-duo-in-pinjore-297804
15-08-2021||Ambala||Use of drones banned in Ambala district||Deputy Commissioner Vikram Kumar has banned storage, sale, possession, use and transport of drones/ similar kinds of UAVs.The order reads: “In the backdrop of the recent attack on the air force station in Jammu using drones/ UAVs, it has been apprehended that as an attempt to sabotage peace, terrorists/ anti-national elements may, with the help of technology such as drone and other flying objects, try to hit their targets. It has been found appropriate to impose restrictions on the storage, sale possession, use and transport of drones/ similar kind of UAVs in Ambala.”“Flying unmanned aircraft is governed by the Aircraft Act and Civil Aviation Rules, which restrict flying drones in prohibited areas viz within a distance of 3 kms from the perimeter of any civil, private, defence airport, military installation and district secretariat complex, within 2 kms from the perimeter of strategic locations, and over eco-sensitive zones around national parks and wildlife sanctuaries,” the order reads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/use-of-drones-banned-in-ambala-district-297805
15-08-2021||---||Brar, Gill win I-Day Cup||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14KS Brar and Brig Gashi Gill won the coveted Independence Day Cup defeating APS Kahai and Gauhar Pruthi in the final at the Chandigarh Golf Course here today.Brar and Gill finished the job on the 17th hole, when they were 2-up on their opponents. A comfortable par was good enough to earn them the title with a score of 2-up with one to play.“We combined well and it was a convincing victory,” said Brar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brar-gill-win-i-day-cup-297810
