17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 3 new Covid cases||The Union Territory of Chandigarh on Tuesday reported three cases of Covid-19, taking the infection tally to 62,035, according to the medical bulletin.The death toll from the pandemic stands at 811 in the city.The number of active cases in Chandigarh was 42 while the number of those who recovered from the infection stood at 61,182, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-3-new-covid-cases-298564
17-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh’s Punita Bawa gets commendation award||Chandigarh, August 17Chandigarh-based compere Punita Bawa was awarded the 'Commendation Award ‘by the UT administration at the Independence day programme on Sunday.She has acted as a compere at various prominent shows in the city since last 16 years including events which had Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former PM Manmohan Singh in attendance. She recently was the compere at a programme attended by Home minister, Amit Shah.Earlier, she used to be a freelance announcer and a full-time teacher at DAV-15. She has successfully completed 28 years of teaching and in this time span, she's been honored with the ‘State Teacher Award’ and ‘Commendation Award’ by U.T. Chandigarh in 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-punita-bawa-gets-commendation-award-298478
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Canara Bank Officers’ Organisation organises boold donation camp in Chandigarh||200 examined at medical campZirakpur: Dr Sumeet Gupta of Gupta Clinic, Pabhat, here, organised a free medical check-up camp with the assistance of Trans Care Labs, Mohali. A total of 200 patients were examined at the camp. Dr Sumeet also distributed free medicines among the patients. Lab owner Arvind, with his staff, also conducted blood test of patients for fee of cost. TNSMohali lads register winChandigarh: Mohali lads registered an innings and 55-run win over Fatehgarh Sahib in the Punjab Cricket Association U-16 State Tournament on Monday. Bowling first, Mohali restricted Fatehgarh Sahib on 82 runs in 38.2 overs. Resuming their first innings from 174/5, Mohali lads scored 220/9 in 62.5 overs before declaring their innings. In their second innings, Fatehgarh Sahib was bundled out for 83 in 28 overs. Mohali won the match by an innings and 55 runs and bagged seven points. TNSAdda’s XI log victoryChandigarh: In the ongoing My Country-My Love T20 Cricket Tournament, Adda’s Cricket Eleven defeated Maple Housing Society, Zirakpur, by seven wickets. Batting first, the Zirakpur team scored 119 runs in 18.5 overs. In reply, Adda’s XI posted 123/3 in 16.5 overs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/canara-bank-officers-organisation-organises-boold-donation-camp-in-chandigarh-298475
17-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Glitches mar Chandigarh's e-cycle rides||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16The much-fancied public bike-sharing project, which was launched last week, is marred with hiccups.‘People being duped’There are chinks in the project as from day one, duping of people on rates has started. Normally, it should be Rs10 for half an hour for non-members, but in reality it is the base rate of Rs10 plus 18 per cent GST. For a nearly 15 minutes ride, I paid Rs11.80. There are other issues too. — RK Garg, A social activistFrom starting/ending e-cycle rides to payment issues, many people are facing a tough time while using these.In a firsthand experience at a docking station in Sector 29, this correspondent downloaded the Smart Bike App and had to mandatorily keep a minimum balance of Rs50 in the app wallet to take a ride.However, even after making the payment, the lock of the bike did not open. Despite repeated attempts, it did not work and the app displayed “unable to perform action right now.”On using the option of ending the ride, Rs11.8 was deducted even though it was advertised by Chandigarh Smart City Limited that Rs10 was the rate for half an hour. However, company officials are also charging the GST. On a second try with another cycle, the app showed low balance and said at least Rs50 was required as the balance.Another user, who tried to ride an e-cycle, got the message that the battery of the cycle was low. Yet another user, who returned to the station after a ride, parked and locked the e-cycle, but the time continued in the app for the payment.“I made several attempts, but the ride in my app ended a few minutes later while my billing minutes continued,” he said.“Yesterday, I took a ride, but the ride minutes continued on the app and I was charged even after I returned from a walk in the park,” said another user.RK Garg, a social activist, who took the ride two days ago, said, “There are chinks in the project as from day one, duping of people on rates has started. Normally, it should be Rs10 for half an hour for non-members, but in reality it is the base rate of Rs10 plus 18 per cent GST. For a nearly 15 minutes ride, I paid Rs11.80. There are other issues too, maybe teething problems, but the company will earn.”Abhinandan Malhotra, who heads the Chandigarh project, termed it a “mobile network issue” as well as “teething problems.”“We have got a good response of 2,500-3,000 rides daily in Chandigarh. There are 20 to 30 cases where issues are faced, it is only or 2 per cent of the total rides.The starting and ending ride problems are mainly due to the mobile network issue. It is clearly mentioned in the agreement that the GST is extra,” he reasoned. “The amount must be refunded in case of a ‘no ride’ and app support issues should be resolved to make the project a success here,” said one of the users. On August 12, the UT Administrator had launched the first phase, which has 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations in the city. By the end of this year, Chandigarh Smart City Limited, through a private agency, hopes to make 617 docking stations with a total of 5,000 bicycles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/glitches-mar-chandigarhs-e-cycle-rides-298220
17-08-2021||---||Soon, Chandigarh to have e-platform for vehicle theft complaints||Chandigarh, August 16Soon, people will be able to register complaints regarding the theft of vehicles at the click of a mouse in the city.‘Vax hesitancy a barrier to drive’We must be very clear that the pandemic is not over and it will not be until and unless transmission is controlled. Vaccine hesitancy is a major barrier to the drive and achieving mass immunity. — VP Singh Badnore, UT AdministratorAddressing a gathering during the 75th Independence Day function here yesterday, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said: “The Chandigarh Police are in the process of developing a mobile application regarding the registration and investigation of an e-FIR in motor vehicle theft cases.”He said the police would soon set up an online cyber crime reporting portal and a forensic training laboratory for preventing cyber crime against women and children.On achievements of the Chandigarh Administration, Badnore said: “We have successfully vaccinated 7.2 lakh people above 18 years with the first dose of Covishield and achieved the 100 per cent target by August 14. This will protect the city against any future surge in the Covid-19 cases.”He said: “We must be very clear that the pandemic is not over and it will not be until and unless transmission is controlled. Vaccine hesitancy is a major barrier to the drive and achieving mass immunity”. Expressing gratitude to voluntary organisations/NGOs for their support in setting up mini-Covid care centres, he said 300-bed facilities were operational and other 200-bed facilities were on a standby. “We have successfully completed the construction of four schools, which will be made operational shortly. Two new school buildings in Mauli Jagran and Dhanas are nearing completion and will be functional by end of this academic year,” he said.“To meet the future demand for power and provide reliable service to consumers, work has been initiated to strengthen the 66-KV substations at the water works in Sector 39,” he added.“We are in the process of completing the construction of billiards and snooker facility at the Sports Complex, Sector 42, upgrade work for the Sector 17 football stadium, New Emergency and Trauma Block at the GMCH-32, new UT Secretariat building, Sports Injury Centre, Sector 32, Sports Complex at Industrial Area, Phase II, Ramdarbar. We will also have a mother and child care centre (341 bed) at the GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 (404 beds),” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-chandigarh-to-have-e-platform-for-vehicle-theft-complaints-298222
17-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid cases double in Chandigarh in a week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16Cases of Covid-19 have nearly doubled in the city this week. Compared to 24 cases last week, the cases rose to 47 this week.‘Precautions must’A week back, there were eight patients in our institute and now the patient load has increased to 18. We have to take adequate precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. — Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIIn the past one week, 0.2 per cent of the samples tested came back positive and the average number of cases stood at four per day. The active cases have also witnessed a rise and have shot up to 43.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “A week back, there were eight patients in our institute and now the patient load has increased to 18. Although this number is still low, the patient load has almost doubled. The case multiplication may be slow at the moment, but it may rise exponentially in the time to come. We have to take adequate precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour.”Nine patients were admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, till Monday. The hospital had seen zero Covid patients in the previous fortnight. However, the patient load is rising again. The vaccination rate for 18 years and above has reached 102.17 per cent in Chandigarh, while it is 34.49 per cent for the second dose. The Director, Health Services, Dr Amandeep Kang, said, “The cases rise and fall simultaneously, which suggests that vaccination has shown its effect in Chandigarh by keeping the transmission in check. However, people cannot be complacent at the moment because we may see cases rising rapidly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-cases-double-in-chandigarh-in-a-week-298223
17-08-2021||Amarjot Kaur||‘Heritage manhole cover lying unattended at Sector 42 Sports Complex in Chandigarh’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16A heritage manhole cover worth lakhs of rupees is lying unattended at the Sector 42 Sports Complex, claims Ajay Jagga, member of UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell, in a letter written to the Municipal Corporation Commissioner. The letter points out the “MC’s lackadaisical approach” towards the city’s heritage items.Sharing pictures of the manhole cover, Jagga wrote: “Came across the shocking state of affairs regarding a heritage manhole cover. The frame and the heritage manhole are lying in a pathetic condition and is an open invitation to thieves/smugglers.” The city has nearly 2,000 cast iron manhole covers with an impression of Chandigarh map, which were designed by French architect Le Corbusier. In December 2019, MC had approved replacing these covers with cemented ones at an approximate cost of Rs75 lakh. This was done to protect heritage of the city as many reports of manhole covers being auctioned or stolen kept surfacing. Despite repeated attempts, MC Commissioner KK Yadav could not be contacted. Meanwhile, Satish Jain, SDM (South), whose office is on the premises of the sports complex, said: “I have no idea about this manhole cover.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heritage-manhole-cover-lying-unattended-at-sector-42-sports-complex-in-chandigarh-298224
17-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Housing Board mulls regularisation of changes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16Occupants may get some relief as the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is mulling regularising the violations carried out in houses.The CHB has initiated a process to provide further relief to the allottees in need-based changes on the pattern of Delhi. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said they would take up the matter in the coming meeting of the Board of Directors. However, the final approval for regularising the changes would be granted by the UT Administration.According to the CHB Residents’ Welfare Federation, nearly 90 per cent occupants have made necessary changes in their houses. “The CHB is also well aware of this, so efforts should be made to regularise these changes,” said Nirmal Datt, chairman of the federation. He said four lakh people were looking forward to the regularisation of changes in their houses. However, the CHB has already allowed some need-based changes in the dwelling units in relaxation of the Chandigarh Building Rules on February 11, 2019. The said relaxations were recommended by a committee consisting of officers of the CHB, the Chandigarh Administration and a representative of the CHB Flats Welfare Federation.Over the years, thousands of CHB allottees had made need-based changes in their flats. However, the Administration had not regularised these changes and issued notices to the violators.The federation said the issue could be fully sorted if the 1999 Delhi solution is adopted in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-mulls-regularisation-of-changes-298225
17-08-2021||Kritika Kanwar||Fear of ‘dark days’ grips ex-Afghan students||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16Zahid Amiri (name changed), a former student of the Department of Economics, PU, used to stay in Sector 15, Chandigarh. He secured a coveted post in a ministry and was posted at a remote province of Afghanistan.He came to India on a scholarship and would often sit at the AC Joshi Library for hours. He had to work twice as hard as his Indian counterparts to secure a decent score in his masters. However, now as the Taliban tear through their country, he may have to give up on his dreams and his post too. A father to three sons, he has now left Takhan province with his family and taken refuge somewhere, a place safe so far.Will he go back to his province now? He says not anytime soon. “I have applied for the Indian visa. I hope I get it soon. With kids, it’s more difficult. Taliban militia is ruthless. Though they claim that they won’t kill civilians, it seems to be a mere eyewash. We have hopes from the transitional government. Even if they allow us to work at government offices, things will not be the same for us. We will be under scrutiny always. Their idea of education is quite different. Before the takeover, there were many women working at higher posts in Kabul, which will be a bleak possibility now. Things were slightly better when the US troops were here. We at least had some basic human rights”Zehra (name changed) passed out from the PU Department of Economics in 2013 and made it to the USA later. She belongs to the Herat province and has five siblings back in Herat. Apprehensive for her sisters, she says: “I am worried they would never be able to study and come out of Herat like me. Afghanistan would again witness the barbaric era as it used to be 20 years ago. Teenage girls are more at threat. Their life will be reduced to nothing but hell.”Another student Younus Amiri (name changed) who did Mphil from the PU says: “I have applied for admission to the PTU. If the new government does not recognise my degree and fails to give a job, I will come to India for higher education or move to another country for job. It is not possible to stay here with no right to speech and no right to live on our terms. I will soon leave the country if the Taliban resorts to its old regressive ways.” “The situation regarding girls and women is unclear. They have promised to allow girls to study and not disturb the civilians, but it remains to be seen. The Taliban leaders announced yesterday not to hamper any kind of regular activity of students, so let us see what is there in store for women,” he added.Younus Amiri, another PU research scholar, currently in Kabul, says, “These are tough times, but I will trust the transitional government and wait for further developments. I am hopeful that the new government will allow girls to school and not interfere in our freedom of speech and improved lifestyle. It is too early to say anything. I am not leaving my country anytime soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fear-of-dark-days-grips-ex-afghan-students-298226
17-08-2021||---||Panchkula faces power pangs||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 16Several areas in the city, including the densely populated Sector 10, 15 and 16, and the Industrial Area, Phase 2, have been facing erratic power supply despite tall claims by the authorities regarding making Panchkula an “inverter-free city”, claimed an apex body of residents.“Sector 15 has been facing a power shutdown of four to six hours daily for the past few weeks, leaving residents inconvenienced. Those working from home and students who have to attend online classes are a harried lot. Moreover, the power supply also remains affected due to the work on installation of smart meters,” said SK Nayar, president of the Citizens’ Welfare Association.“The situation in Sector 16 is no better and so is the situation in most other sectors,” he said. Nayar urged senior officials of the UHBVN to immediately intervene and address the issue to provide relief to the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-faces-power-pangs-298227
17-08-2021||Mohali||Help, Afghan pupils urge international community||As the Taliban have been capturing different provinces of Afghanistan, students from the country at Chandigarh University are filled with fear and have concerns over the situation.More than 250 Afghanistan students are currently studying various courses at Chandigarh University. Referring to the dire situation in Afghanistan, students appealed to the entire international community, including the Government of India, for help in restoring peace in their country.Ramin, a Civil Engineering student at Chandigarh University from Herat, Afghanistan, condemned Taliban, which has been rapidly gaining territory in Afghanistan. He said: “The Taliban is spreading its tentacles in Afghanistan.” He appealed to world leaders to come forward restore peace in the country so that education of students was not affected. Sukhrullah, another student pursuing MBA, said: “Many students are stuck in Afghanistan due to closure of educational institutions because of the pandemic. Necessary steps should be taken to evacuate them as soon as possible.” Mustafa, a BBA student from Kabul, said: “There are many Afghanistan students in India whose visas or passports are about to expire. We request the Indian Government to extend their visa period by allowing them to stay in India.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/help-afghan-pupils-urge-international-community-298228
17-08-2021||Mohali||Mohali district sees just one Covid case||Chandigarh sees 2 casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported two Covid cases and no death due to the virus. A total of three patients recovered of the infection. — TNS2 new cases, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,661. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,272 people have recovered from the disease so far, 13 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-sees-just-one-covid-case-298229
17-08-2021||If implemented||Chandigarh: Middle class all set to benefit if Apartment Act enforced in toto||Residents will have Ownership rightsThe implementation of the Apartment Act in Chandigarh will facilitate ownership rights to residents. As property prices are soaring and beyond reach of the common man the Act will enable them to buy portion of three-storey buildings.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhIt may have an adverse impactImplementation of the Apartment Act will have an have an adverse impact in Chandigarh. More and more occupants in one house will choke the city. This will also create problems in the neighbourhood. Parking issues will haunt residents. The beauty of the city will be lost and there will be a concrete jungle.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhElderly will be safeWhether Apartment Act is good or bad will be known only after it is implemented in the City Beautiful. The Act will provide safety for the elderly, who live alone and are at risk. Different families will live in one house, which will minimise the security risk. Also, it’ll create parking issues as more families will have more cars.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliProperty sale will get a boostThe implementation of the Apartment Act in Chandigarh will be boon for all those having independent houses with additional residential accommodation on different floors, which is surplus to their personal needs. Floor wise sale of accommodation will be easy even in posh sectors of the city. The Act will boost property dealers’ business during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.SC Luthra, ChandigarhResidents will be saved from litigationThe Apartment Act will be a boon for residents if implemented in the City Beautiful. Presently, properties are registered in name of buyers on percentage share basis for example 50 per cent on ground floor, 30 per cent on first floor and 20 per cent on second floor. This percentage system is practically a failure keeping in view the ground realities and lacunae in the law. It’s high time that the Act is enforced at the earliest to save residents from any litigation after they have purchased property.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSelling, buying property will be easyThe implementation of the Apartment Act in Chandigarh will be beneficial for the public as they will be able to sell or rent out their share in property concerned. It is a boon for those, who cannot afford their own house in an expensive city like Chandigarh. It will benefit affordable housing policy of the government. Truly, this Act will help common man and give a push to property consultants/dealers business in the UT. The Administration must check misuse of the Act to avoid harassment of the public by unscrupulous property agents.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurEnforce Act sans restrictionsThe Administration determines the value of three-story building on the 50-30-20 per cent ratio basis. But, to believe that any owner will divide property among his/her inheritors on the said basis is utterly foolishness. If a person has registered or unregistered will, any percentage of property can be fixed for his/her inheritors. Otherwise, all claimants to property will have equal rights. Besides, the Administration presumes that property shares have been sold only between co-owners and not to outsiders, which is another flaw. The Apartment Act can be successfully enforced only if properties are developed and sold as such and not as single three-story residential buildings. Also, the Act should be implemented in letter and spirit and without any restrictions.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhAdmn, mc will earn more revenueBy enforcing the Apartment Act the Administration can earn revenue. Also, it will help middle class families realise their dream of owning a house in the City Beautiful. Although two/three families together buy a house, they can’t get it registered in their names. Separate water and power connections in houses will generate more revenue for the Municipal Corporation and Electricity Department.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhExtra burden on overstretched infraThose in real estate business are minting money by selling houses as apartments/floor wise particularly in the northern sectors of Chandigarh. It is feared that if the trend continues it will put extra burden on already overstretched infrastructure of the city. If the practise is not stopped there will be no place for parking of vehicles. The Act will create a lot of problems. It’ll change basic character of the city. Le Corbusier designed houses for single families. The necessary infrastructure was conceived accordingly. The UT Administration must ensure that the basic character of the city remains intact.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliConstruct Houses on city’s peripheryThe Administration must let Chandigarh remain beautiful. This city is known for its unique architecture. If the Apartment Act is enforced in the UT, it’ll change its basic character. Rather, the Administration should develop residential areas on the city’s periphery to provide affordable houses to residents.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaA big no to ActAre we seriously thinking of allowing more people to live in Chandigarh? We are installing air purifiers, trying to get rid of routine traffic jams, pollution and resolve many other issues. How will we accommodate more people in Chandigarh? The Apartment Act instead of resolving low-cost housing issue will spoil beauty of the City Beautiful.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaParking in basementThe Chandigarh Administration has not the passed the Apartment Act, but sale of property share, which is proportionally divided floor wise among occupants, is allowed. There is nothing illegal in it or no extra load on infrastructure. Only three ownerships in different names exist for one house. If the Apartment Act is implemented without extending any floor, it might benefit those, who are interested to live in the city. Even parking area can be developed in basement subject to approval of structure design. Majority of residents, industry and market associations favour Act. It would be laudable if stakeholders and public views are considered before the implementation of the Act.Sukhpal Singh, ChandigarhSingle ownership norm should continueEnforcing the Apartment Act in Chandigarh will invite trouble for commercial building owners. Disposal of factory waste, parking pangs and maintaining main gate of the building will invite quarrels and litigation. It’s better if only single ownership concept continues in the city, which is a boon for property owners.MR Bhateja, NayagaonDon’t reduce green cover in cityThe Apartment Act can benefit residents only if it preserves city’s original character and improves infrastructure through modern and eco-friendly technology. The greenery of Chandigarh cannot be reduced at any cost.Adish Sood, AmlohWon’t affect heritage architecture of cityThe Apartment Act pertains to floor wise sale/purchase of private property. As the time has changed need-based modifications are essential. The housing board and builders are already providing similar facilities to the general public. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with the Act. Presumably, it will not affect the city’s heritage architecture. Rather, it would help earn the Administration enough revenue through fee and facilitate the public as well. The only presumption is that it may lead to parking chaos, which can be tackled with expert advice.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliDifference in opinionIn 2001, the Chandigarh Administration notified apartment rules according to which single residential units could be subdivided into apartments, but these were repealed in 2007. Now, there is a demand for the implementation of the Apartment Act. There are different opinions about the enforcement of the Act and its outcome. There is no provision in master plan for the portion wise sale of any unit/building. Now, the matter is under judicial preview. If the Act is enforced it will benefit traders, real-estate agents and residents of the city.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaA long way to goThe UT Administration should give option to residents to adopt the Apartment Act. Residents, especially senior citizens, who can’t take care of their property or those who want to earn from it, can adopt the Act. Question of safety too arises in case a family member sells his/her share in the property to a stranger. The Administration has failed to curb building violations in CHB houses and other units. So, the Act has a long way to go.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliAct will destroy City BeautifulEveryone knows that Chandigarh is a well-planned city. The implementation of the Apartment Act will not benefit residents of the City Beautiful in any way. Traffic and population will increase. The sewerage and other infrastructure will be stretched beyond limit. The Act will destroy City Beautiful’s heritage fabric.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliA step in right directionEnforcing Apartments Act in the UT will be a step in right direction. Property rate is high in Chandigarh as compared to adjoining cities. It’ll help owners divide property among their heirs on per cent share basis. Heirs can sell their share to any person without seeking any permission from the Administration. The Act will benefit common man, who can’t afford to buy complete house in the City Beautiful. The Administration would earn more revenue if the Act is enforced. Real estate business will boom in the city.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhConsider demand of nuclear familiesThe sale of three floors of a single house to different persons on a share basis continues unabated in the city. If the Apartment Act is not implemented, then the present situation may worsen. Although houses were meant for a single family, yet seeing the changing scenario of modern-day nuclear families implementing the Apartment Act will be beneficial to buyers and residents.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhSatellite towns can meet housing demandChandigarh is a city, which has to preserve its heritage so that future generations can count on its beauty in the years to come. The UT Administration should not make City Beautiful a concrete jungle by implementing the Apartment Act. The design and layout of houses prepared by Le Corbusier should be retained. High rise apartments should not be allowed as they would steal city’s beauty. Housing demand of the growing population can be met in satellite townships, which have modern transport facilities.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhPloy to destroy Corbusier’s legacyThe much hyped drive launched to implement the Apartment Act in Chandigarh may prove a boon for residents, but would be detrimental for city’s future. There is no denying that unchecked population explosion in the city has escalated the demand for housing over the years. Keeping in view the idea of converting bungalows into apartments to cater to burgeoning demand of residents, the Administration needs to take a clear stand so as to protect and preserve Le Corbusier legacy. Otherwise, the lopsided plan would spoil the heritage character of the city. The Administration cannot act as a lame duck and allow Chandigarh to turn into a city of concrete while throwing the master plan to the winds.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhNo need for ActImplementation of the Apartment Act will be another mistake of the Chandigarh Administration. The areas, which are densely populated, will become more congested. If we compare northern and southern sectors the later will take the load if the Act is implemented as population increase will impact availability of resources for residents. Life of residents will become miserable and Chandigarh will lose its beauty.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhJoint families will be secureThe Apartment Act will enable individual ownership of multi-storey buildings. Joint families residing on different floors would be more secure as they would have individual ownership of the property. There would be less disputes among families. Also, the sale and purchase of floor wise property would be hassle free.Charu Malhotra, MohaliA challenge for AdministrationThe city has a population of nearly 12 lakh. If the population continues to increase at the present rate then by 2025 many people in the city will have no access to affordable, adequate and secure housing. The Administration cannot build more independent houses within 114 sqkm area of the city. This is a challenge for the authorities concerned. Apartments are the only solution to cater to the increasing housing demand of city residents.SK Khosla, ChandigarhOpportunity to overhaul infraIn City Beautiful, the rising population needs more space for houses. To meet this demand, the authorities concerned must allow construction of apartment buildings in place of bungalows while retaining city’s heritage. Some old sectors of the city should be designated as heritage zones where construction should not be allowed. This is an opportunity to completely overhaul UT’s infrastructure.Saikrit Gulati, Chandigarh QUESTIONAs demanded by residents, should the UT Administration regularise changes carried out in houses allotted by the Chandigarh Housing Board.Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-middle-class-all-set-to-benefit-if-apartment-act-enforced-in-toto-298230
17-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||I-Day celebrated  with fervour at Sirhind||The 75th Independence Day was celebrated with enthusiasm at the Sports Stadium in Sirhind. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Minister for Jails and Co-operation, unfurled the Tricolour on the occasion.A scene was also created when families of some freedom fighters refused to accept awards. Freedom fighters kin said they were honoured only on I-Day and Republic Day, but no other facility was provided to them by the state government.MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, along with the DC, tried to persuade freedom fighters kin, but one of them entered into heated arguments with the former whereas others later agreed to accept awards.In his address the minister said 80 per cent sacrifices were made by Punjabis to get Independence.Supporting the cause of striking farmers, the minister announced that the government would give a job and Rs5 lakh to family members of those farmers, who died during the farmer agitation.The building of the Bassi Pathana subjail would be converted into gurdwara sahib as Guru Tegh Bahadur stayed here for months while on his way to Delhi, the minister added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-day-celebrated-with-fervour-at-sirhind-298231
17-08-2021||---||Gang of vehicle thieves busted in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16The police have busted a gang of vehicle thieves, who had a penchant for e-rickshaws, and arrested two of its members.The police recovered 14 e-rickshaws and a battery of an e-rickshaw from their possession.The police said with their arrest, they had solved 12 cases of theft reported from Sector 17, 26, 19, Sarangpur, Mani Majra, IT Park, Mauli Jagran and Maloya police stations.The suspects have been identified as Deep Singh, alias Deep (30), a native of Bihar and presently residing in Lalru, and Jinder (24), a native of Jalandhar.Deep is the gang leader, while Jinder does the ground work in the targeted area. The gang, active for the past two years, used to commit the crime during midnight hours.During investigation, it came to light that Deep was earlier confined in the Ambala jail in an auto theft case where he met another accused Dheeraj and they became good friends. Later, another accused, Sonu, also met them and he became their friend. All of them later formed a gang and opened a shop of selling/purchasing/repairing old e-rickshaws in Ludhiana. Jinder was looking after the shop and Deep, along with Dheeraj and Sonu, used to steal e-rickshaws from Chandigarh and take these to a godown in Ludhiana, the police said. The accused are in police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-in-chandigarh-298232
17-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Tardy pace of probe, Punjab and Haryana High Court grants bail to ‘consultant agency’ owner||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted regular bail to a “consultant agency” owner, booked by the Chandigarh Police in a cheating case, after taking into consideration the “tardy pace of investigation”.Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa observed only 17 out of 377 complaints had been looked into till date and apparently “the investigation process may not be concluded for another couple of years”. Justice Dhindsa also took note of the fact that the petitioner had suffered incarceration for more than three years.Arvind Ashat had moved the High Court against UT for regular bail in FIR registered on March 1, 2017, under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Emigration Act, at the Sector 3 (North) police station.The FIR was registered on the allegations that the complainant had given Rs 4,94,000 to the petitioner for arranging visas for students wishing to pursue studies abroad as he was stated to be running a consultant agency for the purpose. Apparently during the course of investigation, around 377 persons raised similar allegations, Justice Dhindsa observed.Appearing before Justice Dhindsa’s Bench, the UT counsel submitted five challans covering offences alleged by 14 complainants had been filed. The sixth supplementary challan had also been prepared by the investigating agency after conducting inquiry into three more complaints. It would be presented before the Trial Court in near future.“The petitioner has already faced incarceration since April 26, 2018. The factual premise that investigation is in progress would not be a ground to keep the petitioner indefinitely in custody and particularly keeping in view the slow pace of investigation,” Justice Dhindsa further observed.Disposing of the petition, Justice Dhindsa added the money alleged to have been taken by the petitioner on account of having duped the investors/complainants would be a subject matter of trial on the basis of evidence adduced. Prayer for bail by the petitioner after suffering incarceration for over three years could not be declined on the demand of the complainants that certain amount should first be refunded.The investigation/trial was bound to take time to conclude. It was not the prosecution’s case that the petitioner would be in a position to hamper the course of investigation, besides a free and fair trial, if granted the benefit of bail, Justice Dhindsa concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tardy-pace-of-probe-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-grants-bail-to-consultant-agency-owner-298233
17-08-2021||---||19-year-old Mauli Jagran resident held with four stolen scooters, phone||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16The police have arrested a Mauli Jagran resident, Sumit, alias Golu (19), and recovered four stolen scooters and a mobile from him.A case under Section 411 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 26 police station. He had stolen a scooter from Mani Majra in October 2020.The suspect was interrogated and produced before a court, which remanded him in one-day police custody. His interrogation led to the recovery of four stolen scooters and a mobile phone.The police said the suspect disclosed that he had also stolen a scooter from Sector 14, Panchkula. The scooter has been recovered. He had also stolen a scooter from Sector 29, Chandigarh, and another from the Industrial Area, Phase 1, near the Elante mall. Both stolen scooters have been recovered from Mauli Jagran.The suspect had stolen a mobile phone from Shastri Nagar. Sumit was arrested by the Panchkula police in an NDPS case in April 2021, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-year-old-mauli-jagran-resident-held-with-four-stolen-scooters-phone-298234
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DC Mandip Singh Brar talks tough on encroachment||Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar today held a review meeting with all SDMs in the presence of the ADC. He directed them to keep a strict vigil on illegal encroachments, besides instructing various teams constituted for the purpose to act tough against such encroachers. He also apprised that more vehicles had been provided to the inspecting teams for the task.Coming to the Covid-19 issue, the Deputy Commissioner expressed satisfaction that as a result of the steps undertaken by the UT Administration, the pandemic’s pace has slackened. He exhorted officials concerned not to lower their guards and encourage people to keep following the protocols scrupulously, besides carrying out extensive contact tracing as before so as to avoid the resurgence of the pandemic.Further, Brar ordered that pending court cases and litigation matters of all departments must be disposed of expeditiously. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dc-mandip-singh-brar-talks-tough-on-encroachment-298235
17-08-2021||Tribune Model School||Patriotic fervour,  gaiety mark I-Day celebrations in Chandigarh||chandigarh: Tribune Model School, Sector 29, here, celebrated Independence Day with patriotic fervour. School teachers and staff members participated in the ceremony. Principal Vandana Saxena unfurled the national flag. TNSPanjab Universitychandigarh: An event to mark the 75th Independence Day was organised at Panjab University. The day began with unfurling of the national flag at the Parade Ground by Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar. The PU VC extended his felicitations for Independence Day and saluted the sacrifices of freedom fighters. While sharing the legacy of the PU, he urged all to join hands in equipping university to fulfil the dream of ‘Shikshit Bharat, Sashakt Bharat’. The ceremony was attended by 60 persons, including senior officials. TNSPunjab Engineering Collegechandigarh: Independence Day was celebrated on the Punjab Engineering College campus. The day was celebrated in the presence of new Director Prof Baldev Setia, Deans, faculty members and a limited number of students, following Covid protocols. The day began with the hoisting of the national flag by Setia. TNSChitkara UniversityMohali: Chitkara University celebrated 75th Independence Day. Dr Ashok K Chitkara, Chancellor, Chitkara University, was the chief guest at the occasion, along with Dr Niyati Chitkara, Director of Chitkara International School. The national flag was hoisted on the occasion and a parade was carried out by NCC cadets. It was followed by a cultural programme. TNSPGGGC, Sector 11Chandigarh: Independence Day was celebrated at Post Graduate Government College for Girls (PGGGC), Sector 11. Prof Anita Kaushal, Principal of the college, hoisted the Tricolour. Ajay Kumar Sharma, Dean, and Monika Vij, Vice-Principal, were also present. TNSGovt College of EducationChandigarh: Independence Day was celebrated with the unfurling of the Tricolour at Government College of Education, Sector 20. Chief guest Dr Sheojee Singh, Associate Professor, unfurled the flag. TNSGCCBA, Sector 50Chandigarh: The Government College of Commerce and Business Administration (GCCBA), Sector 50, celebrated Independence Day with fervour and enthusiasm. The celebrations began with the hoisting of the national flag, followed by National Anthem. Principal Prof Punam Agarwal highlighted the role of freedom fighters. TNSGovt College of Yoga EducationChandigarh: Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23, celebrated Independence Day to commemorate the contributions and sacrifices of freedom fighters and leaders. TNSMCM DAV College for WomenChandigarh: Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, celebrated Independence Day with enthusiasm. NSS units and the Character Building Committee of the college organised a national-level digital poster-making competition on “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” and a national-level poster-making competition on “Vision for Nation”. As many as 65 students from schools and colleges of different states and UTs participated in the competitions. TNSCollege principal felicitatedChandigarh: Dr Sapna Nanda, Principal, Government College of Yoga Education and Health, under the UT Administration, was felicitated by Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Independence Day for her meritorious services and initiatives. Sapna launched an annual college magazine, “Kalash”, in 2020 and a half-yearly newsletter, “Yogvritant”, to inform all about the developments in yoga. On the 7th International Day of Yoga, she launched an online journal, “The Yogic Insight.” To sensitise students and faculty to various aspects and importance of the environment, a “Yog Eco Club” was started in the college. TNSITBP holds paradeChandigarh: A ceremonial parade was held at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s (ITBP) Basic Training Centre at Bhanu to mark the 75th Independence Day. It was reviewed by Inspector General PS Papta. Several sports competitions for adults and children were organised. TNSCSIO director unfurls TricolourChandigarh: To mark Independence Day, the national flag was unfurled at the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) by Prof S Anantha Ramakrishna, Director, CSIO. Addressing the staff, he urged them to adopt a nation-centered viewpoint for the overall development of society. He said for a scientist, freedom means academic freedom and freedom of ideas, thought and expression. TNSFarmers’ interest paramount: MinisterPanchkula: Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said the farmers’ interest was paramount for the Khattar government and it would continue to help the community at every step of the farming process. He was addressing a gathering after hoisting the national flag at the 75th Independence Day event organised at Indradhanush Auditorium in Sector 5. He said under leadership of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, several steps had been taken for good governance. “Among them are changes in the CLU policy, merit-based jobs, transparency in transfer of employees, distribution of ration, pensions, and subsidies for the poor,” he stated. The minister also praised the country’s medical professionals for helping the nation fight against Covid-19. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patriotic-fervour-gaiety-mark-i-day-celebrations-in-chandigarh-298236
17-08-2021||Mohali||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu hoists Tricolour in Mohali||Hoisting the national flag during a district-level Independence Day function, Punjab Health and Family Welfare and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu vowed to stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers against draconian anti-farmer laws forcibly imposed by the Union Government.Addressing the ceremony held at Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh (Shaurya Chakra) Government College, Phase 6, here, Sidhu said: “As per the Constitution of India, agriculture is the subject of the states, but the BJP-led Union Government has arbitrarily intervened in states’ rights by enacting these agri laws, thus creating an atmosphere of unrest and resentment across the country.”Sidhu said despite the apathetic attitude of the Union Government, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government was providing financial assistance to relatives of farmers of the state, who sacrificed their lives during the farmers’ agitation, besides giving jobs to one of their family members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-hoists-tricolour-in-mohali-298237
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cyclists pay homage to martyrs at Hussainiwala border||A group of 10 cyclists, led by Vikrant Sharma, from Chandigarh celebrated Jashn-e-Azadi at Hussainiwala border located on the Indo-Pak border near Ferozepur.The ride includes 11-year-old schoolboy Tanmay Rawat and 55-year-old Natinder Dhillon. Vikrant said the purpose behind organising the ride was not only to meet the masses for inculcating the spirit of patriotism in them, but also to generate passion towards eco-friendly mode of cycling.He said on August 15, with the support of the BSF, the cyclists paid homage to the martyrs and hoisted the Tricolour along with the jawans.The cyclists, who went on this mission, are Vikrant Sharma, Sudeep Rawat, Tanmay Rawat, Ravi Sharma, Jaspreet Singh, Mehakpreet Singh, Nitender Dhillon, Rakesh Kler, Tathagata Chawla and Puneet Singh Saini. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cyclists-pay-homage-to-martyrs-at-hussainiwala-border-298238
17-08-2021||---||Sanjay, Talib in carrom final||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16Sanjay Negi faced a tough competition before recording a 25-09, 01-25, 24-20 win over Mohammed Hassan in the men’s semi-finals of the 23rd St Stephen’s Carrom Ranking Tournament today. In the second semis, Mohammed Talib ousted Mazhar Khan 25-05, 25-00.In the women’s semis, Tuba Sehar outplayed Maryam Khan 25-07, 25-05 and Nidhi Gupta blanked Farheen 25-15, 22-10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanjay-talib-in-carrom-final-298239
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Car rams into crane, 1 dead||Motorcycle, scooter stolenChandigarh: Makhan Majra resident Bhola Kumar Paswan alleged that Sunny, Amit and David, all residents of Mauli, stole his scooter parked near his house on the night of August 12. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. Sector 52 resident Sanjay Kumar reported that an unknown person stole his motorcycle parked near his house on the night of August 8. A case has been registered. TNSMobiles stolen from houseChandigarh: Ashique Elahi, a resident of Raipur Kalan, alleged that Sunny, a resident of Mauli, stole four mobile phones from his house on the night of August 13. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: A Sector 41 resident reported that an unidentified pedestrian ran away after snatching her mobile phone near Sector 41-A here on August 15. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSWoman loses Rs12K in ATM fraudChandigarh: Three unidentified persons swapped an ATM card of a Maloya woman and withdrew Rs12,800 from her account at an ATM booth in Maloya on August 13. On a complaint of the victim, a case has been registered at the Maloya police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-rams-into-crane-1-dead-298240
17-08-2021||Mohali||Vaccination proof or Covid negative report must for passengers flying into Punjab airports||Video: Punjabi singer bookedMohali: The police have booked Hoshiarpur resident Manpreet Singh and Sangrur resident Jagpreet Singh under the Arms Act after a video of them with a weapon and firing in a public place went viral on the social media. One of the suspects, Manpreet Singh, alias Singha, is a Punjabi singer and lyricist. The Mohali Deputy Commissioner has ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. TNS1 arrested with heroin, Rs 25 lakhMohali: The police nabbed a Patiala resident, Sher Singh, with 500 gm of heroin, drug money worth Rs25.15 lakh, a 7.65-mm pistol with eight live rounds, a 32-bore revolver with nine live rounds and a car. A house was cordoned off in Royal Estate, Zirakpur, on a tip-off from where the suspect was held. A case under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-proof-or-covid-negative-report-must-for-passengers-flying-into-punjab-airports-298241
