18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports six new Covid cases||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported six new Covid-19 cases, taking the union territory’s infection count to 62,045, according to a medical bulletin. The count also includes four positive cases, which were not reported earlier.The death toll stood at 811. The number of active cases in the city was 44 while the number of cured persons was 61,190. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-six-new-covid-cases-299047
18-08-2021||---||BSF personnel get medals for internal security duties||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18 Police Antrik Suraksha Seva Padak was awarded to 16 personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) for services rendered by them during internal security duties in various parts of the country, during a function held at the BSF campus in Mohali today.Out of the 16 medals, 10 have been awarded for service by BSF personnel in Jammu and Kashmir and the other six for services in the northeast. The medal was instituted by the Ministry of Home Affairs in July 2018 and is awarded to force personnel who have served for two years continuously in operational duties in Jammu and Kashmir, left-wing extremism affected states and the north-east.The medals were presented by Surendra Panwar, Special Director General, Western Command, BSF. Congratulating the recipients, he exhorted them to strive for professional excellence and earn more laurels in the future.In addition to its primary role of guarding the international border with Pakistan and Bangladesh, BSF has also been requisitioned by state governments for maintenance of law and order and counter-insurgency operations||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsf-personnel-get-medals-for-internal-security-duties-298998
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tuba, Talib shine in carrom meet||UT Sports Dept holds cycle rallyChandigarh: The UT Sports Department, in collaboration with the Department of Cultural Affairs, UT Administration, celebrated “Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav” by organising a cycle rally from Chandigarh Lake Sports Club to Bougainvillea Garden, Sector 2. It culminated at the Lake Sports Club. TNSPatiala score 249 on Day 1Chandigarh: Patiala lads scored 249 runs against Sangrur on the opening day of their three-day Punjab State Inter District U-16 Tournament match on Tuesday. In other matches, Jalandhar made 312 runs against Nawanshahr, while Bathinda scored 185 runs against Mansa. Amritsar amassed 334/7 against Fazilka on Day 1 and Ludhiana gained a 12-run lead over Moga. TNSParas shines in Kaimbwala winChandigarh: Paras Amarjit Kumar helped Baba Balak Nath Cricket Academy, Kaimbwala, defeat Lordstown Sports Cricket by six runs in the 1st Build Back Better U-19 Cricket Tournament. Kumar scored 41 off 46 balls and claimed 2/13. Batting first, the Kaimbwala outfit posted 167/8 in 40 overs. In reply, Lordstown Sports Cricket team scored 161 runs before getting all out in 37 overs. TNSKamaljit elected president againChandigarh: Kamaljit Singh Panchhi has been unanimously re-elected as president of the Property Federation Chandigarh. The new office-bearers include JD Gupta (chairman), Taraninder Singh (chief patron), patrons Vijay Bhasin and Inderjit Bedi, advisors Sanjay Jain, Narinder Singh and Preet Mohan Bangga, senior vice-presidents SA Khan and HS Monga, vice-presidents Naresh Bansal, Dalip Ghai and Rajan Mahajan, general secretary Amit Jain, Jaspal Kapoor (finance secretary), and secretaries Dheeraj Kumar, Navdeep Sharma, Mahesh Chugh and Manu Bedi. TNSMNREGA workers hold protestMohali: Hundreds of MNREGA workers on Tuesday announced that their dharna outside the Vikas Bhawan in Sector 62 will continue till the government does not regularise their jobs. The MNREGA workers employed under the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats have been sitting on a protest for more than a week at the venue. Union members Amritpal Singh, Gurvinder Singh and others said MNREGA workers were last regularised in 2008. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tuba-talib-shine-in-carrom-meet-298804
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 1.70 lakh stolen from car in Chandigarh||Theft reported from Sector 25 houseChandigarh: A Sector 25 resident reported that an unknown person stole her bicycle, a mixer and an iron from her house on August 16. A case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSCar stolen from Mani MajraChandigarh: Abhishek Jindal, a resident of Sector 16, reported that an unknown person stole his car parked near Bitta Petrol Pump in Mani Majra. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNSNine booked for rioting, assaultChandigarh: Prahlad Sharma, a Sector 48 resident, alleged that Sukhpal Bhullar, Avtar Singh, Jagpreet Singh, Neeraj Gupta, Bablu, Harpreet Singh, Gandhi, Ranjeet Singh and Kailash, all residents of Motor Market, Sector 48, indulged in rioting, unlawful assembly, causing voluntarily hurt and criminal intimidation on Sector 48 market association members. A case under Sections 147, 149, 323 and 506 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. TNSYouth ‘injured in mishap’ found deadFatehgarh Sahib: The Bassi Pathana police have recovered the body of Balbir Singh, a resident of Khalaspur village, from a drain on the outskirts of Bassi Pathana town. He was reported to be missing from his village last week. Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Harminder Singh said Nirbhay Singh, brother of the deceased, had reported that Balbir had gone to work on August 12 but did not return home. During investigation, an acquaintance of the victim told the police that Balbir was hit by a speeding car when he came out of a langar venue at Talania village. The occupants of the car took him along telling the people gathered there that they were taking him to a hospital. He suspected that the occupants of the car might have thrown him into a roadside drain where he died. The police have registered a case. OCPillion rider killedFatehgarh Sahib: A pillion rider was killed and another severely injured in a road accident near Pine Grove Public School on the Bassi Pathana-Morinda road on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Gobind Kumar and the injured as Vishal Kumar, both residents of Tibba village in Ludhiana district. They were going to pay obeisance at the Naina Devi shrine in Himachal Pradesh when a truck coming from the opposite direction hit the bikes they were riding. Gobid died on the spot. The police have arrested the truck driver. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-1-70-lakh-stolen-from-car-in-chandigarh-298803
18-08-2021||Zirakpur||Minor molested, cousin booked in Zirakpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-molested-cousin-booked-in-zirakpur-298802
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 test positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh||The city on Tuesday reported three cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of five patients were discharged during the past 24 hours. TNS No fresh case, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no fresh coronavirus case on Tuesday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,661. The Covid toll also remained at 376. While 30,273 people have recovered from the disease so far, 12 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. TNSThree found infected in Mohali districtMohali: Three new Covid-19 cases, two from Kharar and one from Kurali, were reported on Tuesday. Two patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Of the 68,540 positive cases reported so far, 67,427 patients have been cured of the virus. There are now 56 active cases in the district. The death toll stands at 1,057. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-298801
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Cong men to join AAP in Chandigarh today||Former Congress general secretary Sandeep Bhardwaj, along with about 40 former office-bearers who recently resigned from the party, will join the AAP here tomorrow.“We left the Congress due to corruption issues involving some senior leaders. Under the BJP-ruled MC, there is already so much corruption. Thus, we, around 42-43 former office-bearers, are going to join AAP, which has done good work in Delhi,” said Bhardwaj.“We will join the party in the presence of senior AAP leader Jarnail Singh tomorrow. We will work towards replicating the Delhi model here,” he added.These leaders are considered close to former city Congress president Pardeep Chhabra, who joined AAP a few days ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-cong-men-to-join-aap-in-chandigarh-today-298800
18-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh: Held guilty of stalking, youth out on probation||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, August 17After holding him guilty under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint) and 354D (stalking) of the IPC, a local court here has released a youth on probation to give him a chance to reform.The court also acquitted the youth for the offence punishable under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.The police had registered an FIR and arrested the accused in September 2017 following a complaint by the girl, who was a student of a government school.The girl had alleged that accused Ratandeep, along with two other accused, followed her when she was returning from the school.She claimed that Ratandeep stopped her near the Sector 41/42 roundabout and told her to accept her offer of friendship.She alleged that when she refused, the accused forcibly took her to the nearby park and threatened her.When someone came for my help, the accused also injured him, she said, adding that when she raised the alarm, the accused ran away from the spot.Defence counsel Baldev Sharma, however, argued that the prosecution had failed to establish the case against the accused.After hearing both sides and considering evidence led by the prosecution as well as defence of the accused, the court held Ratandeep guilty for the offence under Section 341 and 354D of IPC. However, he was acquitted of the charges framed under Section 506 of the IPC due to lack of evidenceWhile pronouncing the sentence, the court observed that “the convict is first time offender and also of young age”.“Therefore, the circumstances warrant that convict should be given one chance to reform his ways and to live peacefully in society,” the court observed.“Resultantly, instead of sentencing the convict at once, I order him to be released on probation on furnishing probation bonds in the sum of Rs20,000 with one surety in the like amount with an undertaking not to repeat the offence and to maintain peace and good behavior during the next six months,” read the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-held-guilty-of-stalking-youth-out-on-probation-298799
18-08-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula residents threaten stir over power outages||Facing electricity outages of four to five hours every day for more than a month, a delegation of the House Owners’ Welfare Association, Sector 10, met Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today and warned him of launching a protest if the situation prevailed.Led by association chairman Bharat Hiteshi, residents’ body office-bearers apprised Gupta of “difficulties faced by around 1,000 Covid recovered patients and senior citizens of the sector due to the erratic power supply.”Hiteshi warned if the electricity board failed to ensure uninterrupted power supply in their sector by August 20, they will launch a protest.“Those who recovered from Covid are unable to bear the humid weather during power cuts,” said association president BM Kaushik and chief mentor SK Sharma. They also complained about students missing their online classes and problems being faced by employees working from home.Later, the delegation of residents also met senior officials of UHBVN and demanded an immediate solution to this problem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-residents-threaten-stir-over-power-outages-298798
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mayor for monthly water bills in Chandigarh||Shifting from its earlier practice of sending bimonthly water bills to the residents, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma has proposed to evolve a system of sending monthly bills to the users. At present, city residents pay water bills bimonthly. However, the Mayor wants that monthly bills should be sent to the consumers.“It is heavy on pocket to pay two months of water bill together. If we send one month water bill, people will find it easy to pay. We are working on it,” the Mayor told Chandigarh Tribune. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mayor-for-monthly-water-bills-in-chandigarh-298797
18-08-2021||---||Facilities at Panchkula's Saket hospital to be upgraded: Haryana Governor||Panchkula, August 17Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today said infrastructural facilities at Mother Teresa Saket Orthopaedic Hospital here would be upgraded to provide better medical facilities related to bone, joints and physiotherapy to patients.Dattatreya made a surprise visit to the Saket hospital and took stock of the medical facilities at the hospital. He also interacted with patients and employees of the hospital.Dattatreya directed the hospital authorities to start online registration facility for the patients. He said through advance registration, patients would not only be able to avail of better health facilities but also their time would be saved considerably.He said OPD timings for senior citizens should be fixed from 3 pm to 5 pm for the convenience of senior citizens.He also instructed officials to give special emphasis on OPDs of women and children.The Governor said there was also a need to further expand the surgery OPD and physiotherapy facility in the hospital. He said there was a need for the expansion of an operation theatre, a laboratory and an X-ray room in the hospital so that maximum patients could avail of these facilities.The Governor said he would take up the issue to upgrade infrastructural facilities at the Saket hospital with Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal.Dr Aparajita Saundh, Director, Mother Teresa Saket Orthopaedic Hospital, said 900 to 1,000 operations were being done at the hospital every year.“Apart from this, X-ray facility for 150 people and physiotherapy facility for 50 people were being provided in the hospital every day,” Saundh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/facilities-at-panchkulas-saket-hospital-to-be-upgraded-haryana-governor-298796
18-08-2021||---||No inspection of dwelling units at time of transfer, clarifies Chandigarh Housing Board||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has clarified that no fresh inspection of dwelling units will be carried out at the time of transfer in cases where building violations are not reported.The CHB has made it clear that in cases where misuse/building violations are not reported as per the available record, the information furnished by the applicant in the application form of transfer of dwelling units along with affidavit of the transferor and transferee are relied upon. In all such cases, fresh inspection is not carried out by the CHB at the time of transfer of units.The applicant/transferee is, however, liable for concealment of facts in the affidavit with respect to misuse and violations and necessary action is taken as per law, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.Further, the transferee continues to be liable for all building violations, either existing at the time of transfer or made subsequently.In cases where reports of violation(s) are available in the record of the CHB, the affidavits about non-violation are not accepted and fresh inspections are carried out by the CHB officials.“It has been observed that in some cases transfer of the unit was allowed on the basis of affidavits but subsequently certain misuse/building violations were observed. When action against such violations were initiated, the transferees felt cheated by the transferors by way of wrong declarations/affidavits,” said the CEO.As per the CHB, the existing owner/occupant is liable to remove the violations, failing which he/she has to bear the consequence like cancellation of allotment, etc. To overcome such situation and to protect the innocent buyers, the CHB has provided an optional mechanism where the transferor and the transferee may jointly apply for an inspection by the CHB and obtain a certificate about there being no violation on that point of time, said Garg.“For this purpose, the joint application, along with a fee of Rs5,000 may be submitted by the transferor (existing owner) at the reception of the CHB,” he added.He said an order was issued on August 27, 2019 on above lines and the same was available on the CHB website.In case of any inspection in violation of above instructions, strict action will be taken against the CHB officers/officials concerned, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-inspection-of-dwelling-units-at-time-of-transfer-clarifies-chandigarh-housing-board-298795
18-08-2021||---||Woman takes sleeping pills at Chandigarh's Sector 17 police station||Chandigarh, August 17A 22-year-old Maloya resident reportedly consumed ‘sleeping’ pills in front of police officials at the Sector 17 police station this afternoon, alleging police inaction in a case of domestic violence and dowry demand.The victim, a mother of a five-year-old girl, was rushed to the GMSH-16 where her condition was stated to be stable. The police later said the woman had consumed sleeping pills. The woman’s mother alleged that her daughter was married to a Maloya resident, Saajid, a few years ago. Since their marriage, Saajid used to beat her over dowry demands. Two years ago, he turned her out of his house due to which her daughter had to stay in a rented accommodation in Maloya.Saajid was missing from his house for the past one year, the mother alleged.A case was registered in this regard and the woman was being asked to visit the police station time and again and made to wait for long hours. But no one from the husband’s family was called at the police station, she alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-takes-sleeping-pills-at-chandigarhs-sector-17-police-station-298794
18-08-2021||---||Zirakpur-resident Lt Col booked on charge of raping wife||Ludhiana, August 17The Dakha police have registered a case of rape against a serving Lieutenant Colonel posted at the Baddowal military base here on a complaint of his wife. He has been identified as Lt Col Nitin Sharma, a resident of Zirakpur.The complainant told the police that she got married to Lt Col Sharma in December 2010. Soon after the marriage, her husband started torturing her saying that though he was a senior officer in the Army, her parents had not spent enough money on the wedding as per his standards.Since her husband continued to torture her, in 2019, she shifted to her parents’ house in Khanna. In March 2021, her husband assured that he would give a mutual divorce if she came to attend a party at the Baddowal military camp on April 10.“After attending the party, my husband took me to the guest house of the military camp where he tried to violate me. On August 14, she had come to take their son, who was living with him at Baddowal for the past few days. When I reached there, my husband asked our son to sit in the car. Then he took me to a room where he developed physical relations with me against my wishes,” the woman said.Sub-inspector Kamaldeep Kaur said after registering a case, further proceedings had been initiated in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-resident-lt-col-booked-on-charge-of-raping-wife-298793
18-08-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Day after, heritage manhole cover at Chandigarh's Sector 42 sports complex secured||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17A heritage manhole cover at the UT Sports Complex in Sector 42, which was lying unattended and abandoned, has now been moved to a secure location.The UT Administration Engineering Department is also repairing the sewer and the area around the manhole.Yesterday, Ajay Jagga, member of the UT Heritage Items Protection Cell, wrote to the Municipal Corporation Commissioner, expressing concern over the manhole cover’s security. He wrote that the manhole cover designed by Le Corbusier, which is worth nearly Rs2 million, was at the risk of being stolen.A day after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted the issue, the manhole cover was moved inside the fenced compound of the building today. When this correspondent visited the spot, the area around the sewer was covered with cement.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said: “The repair work is being handled by the Engineering Department.” He added that the Engineering Department told him that the manhole slab was broken due to the movement of a truck. The new slab was laid today and manhole frame had been grouted in it. The manhole cover was now safely at the site office, he said. The same shall be fixed after slab setting.Not our responsibility: MCWhen contacted, MC’s executive engineer Vijay Premi said: “Since the manhole cover is located inside a property (sports complex) owned by the UT Administration, the MC is not responsible for its repair and maintenance.”On this, Ajay Jagga opined that there was a need for proper demarcation of the MC and Administration-owned properties. “I’m happy that the manhole cover has been protected. However, to a layperson, it is quite confusing. I have been under the impression that the MC was replacing 2,000 manhole covers in the city as many were being stolen. There should be a proper demarcation between heritage properties owned by the MC and the UT Administration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-heritage-manhole-cover-at-chandigarhs-sector-42-sports-complex-secured-298792
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Worried about safety of kin, say Afghan students in Panjab University||Panjab University has not received any request from students hailing from Afghanistan, said officials.“PU DSW Prof Tomar has been asked to talk to the students to know about their issues, if any. Accordingly, the further course of action will be decided. As of now, the PU has not received any request from the students,” said a PU spokesperson.Over 250 students from different parts Afghanistan are currently studying at Chandigarh University, Gharuan.“Some of the students, who are in the final year, are on the verge of completing their degrees in India. A request letter has been sent to the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, to extend their visas (stay in India) as there is a lot of uncertainty in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, there are some Afghan students, who have recently come to India. They are really worried about the safety of their family members back home,” said a university spokesperson.“The communication network is completely down in Afghanistan and we are unable to talk to our family members. The last I had a word with my family was on August 7 and they advised me to stay in India and not return to Afghanistan,” said Amin, a final-year Civil Engineering student. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/worried-about-safety-of-kin-say-afghan-students-in-panjab-university-298791
18-08-2021||---||Three of Davinder Bambiha gang nabbbed from Punjab's Kharar||Mohali, August 17The police today arrested three members of the Davinder Bambiha gang — Mandeep Singh Dhaliwal, Jaswinder Singh, alias Khattu, and Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh — and seized two pistols and nine live rounds from them near Kharar.The police got information that Khuda Lahora residents Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, and his brother Sourav Patial, alias Vicky, Jaswinder Singh and Mandeep Singh Dhaliwal indulged in criminal activities and threatened to kill people on the social media.The gang was also glorifying its criminal activities on the social media to create an atmosphere of terror among people. The gang has also been involved in taking ransom from industrialists after threatening them on the phone. The gang has invested money in two music companies, Thug Life and Gold Media. The police have arrested Mandeep Singh, a resident of Ferozepur village, Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Mangli Khas village, Ludhiana, and Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh, a resident of Patiala, from Kharar with ammunition. A case under Sections 384, 385, 386, 392, 395, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and 66D of the IT Act has been registered against the suspects at Kharar City police station. The police have got their remand for three days after producing them in a local court.During preliminary interrogation, it came out that Mandeep Singh was in contact with Gaurav Patial when he was studying at Panjab University. Mandeep was also involved in providing shelter to Dilpreet Baba, Lucky Patial and Sukhpreet Budha after the attack on singer Parmish Verma. After that, he was absconding and went to Dubai.A few months ago, Mandeep came back and started working for the Thug Life company, which was promoted by Lucky Patial of the Bambiha gang. The police seized a .30 bore pistol and four live rounds from him.During the interrogation of Jaswinder Singh, it was revealed that he had earlier shot dead lawyer Arshdeep Singh Sethi along with his accomplices in Mohali and had come out of jail a few months ago. He was now working with the Bambiha gang along with Lucky Patial. The police have recovered five rounds and .32 bore pistol from Jaswinder Singh.Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh, was running a company called Gold Media when Sukhpreet Singh, alias Budha, demanded a ransom of Rs25 lakh from singer Gippy Grewal. Arshdeep Singh was also involved in that case and now he was promoting private companies at the behest of the gangster. The investigation has also revealed that the music company, Thug Life, is being run by Deepinder Singh Cheema, alias Deep Cheema, a resident of Ludhiana, residing in Toronto at present. His name was also incorporated in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-of-davinder-bambiha-gang-nabbbed-from-punjabs-kharar-298790
18-08-2021||---||Chandigarh lifts night curfew as city inches towards normalcy||Chandigarh, August 17The UT Administration has decided to completely lift the night curfew, as the Covid situation inches towards normalcy in the city. The night curfew was imposed on April 6.During a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, which was chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, it was decided to fully withdraw the night curfew, which was in force from 11 pm to 5 am, as has been done in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.The Administration has allowed all restaurants and bars to open with 50 per cent capacity from 8 am till midnight. Other decisionsThe public can visit the government offices for their works between noon and 1 pm on all working days except Wednesdays and FridaysHockey, football and cricket academies of the UT Sports Department have been allowed to function. Parents’ consent needed for players under 18 years of age50 per cent passenger capacity limit for public transport withdrawnFor marriages and social gatherings, only intimation and undertaking to adhere to the Covid protocol required, instead of permissionThe public can now visit the government offices in connection with their works between noon and 1 pm on all working days except Wednesdays and Fridays. However, the visitors must have been vaccinated with at least the first dose or have a negative RT-PCR report not older than the past 72 hours.In another decision, the Administration has allowed hockey, football and cricket academies of the Sports Department to function by following the Covid protocol and subject to a condition that all eligible players must have been vaccinated with at least the first dose. In case of players aged under 18, the parents’ consent is required. With a decline in Covid-19 cases, the Administration has also withdrawn the 50 per cent passenger capacity limit for public transport.For marriages, social gatherings, etc, only intimation and undertaking to adhere to the Covid protocol will be required to be submitted to the SDM concerned, instead of permission.During the meeting, PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram stated that they had 21 Covid patients in the institute and only one was from Chandigarh. The PGI Director stated that genome sequencing facility had been started at the institute and initially, 40 samples were being tested.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, GMCH-32, stated that there was only one Covid case at the hospital and the patient was from Himachal Pradesh.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, stated that no death was reported from the city this month so far. She stated that 9,98,641 doses of the vaccine had been administered in Chandigarh so far. Almost the entire eligible population had been given the first dose and 34.5 per cent had received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lifts-night-curfew-as-city-inches-towards-normalcy-298789
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lifts night curfew; bars, restaurants can operate past 12||Chandigarh administrated passed an order fully withdrawing night curfew in the union territory as the city continues to see a lower rate of Covid-19 infections.A new order passed by the administration said restaurants and bars could now stay open for business from 8 am to 12 midnight.  Government offices will now remain open for public dealings from 12 noon to 1 pm on all working days except for Wednesdays and Fridays. Visitors to these offices must either have had at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine or must have tested negative in an RT-PCR test taken no less than 72 hours ago.Among other significant decisions, the Chandigarh administration decided to lift its 50 per cent capacity cap on public transport. Additionally, people no longer require permission from the sub-divisional magistrate for social gatherings and instead must only intimate them. The following were the decisions taken in a Covid war room meeting that Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore presided over:—Night curfew is fully withdrawn as already done by Haryana and Punjab—All restaurants/bars can remain open with 50% capacity from 08:00 AM to 12:00 Midnight.—Public can visit the government offices in connection with their work between 12:00 Noon to 01:00 PM on all working days except Wednesdays & Fridays.  The visitors must have been vaccinated with at least first dose or have negative RT-PCR report of the last 72 hours.—Hockey, Football and Cricket Academies of sports department are allowed to function, by following all Covid protocol and subject to the condition that all eligible players must have been vaccinated with at least first dose. As regards players under 18 years of age, consent of parents is required.—Restriction of 50 per cent capacity of passengers for public transport is withdrawn.—For marriages, social gatherings, etc. only intimation and undertaking to adhere to Covid protocols is required to be submitted to the concerned SDM, instead of permission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lifts-night-curfew-bars-restaurants-can-operate-past-12-298511
