19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports six new cases of Covid||Chandigarh on Thursday reported six cases of Covid-19, taking the UT’s total count to 62,051, according to a medical bulletin.The death toll stood at 811. The number of active cases in the city was 44 while the number of cured persons was 61,196. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-six-new-cases-of-covid-299463
19-08-2021||---||Restaurateurs welcome the Chandigarh Administration’s move to allow restaurants to remain open till midnight||MonaIn a push towards normalcy, the Chandigarh Administration lifted night curfew allowing restaurants/bars to remain open with 50 per cent capacity from 8 am to midnight.The decision is hailed by restaurateurs as a welcome step for the industry that suffered big losses through the two waves of the pandemic. Post months of ‘lockdown’ cooking, eating out has come back in vogue. As the first dose vaccination is almost complete in the city, it has given people the confidence to step out. Better sales for operators, more revenue for the government and better earning for servers is how Manmohan Singh Kohli, CEO and Managing Partner of The Aroma Classic and Aquamarine, interprets the move. “Traders and professionals generally finish work by 9 pm. With the last order at 10 pm, there was hardly any time to unwind. The night slot also translates to better tips for servers. So, all three – operators, government and work force in the hotel industry tend to benefit. It’s surely more value for their time,” he says.“It’s a welcome step,” says Arvinder Pal Singh, president of the Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association. “The added hour-and-a-half for orders translates to 20 per cent more business,” says Singh.Vipul Dua, founder and managing director, Peddlers, is looking forward to the weekends. “Restaurants are doing much better business. The rush, however, is only on weekends.”That the one must maintain 50 per cent seating, Dua has removed some tables in between to comply with the rule. “We also stick to couples and families and no stag entry over the weekend. So, we are able to maintain the Covid protocol,” he says.“The extended hours would result in more footfall as now working professionals can step out to enjoy some down time,” says Inderjeet Singh Banga, behind restaurants Pirates of Grill and Prankster. While Chandigarh has lifted restriction now, Punjab and Haryana had done away with night restrictions earlier. “We would rather move slow and safe than go full throttle and then end up with another lockdown,” says Arpit Singh, owner, Piccadilia - The Theatre Cafe.“We stick to 50 per cent seating capacity and social distancing norms. The pandemic is still out there and it’s better to be safe than sorry,” he added.Priyanka Gupta, director, Hops n Grains and The Great Bear Kitchen and Microbrewery, considers it a big boost to the industry both in terms of sale and in terms of confidence building towards normalcy. “However, we would keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour. It will be hugely positive for our new brewery in Mohali as people in Mohali prefer late night dining,” she says.Not everyone is that kicked-up with the move but content in being back in business which is gradually coming back to the pre-pandemic times. “Families generally finish meals by 10 pm, those generally drinking finish by 11, so business is going to be more or less the same, which has already picked up,” says Vikas Mahajan , Hotel Shanti Sagar, Mohali.mona@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restaurateurs-welcome-the-chandigarh-administrations-move-to-allow-restaurants-to-remain-open-till-midnight-299257
19-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mandi Gobindgarh councillor disqualified||While deciding a petition, Election Tribunal-cum-SDM, Amloh, has disqualified Raghbir Singh, an independent councillor of Ward No. 29 of the Mandi Gobindgarh Municipal Council (MC) from his post.An election petition was filed by Harjinder Singh, a defeated candidate, alleging that Raghbir had furnished wrong information in his nomination papers.Harjinder said as per the RTI received from MC a water supply connection was given at Raghbir’s residence. Harjinder mentioned that the water supply connection was illegal and the MC had served Raghbir notice to deposit Rs15,220, but he failed to do so. Rather, Raghbir managed to obtain an improper no dues certificate from the MC, Harjinder added. Raghbir also concealed facts while filing nomination papers, said Harjinder.Deciding the petition, the Election Tribunal, Amloh, disqualified Raghbir from the post of councillor.When contacted, Raghbir he said the house was owned by his father. So, there was no question of him concealing any facts and pending dues, Raghbir added. I will challenge the orders in the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” said Raghbir. — OCThe complaintAn election petition was filed by Harjinder Singh, a defeated candidate, alleging that Raghbir had furnished wrong information in his nomination papers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandi-gobindgarh-councillor-disqualified-299068
19-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Assembly poll: 1,200 can vote at one polling station||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 18Additional District Election Officer Rajesh Dhiman today held a meeting with representatives of various political parties regarding upcoming Assembly elections in Fatehgarh Sahib, Amloh and Bassi Pathana constituencies in the district.Addressing the meeting, he said, “Polling stations have to be rationalised as per the Election Commission of India instructions. Keeping in view the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic the limit of voters at polling stations for the 2022 Assembly elections has been fixed at 1,200.”“All those polling stations, which don’t have required minimum facilities as per the instructions of the commission or the condition of the building is bad will be replaced. A list of such polling stations will be sent to the Election Commission for approval by September 8,” he added.“The election registration officers of Bassi Pathana, Fatehgarh Sahib and Amloh Assembly constituencies of the district have identified 39 polling stations out of the existing 534, which have more than 1,200 votes. Their list has been sent to the District Election Officer,” he said.“Buildings of certain polling stations have to be changed. Officials concerned should report to the District Election Officer by August 23 if any other change is required,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assembly-poll-1-200-can-vote-at-one-polling-station-299067
19-08-2021||Mohali||Felling of trees in Mohali raises eyebrows||Environmentalists and residents have expressed concern over the felling of trees in a park near the government dispensary at Phase 5. Local residents said a total of nine trees had been felled or uprooted since Tuesday.General secretary of Mohali Environment Society RS Baidwan said: “Persons responsible for the felling of the trees illegally should be booked.”Meanwhile, MC officials said an investigation would be carried out and a police case registered against the persons responsible for it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/felling-of-trees-in-mohali-raises-eyebrows-299069
19-08-2021||Ambala||Man held for taking bribe in Ambala||A joint team of the state vigilance bureau, Ambala range, and the CID has arrested a supervisor of an outsourcing company for taking Rs10,000 in bribe for providing a job to a person in the Forest Department.The suspect has been identified as Narender, an employee of a private firm. He will be produced before a court tomorrow.The DIG, Vigilance Bureau, Ambala Range, Ashok Kumar, said Gurjit Singh of Ambala had complained that Narender had sought Rs75,000 from him to get him a job in the Forest Department. A sum of Rs10,000 was to be paid in advance.A team was constituted and the suspect was caught while taking the bribe at the Civil Hospital, Ambala City. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-taking-bribe-in-ambala-299071
19-08-2021||---||Woman gets 10-year jail in drug case in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 18Drug menace has become a social malady, it has attained monstrous proportion and is tearing families apart, a special court here observed while sentencing a woman to 10 years rigorous imprisonment in a drug case.Dr Rajneesh, Judge, Special Court, held Nirmla guilty under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and also imposed a fine of Rs2.50 lakh on her.Nirmla was arrested in 2018 following a tip-off that she was selling the banned drugs.The police recovered 200-gm heroin and 15 buprenorphine injections from her possession.The court convicted Nirmla for the commission of offence under Section 21(b) read with Section 31(1) and 22 (c) of the NDPS Act.“The sale and consumption of narcotics in an illegal manner is immensely affecting society. Its addiction destroys the trait of appreciation of a person, who cannot differentiate between fair and unfair. The need of the hour is to choke the supply of the drugs and to curb it with heady hands,” the court observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-gets-10-year-jail-in-drug-case-in-chandigarh-299072
19-08-2021||---||Row over 86 acres land at Chandpur village in New Chandigarh||Mohali, August 18“Land measuring 86 acres at Chandpur village of New Chandigarh in Mohali district is being grabbed by the organisations of political leaders at the behest of government officials. If any Panchayat member or villager opposes the land-grab attempt, false police cases are filed against them,” some residents of Chandpur village, along with Satnam Dao, president, Punjab Against Corruption, said at a press conference.They also alleged that the present and former political leaders had leased a few acres out of 86 acres in the village with the connivance of government officials. And preparations were underway to lease the rest of the land.Dao alleged when two members of Chandpur Panchayat, Kuldeep Singh and Jaswinder Kaur, protested, they were suspended on false charges.He said a similar case had come to light earlier at Balongi village of Mohali.Meanwhile, BDPO Jaspreet Kaur said the entire process was being carried out in accordance with the law. The purpose of the open bidding advertisement was that only the highest bidding organisation would be able to lease the land. She said if any notice was received for convening Gram Sabha, it would be replied as per the law.OfficialspeakBDPO Jaspreet Kaur said the entire process was being carried out in accordance with the law. The purpose of the open bidding advertisement was that only the highest bidding organisation would be able to lease the land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/row-over-86-acres-land-at-chandpur-village-in-new-chandigarh-299091
19-08-2021||Mohali||202 cases solved at Lok Adalat in Mohali||As many as 202 cases were disposed of and compensation amounting to Rs134,12,452 were awarded during the monthly Lok Adalat here today.Baljinder Singh, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, said once a decision was taken in the Lok Adalat, the court fees incurred in the cases were refunded and there was no appeal for the decision of these cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/202-cases-solved-at-lok-adalat-in-mohali-299070
19-08-2021||---||Delhi man held with heroin in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 18A 28-year-old Delhi resident has been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police with 110-gm heroin.The suspect has been identified as Akshay Rajesh. He was arrested from Sector 52.The police said Akshay was supplying drugs in the city for the past two months.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him at the Sector 36 police station. The suspect was produced in a court today, which sent him to one-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-man-held-with-heroin-in-chandigarh-299073
19-08-2021||---||International fellowship for Chitkara faculty||Mohali, August 18Dr Preethi John, Director, Chitkara Global Health Institute, has been chosen for the 2021 Cohort of Harvard Lead Fellowship for promoting women in the global health sector.John is a health and development management professional with 25 years of experience in public and private sector organisations. She has her expertise in capacity building of healthcare human resources from developing countries across South Asia, Africa and Latin America. “I am grateful to Chitkara University for support and the freedom to explore my potential,” said Preethi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/international-fellowship-for-chitkara-faculty-299074
19-08-2021||---||Panjab University Senate poll sees 90% voter turnout||Chandigarh, August 18The Panjab University Senate elections for constituencies of head and professor, associate professor, assistant professor of affiliated arts college witnessed over 90 percent voter turnout today. The voting was held at 62 centres at Chandigarh and Punjab.The heads of affiliated arts colleges constituencies witnessed 96.61 per cent polling. As many as 57 votes were polled today, including Chandigarh (four votes), Abohar (four votes), Fazilka (six votes), Hoshiarpur (11 votes), Ludhiana (22 votes), Moga (two votes), Sri Muktsar Sahib (six votes) and Nawanshahr (two votes).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-poll-sees-90-voter-turnout-299075
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pupils want Panjab University campus reopened||A protest march was organised by Panjab University students’ political parties from Vice-Chancellor’s office to his house was regarding the suspension of graduate constituency elections.Different organisations, Senators, professors, artists and activists from farmer’s protest around Chandigarh joined the protest. Main demands are conducting graduate constituency elections immediately and reopening campus for all students.Lakha Sidhana in protestLakha Sidhana, who is among 17 persons against whom five FIRs were registered by the UT police after a farmers’ protest march in the city in June, also attended the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pupils-want-panjab-university-campus-reopened-299076
19-08-2021||---||A bus stop or residence?||Chandigarh, August 18Area residents have raised eyebrows over a few people sleeping and living at a bus queue shelter in Sector 45-B.Kusum Ghai, a social worker, Sector 45We have lodged complaints about it, but to no avail. Four or five persons cook, eat, sleep and live here. It is a government property, why are officials not bothered? When schools will open, boarding buses will be risky for students.They have stored woods, mattress and other items at the bus queue shelter. Some of them allegedly also take drugs. Thus, even people coming to catch the bus have started waiting at some distance away from the bus stop.“We have lodged complaints about it, but to no avail. Four to five persons cook, eat, sleep and live here. This is a government property, why are officials not bothered? When schools will open, boarding buses will be risky for students,” said Kusum Ghai, a social worker from Sector 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-bus-stop-or-residence-299077
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Police Seva Padak for 16 BSF personnel in Mohali||The Police Antrik Suraksha Seva Padak was awarded to 16 personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) for services rendered by them during the internal security duties in various parts of the country during a function held at the BSF campus in Mohali today.Of the 16 medals, 10 have been awarded for service by BSF personnel in Jammu and Kashmir and the other six for services in the north-east. The medal was instituted by the Ministry of Home Affairs in July 2018 and is awarded to the force personnel who have served for two continuous years in operational duties in Jammu and Kashmir, left wing extremism affected states and the north-east.The medals were presented by Surendra Panwar, Special Director General, Western Command, BSF. Congratulating the recipients, he exhorted them to strive for professional excellence and earn more laurels in future.In addition to its primary role of guarding the international border with Pakistan and Bangladesh, the BSF has also been requisitioned by state governments for the maintenance of law and order and counter-insurgency operations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-seva-padak-for-16-bsf-personnel-in-mohali-299078
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||17,847 apply for admission to Class XI in Chandigarh||As many as 17,847 students have so far applied for admission to Class XI in Government Senior Secondary Schools of Chandigarh.The online admission process, which had started on August 11, will concluded tomorrow.This year, a total of 42 Senior Secondary Schools are open for admissions, which includes two upgraded senior secondary level schools. Apart from this, seats have been increased for the commerce and humanities streams in two schools. There are 15,355 seats in government schools.Display of provisional common merit list for verification by candidates will be out by August 25, while the list indicating allotment of school and stream will be out by August 31.The commencement of classes (online/offline) will begin from September 4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-847-apply-for-admission-to-class-xi-in-chandigarh-299079
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders’ memo on GST||The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has suggested some measures for the simplification of GST procedures and rates.In a comprehensive memorandum sent to Union Finance Minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman, the CBM highlighted the need for simplifying the rates and procedures under the GST so that the new laws are trader-friendly and easy to be followed.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said the memorandum had been sent with a request to be taken up in the coming GST Council meeting.He said their major demands included that the number of digits of HSN code required to be filled on the invoice should be same for all traders irrespective of the turnover for B-to-B invoices. However, they suggested that it should be of four digits for all dealers. They suggested allowing submission of revised returns and no scrutiny in cases where returns are timely deposited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traders-memo-on-gst-299080
19-08-2021||---||Ahead of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation poll, jolt to Congress as leaders join AAP||Chandigarh, August 18Ahead of the MC elections , several former Congress office-bearers and volunteers, who recently resigned from the primary membership of the party, joined AAP today.Former Mayor Pradeep Chhabra, who recently joined AAP, and Chander Mukhi Sharma, party in-charge for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, who is also a former Congressman, were present on the occasion.The AAP said this was a major setback to the Chandigarh Congress ahead of the elections.The Congress leaders and volunteers were welcomed by AAP’s Chandigarh affairs in-charge and MLA Jarnail Singh, Chandigarh party president Prem Garg, Punjab MLA Kulwant Singh Pandori and general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat at the party headquarters here on Wednesday.Jarnail Singh said people across the country were joining the AAP due to its pro-people policies and social reform activities by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.Chandigarh AAP leader and former mayor Pradeep Chhabra said: “In the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, the Congress and the BJP will be completely wiped out.”“Hard workers and leaders are not valued in the Congress which is why Chandigarh leaders are resigning from the Congress,” he added.He said former Congress general secretary Sandeep Bhardwaj, secretary Mushak Ali and Praveen Dugal Vishu, joint secretary Kuldeep Kumar, vice-president Rakesh Soni, SC Wing vice-president Kanwaljit Singh Sidhu, DCC general secretary Jagdeep Mahajan, vice-president Dinesh Sharma, chairman RTI Cell Gagandeep Singh Ahluwalia, DCC vice-president Beant Singh and Surinder Singh, former secretary Harwinder Goldy, block president Harjinder Bawa and Mohinder Rajbhar, treasurer Gurdeep Singh, general secretary Ram Krishan, Brij Mohan Meena, Sukhbir Singh Sukhi, Vishal Kumar Sherry, Sonu Kumar, Sanjay Arora, Kanika Khatri, Jasbir Singh, Vikramjit Singh , Rohit Kumar, Sarika Kanojia, Virender Pal Singh, Mohinder, Krishan Lal, Davinder Kumar, Rakesh Gill and Sanjeev Arora had joined AAP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ahead-of-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-poll-jolt-to-congress-as-leaders-join-aap-299081
19-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Haryana announces rehab centre in Panchkula, Chandigarh project hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18While the Haryana Government has honoured its Olympic medal winners by announcing that a sports injury and rehabilitation centre will be set up at Panchkula, the similar project of the UT Administration is biting the dust.Faculty member, GMCH, Sector 32Haryana's javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and wrestler Bajrang Punia were injured and recovered in a foreign rehab centre. After this, the Haryana Government decided to build a rehab centre in Panchkula. This will be a loss for Chandigarh. Despite having everything in place, the Administration is turning out to be a mute spectator.“Our players will no longer have to go abroad for rehab. We will open four rehab and sports injury centres in Haryana. The four centres will cover the whole of Haryana. The first of these rehab centres will be set up in Panchkula and the construction will start soon,” said Sandeep Singh, Sports Minister, Haryana.He added: “There will be doctors and physiotherapists in the centre along with sports science facilities for efficient and successful rehab of athletes. There will be a dietician for the athletes, along with the injury management facility.”Meanwhile, despite earmarking 1.4 acres in 2017 at Sector 32, the sports injury centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, is yet to see the light of the day. The centre, which was supposed to be India’s second sports injury centre, is yet to grab authorities’ attention. As per the blueprint approved in 2018, the new building was supposed to have six floors with CT scan and MRI facilities and diagnostic facilities and emergency services would be offered at nominal rates. Space for a hydrotherapy lab and physiotherapy units was also proposed. Research in the field of sports psychology would be started to help sportspersons recover from the shock of an injury.“The Indian government had established a sports injury centre in New Delhi during the 2010 Commonwealth Games. Thereafter, this (Chandigarh) centre was proposed. The land has been earmarked; however, so far, no development work has started on the site. In 2017, it was announced that the project would be completed in eight years. However, till now, it’s just a piece of land dedicated to building a centre,” said a senior GMCH-32 doctor.“After a steering performance by Haryana’s javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and wrestler Bajrang Punia, who were injured and recovered in a foreign rehab centre, the Haryana government had decided to build one here. This would be a clear loss for Chandigarh. Despite having everything in place, the Administration is turning out to be a mute spectator,” added another senior faculty member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-announces-rehab-centre-in-panchkula-chandigarh-project-hangs-fire-299082
19-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court acquits youth charged with rape on pretext of marriage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18A youth, accused of raping a woman on the pretext of marrying her, has been acquitted by a local court which said the prosecution had failed to prove charges. Judge of Fast Track Special Court, Chandigarh, Swati Sehgal, in the order, says “the accused had intention to marry prosecutrix but due to family circumstances he was unable to marry the prosecutrix. Thus, failure of the accused to fulfil his promise cannot be construed to mean the promise itself was false. Prosecutrix was aware of obstacles in their relationship but still engaged in sexual relations.”The police had registered the case against the accused on a complaint of the woman for offence punishable under Sections 376 (2) (n) of the IPC at the Sector 17 police station. The complainant claimed that she got acquainted with the accused at a coaching centre in May, 2013, where the accused proposed her and then their friendship blossomed. Subsequently, she joined the accused for outings, movies and to the market. She alleged she was raped by the accused on many occasions on the pretext of marriage.Counsel Harish Bhardwaj argued the case on behalf of the accused.The court in the order says “the accused and the prosecutrix were in relationship for a period of four years. It hardly needs any elaboration that the consent by the prosecutrix was a conscious and informed choice made by her after due deliberation it being spread over a long period of time coupled with conscious positive action not to protest. She has chosen to participate in the sexual activity being fully conversant with circumstances and being conscious of its consequences. She continued relations with the accused despite clear knowledge of all the facts gained by her through the accused himself. This leaves no manner of doubt that the relations between them were the result of their liking and affection for each other and not solely based on promise of marriage as alleged.“In the present case, the consent was given by prosecutrix for the sexual intercourse with the accused with whom she was deeply in love, it cannot be said to be given under misconception of fact. The court further says that “the nature and manner of allegations coupled with the messages exchanged between them make it apparent that their love for each other grew and matured over a sufficient period of time and the passion of youth ruled over their mind and emotions. The delay of four years in the lodging of the FIR, after one month of engagement of the accused with another girl, on the pretext of promise to prosecutrix raises serious doubt about the truth and veracity of allegations levelled by her.”What the court observedIn the order, the court said “the accused and the prosecutrix were in a relationship for a period of four years. It hardly needs any elaboration that the consent by the prosecutrix was a conscious and informed choice made by her after due deliberation spread over a long period of time coupled with conscious positive action not to protest. She has chosen to participate in the sexual activity being fully conversant with the circumstances and being conscious of its consequences. She continued relations with the accused despite clear knowledge of all the facts gained by her through the accused himself. This leaves no manner of doubt that the relations between them were the result of their liking and affection for each other and not solely based on the promise of marriage as alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-acquits-youth-charged-with-rape-on-pretext-of-marriage-299083
19-08-2021||Amit Bathla||No reply from Panchkula Municipal Corporation yet on Jhuriwala dumping site||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 18The Municipal Corporation here is finding it difficult to defend its position on the functioning of the Jhuriwala dumping site.The civic body is yet to submit its response to the letters by different authorities, including a National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel, on the operations of the new dumping site.The letters were issued to the civic body in July.It has been alleged that the MC was dumping garbage at the Jhuriwala site in violation of the environmental rules and orders from the NGT and the High Court, which in turn would have “long term and irreversible repercussions” on human habitation and flora and fauna.As mounds of garbage are lying untreated at the Jhuriwala site in absence of a waste processing plant, residents fear about its impact on the environment as well as the human health.Show-cause noticeIn July, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had issued a show cause notice to the Panchkula MC for dumping untreated garbage at Jhuriwala despite expiration of environmental clearance and consent on establishing solid waste management plant at the site.The pollution control board also sought civic body’s reply on the burning of garbage at the site, said sources. The MC is yet to response to the notice, they said.NGT panelAfter a section of residents from Sector 25 had approached NGT chairman Justice Pritam Pal (retd), the panel constituted by the tribunal had sought “comments” from the civic body on Jhuriwala to ensure implementation of necessary norms for the dumping site.The panel will submit its report to the NGT after MC submits its reply.Letter to HSVPThe Forest Department has also written to the HSVP, asking it to comply with the conditions laid down during the allotment of 5.35 hectare forest land for setting up a solid waste management plant at Jhuriwala village.The letter mentioned, “Against conditions of using the land only for the purpose of establishing a waste plant, the MC has been using the land for dumping the garbage.”Residents fumeMeanwhile, representatives of Sector 25 Residents Welfare Association (RWA) continue to mount pressure on the civic body over the issue. They have also approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court.BR Mehta, senior vice-president of the Sector 25 RWA, said: “How can the MC dump garbage anywhere? Norms, guidelines from different authorities, including the NGT, are being flouted by the civic body by dumping waste at Jhuriwala. They have no answer for the violations.”Mayor defends MCMayor Kulbhushan Goyal, however, has rejected the criticism of the MC over the legality of dumping garbage at Jhuriwala.Goyal said: “The tender process for setting up a waste processing plant at Jhuriwala will soon be completed at the level of the Urban Local Bodies Department.”After Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s strict instructions to stop garbage disposal at the Sector 23 dumping ground on June 2, the MC had begun dumping garbage at Jhuriwala without any plan on its processing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-reply-from-panchkula-municipal-corporation-yet-on-jhuriwala-dumping-site-299054
19-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Upload all orders on courts’ websites: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Bringing verdicts and directions to the mobile screens and computers of the people, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the subordinate judiciary across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to upload all judgments, interim and other orders, on the official websites of the courts.The HC also made it clear that the orders and judgments were required to be finalised and uploaded within 72 hours of pronouncement.In the absence of uploaded orders, the litigants were until now primarily depending upon the counsel and clerks for information. At times, the information was not readily available or it came with inaccuracies.The directiveThe decision on “uploading all judgments and orders, including zimni”, was communicated by the Registrar-General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to all District and Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The communication said the issue was placed before the HC “executive committee” at its meeting on August 6.The committee, among other things, observed: “The District and Sessions Judges in the states of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh should ensure that all judgments and orders, including zimni orders, are uploaded immediately after the presiding officer of the court concerned signs the same, within the outer limit of 72 hours of its pronouncement.”The HC is already uploading its final and interim orders on its official website, besides information as regards rules, regulations, procedures and functioning of the justice delivery mechanism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/upload-all-orders-on-courts-websites-punjab-and-haryana-hc-299108
19-08-2021||Zirakpur||House gutted in Shiva Enclave, Zirakpur||Snatchers target two in cityChandigarh: Two snatching incidents have been reported from the city. A woman reported that a motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched her gold chain near Krishna Market in Sector 41 on August 17. In another incident, Parmod Kumar of Sector 56 reported that two bike-borne miscreants snatched his mobile phone in Sector 56 on August 16. TNSRape victim, mother bookedChandigarh: A 21-year-old rape victim and her mother have been booked by the UT police for cheating after they allegedly furnished a fake document to establish the victim as a minor. The woman, a resident of Mauli Jagran, had filed a rape case against a Panchkula resident. The woman and her mother had submitted a school transfer certificate, mentioning the woman’s age as 15. The police had registered a case under the POCSO Act and Sections of the IPC against the suspect at the Mauli Jagran police station. Later, the police found that the victim was not a minor following which a case was registered against the victim and her mother at the same police station. TNSVanshita wins gold medalChandigarh: Weightlifter Vanshita Verma has won a gold medal in the 33rd Junior National championship. She also bagged a bronze medal in the 36th Senior National Weightlifting competition in the 76 kg category. Vanshita, who trains under Karanbir Singh Butter from the Sector 42 Sports Complex here, lifted a total of 198 kg (83 kg in snatch and 115 kg in clean and jerk). The event was held at the NIS, Patiala. TNSSadhvi, Sanjot to represent IndiaMohali: Sadhvi Sharma and Sanjot Kaur of Lawrance Public School here have been selected to represent India in the World Kick Boxing championship to be held in Egypt from October 18-24. The duo was rewarded for their performance in the Nasik Kick Boxing meet held last year. While Sadhvi had clinched the gold medal in the 42-46 kg category, Sanjot had grabbed the silver medal in 52-56 kg competition. TNSAutograph hunter Duggal awardedChandigarh: Dharam Vir Duggal, the nation's best collector of autographed cricket bats, has been awarded the commendation certificate by Commissioner, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, Commissioner KK Yadav. Duggal is in possession of 578 autographed bats, white balls and other cricket memorabilia. His collection of autographed bats include signatures of Brian Lara, Clive Lloyd, Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar, Kapil Dev, Garry Sobers, Viv Richards and many more. TNSCompere Punita honouredChandigarh: Prominent compere Punita Bawa has been given the commendation award by UT Administration. Punita has completed 16 years as compere. She has compered the proceedings in presence of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and incumbent Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Recently, the UT Administration had invited her to compere the event in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah. TNSYouth arrested with ganjaChandigarh: A 23-year-old youth has been arrested by the UT police with ganja. Rohit, alias Bihari, a resident of Dhanas, was arrested from near his house. A case under the NDPS Act. TNSTwo held for snatching mobileChandigarh: Two persons have been arrested by the UT police for snatching a mobile phone. The suspects have been identified as Mohammad Sanjay, alias Jaggu (20), and Vishal, alias Vishu (21), both residents of Burail village, Sector 45. The police said they had snatched a mobile phone from Pawan Jogi near the road separating Sector 32 and 33 on August 13. TNSDomestic help steals Rs 1.80LZirakpur: A domestic help reportedly absconded after stealing Rs 1.80 lakh from a house at Savitri Greens on VIP Road here on Wednesday. On a complaint of Deepak Kumar, owner of the house, a case has been registered against a Nepalese national, Ashish. The police are investigating the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-gutted-in-shiva-enclave-zirakpur-299085
19-08-2021||---||Post of DHS: Chandigarh Administration recommends Dr Suman’s name||Chandigarh, August 18The name of Dr Suman, Deputy Director (Vigilance), Ludhiana, has been recommended for the post of the Director, Health Services (DHS), Chandigarh.The UT Administration recommended her name for the post to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today. The Administration had got a panel of three doctors of the Deputy Director rank from Punjab for the appointment of a new DHS. Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, who holds the post, is superannuating on September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/post-of-dhs-chandigarh-administration-recommends-dr-sumans-name-299086
19-08-2021||Mohali||9 of interstate gang of vehicle thieves held||The police have arrested nine members of an interstate gang of vehicle lifters and recovered 52 luxury cars from them.Four members of the gang were nabbed on July 3 and 21 stolen cars were recovered from them. The suspects were identified as New Delhi residents Ramjeet Singh (27) and Chanpreet Singh (33), and Tarn Taran residents Girish Bamby, alias Garry (27), and Maninder Singh (29). A case of theft, forgery and criminal conspiracy was registered against them at the Balongi police station.Further investigation into the case resulted in five more arrests. Patiala resident Pargat Singh was arrested and nine vehicles snatched at gunpoint were recovered from him.The police also nabbed Moga resident Rajesh Kakkar, alias Raja, and Amritsar resident Harjot Singh, alias Jyot. Besides, Satwant Singh, alias Bittu, and Karamjit Singh, alias Lucky, have been arrested in the case so far.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “The gang was active in the tricity, Ambala, Panipat, Delhi, Karnal, Maharsahtra and Pune. More arrests are likely in the case soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-of-interstate-gang-of-vehicle-thieves-held-299087
19-08-2021||---||Chandigarh footballer Sandesh Jhingan to play in top Croatian football league||Chandigarh, August 18Chandigarh’s Sandesh Jhingan has become the first Indian footballer to be a part of the Croatian top-tier league, Prva HNL, after he completed a move from ATK Mohun Bagan to HNK Sibenik.An alumnus of Shishu Niketan School, Sector 22, and a trainee of St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, Jhingan will be the flag bearer of India’s top division league – Indian Super League – at the Prva HNL.“We are happy to have him (Jhingan) with us. We expect good things from him as we have followed him on different platforms. Although we know the adaptation process might take him a few weeks, we are confident that with his quality and leadership, he will become an important member of the team,” said Francisco Cardona, CEO, HNK Sibenik.The 28-year-old, who was named the Indian footballer of the year last month, is already in Croatia and watched the Sunday’s home win against Hrvatski Dragovoljac.“He made a very good impression on the staff and fans of the club when he was watching the last home game from the stands,” said Cardona.Jhingan sounded excited about his new assignment.“I am at a stage of my career where I really want to test myself at the highest-level. And I think, this is the perfect platform for me. As I have said, it has been my desire to play in Europe and I have taken up this challenge upon myself,” said the defender.Jhingan first broke into prominence as a 21-year-old footballer in the inaugural edition of the Indian Super League in 2014 where he was adjudged the ‘Emerging Player of the League’, a feat that helped him earn a place in the India men’s team.He made his India debut in 2015 against Nepal at the FIFA World Cup 2018 qualifiers. The defender also has two ISL runners-up titles to his credit with Kerala Blasters FC, where he spent six years. He moved to ATK Mohun Bagan in 2020 after missing the previous season due to an injury.Rising star||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-footballer-sandesh-jhingan-to-play-in-top-croatian-football-league-299088
19-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation sterilising 500 dogs a month, results not visible||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Dog sterilisation drives conducted in the city by the Municipal Corporation (MC) seem to have a little effect on ground. Though the corporation claims to sterilise about 450-500 dogs per month, residents said the stray dog menace was troubling them more and increasing day by day.“We are fed up with the menace. I have been getting complaints from different RWAs. No sterilisation seems to be happening. A female dog in our area got pregnant twice recently. Dogs keep running behind vehicles. They litter the area with their poop,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman of CRAWFED, an umbrella body of RWAs.“I suggest sterilisation teams should meet representatives of the local residents’ body or the area councillor when they visit a place to capture strays to allay doubts on authenticity of such drives. People can also give inputs about dogs in their area,” he said.RK Garg, president of Second Innings Association, a senior citizens body, added, “They may be sterilising dogs but the result is not visible on the ground. Packs of canine move around in localities. The MC has not implemented an expert suggestion of sterilising only female dogs.”According to the MC, dogs are picked up from different places and dropped back at the same place after operating them at the Sector 38-based animal birth control centre. MC Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Pal Warring, said, “Our sterilisation drive is going on effectively, otherwise the number of dogs would have been higher. The aim of sterilisation is not to finish, but to contain the canine population.”“Those below six months of age are not sterilised as per law and female dogs can reproduce after six months of age,” said an MC staff member involved in sterilisation drive.The MC has sterilised about 20,000 dogs since 2015 when sterilisation was first started in the city. Interestingly, a census conducted by the UT Animal Husbandry Department in 2018 pegged the number of stray dogs at 12,920. “Reproduction goes on along with sterilisation,” said MC officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-sterilising-500-dogs-a-month-results-not-visible-299084
19-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board may reduce reserve price of commercial units||Chandigarh, August 18After receiving a poor response to a recent auction held for commercial properties on a leasehold basis, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is mulling over reducing the reserve price of the properties.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 151 commercial units on a leasehold basis. The bids were opened on August 10. Against 151 units, only five bids were received. Further, the CHB could sell only three units to the highest bidders.The total reserve price of the three commercial units was Rs1.54 crore, while the total of the highest bids received against these units was Rs1.57 crore. In an e-auction on July 1, the CHB had received 16 bids against 156 commercial units and only 12 units could be sold to the highest bidders.In March, the CHB had decided to reduce the reserve price by 10 per cent while auctioning 269 properties, including 11 residential (leasehold), 108 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold). Not even a single buyer had expressed interest in an auction held last year as the reserve price was too high.As response to the auction of commercial properties on leasehold basis was dull, it was decided to take up the issue of reducing the reserve price in a meeting of the Board of Directors to be held on September 8, said a CHB official.Only five bids were received for 151 unitsThe CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 151 commercial units on a leasehold basis. The bids were opened on August 10. Against 151 units, only five bids were received. Further, the CHB could sell only three units to the highest bidders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-may-reduce-reserve-price-of-commercial-units-299089
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 6 Covid-19 cases||Mohali dist logs four casesMohali: Four new Covid-19 cases — three from Dhakoli and one from Kharar — were reported on Wednesday. Eight patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. The active case count in the district is 52. TNSNo case, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no Covid-19 case on Wednesday for the second consecutive day, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,661. With no fresh death, the Covid toll also remained at 376. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-6-covid-19-cases-299090
19-08-2021||---||Covid-19 curbs in Mohali till August 31||Mohali, August 18Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has issued some restrictions and exemptions in the district till August 31 in view of the Covid-19 epidemic as per the directions of the Punjab Government.All people entering the state are required to have complete Covid vaccination or produce a negative RT-PCR report issued 72 hours prior to the arrival. He said both rules would also be applicable to all those who enter the state by air. In case of absence of either of the two, the person’s rapid antigen test would be conducted even if he had recently recovered from Covid.GatheringsWith a maximum gathering capacity of 50 per cent allowed in the district, no more than 150 persons (indoor) and 300 persons (outdoor) could assemble. Bars, cinema halls, restaurants, spas, swimming pools, coaching centres, sports complexes, gyms, massage parlours, museums, zoos would be allowed to open at their 50 per cent capacity even if the staff present were fully vaccinated.People who go for swimming, sports and gym should be above 18 years of age and should have at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.Educational institutionsThe District Magistrate directed for the opening of schools, colleges, coaching centres and other institutions of higher learning in the district and said only fully vaccinated teaching, non-teaching staff or recently recovered from Covid would come for duty. There will also be an online study option for all students. Physical presence of students for Class IV and below will remain suspended as the positivity rate is above 0.2 per in the district.Special vax campsSpecial camps would be organised for the vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges, coaching centres, higher educational institutions, schools so that all would be covered with the first dose of Covid this month. They will also be given priority during the second dose also.Action would be taken against the violators under Section 188 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-curbs-in-mohali-till-august-31-299093
19-08-2021||Naina Mishra||31% tests via Rapid Antigen method in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Rapid Antigen tests for diagnosing Covid-19 made for 31 per cent of the total tests conducted since April 2020 last year, while 69 per cent tests were conducted through the RT-PCR method in the city.Of the 6,21,067 tests conducted since April last year, 1,94,836 were conducted using Rapid Antigen kits and the remaining 4,26,231 through the gold standard RT-PCR method.To increase the testing capacity in Chandigarh, more antigen tests were being conducted in comparison to RT-PCR tests since October last year and this practice continued till February this year.Around 57.5 per cent Covid tests were conducted using the antigen method in February this year. In March, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had written to Chandigarh that “although the UT has increased testing by 34 per cent in the past four weeks, it has a low share of RT-PCR tests, averaging at 39 per cent since four weeks. The proportion of RT-PCR tests needs to be brought up to more than 70 per cent of the total tests on priority.”In August, the share of RT-PCR tests increased to 81 per cent in Chandigarh.The sensitivity of antigen method is less compared to the RT-PCR method. Therefore, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended that all symptomatic individuals who test negative by the antigen method must be tested by the RT-PCR method.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/31-tests-via-rapid-antigen-method-in-chandigarh-299092
19-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Soon, give debris, get raw material in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Soon, residents will get raw material in return for handing over construction waste to the UT Administration.The Administration has finalised a draft policy for proper management and processing of the construction and demolition (C&D) waste in the city. The policy will be called “Chandigarh Construction and Demolition Waste Management Policy, 2021”.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the main aim of the policy was to process 100 per cent waste being generated in the city and use it to make recycled items such as gravel and slabs, which can be used in construction of roads.“As an incentive, if a waste generator brings C&D waste to the processing plant, he or she can take back 50 per cent of the volume of the waste in recycled items,” he added.Before approving the building plan, the generators will be given an option to either send the waste material directly to the processing plant or ask the MC to pick it up after paying the applicable charges.Under the policy, it will be made mandatory for all those constructing or reconstructing their houses to send C&D waste to the processing plant in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. As per the draft policy, those reconstructing their houses would be levied C&D waste processing charges at the rate of Rs176 per sq metre per storey and Rs22 per sq metre for new construction at the time of approval of the building plan from the Estate Office or the Municipal Corporation. However, the rates will be increased by 10 per cent annually from April 1.The waste generator will be challaned at the rate of Rs5,500 per vehicle for dumping unprocessed waste in low-lying areas and public places in Chandigarh. The charges for the challan will be increased by 10 per cent every year.Chandigarh generates nearly 90 tonnes of C&D waste every day.The waste generators will send the generated waste to the plant at their own cost or may call the machinery of the MC after paying the charges at Rs1,000 per trip plus GST, as applicable.It will also be mandatory for all government departments such as the MC, the Engineering Department, the Chandigarh Housing Board and other boards and corporations to send their C&D waste to the processing plant.Bulk waste generators who generate more than 20 tonnes or more a day or 300 tonnes per project in a month will have to segregate the waste into four streams such as concrete, steel, wood and plastic, and shall submit a waste material plan to the MC before starting construction or demolition or remodelling work.The plant will produce PCC products such as kerbs, channels, tiles, paver blocks, gravel and slabs to be used in the construction of pavements and road work.The Adviser said after getting in-principle approval from the UT Administrator, suggestions and comments would be invited from the public before the issuance of a notification.Recently, the Adviser had directed the MC to expand the capacity of the C&D waste plant, as it was not in a position to process the entire C&D waste generated in the city.Charges to be paidFine for violationThe waste generator will be challaned at Rs5,500 per vehicle for dumping unprocessed waste at public places. The charges will increase by 10 per cent every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-give-debris-get-raw-material-in-chandigarh-299094
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||After skipping honour ceremony by Haryana, Neeraj Chopra arrives in Chandigarh, meets CM Khattar||Indian javelin thrower and Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra reached Chandigarh on Wednesday to meet Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Chopra, who had skipped the state government’s honouring ceremony held on August 13 in Panchkula, was received by state Sports Minister Sandeep Singh.“I am happy to come here. It gives me immense pleasure to start my career here,” said Chopra.While revealing his plans on taking over as head of Centre of Excellence, in Panchkula, in a post offered by the state government, Chopra said: “I will think about this. I will try my best to promote sports in the country. Right now, my target is to bring a medal in the World Championship next year. I have tournaments scheduled including Commonwealth Games.”Asked if he has plans to leave the Indian Army and join Haryana government, Chopra said: “As I said, my plan is to bring more laurels for the country, nothing beyond that.”“I thank Haryana government for taking proper care of players. I must appreciate the state sports policy. It was a dream come true and I hope this gold medal would motivate youngsters and coming generation,” added Chopra.“My health is fine. I am taking proper care and will take all necessary precautions. I am looking forward to restart practice,” added Chopra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-skipping-honour-ceremony-by-haryana-neeraj-chopra-arrives-in-chandigarh-meets-cm-khattar-298941
