20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh district magistrate imposes Section 144 CrPC, bans gatherings after 12||Chandigarh’s district magistrate banned public gatherings after 12 am through an executive order on Friday—a development that comes days after Chandigarh administration finally lifted night curfew in the city as Covid cases waned.A new order issued by District Magistrate Mandeep Brar said there had been complaints about the public nuisance caused by commercial establishments operating till late in the night. As a result, commercial establishments such as restaurants and dhabas, discos, bars, clubs, and roadside hawkers and vendors are banned from operating between 12 am and 4.30 am for two months.The order does not apply to hospitals, chemist shops, and petrol pumps and comes into effect at 12 am on August 21 (tonight), and will remain in force until, and including, October 19, 2021.“Any breach of this order would invite action under Section 188 (disobeying an order by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” the order said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-district-magistrate-imposes-section-144-crpc-bans-gatherings-after-12-299891
20-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Appointment of Chandigarh Joint Director Sports: Woman among 3 appear for interview||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19Three candidates appeared for an interview for the post of Joint Director Sports, UT Administration.The interview was conducted yesterday by a panel headed by the UT Advisor and the final decision will be announced after the approval from the UT Administrator.“Name of the highest scorer (among the candidates) has been forwarded to the UT Administrator for a final approval,” said UT Advisor Dharam Pal.The post has been lying vacant since November 2019.Earlier, the interview was scheduled for August 6, but it was postponed.After getting no response from the UPSC, either on promoting local coaches to the post of JDS or fixing criteria for filling the vacancy, the UT Sports Department had advertised to fill the post (on deputation basis) in March.The circular was sent to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and all heads of the UT Administration for appointment of the JDS on deputation.Sources confirmed that two male and one female candidate appeared in the interview.As per the requirement, the post is to be filled by a Class I officer by way of transfer/deputation.The candidate should not be more than 55 years of age (as on January 1, 2020) and should be a postgraduate in Physical Education or equivalent in any sport, with administrative experience, especially in the field of sports.“The interview was conducted by a panel headed by the UT Advisor. One candidate will be finalised by the competent authority in a day or so,” said a source.The selection of the candidate is expected to be announced before August 22, as the tenure of the Secretary, Sports, head of the UT Sports Department, is coming to an end.“Secretary, Sports, KK Yadav, along with other officials, was also involved in the process of selecting the JDS. The post has been lying vacant for over 20 months now and it’s high time that a competent person should get appointed,” said a senior coach.No effort has been made to promote coaches despite an initiative taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1997.“As per the Punjab Civil Service rules, also followed by the UT for filling the JDS position, a minimum of 15 years of service in administration or field of sports is required,” said a source. “But in the circular advertised, nothing has been mentioned about years of experience.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/appointment-of-chandigarh-joint-director-sports-woman-among-3-appear-for-interview-299536
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||8-member Chandigarh team for online carrom challenge||The Chandigarh Carrom Association has announced an eight-member team for the All-India Carrom Federation’s Indian Online Carrom Challenge 2021-22.The tournament will be held from August 21 to September 3. Mahesh Sekhri, general secretary, Chandigarh Carrom Association, will be the technical director of the tournament. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-member-chandigarh-team-for-online-carrom-challenge-299537
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Move to Europe will enhance my game: Chandigarh footballer Sandesh Jhingan||The move to Europe will “enhance my game” feels star India defender and city footballer Sandesh Jhingan, who become the first Indian to feature in the Croatian top-tier league Prva HNL.The 28-year-old will be representing HNK Sibenik in the league.“This will enhance my game. If I can put in the work, if I stay disciplined enough, then I can see if I can get into the starting XI. It’s quite challenging but I trust myself, my work ethic, it’s always on me whether I will play or not,” said Jhingan.Asked how tough it was for him to move from ATK Mohun Bagan to HNK Sibenik, Jhingan said: “If you have monitored my career, I have always preferred to take to take decisions outside my comfort zone. I wanted to go somewhere... I always have this thing in my mind that sky is the limit.”“I dreamt big, worked hard for it, remained disciplined and made sacrifices to achieve my full potential. I never went after money, I always chose glory over money. That’s how I take my decisions... I would sleep with a clear conscience. Yes, it’s the right decision,” he said.The defender had moved to ATK Mohun Bagan in 2020 after missing the previous season due to an injury.Jhingan also believed that his move to Croatia would be beneficial for the India football team.“When I go back I will have to earn my place in the national team and once I make it, hopefully, I will also play better in the national team. The national team will also look good with one of its player playing better football,” said the footballer who is already in Croatia. — TNS/Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/move-to-europe-will-enhance-my-game-chandigarh-footballer-sandesh-jhingan-299538
20-08-2021||---||Bowlers put Mohali on top||Chandigarh, August 19Mohali bowlers struck in unison to put their side in a commanding position on the opening day of their Punjab State Inter-District Tournament match against hosts Ropar today.Put in to bat, Ropar were bowled out for 154 runs in 50 overs as Gurnoor Brar (3/25), Harpreet Brar (3/27) and Maninder Singh (3/47) shared nine wickets between them.For the hosts, Gurpreet Singh made 34 runs while Kuwanjeet Singh contributed 27 runs to the total.In reply, Mohali were batting on 156/4 at the draw of stumps. Bishwa Pratap made 38 runs, while Barinder Saran scored a fluid 33.Madav Pathania and Anush Prashar took two wickets each for the hosts.In another match, Mansa rode on Sahabaj’s 93-run effort to score 315 runs in their first innings against Patiala on Day 1.Bhupinder Singh Chahal made a useful 41.Aryaman Singh was the pick of bowlers for Patiala, claiming 4/83. Karan took 3/92.In reply, Patiala reached 76/2 before the close of the opening day’s play. Prabhsimran Singh smashed a brisk 65 while Gurpreet Singh took two wickets for Mansa.Meanwhile, Barnala claimed a 242-run lead over Bathinda on Day 1. Amritsar scored 339 runs in 90 overs against Muktsar Sahib and Hoshiarpur made 162 runs against Gurdaspur.Jalandhar gained a 195-run lead over Kapurthala.ScoreboardRopar all out for 154 runs (Gurpreet Singh 34, Kuwanjeet Singh 27; Gurnoor Brar 3/25, Harpreet Brar 3/27) vs Mohali 156/4 (Bishwa Pratap 38, Barinder Saran 33)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bowlers-put-mohali-on-top-299534
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mannat, Manpreet bowl Patiala girls to 66-run victory||Mannat Kashyap and Manpreet Kaur shared seven wickets between them as Patiala eves registered a 66-run win over Ludhiana in a Punjab State Inter District Women’s Tournament match today.Defending a modest total of 124, Patiala bowlers bundled out Ludhiana for 58 runs in 25.4 overs.Mannat returned with a match haul of 4/9, while Manpreet claimed 3/14.Earlier, Anjali scored a patient 33 to provide some respectability to Patiala innings.For Ludhiana, Molil Gosal and Parineeta Saroha took three wickets each.In another match, Jalandhar girls defeated Moga by eight wickets.Batting first, Moga were bowled out for 30 runs in 22.2 overs. In reply, Jalandhar reached home in 8.3 overs.Amritsar, meanwhile, registered a 10-wicket win over Zone-B. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mannat-manpreet-bowl-patiala-girls-to-66-run-victory-299535
20-08-2021||Panchkula||Shift Jhuriwala dumping site immediately: Councillor||Congress councillor Akshaydeep Chaudhary today asked the state government to immediately shift the dumping site at Jhuriwala and not to test their patience. The councillor from Ward No. 17 visited the dumping site along with the representatives of several Residents Welfare Associations of the trans-Ghaggar Sectors today. “The decision to start dumping garbage at Jhuriwala was a hasty one. We have, in several letters, cautioned the Haryana Government and Panchkula Municipal Corporation about its long-term repercussions on the trans-Ghaggar residents, animals, and the environment, but to no avail,” Chaudhary told the mediapersons.  “We requested that the dumping site should be moved away at least 10 km from the present location in Jhuriwala, but it fell on the deaf ears of the government,” he said, adding that the trans-Ghaggar residents and those living in the proximity of the new dumping site were now bearing the brunt of government’s negligence. “I, on the behalf of people of trans-Ghaggar sectors, urge the government to not test our patience and shift the dumping ground from the present location in Jhuriwala,” the councillor warned. Chaudhary further said even though the government had promised to set up a waste processing plant at the Jhuriwala site, nothing had been done so far. He said not just residents, but different government agencies, including the Forest Department, had raised concern over the “illegality” of the current dumping site. Pertinently, the Municipal Corporation is yet to respond to the letters sent to it by an NGT panel and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board last month on the functioning of the Jhuriwala dumping site. It has been alleged that the civic body was dumping garbage at the Jhuriwala site in violation of the environmental rules and orders from the NGT and the High Court, which in turn could have “long term and irreversible repercussions” on human habitation and flora and fauna of the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shift-jhuriwala-dumping-site-immediately-councillor-299530
20-08-2021||---||Property dealers of Chandigarh call on Assistant Estate Officer||Chandigarh, August 19A delegation of the Property Federation Chandigarh today called on Harjit Singh Sandhu, who recently joined as the Assistant Estate Officer (AEO), Chandigarh.The delegation comprising JD Gupta, chairman, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Sanjay Jain and Narinder Singh, advisers, and SA Khan, senior vice-president of the federation, apprised the AEO of the matter of property transfer files pending even after the execution of sale deeds with the Estate Office.The matter of unnecessary objection raised by the Estate Office was also discussed. Issue regarding the no-objection certificate (NOC) for property sale was also discussed. It was suggested by the members that the NOC to be introduced and notification to be made in the bylaws of the Estate Office regarding this.The Assistant Estate Officer gave a patient hearing to the delegation and assured it to give clear instructions to the Estate Office staff to clear the files at the earliest and entry to the Estate Office would be open for all within a few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-dealers-of-chandigarh-call-on-assistant-estate-officer-299532
20-08-2021||---||Phase 10-Kumbhra chowk road to be opened in 10 days: Mohali Mayor||Mohali, August 19Work of laying gravel on the road from Bawa White House, Phase 11, to the Phase 10 lights point has been carried out after the completion of sewerage work, though it is yet to be metalled. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said a new road had been constructed over this sewerage line.The road up to Kumbhra chowk would be renovated and dedicated to residents within the next 10 days, he said. This road has been completely closed on the Phase 10 side in front of Kumbhra Chowk.Sidhu said due to frequent blockage of sewerage in the city, a large sewerage pipe had to be installed here and the road had to be dug up on one side. He said Rs10 crore was being spent on the construction of the road after laying the sewer line.Automatic machines are being installed for chlorine mixing in water supply, he said. Five water boosters with uninterrupted water supply are also being installed in different areas.Mohali Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg, councillor Jasbir Singh Manku, SE Sanjay Kanwar, Xen Harpreet Singh, Gurcharan Singh Bhamra and other residents of the area were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phase-10-kumbhra-chowk-road-to-be-opened-in-10-days-mohali-mayor-299521
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Protest at Panjab University continues||The protest outside the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor’s office continued for the sixth day today. The protesting students have been demanding senate elections for the registered graduate constituency and reopening campus for students. Former senators, current candidates and many others joined in the protest on the university campus.—TNS5 elected secys of PU facultiesChandigarh: Ex-officio members of the Panjab University faculties unanimously elected five members as secretaries of the faculties. Prof Deepti Gupta has been elected from the faculty of languages, Prof Simrit Kahlon from the faculty of arts, Prof Harsh Nayyar from the faculty of science, Prof Rattan Singh from the faculty of law and Prof Hemant Batra has been elected from the faculty of medical sciences. TNSState-level skill contestsMohali: Under the Punjab Skill Development Mission, a second phase state-level skill competition was organised at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Himanshu Aggarwal encouraged the candidates from Punjab to take part in skill competitions. He said the results of the three leading candidates from the state-level competitions would be released by the jury members who would later demonstrate their skills at the national level for Punjab. TNSNGO celebrates foundation dayChandigarh: A tricity-based NGO, Tammana, celebrated its 13th Foundation Day, "ASHIA 13". This year, Tammana Premier League (TPL) was organised by the NGO members whereby the team played a friendly 13-over cricket match at The British School, Sector 44. Founder president Isha Kakaria shared, "Ashia, meaning life and hope, is a day by the team and for the team. It is the annual award ceremony organised to acknowledge contributions of its members throughout the year." TNSRestricted holiday in UTChandigarh: The UT Administration has declared August 20 a restricted holiday on account of Muharram. The Home Department of the UT has stated that August 20 will now be observed as a restricted holiday in all government offices, boards, corporations and institutions, including industrial establishments, under the UT Administration instead of the restricted holiday already declared on August 19. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-at-panjab-university-continues-299523
20-08-2021||---||Family court comes up at Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, August 19People of the town will no longer have to go to Mohali for cases related to family disputes as a family court has been set up here. Additional Sessions Judge Shikha Goyal inaugurated the court today.With the formation of this court, people residing in areas under the Zirakpur, Dhakoli, Dera Bassi, Handesra and Lalru police stations can approach the Dera Bassi court for resolving their family disputes.The number of petitions in the local court for cases involving family disputes was increasing day by day. People had to rely on the Mohali family court to settle such cases.A panel of senior judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had recently inspected the Dera Bassi court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/family-court-comes-up-at-dera-bassi-299519
20-08-2021||Panchkula||Newborn girl found abandoned in Pinjore||A newborn girl was found abandoned along a road near Rathpur Colony of Pinjore on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.The baby was spotted by a passerby who alerted the police. She was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.The girl is on oxygen support at the special newborn care unit of the hospital.The complainant, Harpal Singh, a resident of Ganga Colony, Kalka, who works a labourer, was on his way to meet his friend when he spotted the girl. According to the complainant, “While riding on the road near Rathpur Colony alongside the railway line, we heard cries of a child. When we stopped to check, we found a newborn girl in the shrubs between the road and the railway line. There was nobody around.”The police have booked unknown person(s) under Section 317 (the father or mother of a child under the age of 12 years, or having the care of such child, shall expose or leave such child in any place with the intention of wholly abandoning such child) of the Indian Penal Code. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newborn-girl-found-abandoned-in-pinjore-299516
20-08-2021||---||3 snatching cases cracked||Chandigarh, August 19The UT police claim to have cracked three more snatching cases with the arrest of two persons, who were held for snatching a mobile phone.Mohammad Sanjay and Vishal, alias Vishu, were arrested for snatching a mobile phone from Pawan Jogi near the road separating Sector 32 and 33 on August 13.The police said during interrogation, three more snatching cases — two registered at the Sector 34 police station and one at the Sector 39 police station — had been solved.The police said both suspects had a criminal past. While Sanjay had five cases registered against him in the city, Pawan had two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-snatching-cases-cracked-299522
20-08-2021||---||Youth Cong workers fill potholes||Chandigarh, August 19Workers of the city Youth Congress today carried out a pothole-filling drive at Kishangarh as the MC had failed to repair the road. The workers were led by their president Manoj Lubana.“The local residents were not getting even basic amenities despite an MP belonging to the ruling party representing them. The Chandigarh Youth Congress stepped in to help the helpless people of Kishangarh and started repairing the manholes and potholes,” said Lubana.“It’s sad that so many people who live on the outskirts of City Beautiful have been ignored and neglected. These places often do not reflect the same environment as seen in the rest of the city. It is equally our responsibility to look after them and ensure that they get basic facilities. It’s shocking how the BJP has abused the trust of the people of Chandigarh,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-cong-workers-fill-potholes-299525
20-08-2021||---||4 booked for cheating Kalka resident of Rs 1.3cr||Panchkula, August 19The police have booked four persons on a complaint of a 77-year-old man for allegedly duping him of Rs1.3 crore on the pretext of issuing him life insurance policies.The victim has been identified as Kuldeep Lal, a resident of Vasant Vihar, Kalka, who had retired from the post of Executive Engineer in year 2002.A case has been registered against the suspects - Kirmoni, KP Ahuja, Praveen Singh and Chaubey - under Sections 34, 406, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC at the Kalka police station.The complainant said: “In year 2012, I purchased three health insurance policies of Max Life for a period of five years. While the initial policies were about to mature, I received a call from key suspect Kirmoni, stating they will not be able to refund the amount of matured policies if I will not purchase more policies from them. KP Ahuja, another suspect, also rang me and insisted on purchasing the policies. They started pressurising me to buy policies on the assurance of good returns for my children and grandchildren.”“In year 2015, the complainant purchased policies of different companies. Initially, he made some payment in the bank accounts of insurance companies. The accused later asked him to deposit money in their bank accounts,” the FIR read.When Kuldeep checked the status of his policies in April 2020, he came to know that he had been cheated by the accused and no payment was deposited for the policies, except the first instalment of each insurance policy.“When I tried to contact the suspects, they sought certain amount in lieu of helping me in getting the refund,” he told the police.He had been duped of Rs1,31,53,770. Of this, only a sum of Rs14.67 lakh was deposited for the policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-booked-for-cheating-kalka-resident-of-rs-1-3cr-299527
20-08-2021||---||Year on, CITCO recovers from losses, earns profit||Chandigarh, August 19After more than a year, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) has made a turnaround and earned a profit in July after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Hit hard by the pandemic, the corporation not only came out of the financial crisis, but also earned a profit in July this year from Hotel Mountview, Hotel Parkview and Chef Lakeview Restaurant being run by it, revealed the monthly information report of the three hotels.Due to a surge in coronavirus cases, the hospitality industry suffered huge losses. With a decline in fresh Covid cases, the government removed the restrictions imposed to contain the further spread of the virus in a phased manner. With the removal of the curbs, the normalcy slowly returned and similarly, hotels being run by CITCO are getting back on track.In figuresAccording to the monthly report, Hotel Mountview earned a profit of Rs48.54 lakh in July this year, whereas it had suffered a loss of Rs1.14 crore in July last year.Similarly, the profit of Hotel Parkview increased in comparison to last year. In July 2021, the hotel earned a profit of Rs49.14 lakh, whereas the profit in July 2020 was Rs32 lakh.Chef Lakeview Restaurant also earned a profit of Rs43.79 lakh, whereas it had suffered a loss of Rs27.15 lakh in July 2020.A senior official said CITCO had suffered a lot due to coronavirus. So, their hotels, other than Hotel Parkview, were running into losses. Now, the business of the hotels was getting back on track and a lot of efforts were being made by the department to increase the profitability of the hotels.Kashmir Chand, chairman, CITCO Progressive Workers’ Union, said the corporation should reduce its expenses so that the profit could increase automatically. To give a boost to the tourism sector, the government should also give a special grant to CITCO.Adversely affected by the pandemic, the government had earlier given a grant-in-aid of Rs27 crore to CITCO to meet the expenses.Suffering heavy losses due to the closure of the hospitality industry during the lockdown, CITCO had demanded a one-time grant-in-aid of Rs27 crore from the UT Administration to meet the salary expenses and compensation on account of waiving licence fee of commercial establishments given on rent.The corporation had to take a loan against a fixed deposit to pay nearly Rs5 crore as salary to around 1,200 employees, including permanent, contractual and outsourced.As certain businesses and commercial activities were not allowed due to the pandemic, the corporation has to waive monthly licence fee of various commercial establishments and rent of shops at Sukhna Lake.In November last year, the authorities had to ask the deputy general managers of Hotel Mountview, Hotel Shivalikview and Chef Lakeview to increase sales and revenues so that the salaries of employees could be arranged from their own operational revenues.Profit in JulyHit hard by the pandemic, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited not only came out of the financial crisis, but also earned a profit in July this year from Hotel Mountview, Hotel Parkview and Chef Lakeview restaurant being run by it, revealed the monthly information report of the three hotels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-citco-recovers-from-losses-earns-profit-299528
20-08-2021||---||Zirakpur: Surprise check at sweets factory, shop||Zirakpur, August 19In order to ensure clean, hygienic and quality food items for people, a food safety team of the District Health Department conducted a surprise check at a sweets factory and a sweets shop in Zirakpur.District Health Officer Dr Subhash Kumar said the team checked the quality and the expiry date of the sweets. The team also collected samples of ‘khoya’ and ‘patisa’ and sent these to a lab for testing.According to Subhash, traders were also directed to indicate the expiry date of the sweets on the tray. Apart from this, the food safety team also collected 15 samples of red chilli, turmeric, water and other items through the food safety van moving around the district.During the checking, the shopkeepers were instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the District Administration and the Health Department to curb the spread of the Covid pandemic. Shopkeepers were instructed to keep their premises clean and not to sell expired products.The shopkeepers were also told to wear gloves and masks and not allow anyone to enter the premises without mask. They were also briefed on the Food Safety Act. They were asked to sell pure and unadulterated items and pay special attention to cleanliness.Subhash said checking was not meant to harass anyone, but to ensure that clean and quality food items were made available to the people.The District Health Officer also said the mobile testing van was moving throughout the district. People could get the quality of any food item checked at the mobile testing van. The van was equipped with modern machinery that was capable of checking the quality of milk, RO/plain water, turmeric, salt, pepper, spices, cold drinks, desi ghee, etc. A fee of Rs50 per item would be charged per sample. Samples collectedDistrict Health Officer Dr Subhash Kumar said the team checked the quality and the expiry date of the sweets. The team also collected samples of khoya and patisa and sent these to a lab for testing. Apart from this, the food safety team also collected 15 samples of red chilli, turmeric, water and other items through the food safety van that is moving around the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-surprise-check-at-sweets-factory-shop-299529
20-08-2021||---||Government to ensure no one sleeps on an empty stomach, says Haryana CM Khattar||Panchkula, August 19Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal today said his government was committed to the welfare of the poor and efforts were on to ensure “no one sleeps on an empty stomach”.“In line with our commitment, at least 5 kg wheat is being given free of cost to every member of the eligible poor families during the Annapurna Utsav,” Khattar said during a state-level Annapurna Utsav here.The two-day function at Panchkula concluded today.“Free ration is being distributed through more than 10,000 depots across the state,” said the Chief Minister. During the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic, free ration had been arranged for the poor eligible families till November last year, Khattar said, adding that due to the second wave, free ration would be provided to the eligible families till November this year.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh attended the function as chief guest through video conferencing.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were also present on the occasion. The Chief Minister later visited Haripur village in Sector 4 and distributed ration to the eligible families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/government-to-ensure-no-one-sleeps-on-an-empty-stomach-says-haryana-cm-khattar-299533
20-08-2021||---||Youth nabbed with 10 stolen mobile phones||Lalru, August 19The police arrested a youth and recovered 10 stolen mobile phones from his possession here on Thursday.Dera Bassi DSP Manoj Gorsi said Satish Kumar, a resident of Indri, Karnal district, who is currently staying in Lalru Mandi, reported around two weeks ago that a motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched his mobile phone near a soap factory and fled from the spot. He was later caught by the police.The police said the arrested youth was identified as Mohammad Yasin, a resident of Prem Nagar, Lalru Mandi. During investigation, 10 stolen mobiles were recovered from his possession.The police produced him in the Dera Bassi court, which remanded him in two-day police custody.Lalru Station House Officer (SHO) Bhinder Singh Khangura said the police were further interrogating the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-nabbed-with-10-stolen-mobile-phones-299542
20-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Suit fades, Chandigarh shop owner told to pay Rs 5,000 relief, its cost||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chandigarh, has directed a shop owner to pay a compensation of Rs 5,000 to a city resident, Arvind, after the colour of the suit that he purchased for his wife on Karva Chauth faded after first wash.The Commission has also directed the shop owner to pay Rs 7,390 (Rs 5,390 as the cost of the suit and Rs 2,000 as stitching charges) and Rs 5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.Arvind, a resident of Sector 27, Chandigarh, in his complaint filed through advocate Devinder Kumar, said he purchased two suits for his wife - one readymade and one unstitched - after paying a sum of Rs7,501 on the eve of Karva Chauth on October 27, 2018, from M/s Shareen Couture (Patiala House), SCO No. 20, Sector 19-D, Chandigarh.He said his wife got the suit stitched from a tailor after paying Rs2,000 as stitching charges. She went to a party wearing the suit and found that its colour had faded. The defects were explained to the shop owner and it was noticed that it got spoiled due to colour bleed. The shop retained the “bottom” of the suit with an assurance that it would send the item to the company for replacement, but it was not done.The shop owner contested the complaint and claimed that the suit was in a good condition at the time of sale and the colour faded when the complainant’s wife washed it at home even after a warning note “dry clean only”. It has been denied that the suit was defective at the time of sale.The shop owner said in order to retain good relationships with the complainant, he only took the “bottom” of the suit and sent it to the company for replacement. Pleading that there was no deficiency in service or unfair trade practice on its part, the shop owner prayed for the dismissal of the complaint.After hearing the arguments, the Commission said neither the suit was replaced nor the amount was refunded to the complainant despite the promise made by the shop owner. The shop has not placed on record any tangible evidence to prove that in fact it was the complainant (or his wife) who was at fault in regard to the damage to the suit. Thus, allegations of deficiency in service are proved on record. In view of this, the shop owner is directed to pay Rs7,390 (Rs5,390 as the cost of the suit and Rs2,000 as stitching charges) to the complainant along with interest @9 per cent per annum from the date of filing of the complaint till realisation.The shop owner has also been told to pay a compensation of Rs5,000 for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suit-fades-chandigarh-shop-owner-told-to-pay-rs-5-000-relief-its-cost-299531
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Praveer Ranjan joins as new DGP of Chandigarh||Praveer Ranjan, a1993-batch IPS officer of the AGMUT cadre, joined the Chandigarh Police as the new Director General of Police (DGP). The parade to welcome the new DGP will be organised tomorrow. Meanwhile, a farewell was given to Sanjay Baniwal, who got relieved after over three years of his tenure as the DGP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/praveer-ranjan-joins-as-new-dgp-of-chandigarh-299539
20-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court finds prima facie case against all accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19A local court has found a prima facie case against all accused in a six-year-old alleged forgery case related to a house in Sector 9 Chandigarh. The case was filed by a city resident, Deepa Duggal, in 2015 against five persons, alleging that they had forged her signature to take a bank loan to buy her property.The chargesheet was filed in November 24, 2020, after the CBI Court had rejected the closure report in this case in 2018 and directed the agency to further investigate.In the order, Inderjeet Singh, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, says that a prima facie case is made out against all accused for commission of offence punishable under Sections 120-B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC . The court has also directed all accused to be present in the court on August 31 through their respective advocates for the framing of the charges.Harmit Singh Chawla, Jagjit Kaur Chawla and two other accused, Gurcharan Singh and Sarabjeet Singh, have been named by the CBI in the charge sheet. The court says that the CBI has filed a detailed chargesheet, therefore hearing arguments of counsel for the accused on the point of framing charges is not at all necessary.The court says that the careful analysis of the challan reflects that the controversy pertains to the sale of a house in Sector 9-D, Chandigarh. An agreement to sell dated January 28, 2006 was executed between Deepa Duggal (complainant) and Chawla family (comprising Late Gurkirpal Singh Chawla, accused Jagjeet Kaur Chawla, Harmeet Singh Chawla) but the Chawla family failed to arrange the amount for completion of the registration of sale deed, even up to extended date i.e. April 12, 2006.The Chawla family applied for a home loan in the first week of April 2006 with PNB, Sector 17 branch.As per the challan, Deepa Duggal received earnest money of Rs65 lakh. Therefore, compelled by the circumstances, all accused persons in conspiracy with each other allegedly forged authority letters of advocates of the bank for the purpose of site inspection of the said house. These authority letters are also available on the home loan file of the accused. They also allegedly forged the memorandum of family settlement dated April 22, 2006, agreement to sale dated July 28, 2005, and affidavit of Phul Duggal (mother in law of the complainant) dated March 27, 2006.During investigation, Phul Duggal specifically denied her signature over the agreement to sale, memorandum of family settlement. Other relatives, on the side of the complainant, also denied the signature of Phul Duggal on these documents. Further, the forensic science report is also available on record which clearly indicates the forgery committed by the accused persons.After examining the challan, the Judge in the order says that “at this stage, I am of the considered opinion that a prima facie case is made out against all accused for commission of offence punishable under Sections 120-B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC.”The court has also quoted the judgment of the Supreme Court in Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel Vs. State of Gujarat & Anr which says that “at the time of framing of charges a detailed order is not required and Magistrate is only to see a commission of prime facie offence by the accused persons. All that is required, the court must be satisfied on the basis of the material available on record, a case is made out for the accused to stand trial. A strong suspicion is sufficient.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-finds-prima-facie-case-against-all-accused-299526
20-08-2021||---||Most voters unidentifiable in graduate constituency: Ex-PU VC Arun Grover||Chandigarh, August 19Former Vice-Chancellor of Panjab University Arun Kumar Grover has raised questions over the process of conducting senate elections for the lecturers and principals’ constituencies. He raised concerns over wrongdoings committed over the ‘democratic’ process of elections.“The real matter is not even discussed and is kept out of the reach of common people. In 78 professional colleges, only 48 (out of 53 eligible voters) voted in the elections for the principals’ constituency and 789 teachers in 78 colleges voted amongst the lecturers’ constituency. A majority of the teachers in the professional colleges are not voters as approvals of their appointments had been delayed by the outgoing senate/syndicate. Among degree colleges of Punjab, only about half the principals are eligible voters. As regards the teachers, the total number of teachers eligible to vote was 2,423 and only 2,205 voted. More than three-fourths of the teachers in the Punjab colleges have no vote,” said Grover.A majority of voters dead?Grover further said a majority of the voters, registered for voting in the graduate constituency, are dead or unidentifiable. “In graduate constituency, nearly 85 per cent of voters are dead or unidentifiable as the electoral rolls have not been revised for the past 40-50 years. This is the state of democratic elections in PU, no one has any concern for genuine electoral reforms as the same senators want to return to the senate by whatever means,” said Grover.These comments by the former Vice-Chancellor came at a time when voting for registered graduates, the biggest constituency of senate elections, was postponed. The voting was scheduled to be held on August 18. Soon after, the political parties took over the matter and started protesting against the authorities. According to a notice, 272 polling booths had to be set up in seven states and UTs — Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Uttrakhand and Delhi. Uttarakhand and Delhi had failed to give permission for the elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/most-voters-unidentifiable-in-graduate-constituency-ex-pu-vc-arun-grover-299524
20-08-2021||---||BJP slammed over ‘manhandling’ anti-farm law protesters in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 19The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) criticised the ruling BJP for allegedly manhandling anti-farm law protesters. Their statements came after a video of protesters and BJP leaders exchanging heated arguments outside Himachal Bhawan went viral. AAP leader Pardeep Chhabra said, “BJP leaders abused and manhandled women protesters who had come in support of farmers at the venue. This is shameful and exposes the BJP’s real face.” Vinayak Bangia, general secretary, Youth Congress, Chandigarh, added, “Insulting and misbehaving with a woman protester is condemnable.”City BJP general secretary Ramveer Bhatti, who was present at the time of the incident, said, “They were abusing BJP leaders. They were not farmers; they were only there to create a ruckus. No BJP worker insults a woman, and we don’t allow such behaviour in the party.”Meanwhile, Congress councillor Saitsh Kainth has lodged a complaint with the Director General of Police, Chandigarh, against the BJP for violating Section 144 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-slammed-over-manhandling-anti-farm-law-protesters-in-chandigarh-299517
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Met predicts light rain in Chandigarh for three days||The Meteorological Department has issued a light rain forecast for the next three days.According to the department, the temperature is expected to fall and provide some relief to people from the hot conditions prevailing in the city for the past few days.The city today recorded the maximum temperature at 35.8°C, which is three degrees above normal, and the minimum at 28.3°C, which is five degrees above normal.The maximum temperature is expected to fall by three or five degrees while the minimum temperature is likely to drop by two degrees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/met-predicts-light-rain-in-chandigarh-for-three-days-299518
20-08-2021||---||VP Singh Badnore inaugurates PG block at Chandigarh College of Architecture||Chandigarh, August 19Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today inaugurated the MArch block at the Chandigarh College of Architecture.This postgraduate programme was initiated in 2018 and the foundation stone was laid by MP Kirron Kher in 2019. The building has been completed in 24 months.Dr Sangeeta Bagga Mehta, Principal, Chandigarh College of Architecture, explained the different studio projects and research exercises exhibited by the preceding MArch batches and the capacity building initiative undertaken through Institutional Consultancy and other outreach activities by students and faculty.The MArch block is an expression of brutalism and minimalism, and the honesty of material — the beton brut (exposed reinforced concrete) vocabulary defining Chandigarh. It signifies the cultural continuity of the design philosophy of Le Corbusier, Pierre Jeanneret, Maxwell Fry and Jane Drew - the makers of the city. It takes inspiration from the Grade I undergraduate block.Among others present on the occasion were Dharam Pal, UT Adviser; Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Technical Education-cum-Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board; Jagjit Singh, Additional Secretary, Technical Education; CB Ojha, Chief Engineer; Kapil Setia, Chief Architect, Department of Urban Planning; and Prof Arun Grover, former Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vp-singh-badnore-inaugurates-pg-block-at-chandigarh-college-of-architecture-299520
20-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Now, ride e-bicycle in Chandigarh free of cost till September 12||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19Following a large number of complaints regarding glitches in the public bike-sharing project, e-bicycle rides have been made free till September 12.NP Sharma, Chief General Manager, Chandigarh Smart City Limited, confirmed that the cycle rides would be free till September 12.Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted that users were facing several issues with the Smart Bike App, particularly in starting or ending the ride. The company will work on fixing all issues.“We will not charge the users for now as they are facing some issues. We do not want to burden them and have decided to fix the glitches by then,” said Abhinandan Malhotra, the city head of the project.What project head saysWe will not charge the users for now as they are facing some issues. We do not want to burden them and have decided to fix the glitches. — Abhinandan Malhotra, city head of project“I think the company has listened to the public and it is a good sign, which people should appreciate. The time of cycling should be from 4.30 am to midnight. People should be provided fully charged cycles and the app should work well. These issues must be fixed, otherwise people should not be charged even after that,” said RK Garg, a social activist, who raised the issue with the firm.Meanwhile, users are still facing problems in locking and unlocking cycles using the app. Some even complained of overcharging.Lipika, who lives in a working women’s hostel in Sector 24, told Chandigarh Tribune, “I have been using bicycles from docking stations in Sector 16, 15 and 23. I had a bad experience. After scanning the bar code with the app, the cycle did not get unlocked. It showed errors such as bike not found and low location accuracy. I had to then call up customer care after which the issue was resloved. What is the use of this app when it will not working properly?”“Sometimes, the app starts charging us, but the cycles don’t get unlocked. This is a good project, but they should ensure that the app supports the system. Otherwise, the project will come a cropper,” said a Panjab University student.The first phase of the much-fancied project was launched by UT Administrator VP Singh Bandore on August 12. A total of 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations were made available in the city. An amount of Rs10 plus the GST is charged for half an hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-ride-e-bicycle-in-chandigarh-free-of-cost-till-september-12-299509
20-08-2021||Panchkula||Four enter house, beat up youth over parking in Panchkula's Sector 10||A youth was allegedly assaulted by four men over a parking issue in Sector 10 yesterday. The incident took place in the afternoon when the suspects entered the house of the victim and started beating him up.According to the police, an argument had ensued between the victim and the suspects over parking a few days ago near his house.The victim has been identified as Sagar Mawa.A CCTV camera installed inside the house captured the incident. The video of the incident is doing the rounds on the social media. In the video, four men can be seen delivering blows on the victim and subsequently taking him outside the house.The police are yet to file an FIR in the incident.Narender Kumar Yadav, in-charge of the Sector 10 police post, said the victim named three persons in his complaint. He said the suspects were from the same sector but their addresses were not known.“We are examining the CCTV footage. The suspects will be identified soon and appropriate action taken against them,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-enter-house-beat-up-youth-over-parking-in-panchkulas-sector-10-299511
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 6 fresh Covid cases||The city on Thursday reported six new cases of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 62,051. The Covid toll remained at 811. With six more patients getting the better of the disease, the total number of recoveries in the UT increased to 61,196. TNS 7 new cases surface in Mohali districtMohali: Seven new Covid-19 cases were detected and three patients recovered from the virus in the district on Thursday. Among the new cases, five were reported from Mohali and two from Kharar. Of the 68,551 positive cases reported so far, 67,438 patients have been cured. There are now 56 active cases in the district. The death toll stands at 1,057. TNS3 contract infection in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district saw three new cases of coronavirus on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,664. With no fresh death, the toll remained at 376. While 30,280 people have been cured of the disease so far, eight cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-6-fresh-covid-cases-299513
20-08-2021||---||Graft: CBI nabs FCI manager, firm owner||New Delhi, August 19The CBI today said it had arrested an FCI manager and the owner of a private firm in a bribery case. The investigating agency today said the FCI manager, Gagan Negi, posted at the regional office of Punjab in Chandigarh, and Ravinder Singh, alias Bunty, were arrested in a bribery case of Rs2 lakh. CBI officials said a case was registered against them and unidentified persons.“It was alleged that the private person (proprietor of a private firm), a resident of Amritsar and doing business of sale/purchase of rice, in connivance with the manager, was obtaining undue business from the FCI by manipulating the process of procurement and e-auction of food grains,” said a senior CBI official.The CBI laid a trap and caught Ravinder Singh paying a bribe of Rs2 lakh to the FCI manager, the official said, adding that searches were conducted on the premises of the accused at Chandigarh, Zirakpur and Amritsar.“The accused were produced in the competent court in Chandigarh. After the expiry of two days of police custody, they were produced in the court of Special Judge, CBI cases, Chandigarh, and were remanded in 14-day judicial custody,” the agency said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/graft-cbi-nabs-fci-manager-firm-owner-299514
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Anurag Thakur kicks off ‘Jan Aashirwad Yatra’ from Himachal Bhawan in Chandigarh||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur today kicked off his five-day ‘Jan Aashirwad Yatra’ from Himachal Bhawan in Sector 28 here.Sanjay Tandon, co-incharge of Himachal Pradesh BJP, city BJP president Arun Sood and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma welcomed the Hamirpur MP on his arrival at the venue.Also read: BJP slammed over ‘manhandling’ anti-farm law protesters in ChandigarhBJP HP unit president and MP Suresh Kashyap, Minister Sukhram Chaudhary and former president of state BJP and MLA Rajiv Bindal were among those who participated in the procession. Addressing a gathering here, Thakur said his government was working for all sections of society.Tandon said the purpose of the event was to make people aware of the welfare policies of the government and at the same time know the problems being faced by them. He said the yatra would cover a distance of 623 km through all four Lok Sabha constituencies of Himachal Pradesh. The yatra left the city for Parwanoo.Social distancing went for a toss as the entrance of the venue was jampacked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anurag-thakur-kicks-off-jan-aashirwad-yatra-from-himachal-bhawan-in-chandigarh-299515
20-08-2021||On August 3||Will Bell Bottom pave the way for theatrical releases finally? Early trends in Tricity shows encouraging signs||As much as Bell Bottom fits the bill for a movie that is a mix of big names, true story, thriller and entertainment to attract the masses, it also deemed as a litmus test for Akshay Kumar.The spy thriller has Akshay Kumar, Huma Querrshi, Vani Kapoor and Lara Dutta as the main cast and is directed by Ranjit Tewari.As Lara looks convincing in the trailer as Indira Gandhi, the film is based on true events of a plane hijack that took India by storm. The actor too shared his feelings on the big release and the weight the film carries on its shoulders to bring the cinemas back to life. He wrote, “That nervousness of one day before the release is back and swear to God I’ve missed it. Here’s another friendly reminder :) #BellBottom releasing tomorrow.”We hope it will set the road for other big budget movies such as Sooryavanshi, K.G.F Chapter 2, and 83.Thursday is the new FridayPollywood movies Tunka Tunka and Puaada were released on August 5 and August 12, respectively, and now the release of Bell Bottom has turned Thursdays into new Fridays for film releases.Akshay’s wife Twinkle Khanna on Thursday morning too shared a post, “Looks like a walk in the park but we are actually heading to something even better, the screening of Mr K’s fabulous movie-BellBottom! #mustwatch.”It’s a must-watch according to Twinkle Khanna but let’s look at the turn out in tricity. The first show had only few seats occupied in the theatre as it was a working day, but post 3 pm, locals did step out to greet the actors on the 70 mm screen.All the major cinema halls and PVR remained open to public on Thursday except for VR Punjab which will reopen in the coming week.We ask the audience about their take on the film.First Day First ShowThrilling viewIt’s a good film and I am glad to see such stories coming out of Bollywood which promote real heroes and desh bhakts. Not just Akshay Kumar, every other character did justice to their roles.Gurtej Brar, lawyerGood to be backI was waiting for one good film to walk into theatres and this was it. All the actors were great and we were glued to our seats till the end.Raashi Dhiman, studentNot boringDefense related movies turn out to be little boring at times, but it has done well. It has humour too in the first half. There are pretty intense nail-biting moments in the film.Sukhman Kaur, analystLara shinesThe suspense in the film keeps you hooked to the story. Lara Dutta was great as Indira Gandhi, but Vani Kapoor’s role did not add much to the plot. It’s a one-time watch.Sneha Mahajan, student— As told to Sheetal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-bell-bottom-pave-the-way-for-theatrical-releases-finally-early-trends-in-tricity-shows-encouraging-signs-299664
20-08-2021||Subhash Rajta||Nek Chand’s son keen on mini Rock Garden in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, August 19If the proposal of the legendary Nek Chand’s son is accepted, Shimla could have a miniature Rock Garden of its own. “I am sending the Shimla MC a proposal to display the sculptures in the Rock Garden style at a small space between The Ridge and the Mall Road, near the live screen on the Mall Road,” said Anuj Saini, the legendary sculptor’s son. “We will also do the landscaping of the place to give it a nice look,” he said.Decades-old giftNek Chand had gifted some sculptures to the Shimla Municipal Corporation about four decades back. About 10 to 15 of these were installed at different places in Shimla. With these sculptures crumbling and coming apart over the years, the Municipal Corporation has sent these pieces to Anuj Saini, Nek Chand’s son, for repair. Incidentally, Nek Chand had gifted some sculptures to the Shimla Municipal Corporation about four decades back. About 10 to 15 of these were installed at different places in the city. With these sculptures crumbling and coming apart over the years, the Municipal Corporation has sent these pieces to Anuj Saini, Nek Chand’s son, for repair. “I will repair and restore these sculptures to their original shape in the next two months and send them back to the Shimla MC,” said Saini.Saini recalled that his father had gifted these sculptures to the Shimla MC when he had gone there for an exhibition. “He had gone to Shimla in the late 80s, I think. After the exhibition, he gifted these sculptures to the MC,” said Saini.Unlike before, Saini wants these sculptures to be displayed at one point. “It will be really nice if these are all displayed at a single place. Having them installed at different places is not ideal as far as safety and maintenance is concerned. Besides, I think not many knew these were sculpted by Nek Chand. If they are displayed together, we can make a mention that these were crafted by Nek Chand,” he said.Shimla MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli, however, wasn’t sure if they could find a place to display all these sculptures at a single place on The Ridge or the Mall. “We haven’t thought about where to place these so far. Anyway, we will place them at prime places, preferably in parks on The Ridge and The Mall Road,” said Kohli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nek-chands-son-keen-on-mini-rock-garden-in-shimla-299706
20-08-2021||GS Paul||Soldiers’ valour sculpted at Attari||Tribune News ServiceAttari, August 19Dedicated to India’s 75th Independence Day, an old guard post on the premises of the Attari-Wagah Joint Checkpost (JCP) has been transformed into a masterpiece of art, worth a watch.Chandigarh couple behind projectThe Indian armed forces have a tradition of unflinching loyalty, valour and sacrifice for the sake of the country in the line of duty. This intangible value and concept of Indian warriors was translated into a sculptural technique known as ‘relief’.Based on the theme of the Border Security Force, India’s first line of defence, and giving a special tribute to ‘mahila prehari’ (women solders), Bengaluru-based eminent visual artist and faculty of Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology, Narendra Raghunath, and FICCI FLO Amritsar chairperson Manjot Kaur Dhillon conceptualised and designed the project on paper.Chandigarh-based sculptor couple Gurpreet Singh Dhuri and Gagandeep Kaur Dhuri was commissioned to sculpt the idea. Ultimately, this ordinary four-wall room-like structure ahead of Swarn Jayanti Dwar, took the shape of a special installation having murals of soldiers, including women, denoting the Indian forces who brave adverse conditions in the battlefield. Around it, a beautiful leisure green belt with ornamental plants and trees was developed by the National Highways Authority of India at the JCP.“The women soldiers guard our nation under the same conditions as the men do. So, they should be celebrated together. And what better occasion than the 75th anniversary of our Independence when we pay tribute to our soldiers,” she said.The murals have been made up of fiberglass material. The murals, with fluorescent blue tinge having dark grey background on the wall, look lively on the walls. Gurpreet said, “Though no particular character was portrayed in the project, it was basically focused on the soldiers’ steadfast devotion to duty. Making the sculpture of armed forces in ‘relief’ mode was the first-of-its-kind projects at the Attari border.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soldiers-valour-sculpted-at-attari-299568
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC: File stay vacation pleas in pending  cases against lawmakers of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today warned “senior officers” that it would be left with no option but to order their personal appearance in case applications for vacation of stay were not filed in pending cases against sitting and erstwhile parliamentarians and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh also called for a list of civil and criminal cases pending before the High Court against MPs/MLAs. Details were also called for regarding cases pending against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains after rapping the state of Punjab for not coming out with a response to the court query regarding alleged police inaction in a rape case against him. The Bench asserted it was not inclined to grant further time, but was granting an opportunity purely in the interests of justice.“Additional Advocate-General SPS Tinna would be at liberty to seek instructions from the Director General of Police, Punjab, and apprise the court about the number of cases pending against Simarjeet Singh Bains and stage of investigation after registration of a case against him by virtue of the order passed by the magistrate concerned at Ludhiana under Section 156(3) of the CrPC,” the Bench asserted.As the case “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs” for monitoring the progress of cases pending against the MP/MLAs came up for resumed hearing, the amicus curiae or the friend of the court, Rupinder S Khosla, pointed out that investigating/prosecuting agencies were required to move an application for vacation of stay in all those cases where stay was operating in view of a Supreme Court order on the issue.The Bench observed the counsel representing various investigating and prosecution agencies assured the court that the matter would be looked into and earnest efforts made before the next date of hearing. “This court has no hesitation in making it clear that in case needful is not done, it has no option but to seek personal appearance of all the senior officers who are entrusted with supervising the stage of pending investigations/trials,” the Bench concluded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-file-stay-vacation-pleas-in-pending-cases-against-lawmakers-of-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-299578
20-08-2021||---||August 20 now to be restricted holiday in Chandigarh on account of Muharram||Chandigarh, August 19Chandigarh Administration has declared Friday, August 20, as holiday on account of Muharram.An administration order says that in partial modification of the administration’s earlier order, August 20, Friday, will now be observed as a restricted holiday in all government offices/boards/corporations/institutions, including industrial establishments, under the Chandigarh administration on account of Muharram, instead of the restricted holiday already declared for August 19, Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/august-20-now-to-be-restricted-holiday-in-chandigarh-on-account-of-muharram-299399
