21-08-2021||---||Child rights panel writes to Chandigarh DC for FIR against Hooda, other Cong leaders||Chandigarh, August 21  Chairperson of Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Jyoti Bainda, on Saturday wrote to the Chandigarh DC for registration of FIR against Congress leaders, including former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, for using a child in their march on August 20. Hooda had led a march of MLAs from High Court chowk to Vidhan Sabha on variety of issues, including paper leak scams and fuel price hike.   “In the said protest, the leaders of the Indian National Congress -- Shakuntla Khatak, Kuldeep Vats acting on the behest of Bhupinder SIngh Hooda are seen using a minor in their protest and in a video it could be seen when the child who is a student of class 3 was asked about the reason of the protest he had no answer to it which shows the child was involved in the protest without his will and forcefully. The act of the leaders of the Haryana Congress party i.e. Shakuntla Khatak, Kuldeep Vats acting on the behest of Bhupinder Singh Hooda is a sheer violation of the child rights...,” wrote Bainda to DC.  Bainda has taken a suo motu congnisance of the incident too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-rights-panel-writes-to-chandigarh-dc-for-fir-against-hooda-other-cong-leaders-300300
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports six new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported six new Covid-19 cases, a bulletin showed.The UT has 44 active cases, with an average positivity rate of 0.21 per cent in the last seven days.Chandigarh’s fatality count stands at 812.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-six-new-covid-cases-300281
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey Chandigarh awards 5 Olympians Rs 5 lakh each||Hockey Chandigarh and Tynor on Saturday felicitated the hockey players who participated in the recent Tokyo Olympics at a function here by giving five players a cash award of Rs 5 lakh each.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya was the chief guest and Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi was the guest of honour.Those felicitated were Rupinder Pal Singh, Gurjant Singh, Monika Malik, Sharmila Devi, Reena Khokhar, Shivendra Singh and Gurminder Singh. Two hockey coaches were given a cash award of Rs 2.5 lakh each.The Haryana Governor congratulated the hockey stars who after 41 years won a bronze medal and brought international acclaim to Indian hockey. He said he was happy to see that the hockey team had a lot of players from Haryana and Punjab.Dattatreya said under the state sports policy, the Haryana government had awarded Rs 6 crore to Olympians for winning gold, Rs 4 crore for winning silver, and Rs 2.5 crore for bronze medal winners. The Haryana government had given Rs 23.25 crore as reward to outstanding players, adding that all states should prepare a sports policy to encourage players so that they can perform even better.The Punjab Sports Minister said it was praiseworthy on the part of Hockey Chandigarh to felicitate the hockey stars. Lauding their performance at the Tokyo Olympics, he said it was indeed a proud moment for the state that the players had given an excellent performance.Giving details about sprucing up facilities in Punjab, he said new facilities would be created in the state and the existing ones would be upgraded.Karan Gilhotra, president, Hockey Chandigarh, said, "It was always the endeavour of Hockey Chandigarh to encourage the players and will continue to promote the sport in a big way. It was indeed a moment of pride for the country to see our players excelling at the Olympics."He heads the Karan Gilhotra Foundation which is actively engaged in the service of the sports community.P.J. Singh, Senior Vice-President, Hockey Chandigarh and Chief Managing Director, Tynor, assured support to the hockey players. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-chandigarh-awards-5-olympians-rs-5-lakh-each-300273
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan reviews progress of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre at New Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Friday while reviewing the progress of the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre on site in Medicity at New Chandigarh (Mohali) was assured that the upcoming ultra-modern cancer tertiary care facility will be made operational by November.She also directed all the departments concerned to extend all requisite assistance for the early opening of this prestigious project.On her joint visit to the construction site with Director Tata Memorial Centre Mumbai Dr RA Badwe, Mahajan was apprised that the much-awaited Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre is in the advanced stage of completion.Principal Secretary PWD Vivek Pratap, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, Director Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre New Chandigarh Dr Rakesh Kapoor, officer in-charge HBCH&RC New Chandigarh Dr Ashish Gulia also accompanied the Chief Secretary during the visit.Reviewing the progress of the ambitious healthcare project, the Chief Secretary said the 300-bed state-of-the-art hospital will act as a tertiary care centre for the entire northern region, comprising Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.“The hospital will start radiotherapy, radiology, CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, x-ray, mammography, medical oncology, chemotherapy, day-care ward, pathology and lab facilities, minor OT, besides initiating OPD services such as surgical oncology, medical oncology, radiation oncology, palliative care preventive oncology,” she said, adding that these facilities will be available for public from November onwards.While taking stock of the works being executed at the hospital site, the Chief Secretary said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government is fully committed to provide the best possible healthcare facilities to its citizens and the Chief Minister has desired to make this medical facility available to the people at the earliest.The Chief Secretary said the prestigious project, a unit of Tata Memorial Centre Mumbai, under the Department of Atomic Energy, is being set up with a sanctioned cost of Rs 663.74-crore in the built up area of 40,545 square metres for which 50 acres of land has been provided free of cost by the Punjab government.The cancer care centre will be equipped with high-end diagnostic and treatment facilities such as two linear accelerator, brachytherapy, PECT CT, bone marrow transplant (BMT), CT simulator, MR simulator, interventional radiology and surgical facilities, besides day-care centre, ICU and recovery units, detailed Mahajan.The hospital will be fully IT-based with electronic medical records facility, informed she, while adding that it will also be interlinked with all the Tata Memorial Centres located across the country.This will help the patients of this region to get online super-specialty consultation for managing various types of cancer ailments under the disease management groups (DMGs), she divulged.Besides residential hostels for doctors and nurses and residential accommodation for faculty, the hospital also offers stay facilities for cancer patients in the specially-built dharamshala, she said.The Chief Secretary said two state-of-the-art cancer hospitals have already been functioning in the state at Sangrur and Bathinda in Malwa region.While Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital in Sangrur has treated more than 23,000 cancer patients till date, the advanced cancer diagnosis, treatment and research centre in Bathinda has cured more than 2,500 cancer cases since its inception.She informed that a tertiary cancer centre was also being established in Fazilka to further strengthen the cancer treatment facilities in the state.“Major civil work has been completed and it is likely to start operation next year,” revealed the Chief Secretary.Mahajan said more than 65,000 cancer patients have been provided cashless treatment under the Mukh Mantri Punjab Cancer Rahat Kosh Scheme at various cancer hospitals in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-chief-secretary-vini-mahajan-reviews-progress-of-homi-bhabha-cancer-hospital-and-research-centre-at-new-chandigarh-300187
21-08-2021||Mohali||Patwar Union members protest||On a call given by the coordinating committee of the Revenue Patwar Union, Punjab, and the Revenue Kanungo Association, a protest was organised in front of the DC’s office in Mohali on Friday. Patwaris, kanungo, nambardar, chowkidars, kisan union leaders, retired Patwaris and were part of the protest.The protesters demanded that the 18-month training period of Patwaris recruited in 2015 be included in their probation and the probation period be reduced to two years. They said 3,000 patwaris should be recruited, shortcomings of the Pay Commission should be rectified, along with allotting technical grades for patwaris and computers for old patwaris. Old pension scheme should be implemented for patwaris recruited before 2004. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patwar-union-members-protest-300053
21-08-2021||---||Farmers’ protest: Ambala division cancels 13 trains||Chandigarh, August 20The Ambala division of Northern Railways cancelled 13 trains because of farmers’ protest, states a notification issued by the division today.At the city railway station, Chandigarh-Amritsar inter-city special trains (numbers 04561 and 04562) will remain cancelled on Friday and Saturday.Many passengers from the Punjab region are now heading to Chandigarh to reach various parts of the country due to Rakhi. Sakshi Bajaj, a resident of Ludhiana, said: “I had to leave for Delhi to celebrate Rakhi with my brother, but now, because the train I had booked from Ludhiana is cancelled, I had to book another one from Chandigarh to Delhi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-protest-ambala-division-cancels-13-trains-299967
21-08-2021||Panchkula||Man nabbed with 3,800 strips of banned drug tablet in Panchkula||The Crime Branch of the Panchkula police has arrested a person carrying 3,800 strips of Lomotil tablet near the Sector 20 light point here around 4.30 pm on Thursday. The strips contained a total of 2.28 lakh tablets, said the police.The suspect has been identified as Krishan Kumar, a resident of Badaun in Uttar Pradesh. He used to sell the banned drug tablets in Mandawala, Pinjore.A police official said: “We spotted the suspect near the Sector 20 light point around 4:15 pm. He was carrying two bags and a backpack. He became nervous on seeing the police. He hastily picked up his bags and started walking.”On the basis of suspicion, the police caught him and questioned him about his whereabouts and the bags. The police checked his bags and recovered strips of Lomotil tablet.The police called the District Drugs Control Officer on the spot. On the basis of his report, the police booked the suspect under Section 22 of the NDPS Act.He was today produced in a court, which sent him to five-day police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-nabbed-with-3-800-strips-of-banned-drug-tablet-in-panchkula-299969
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan gets bail in bouncer’s ‘murder’ case in Chandigarh||A local court has allowed bail to Sanjeev Mahajan, former journalist arrested in the alleged murder case of Surjit, a bouncer.After arresting Mahajan in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37 in March 2021, the police had also arrested Mahajan in the Surjit murder case on May 21, 2021.The bail application was filed by counsel Rajesh Sharma on behalf of Mahajan under Section 167(2) of the CrPC. Sharma claimed that the accused had already undergone 90 days in custody, but the prosecution had failed to submit the police report. He said the accused had an indefeasible right to be released on a bail in default of the prosecution in filing the police report. After hearing the arguments, the court allowed bail to the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-journalist-sanjeev-mahajan-gets-bail-in-bouncers-murder-case-in-chandigarh-299970
21-08-2021||Ambala||JBT teacher ends life, 2 booked in Ambala||The Ambala police have registered an abetment to suicide case against two men after a JBT teacher reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree, on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Pradeep Kumar, who was posted at Bhure Majra village of Ambala. The suspects have been identified as Chandershekhar and Satender.Pradeep’s father Gobind Ram told the police that his son went missing on Thursday evening. On Friday, the family came to know that he had committed suicide and his body was found hanging from a tree. A suicide note was also recovered from his pocket.“Chandershekhar was pressurising Pradeep to give money to Satender. They made Pradeep habitual of betting on cricket matches. Following their pressure for money, Pradeep committed suicide,” he said. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jbt-teacher-ends-life-2-booked-in-ambala-299971
21-08-2021||Mohali||Rs 11.48-crore farm loan waived in Mohali||Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today handed over debt-relief certificates to landless farmers of Mohali district under the 5th phase of the debt relief scheme.Sidhu said: “Loans worth Rs1,148.42 lakh have been waived for farmers in the district today.” The main function was held at Anandpur Sahib, in which Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh launched the scheme and the state waived loan worth Rs520 crore for 2.85 lakh farm labourers and landless farming members of primary agricultural cooperative societies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-11-48-crore-farm-loan-waived-in-mohali-299972
21-08-2021||---||BJP activists pulled my hair: Woman farm protester in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 20A city-based woman farm activist has alleged that she was attacked by three BJP functionaries and 10 unidentified persons. A complaint in this regard was lodged with the Senior Superintendent of Police.In her complaint, the woman claimed that her hair was pulled by BJP supporters when she was “peacefully protesting” against the visit of Union Minister Anurag Thakur, on a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The complaint, a copy of which was given to the Chandigarh Tribune by the president of Naujawan Kisan Ekta, reads: “On seeing the activists of the Kisan Morcha, the suspect had directed his goons to shoo them away.”The complaint reads that BJP supporters also hurt her religious feelings by using foul language for her religion.She alleged that she was “slapped” and the “police personnel standing there remained silent spectators”. “Thereafter the police had detained the complainant, along with five other activists, and kept them in illegal custody for three hours, after which they were released,” reads the complaint, a copy of which has been sent to the National Human Rights Commission, National Commission for Minorities and National Commission for Women.Kirpal Singh of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta said: “We met the SSP and then the DSP. They have assured us of action, but if they don’t do anything about this complaint, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha will take a further call on this issue.”DSP Gurmukh Singh said: “An inquiry in this case has been marked to the SHO of the Sector 26 police station.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-activists-pulled-my-hair-woman-farm-protester-in-chandigarh-299975
21-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh Police fail to prove charges, 2 acquitted in murder bid case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20Gurbir Singh, District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, has acquitted two youths in a two-year-old attempt-to-murder case after the police failed to prove charges against the duo.On a complaint of Goldy, a resident of Ram Darbar, the police had registered a case against Binni and Varun, residents of Ram Darbar, Chandigarh, on October 15, 2019, under Sections 307, 341 read with Section 34 of the IPC at the Sector 31 police station.Goldy alleged that when he was going to bring his wife from her parental house in Ram Darbar, Phase 1, Chandigarh, on October 14, 2019, two persons - Binni and Varun - gheraoed him. Varun attacked him with a brickbat on his head and Binni attacked him on his stomach with a knife with an intention to kill him.He alleged that Binni and Varun, along with their father, fled from the spot after attacking him. His neighbours took him to the GMSH-16 for treatment. The victim said he was working as a sweeper in the GMSH-16.The police arrested the suspects and a challan was presented in the court. A prima facie charge under Sections 307 and 341 read with Section 34 of the IPC was found against the accused. A chargesheet was accordingly framed to which both accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.The public prosecutor for state closed the evidence of prosecution on the ground that the complainant and other eyewitnesses had turned hostile and had not supported the version of the prosecution. So, no useful purpose would be served by examining other witnesses.AS Gujral, counsel for the accused, argued that the prosecution had failed to prove the charges against the accused. He argued that no such occurrence had taken place. The case was registered on the statement of Goldy, but he did not support the case of prosecution.The alleged eyewitnesses also did not support the case of prosecution. So, both accused are entitled for acquittal.After hearing the arguments, the court said both witnesses were also declared hostile and the public prosecutor for state also cross-examined them at length, but they failed to bring any evidence against the accused. The prosecution had failed to bring sufficient evidence on the file to prove charges against the accused. The court in of the view that the prosecution had failed to prove the charges under Sections 307, 341 read with Section 34 of the IPC against both accused. Consequently, Varun and Vinny @ Binni were acquitted of offences by giving them benefit of doubt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-fail-to-prove-charges-2-acquitted-in-murder-bid-case-299973
21-08-2021||---||Dedicated teams for anti-encroachment drive in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 20Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh today said the district administration had constituted a dedicated police team to assist the Municipal Corporation and the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in their anti-encroachment drives.He was presiding over a meeting over the issue of encroachment and illegal structures on the government land, at his office.The Deputy Commissioner strictly instructed MC and HSVP officials to ensure that vendors and hawkers don’t reoccupy encroachment-free areas in the district.It is often seen that though the authorities take up eviction drives to free roadsides, pavements and market areas, encroachers reappear after some time in the absence of regular action.He also issued directions to identify those who assist in illegal slum settlements and register FIR against them.Singh asked officials of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, HSVP and the Kalka Municipal Council to submit their planned schedule by the last week of this month for encroachment drives to be conducted in their respective areas in the month of September so that adequate police force is deployed to assist them.He told the civic body officials to remove temporary markets that came up in Sector 19, 20 and 26 and submit an action-taken report to his office in a week. He also asked officials concerned to maintain records of offenders.Among those present in the meeting included HSVP Estate Officer Mamta Sharma, Deputy Municipal Commissioner Deepak Sura and ACP Umed Singh.‘Ensure vendors don’t reoccupy evicted areas’Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh strictly instructed MC and HSVP officials to ensure that vendors and hawkers did not reoccupy encroachment-free areas in the district. It is often seen that though the authorities take up eviction drives to free roadsides, pavements and market areas, encroachers reappear after some time in the absence of regular action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dedicated-teams-for-anti-encroachment-drive-in-panchkula-299974
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three booked for murder bid in Chandigarh||Woman booked for cheatingChandigarh: A woman has been booked for allegedly cheating a Zirakpur resident of Rs18.39 lakh. Complainant Vijay Kumar Sood alleged that a woman cheated him on the pretext of getting a CHB house allotted to him. A case has been registered. TNSFree travel for women on rakhiChandigarh: The UT Administration has decided to provide free bus travel facility to women on the occasion of ‘Raksha Bandhan’ on Sunday. The facility will be available only in AC and non-AC CTU buses operating in the tricity. TNSFoetus found in dustbin at GMSHChandigarh: A foetus was found in a dustbin at a washroom at the GMSH-16. A case has been registered. TNSMan arrested with charasChandigarh: A 38-year-old man has been arrested with 500 gm of charas. Mandeep Kumar, alias Monu, a resident of Moga district, was nabbed from near the Shivalik garden in Mani Majra. The police have registered a case. TNSAmbulance donated to PGIChandigarh: Dr Raj Kumar Gupta, a philanthropist from Sector 8, Chandigarh, lent a helping hand to the PGI. He donated a life-support ambulance to the institute in the memory of his parents, here on Friday. Expressing gratitude and thanking Dr Gupta for his gesture, Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “The donated ambulance will help the needy patients in the institute. We urge more such donors to come forward and donate medical equipment and kits so that we can serve the people better in the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic.” TNSP’kula all-woman club felicitatedPanchkula: The all-woman Innerwheel Club of Panchkula has been awarded a commendation certificate by the Haryana Government for its various humanitarian services, especially during the Covid pandemic. The Haryana Government awards commendation certificates to government employees, non-government organisations and general public on Independence Day and Republic Day every year for the services rendered by them in various fields. This year, the award was presented by Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal. It was received by Kusum Seengal, president of Innerwheel Club, Panchkula. TNSEndovascular neurosurgeryMohali: A 50-year-old woman suffering from a large aneurysm arising from a cavernous segment of the left internal carotid artery (ballooning of artery) was treated successfully with endovascular neurosurgery at Ivy Hospital, Mohali recently. Sonia, who hails from Jalandhar, was facing severe headache. On MRI, a large 2cm aneurysm in a cavernous segment of the left internal carotid artery was discovered to be the cause of her problem. Earlier, this kind of problem was treated with an open surgery. Dr Vineet Saggar, Head of Neuro Interventional and Endovascular Neurosurgery, is treating these kind of patient successfully with endovascular neurosurgeon for the past five years at Ivy. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-booked-for-murder-bid-in-chandigarh-299980
21-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Punjab, Haryana, PGI yet to pay advance for high-end flats at Chandigarh IT Park, alleges housing board||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20Despite repeated reminders, the Punjab and Haryana governments and the PGI are yet to pay 25 per cent advance money for high-end flats to be constructed by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology (IT) Park.The CHB had proposed a scheme to construct luxurious flats at IT Park in September 2019 and had sought suggestions from both the governments to buy the flats for their officers and MLAs. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the PGI had also shown interest in the project.After finalising the drawings of the project, the CHB had demanded 25 per cent of the total amount in advance for starting the construction of the flats. However, even after sending several reminders, the CHB was yet to receive the advance payment from the Punjab and Haryana governments and the PGI, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB. Recently, officials of the CHB gave a presentation in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Chief Secretary Vijay Vardhan and officials of the Engineering Department.Garg said the Income Tax Department had recently sought information regarding the scheme, but they were yet to get a confirmation from the department.The CHB has decided to construct 10 towers with 28 flats each having a base price of Rs2 crore for each flat. Both governments and the PGI are expected to pay Rs66 crore each for their share of the flats. The project will come up on 6.73 acres at IT Park.Meanwhile, the CHB will soon launch a new self-financing general housing scheme at IT Park. It has submitted the building plan to the Plan Approval Committee of the UT, but is yet to receive the approval.After getting the approval from the committee, environment clearance would be required to launch the scheme, an official said, adding that the board had already submitted the necessary documents to obtain environment clearance in order to save time, but would not get it until they got the building plan approved.The CHB has planned to construct 728 flats in three categories in seven-storey towers for the general public.In the project, the towers will have two basements with a provision for parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors.A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly Rs2.75 crore, a three-bedroom flat Rs1.90 crore and a two-bedroom flat Rs1.30 crore. As per the proposed plan, the IT park project will have 28 4BHK, 448 3BHK and 252 2BHK flats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-pgi-yet-to-pay-advance-for-high-end-flats-at-chandigarh-it-park-alleges-housing-board-299976
21-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||No directions to officials, MC chief told Chandigarh Mayor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20Nearly three weeks before getting relieved, outgoing MC Commissioner KK Yadav had written to Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma not to issue directions to officials of the civic body. Yadav had also reminded him that executive powers were with him.“It has been observed that as the Mayor, you have directly issued directions to the Chief Engineer. Your attention is invited towards Section 52 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, as extended to the UT, which says the entire executive powers for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act and of any other Act shall vest in the Commissioner,” Yadav wrote to the Mayor on July 26. It was the last working day of Yadav as the MC chief, who will be officially relieved of the charge on August 22.Yadav had added, “...you are hereby advised not to make direct references to officials subordinate to the Commissioner…”In his reply, the Mayor said, “There was no intention to violate rule/section of the MC Act and there was no intention to disrespect or jump hierarchy. I wrote a note to the Chief Engineer as per previous practice and advice by the XENs concerned. It is just a misunderstanding and in future, it is requested to ask the officials concerned to send a note to you for approval.”When Chandigarh Tribune contacted the Mayor, he said, “It was about an inauguration event. My PA, as per previous practice, wrote to the Chief Engineer. It is not a big issue.”The Commissioner said, “It was about one particular case. I even later had a word with the Mayor, who also accepted the same.”Earlier, there had been instances where Yadav had arguments with certain councillors during MC House meetings. Once the situation had reached such a pass that Yadav had walked out of a House meeting and went straightway to the UT Adviser to raise the issue.Meanwhile, councillors and officials bid adieu to Yadav at the MC office today. However, some councillors, including Arun Sood, Devinder Singh Babla and Gurbax Rawat, did not attend the farewell party.Satisfying tenure: YadavOutgoing MC Commissioner KK Yadav said it was a satisfying tenure as the chief of the civic body in the city. “I was here for a particular time period. Since I knew I had time, so I could plan things well and take projects ahead whether of Smart City or MC,” he told Chandigarh Tribune.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-directions-to-officials-mc-chief-told-chandigarh-mayor-299978
21-08-2021||---||CITCO opens filling station in Industrial Area, Phase 1, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 20To meet the continuously growing demand for petrol in the city, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) started its sixth petrol and CNG station at the Industrial Area, Phase 1, on the Hallo Majra road here today.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore dedicated the state-of-the-art Indian Oil (IOCL) outlet to customers. Dharam Pal, UT Adviser; Ravi Kant Sharma, city Mayor; Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home)-cum-Chairman, CITCO; Jasvinder Kaur Sidhu , MD, CITCO; Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Chief General Manager, CITCO; SM Vaidya, Chairman, IOCL; Sujoy Choudhury, Executive Director, and State Head, IOCL, Punjab; and other senior officials of the Administration and IOCL were present on the occasion.The outlet will significantly add to the convenience of residents in the surrounding areas by reducing their travelling time for fuel requirements. During the event, the first LPG composite cylinder was also handed over to the UT Administrator by the IOCL Chairman.Presently, CITCO owns five petrol pumps in the city, including a compressed natural gas (CNG) dispensing pump on Madhya Marg in Sector 17.“With the new addition, we can meet the demand of the residents, especially the traffic on the National Highway moving towards Delhi, and it will add to our revenue,” said the MD, CITCO. Meanwhile, the first 200 customers will get a copy of The Tribune free of cost at the petrol station every day as part of a campaign being launched by the English daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citco-opens-filling-station-in-industrial-area-phase-1-chandigarh-299977
21-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Coming up, amusement park at lake in Sector 42, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20Like Sukhna Lake, visitors will soon be able to enjoy amusement activities at the lake in Sector 42.Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) has invited e-bids from interested parties to set up and operate an amusement park at the lake in Sector 42, Chandigarh.The entire project is likely to cost Rs1.20 crore. In addition, the corporation is also trying to start boating at the lake. Earlier, the corporation had sought expression of interest for the amusement park, after which tenders have now been issued for allotment of work.The corporation has decided to set up the amusement park on nealy 3,711 sq yard area. According to CITCO, the work will be allotted to a firm with experience in electric rides and gaming devices, as safety of children and visitors is of paramount importance.In this regard, an official of CITCO said like Sukhna Lake, they were trying to provide all facilities to the people at the Sector 42 lake with an aim to promote tourism. To attract people, they were also trying to start boating.The interested firms can submit their bids by September 15. The bids will be opened the same day.The corporation will allot the work for five years and the licence period will be extended by two years after considering the work done by the company. The agency will be responsible for any mishap at the amusement park, which will have to be set up within 45 days after the allotment letter is issued. The licence fee will go up by 10 per cent every year.Earlier, a tender was issued to start boating at the lake, but due to a poor response, the corporation had to issue a tender again.Meanwhile, CITCO has invited tenders for ferrying or operating a solar boat at Sukhna Lake on a revenue-sharing basis.What all you can expectThe amusement activities will include games, toy train, bumper car, swing chair, spin car, crazy bull, child tower, sunshine ride, machine-operated helicopter ride, coin-operated machine and virtual reality games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coming-up-amusement-park-at-lake-in-sector-42-chandigarh-299979
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: One dies, 5 test positive in Chandigarh||Mohali sees first Covid death after July 12Mohali: One person died of Covid-19 and seven new cases were reported from the district on Friday. The last Covid fatality reported from the district before this was on July 12. Eight patients recovered from the virus. Of the 68,558 positive cases reported so far, 67,446 patients have recovered. There are now 54 active cases. With one fresh death, the toll has reached 1,058. — TNS3 fresh cases, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: For the second consecutive day, the district reported three fresh coronavirus cases. With this, the overall tally has reached 30,667. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 376. While 30,281 people have recovered from the disease so far, 10 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-dies-5-test-positive-in-chandigarh-299981
21-08-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI, Chandigarh, death rate way more than AIIMS||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20At the PGI, one in every 13 patients admitted to the hospital this year died, accounting for a death-patient ratio of 1:13.42. Last year, one in every 14 patients had died at the institute. The death-patient ratio has worsened during the past two years at the PGI, courtesy Covid.On the contrary, AIIMS, New Delhi, saw lesser deaths in 2021 and its death-patient ratio was 1:20.8 till June.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “The institute has been admitting serious and critical patients of Covid-19 since March last year. The death rate among severe Covid patients was very high. The PGI is the only tertiary care hospital in Punjab, Haryana and HP. Mostly, the PGI is flooded with patients from various quarters through referrals. We cannot send patients to other hospitals, unlike AIIMS, Delhi, which has an option of referring patients to other hospitals such as Safadarjung Hospital. That is why, AIIMS has a better death-patient ratio than the PGI.”Around 7,122 Covid patients have been admitted to the PGI so far, of whom 1,221 belonged to Haryana and 2,864 to Punjab. A total of 1,713 patients have died due to Covid-19 at the PGI — a mortality rate of 24 per cent.The details of the patients who died during the past three years and the current year in hospitals under the Centre and its associated institutes, along with the death-patient ratio, was presented by the Health Ministry in the Rajya Sabha recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-death-rate-way-more-than-aiims-299982
21-08-2021||Mohali||2-day police remand for WWICS chief||A Mohali court today remanded WWICS director Davinder Sandhu, a co-accused in a corruption case involving former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, in two-day police custody.The Vigilance Bureau also arrested retired Senior Town Planner Sagar Bhatia, who too was remanded in two-day police custody.A VB spokesperson said Sandhu allegedly colluded with Deputy Director Ashok Sika, Bhatia and others local government officials to get an agriculture land converted illegally into residential colonies at Kurali in 2013.Also read: Ordering Sumedh Saini’s release, HC cites Badal-Capt rivalryDuring probe, it emerged that Sandhu was known to PWD Xen Nimratdeep Singh, who allegedly received Rs 6 crore in bribe from Sandhu to get the colonies certified. Thereafter, Nirmratdeep, his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal and their aides Taranjeet Singh Aneja and Mohit Puri were nominated as accused in the land conversion case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-day-police-remand-for-wwics-chief-299915
21-08-2021||Chandigarh/Bathinda||Tear gas shells fired as Punjab Govt staff protest in Chandigarh||Hundreds of employees and pensioners of the Punjab Government today tried to gherao the residences of state ministers here in support of their demands.As the employees gathered outside the high-security area in Sector 39, as part of state-wide protests, the police stopped them using trucks as barricades. When the employees tried to break through the barricading, the police fired water cannons and tear gas shells, causing minor injuries to some, while turbans of others were tossed as they jostled with the police.Later, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s representatives met the employees and pensioners and accepted their demand letters, on behalf of the government, said Sukhchain Khera, an employee leader.In Bathinda, members of the Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front today gheraoed Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office here over the privitisation policies of the government. — TNSGive laptops: patwarisMembers of the Revenue Patwar Union, Punjab, staged a protest in Bathinda and Mansa districts, demanding laptops for online work||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tear-gas-shells-fired-as-punjab-govt-staff-protest-in-chandigarh-299923
