22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records four new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported four new cases of Covid-19, taking the total infection count to 65,066, according to the medical bulletin.The death toll stands at 812, it said.The number of active cases in the city stands at 41 while 64,213 people have recovered from the infection so far, the bulletin said.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh said a backlog of 3,000 old Covid positive cases has been added in the total count to update data. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-four-new-covid-cases-300690
22-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh sees coldest Aug day in 3 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Widespread rain today resulted in the city seeing the coldest August day in three years. The maximum temperature in the city today dropped to 26.2°C, lowest this month, from 30.6°C yesterday. Last year, the lowest maximum temperature in August was 29°C. Even in 2019, the lowest maximum temperature of the month was 28°C.Total rainfall in August so far - 127.1 mmHowever, it was 25.4°C in 2018, slightly less than today’s maximum temperature, which is seven degrees below normal.“It rained through the day. Since the sun did not appear, the temperature has come down significantly,” said Shivinder Singh, a scientist at the Chandigarh Meteorological Department.The city recorded 20.8-mm rainfall from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm. Thereafter, 1.2 mm of rainfall was reported till the filing of the report late in the evening. So far, only 127.1 mm of rainfall has been recorded in the city this month. It is not even half of what has been reported each year in the past four years.For the next five days, the city is likely to see more rain. “Showers are likely in the next 48 hours. Later, the city will see scattered rain for three days. The city today witnessed a widespread rain after a gap of many days. Earlier, scattered rain was reported here. This is the reason for the total precipitation in the month still being on the lower side,” added the Met official.The minimum temperature recorded in the city today was 25.2°C, which is two degrees above normal.According to the Met Department, both minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to rise again during the next three days. The maximum temperature is expected to hover from 30°C-32°C and the minimum 26°C-27°C.Meanwhile, showers today led to waterlogging at several places in the UT. Some motorists were seen stuck in the stagnant water at some of the main junctions in the city. Waterlogging was witnessed in colonies and villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-coldest-aug-day-in-3-years-300457
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake water level nears danger mark||The water level of Sukhna Lake today reached near the danger mark. After rain in the region, the level of lake waters increased to 1,162.65 ft, just 3.5 inches below the danger mark of 1,163 ft.CB Ojha, Chief Engineer, UT, said CCTV cameras had been installed at the lake to monitor the situation 24x7. He said they would wait for some time before taking any decision on opening the floodgates of the lake.One of the three floodgates of the lake was opened last time on August 14 when the water level had reached 1,162.7 ft. However, the gate was closed after two hours. Before this, the floodgate was opened for an hour on August 9 when the water level had reached 1,162.5 ft.Earlier, the gates were opened as a precautionary measure and water was released in small volume to avoid flooding downstream, Ojha said. Two of the three floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level had crossed the danger mark. The gush of the water led to flooding in the Baltana area of Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-water-level-nears-danger-mark-300458
22-08-2021||---||Days after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij's raid, elderly ‘beaten up’ at Panchkula's Raipur Rani police station||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 21Raipur Rani SHO Yashdeep Singh and ASI Devi Dayal have been sent to the Police Lines for allegedly beating up a 70-year-old Dalit man from Hangola village.He was called to the police station yesterday for questioning over a land dispute between two parties.Question mark over police workingThe incident has put another question mark over the functioning of the local police who are already under fire from critics for several reasons such as deteriorating law and order situation, inaction and negligent attitude by its officers, flourishing hookah bars and illegal mining. The surprise inspection conducted by Home Minister Anil Vij recently at the Sector 5 police station had put the spotlight on the working of police officials in dealing with complaints.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh has also ordered an inquiry into the matter. ACP (Headquarters) Vijay Kumar Nehra will lead the probe.Gurnam Singh, a retired head teacher, has alleged that they had sought the police’s intervention in a matter pertaining to illegal occupation of shamlat land (village common land) but the police, rather than addressing their grievance, beat him up.‘’We had filed a complaint to the SHO, Raipur Rani police station, over the matter, asking the police to stop those trying to occupy the shamlat land. As per a police notice, we went to the police station where the other party was already present. ASI Devi Dayal didn’t listen to me and those accompanying me but hit me on the head with a wooden stick.’’Hours after the incident, members of the Bhim Army gathered outside the police and raised slogans against the Panchkula police and the SHO. Nehra said: ‘’As of now, prima facie, we have transferred both police officials to the Police Lines. A detailed inquiry is pending. The matter will be thoroughly investigated.’’When asked about the matter, Nehra said: ‘’The matter pertains to a dispute between two parties over 170-180 acres of shamlat land in Hangola village in Raipur Rani block. While one party claims the land belongs to them, the other says they are illegal occupants.”Saurabh Singh said: ‘’Because of the complexity of the matter, both the SDM and the Tehsildar of the area inspected the disputed land on Saturday. An open meeting with both parties in the upcoming week will take place in the presence of officials concerned to resolve the matter at the earliest.’’Meanwhile, Inspector Yashdeep Singh termed allegations levelled against him as ‘’false’’.“When both parties started fighting inside the police station itself, a police official tried to intervene which led to Gurnam falling on his head and hitting the edge of a bench placed right behind him,’’ he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/days-after-haryana-home-minister-anil-vijs-raid-elderly-beaten-up-at-panchkulas-raipur-rani-police-station-300459
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala BTech grad held with 50 stolen phones||The police have arrested a 31-year-old BTech graduate and recovered 50 stolen mobile phones, two watches and a pair of sports shoes from him.The suspect, Patiala resident Charan Kamal, is unmarried and is stated to be a “gold medallist in National Wrestling Games in 2014”. The total value of recovered items was around Rs9.50 lakh, the police said.The suspect was produced in a court today, which sent him to two-day police remand.On August 3, Sector 16 resident Sumeet Sehgal, an advocate, had reported that when he woke up around 6 am, he found his phones, two watches and a pair of sports shoes stolen from his house. A case under Section 380 of the IPC was registered at Sector 17. On a tip-off, the police nabbed the suspect from a hotel in Patiala on Wednesday.DSP Charanjit Singh Virk said, “The suspect hails from a well-to do family in Rajo Majra. His mother is a lecturer while brother is settled abroad. He appears to be in the habit of consuming drugs. Further investigation in the case is in progress.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-btech-grad-held-with-50-stolen-phones-300460
22-08-2021||Amit Bathla||Mansa Devi temple: Devotees disapprove of ‘no shorts’ remark||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 21After an official of the Mansa Devi temple administration stated in the media that verbal directions had been issued for allowing no entry of devotees wearing shorts and other “modern clothes” to the shrine, young devotees have disapproved of her statement.Namita, a regular visitor to the temple, says it’s the belief what matters when you are visiting a temple or any other religious place, not clothes. ‘’Any such instructions will only lead to a reduction in the number of young devotees visiting the temple,’’ she added.Ananya, who came from Delhi, says God doesn’t see the way one is dressed, but only considers good faith.The 21-year-old, who studies in Delhi University, says such directions are “socially unacceptable” and reflect ‘’regressive thinking’’.The temple administration has also distanced itself from the statement given by Secretary of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board Sharda Prajapati.The Deputy Commissioner-cum-Chief Administrator of the shrine board, Vinay Pratap Singh, rejected the statement, calling it her ‘’personal remarks.’’ He clarified that they had not issued any order in this regard.Recently, Prajapati had stated they had instructed the Home Guards staff deployed at the historical temple to not allow devotees wearing shorts and other “indecent clothes’’ to enter the shrine.Prajapati said the move was taken in view of complaints received by the administration from devotees, especially the elderly, that decency should be maintained on the temple premises.She had also urged devotees to not wear short dresses while coming to the temple keeping in mind the sanctity of the shrine and respect towards the religion and culture. Prajapati had added: “Those who wear such types of clothes inside temples, it may not affect them. Not everyone has the same mentality. Many who come to the temple have submitted their complaints to us objecting to short dresses inside the shrine.’’“Children should respect the culture. In gurdwaras, visitors even cover their head before entering the premises,” she had said in her statement.Meanwhile, while talking to The Tribune over the phone, Prajapati said: “So far, no official guidelines have come out for the implementation of the dress code. Only verbal instructions have been issued to the security personnel to guide devotees to maintain decent dressing before entering the temple.” “We will act according to the instructions received from the state government,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mansa-devi-temple-devotees-disapprove-of-no-shorts-remark-300461
22-08-2021||---||Woman among two held for loan fraud||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Two persons, including a woman, have been arrested for duping people on the pretext of providing loan under various government schemes.The police on Friday arrested Delhi resident Vikram Singh and Navneet Kaur of Kapurthala and recovered Rs41,340 from them. They were allegedly running a fake call centre in Zirakpur. The cyber crime investigation cell recovered two registers, 16 mobile phones and 17 SIM cards along with one laptop from them.The suspects were produced in a court, which sent Vikram Singh to three-day police remand and Navneet Kaur to judicial custody.In his complaint to the police, Nitesh Kumar Sharma stated that he had received an SMS regarding loan under a government scheme. The SMS mentioned another mobile number. He made a call on it and the person on the other end of the phone provided him a bank account number to deposit money. Following this, he deposited Rs41,340 as file charges, stamp duty and insurance fee. However, the loan was not sanctioned to him. After receiving money, the suspects switched off their phones, the complainant alleged.A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against them at the Sector 31 police station on July 23. The police said the suspects sent messages to people on their mobile phones and also advertised mobile numbers for ‘loan’.The police are investigating as to how many more people were involved in the crime. Most victims were from Bihar, Maharashtra, UP, Jharkhand, Punjab and Gujarat, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-two-held-for-loan-fraud-300462
22-08-2021||---||Release Rs 26-cr power duty, Chandigarh MC to Admn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21The local cash-starved Municipal Corporation has written to the UT Administration for the grant Rs26 crore on account of electricity duty.It has been mentioned in the communication that as per the provision under Section 90 (6) C of the Punjab Municipal Act, the corporation has to be given the amount of electricity duty. The annual amount comes out to be Rs26 crore. The civic body had approved the same at its annual budget.“We have written to the Admin to give our due share as per the Act,” confirmed an official. The MC for the first time had made a separate provision for this duty in the budget.Councillor Satish Kainth said: “I had raised the issue with the MC. Following which, a separate arrangement was made for the duty in the budget. But, due to the failure of the local MP and the Mayor, we could not get funds under electricity duty, Excise Department, Registerating and Licensing Authority (RLA) as also failed to get Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations implemented."The corporation in February cleared a Rs670-crore deficit Budget for the fiscal 2021-22 in its usual anticipation of getting grant-in-aid as per the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations, just like previous years. But, it has not happended during the five-year BJP MC rule despite assurances by all five Mayors. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said they would certinaly get funds under these heads and raise the issue with the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/release-rs-26-cr-power-duty-chandigarh-mc-to-admn-300463
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees six cases, no death||6 new infections in Mohali districtMohali: Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Saturday while three patients were cured. Among the new cases, two each surfaced in Dhakoli and Kharar and one each in Mohali and Kurali. — TNS3 test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported three new cases of novel coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 30,670. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained unchanged at 376. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-six-cases-no-death-300464
22-08-2021||---||392 youths run from pillar to post for joining letters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21As many as 392 unemployed youths, who have already cleared the written examination for the posts of bus conductor in the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking, are running from pillar to post to get joining letters. Candidates were selected on basis of merit listM/S Dignus Services, a private firm, had invited applications for the posts of CTU bus conductor at the DC rate and on outsourcing basis. As many as 6,364 eligible candidates had appeared for a written test held on January 12, 2020, after paying a fee of Rs450 each. As many as 392 candidates were selected on the basis of the merit list. The medical examination of the first batch of 89 candidates was done. The further process got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.M/S Dignus Services, a private firm, had invited applications for the posts of CTU bus conductor at the DC rate and on outsourcing basis. As many as 6,364 eligible candidates had appeared for a written test held on January 12, 2020, after paying a fee of Rs450 each. As many as 392 candidates were selected on the basis of the merit list. The medical examination of the first batch of 89 candidates was done. The further process got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In a letter to the UT Adviser, the candidates stated that now the Covid situation had improved and most of the bus routes had been made operational. Even after nearly one and a half years, they were still waiting for their joining letters.The candidates alleged that they had been running from one office to another, but were not getting any reply. They learned that M/S Dignus Services wound up its operations in Chandigarh. Now, another company, JMD Consultants, had invited applications for the post of CTU bus conductors.They said it would be injustice with them if they were not allowed to join the duty. The authorities could have asked the new company to recruit them as they had paid the fee and cleared the written examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/392-youths-run-from-pillar-to-post-for-joining-letters-300465
22-08-2021||---||Chappar Chiri Khurd residents told to submit land ownership proof||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 21The district administration has issued notices to several Chappar Chiri Khurd residents under Sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery Act, 1973).What Villagers sayVillagers said they had been living in the area with their families even before the partition of the country, but now they were being asked for a proof of ownership of the houses and were being told that they were occupying the land illegally.The residents have been asked to appear before the District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO) on August 23 and provide a proof of ownership of the land and residential houses under their possession.The BDPO has been asked to submit a report to the Collector (Panchayat Land), Mohali, before the hearing.Residents accused the district administration of trying to forcibly evict them.DDPO Sukhchain Singh said: “Notices have been sent to the villagers to release the illegally occupied land as per the orders of the High Court. The hearing of the case has been going on since 2015 and now, the evidence of land ownership is being sought from the persons concerned. Villagers who do not have a proof of allotment will have to vacant the illegally occupied land.’’The villagers said that they had been living here with their families before the partition of the country, but now they were being asked for proof of ownership of the houses and they were being told that they were occupying the land illegally.Nambardar Baljit Singh said: “A report dated August 23, 2019, from Kanungo and Patwari, states that the land concerned is a populated area while the government is claiming it to be a green belt. Even two years ago, the administration had carried out marking in the presence of the police, but now they are harassing us by sending notices again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chappar-chiri-khurd-residents-told-to-submit-land-ownership-proof-300466
22-08-2021||---||Pawan Kumar Bansal flays Chandigarh Mayor for ‘submitting meekly’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Calling it “arrogant missive” from MC Commissioner KK Yadav, former Congress Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal today criticised the BJP Mayor for having submitted “meekly” to the officer’s remarks, “lowering own and the MC’s dignity.”Bansal was reacting to the Chandigarh Tribune report highlighting that Yadav had asked the Mayor not to issue direct references to officers.The former MP said: “Never before had an MC Commissioner bluntly asked the Mayor to not issue any direction to officers and the Mayor, in turn, had pusillanimously clarified his position, meekly saying that there was no intention to disrespect or jump hierarchy. Still worse, the Mayor passed the buck to XENs, submitting that it was a misunderstanding and that in future, the officials concerned would send the note to the Commissioner. This is tantamount to the betrayal of trust and confidence that the people of the city had placed in the BJP in 2016.”While, Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood, said: “On side hand, Mayor gave him farewell yesterday and the Commissioner had written such a note against him earlier. It shows ego on part of the Commissioner. He has gone out of protocol. He had also always tried to dictate during the House meetings, wherein the Mayor is the chairperson.”The Tribune report surprised all MC councillors and the Mayor. “The matter was also raised with senior UT Administration officers,” said an official.Yadav has already made it clear that the matter was only about one incident (an inaugural event) and he even had a word with the Mayor and the issue had ended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pawan-kumar-bansal-flays-chandigarh-mayor-for-submitting-meekly-300467
22-08-2021||---||Firing incident: F Bar owner wants his name removed from FIR, files plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Raising questions on the versions of the police, Gunkaran Singh, an owner of F Bar and Restaurant, has filed an application for discharging him from an FIR registered against him after a firing incident at the restaurant during the birthday celebrations of Sehdev Salaria, a BJP leader, on November 19, 2018 .A case was registered on the complaint of Deepak Kundu against Chetan Munjal, Rinku, Rimpi, Rajesh Passwan and others under Section 307, 505 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Kundu alleged that the accused opened fire on his friends and also attacked them with a bottle.In the application filed through counsel Terminder Singh, Gunkaran Singh said even the complainant did not name him in the complaint. Similarly, statements of others also confirmed that the accused was not present on the spot when the incident took place. The Counsel said accused had directed his employee not to touch anything on a WhatsApp group message, which was placed on record.Terminder Singh said that Gunkaran was not looking after the party or present at F-Bar on November 19, 2018. However, he was arrested without being apprised of the grounds of the arrest.He said Gunkaran was arrested only for extorting money and Sehdev Salaria was neither a prosecution witness or an accused for the reasons best known to the Investigation Agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firing-incident-f-bar-owner-wants-his-name-removed-from-fir-files-plea-300468
22-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Builder fined for delay in possession of flat, installing lift||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Omaxe Chandigarh Extension Developers Limited to pay Rs15,000 as compensation for delay in installing a lift in its residential project at Mullanpur. It also directed the builder to pay Rs15,000 as litigation cost to a consumer.The Commission has also directed the builder to pay 9 per cent penal interest for delaying the possession of the flat.Sarita Kalia, a resident of Omaxe Cassia, New Chandigarh, approached the Commission after the builder allegedly failed to provide promised services. In the complaint, Sarita said she paid a sum of Rs83,03,501 to the builder, Omaxe Chandigarh Extension Developer Limited, for a period from July 25, 2018 to November 25, 2019, towards her flat located at Omaxe Cassia, Phase 3, Mullanpur, Omaxe Chandigarh Extension, SAS Nagar, Mohali, Punjab.She said an agreement dated November 28, 2018, was executed between the parties. As per the agreement, the flat was to be delivered latest by January 2019. She alleged that the flat was handed over to her in May 2019 and the lift was not made available in the building.Sarita said since she was in urgent need of a house, she took over the possession of an incomplete flat with a request to the builder to complete the work later on. However, the builder failed to complete the pending work despite repeated emails. Even the club house was not made available at the project site.It has been pleaded that in the absence of a lift, it was not possible for her 78-year-old mother-in-law, who is a heart patient, to use the stairs to reach the flat, which is on the second floor of the building.The builder denied the allegations and also claimed that the possession of the flat was taken over by the complainant after inspecting all facilities and the lift had been installed in the building where the complainant’s flat is located.After hearing the arguments, the Commission directed the builder to pay a compensation of Rs15,000 to the consumer for delay in the installation of a lift. It also directed the builder to pay interest @9 per cent per annum on the deposited amount for the period of delay from January 1, 2019 to April 30, 2019 (possession taken over in May 2019). The Commission also directed the builder to pay Rs15,000 as litigation cost to the consumer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-fined-for-delay-in-possession-of-flat-installing-lift-300469
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress workers hold protest march||A protest march was today held from the Congress Bhawan to the BJP office in Sector 33 against the alleged misbehaviour by BJP leaders with a woman participating in a farmers’ protest two days ago.Deepa Dubey, president, Mahila Congress, reached with her team holding bangles in their hands to present to BJP leaders.Congress president Subhash Chawla said misbehaviour with any woman in the city would not be tolerated at all. Meanwhile, the police tried to stop Congress workers by using with water cannons, barricades and lathicharge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-workers-hold-protest-march-300470
22-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Hockey Olympians for better future of trainees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21After coaches, media fraternity and parents, now former trainees and Olympians have suggested that the UT Administration should plan for the future of trainees, inducted in the state-run academies, beyond the contractual period of seven or eight years. Hockey Chandigarh gives cash awards to players for first timeIt was for the first time when Hockey Chandigarh awarded the players with cash awards. While the five players got Rs5 lakh each, Chandigarh Hockey Academy coach Gurminder Singh was awarded Rs2.5 lakh. Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi awarded the winners. Karan Gilhotra, president, Hockey Chandigarh, extended his wishes to Dr PJ Singh, Senior Vice-President, Hockey Chandigarh, and CMD, Tynor, for awarding the players with cash awards.While talking on the sidelines of an honouring ceremony organised by Hockey Chandigarh, five Olympians - Rupinder Pal Singh, Gurjant Singh, Monika Malik, Sharmila Devi and Reena Khokhar, all former trainees of Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA) - voiced for a better future of trainees. The state-run academies (cricket, football and hockey) induct a player for a specific period of seven or eight years. The trainees are groomed here by giving free-of-cost training and education. However, at the time when they prepare to play at the highest level, their contract comes to an end.“The academy has a good facility and environment for grassroots-level players. However, the Administration should think of keeping the players for a longer period of time. In my case, I didn’t even complete my higher secondary examination and my term was over. I had to find a new way to keep on playing hockey at a good level. If the Administration would keep the entire batch for a longer period, there’s more scope and opportunities for players. It’s just a suggestion. Otherwise, facilities are world class,” said Rupinder Pal Singh, who was part of the academy from 2002 to 2008. Ace forward Gurjant Singh also seconded his senior’s suggestion.“After passing out from the academy, I had to manage several things. I took a rented flat and had to spend some money to continue my coaching here. The Administration should tie up with colleges too and keep students till they clear higher education examinations,” said Gurjant Singh, who remained here from 2005 to 2011.Similar suggestions were made by women players, who started their career here but later on moved to different states. Meanwhile, some senior officials maintained that sometimes players are also at fault.“We have inducted a few players in our colleges after they passed out from the academy. The major concern pertaining to their academics’ performance, attendance and admission to other universities had haunted us several times. If they get attached to some camps, they won’t come to play in inter-college championships. If we are giving free admissions and other facilities, we are bound to take their services,” said a senior coach.Monika, Sharmila and Reena stayed in the city from 2007 to 2012. They were part of the Chandigarh Hockey Academy for girls and stayed at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 18.“This home coming is special. We missed the bronze medal by a whisker, but I am happy that our efforts are appreciated by the authorities,” said Reena. “The period spent under coach Olympian Rajinder Singh (junior) has taught us several things. This academy has produced one of the finest sportspersons,” said Sharmila.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-olympians-for-better-future-of-trainees-300471
22-08-2021||---||Dr Puneet Grewal's book on honour killings released||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21A book, ‘Killings for Honour: A Culture of Silence’, reveals that honour killing is more likely if the boy is from a lower caste and the girl from an upper caste.The book, which studies honour-killing cases in Punjab and Haryana, was released at the Chandigarh Press Club today.Author Dr Puneet Grewal, who works as a state project coordinator with Haryana’s Women and Child Development Department, finds that most of the boys killed were from Scheduled Castes. “The reason for this was the so-called honour of the dominant castes,” she explains.She has conducted a qualitative analysis of 20 cases of honour killing, which took place between 2009 and 2016, using theoretical sampling.The study finds that in a majority of the honour killing cases (47 per cent), the girls were found to be pregnant before marriage or had given sleeping pills to their parents to meet the boys at night and were found in compromising position by relatives.Inter-caste marriages (16%), runaway marriages (16%), talking over phone (11%), elopement (5%) and holding hands in public (5%) are other reasons behind such killings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-puneet-grewals-book-on-honour-killings-released-300472
22-08-2021||---||U-16 Cricket Tourney: Ludhiana claim 62-run lead||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 21Ludhiana lads registered a 62-run lead over Amritsar in the ongoing multi-day Punjab State Inter-District U-16 Cricket Tournament.Chasing 139 runs, Amritsar lads resumed their innings from 64/2 and went on to score 165 runs in 86.5 overs. Aishveer (48) was the top scorer for the side, while Rishabh Gupta and Varinder Viru scored 29 runs each. Karanjot Singh (6/47) and Anmoljit Singh (3/45) were the most successful wicket takers for the bowling side.In reply, Ludhiana scored 88/9 in 56.6 overs at the draw of stumps. Armaan Walia (37) was the highest scorer for the side. Karanjot (6/19) was the highest wicket taker for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/u-16-cricket-tourney-ludhiana-claim-62-run-lead-300473
22-08-2021||Mohali||Garbage collection work kicks off||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-collection-work-kicks-off-300474
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four nabbed for assaulting man||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-nabbed-for-assaulting-man-300475
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||No vaccination in city today||One arrested with pistolChandigarh: The police have arrested a resident of Indira Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, Navratan (20), and recovered a country-made pistol with 12 live cartridges from him. He was nabbed near the Railway Colony road, Mauli Jagran, on August 20. A case under the Arms Act has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSChitkara varsity, Adobe ink pactMohali: Chitkara University collaborated with Adobe to offer advanced creative skill-based training to its students and faculty. The agreement was signed by Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, and Girish Balachandran, India Director, Digital Media Business, Supreeth Nagaraju, Head, Education Vertical India, Digital Media Business, and other senior officials of Adobe India. The objective of the partnership is to offer digital and creative skill-based training to students to enhance employability and entrepreneurship skills, said Dr Madhu Chitkara. TNSSuraj shines in 2-km cycle raceChandigarh: Suraj claimed the 2-km cycle race, while Samarth Chauhan finished second in the Cycleworx Sports Club’s first cycling state meet for special children in association with Special Olympics India, Chandigarh Chapter. Rudra Das clinched the third position. In the 3-km race, Jashnpreet Singh, Kunwarjit Singh and Arshvir Singh claimed first three positions, respectively, while Tushar Arora, Vaibhav Singh and Manpreet Singh claimed first three positions, respectively, in the 5-km race. TNSTennis tourney from tomorrowMohali: The Mohali Lawn Tennis Association will host the three-day AITA U-14 National Ranking CS3 Tournament at Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur from August 23. Interested players can send their entries to the organisers before August 22. TNSOnam celebrated in traditional wayChandigarh: Members of the Malayalee community celebrated Onam at their respective homes in a traditional way on Saturday. Advocate Benny Thomas, chairman, Confederation of Keralites’ Organisation, said Keralites of all religions celebrate this festival every year traditionally by organising colourful cultural programmes and Onam feast in the tricity. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have been unable to celebrate Onam through a gathering for two consecutive years,” he said, adding that they celebrated Onam at their respective homes in the traditional way. TNSWorkshop on seeded rakhiChandigarh: To help protect the environment, Parijai Genus founder Ekta Bansal on Saturday conducted a workshop on preparing ‘handmade seeded rakhi’ at Mansa Devi Gaushala, Ashiana Children’s Home, Sector 16, Panchkula.This eco-friendly plantable rakhi is embedded with a seed in a base of clay and manure. Children were taught how to create the base and embed the seed. TNSJewellery collectionChandigarh: Aren Jewellers, Chandigarh, a manufacturer of opulent jewellery, rooting its heritage from Jaipur, featured its jewellery collection at the Jewellers Association Show, Jaipur, from August 18 to 20. TNSLifestyle exhibitionChandigarh: Luxury exhibition, ‘Decor Furniture & Lifestyle Show 2021’, at the Himachal Bhawan will continue till August 23. The exhibitors have come from various states of India and neighboring countries. Moving beyond mere apparels, the show will offer segments such as jewellery, accessories and other niche gifts. TNSMohali: Chitkara University collaborated with Adobe to offer advanced creative skill-based training to its students and faculty. The agreement was signed by Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, and Girish Balachandran, India Director, Digital Media Business, Supreeth Nagaraju, Head, Education Vertical India, Digital Media Business, and other senior officials of Adobe India. The objective of the partnership is to offer digital and creative skill-based training to students to enhance employability and entrepreneurship skills, said Dr Madhu Chitkara. TNSSuraj shines in 2-km cycle raceChandigarh: Suraj claimed the 2-km cycle race, while Samarth Chauhan finished second in the Cycleworx Sports Club’s first cycling state meet for special children in association with Special Olympics India, Chandigarh Chapter. Rudra Das clinched the third position. In the 3-km race, Jashnpreet Singh, Kunwarjit Singh and Arshvir Singh claimed first three positions, respectively, while Tushar Arora, Vaibhav Singh and Manpreet Singh claimed first three positions, respectively, in the 5-km race. TNSTennis tourney from tomorrowMohali: The Mohali Lawn Tennis Association will host the three-day AITA U-14 National Ranking CS3 Tournament at Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur from August 23. Interested players can send their entries to the organisers before August 22. TNSOnam celebrated in traditional wayChandigarh: Members of the Malayalee community celebrated Onam at their respective homes in a traditional way on Saturday. Advocate Benny Thomas, chairman, Confederation of Keralites’ Organisation, said Keralites of all religions celebrate this festival every year traditionally by organising colourful cultural programmes and Onam feast in the tricity. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have been unable to celebrate Onam through a gathering for two consecutive years,” he said, adding that they celebrated Onam at their respective homes in the traditional way. TNSWorkshop on seeded rakhiChandigarh: To help protect the environment, Parijai Genus founder Ekta Bansal on Saturday conducted a workshop on preparing ‘handmade seeded rakhi’ at Mansa Devi Gaushala, Ashiana Children’s Home, Sector 16, Panchkula.This eco-friendly plantable rakhi is embedded with a seed in a base of clay and manure. Children were taught how to create the base and embed the seed. TNSJewellery collectionChandigarh: Aren Jewellers, Chandigarh, a manufacturer of opulent jewellery, rooting its heritage from Jaipur, featured its jewellery collection at the Jewellers Association Show, Jaipur, from August 18 to 20. TNSLifestyle exhibitionChandigarh: Luxury exhibition, ‘Decor Furniture & Lifestyle Show 2021’, at the Himachal Bhawan will continue till August 23. The exhibitors have come from various states of India and neighboring countries. Moving beyond mere apparels, the show will offer segments such as jewellery, accessories and other niche gifts. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-vaccination-in-city-today-300477
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali's Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital to be functional by Nov||Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre in Mohali is likely to be operational by November.In a joint visit to the construction site, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and Dr RA Badwe, Director, Tata Memorial Centre Mumbai, reviewed the progress of the project. The Chief Secretary said the 300-bed state-of-the-art hospital would act as a tertiary care centre for the entire northern region. “The hospital will start radiotherapy, radiology, CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, X-ray, mammography, medical oncology, chemotherapy, day-care ward, pathology and lab facilities,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohalis-homi-bhabha-cancer-hospital-to-be-functional-by-nov-300349
