23-08-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to contest all 35 seats in upcoming Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections||Putting speculations to rest, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday officially declared to contest on all 35 seats in the upcoming Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections in December. The AAP will be contesting the MC elections for the first time and is hopeful of emerging as a major party here. The announcement was made by senior party leader and MLA from Delhi Jarnail Singh, senior Chandigarh leaders Prem Garg, Chander Mukhi Sharma and Pradeep Chhabra.Addressing the media at the party headquarters here, Jarnail Singh alleged during the tenure of the present BJP, corruption was rampant in every department in Chandigarh, and the AAP would work hard to eradicate it. He said the AAP had been trying for a long time to set up its organisation in Chandigarh and now the organisation was almost complete which would be fielded.Jarnail Singh said despite the BJP government at the Centre and the BJP-affiliated Lok Sabha member in Chandigarh; the Union government had neglected Chandigarh and made this beautiful city, a city full of filth, he alleged. He further said the long-standing demands of the people of Chandigarh were being ignored due to which the people now wanted a change of government. He said the Aam Aadmi Party was the only option available to the people of Chandigarh and this time they would bring honest people to power.Speaking on the occasion Prem Garg, Chander Mukhi Sharma and Pardeep Chhabra said at one time, Chandigarh had a special place in North India but for a long time now; the Congress and the BJP have allegedly crossed all the boundaries of corruption and as a result, problems ranging from cleanliness to taxes and shopkeepers have increased.They said the Congress had been occupying Chandigarh Municipal Corporation for a long time and Pawan Kumar Bansal was also winning in Lok Sabha, but he did not pay any attention to the problems of common people. The leaders added that the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders had also been avoiding meeting the people of Chandigarh and neglecting them.They alleged the people of Chandigarh would respond to the corruption of Congress and the BJP by voting in this time’s municipal elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-to-contest-all-35-seats-in-upcoming-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-elections-301072
23-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh jabs 42K more than target beneficiaries with first dose||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22Chandigarh has vaccinated 42,329 more beneficiaries than the target for the first dose, which translates into 105.80 per cent coverage. A total of 37.26 per cent of the beneficiaries have taken their second dose and are now fully vaccinated.‘People from Himachal Pradesh, Punjab getting jabbed in Chandigarh’A lot of people from nearby states like Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are coming for vaccination at our centres. That is why we have vaccinated more people. — Dr VK Nagpal, Joint Director, health Department, UTTarget populationAbove 18 years 7,29,822The reason for the Chandigarh health authorities vaccinating more than the target population of 18 years and above is that many people from Himachal Pradesh and nearby states are coming to the City Beautiful for their first dose.The target population of 7,29,822 is an estimate of the eligible population (18 plus) currently residing in the city. However, the CoWin data does not differentiate between residents of the parent state and other states. This week (August 14 to August 20), 72,741 doses were administered. This is the highest number of doses administered in a week ever since the vaccination drive began in the city.Dr VK Nagpal, Joint Director, Health Department, UT, said, “We have vaccinated 100 per cent of our target population. Now, a lot of people from nearby states like Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are coming for vaccination in our centres. We have not stopped anyone from availing vaccination facilities in Chandigarh and that is why we have been able to vaccinate more than the target. However, we will appeal to the city residents to take the second dose timely and be fully vaccinated.”Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “Many of our city residents had got themselves vaccinated at private centres in Mohali and other places when the vaccine was launched. A majority of Chandigarh residents (at least 80 per cent) have been inoculated with the first dose. Our mobile team is reaching out to people through door-to-door drives too.”Four test positive in Chandigarh, 7 recoverChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported four new cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Meanwhile, seven more patients have defeated the virus. A backlog of 3,000 positive cases of Covid-19 was uploaded on the ICMR portal. Thus, the Covid tally of total cases in the city stood at 65,066. — TNS3 infected, no fatality in Mohali.Mohali: Three new Covid-19 cases were detected, while three patients recovered from the virus on Sunday. Among the new cases, two were reported from Mohali and one from Dhakoli. Of the 68,567 cases reported from the district so far, 67,452 have recovered. With no new death, the toll stands at 1,058. — TNSNo new case, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no fresh Covid-19 case on Sunday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,670. The Covid toll also remained at 376 with no fresh death. While 30,282 people have recovered from the disease so far, 12 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-jabs-42k-more-than-target-beneficiaries-with-first-dose-300807
23-08-2021||---||Elderly Dalit man retracts statement||Panchkula, August 22In a turn of events, an elderly Dalit man from Hangola village, who accused former Raipur Rani SHO Inspector Yashdeep Singh and ASI Devi Dayal of beating him up, has retracted his allegations in his official statement to the police.2 cops were shiftedThe Hangola resident had accused former Raipur Rani SHO Inspector Yashdeep Singh and ASI Devi Dayal of beating him up. The two police officials were shifted to the Police Lines as a fallout of his earlier claims.The two police officials were shifted to the Police Lines as a fallout of his earlier claims.Gurnam Singh (76), a retired head teacher, had alleged that a group of villagers had sought police intervention in a matter pertaining to illegal occupation of shamlat land (village common land), but the police, rather than addressing their grievance, beat him up at the police station.The matter pertains to a dispute between two parties over 170-180 acres of shamlat land at Hangola village in Raipur Rani block. While one party claims the land belongs to them, the other says they are illegal occupants.Gurnam, in his written statement, said, “It was Kashmir Singh of the opposite party who made casteist remarks, intimidated me and started fighting on the police station premises. When the police intervened, I tried to move away but stumbled upon a chair that hit my head, leaving me injured.”ACP (Headquarters) Vijay Kumar Nehra, who is leading the probe, confirmed the development. ”A detailed inquiry is underway. We will investigate every aspect of the incident to bring out the reality,” he said.Meanwhile, the police have filed an FIR against Kashmir Singh on a complaint of Gurnam’s fellow villager Anil Kumar who, along with others, accompanied him to the police station. The FIR has been filed under Section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-dalit-man-retracts-statement-300820
23-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||The ugly side of the City Beautiful||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22Chandigarh may be working on several Smart City projects worth crores, the civic condition of the heart of the city — Sector 17 — shows a sorry state of affairs here.Will seek report, says MayorI will ask the SDO and the JE concerned to visit the area on Monday and submit a report. Action will be taken accordingly. — Ravi Kant Sharma, MayorBroken tiles, twisted railings, heaps of garbage, encroached corridors, wild growth and items stored by labourers in corridors, particularly near Bank Square and the DC office area, welcome visitors. The condition of the sector has gone from bad to worse over the years.“I have been working in Sector 17 for the past 27 years, but have not seen the area in such a pathetic state. I think ever since the two-bin vehicles were introduced, the problem of garbage dump in different areas near Bank Square, Sector 17-B, has increased. Also, people sleep here and keep their stuff dumped even during the day. Maintenance is a big issue in the sector,” lamented a bank employee preferring anonymity.Neeraj Bajaj, president, Business Promotion Council, Sector 17, said, “Cleanliness and maintenance are big issues here. Though in the market area, we keep thing intact but nobody pays attention to the areas near Bank Square.”Mahesh Kumar, an employee of a private company in Sector 17, said, “I have been coming to this sector since my college days, but have not seen it in such a bad condition before. On the one hand, we boast of Chandigarh being a smart city, while on the other hand we fail to maintain even the city’s centre.”Interestingly, the offices of Chandigarh Smart City Limited and the MOH, Municipal Corporation, are situated in Sector 17.Area councillor and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “We have resolved the issues at the places from where we had received complaints. I will ask the SDO and the JE concerned to visit the area tomorrow and submit a report. Action will be taken accordingly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-ugly-side-of-the-city-beautiful-300821
23-08-2021||---||BSNL customers face network issues in Ambala area||Ambala, August 22BSNL users have been facing network issues after a mobile tower was sealed by the Ambala Municipal Council Sadar Zone at Prabhu Prem Puram in Ambala Cantonment recently.‘Online classes hit’We have been facing network issues and the Internet is not working for the past few days. Online classes are getting affected. The BSNL must get the issue resolved. — Khushi, a class XII studentA BSNL user said: “A mobile tower was sealed recently due to which BSNL users have been facing network issues. The BSNL should have made alternative arrangements for the users timely”.BSNL SDO Paramveer Yadav said: “A site was hired by the BSNL in the Prabhu Prem Puram area. On August 18, the site was sealed by the Municipal Council and its power supply was disconnected due to some issue related to no-objection certificate. The higher authorities are in touch with the company concerned to get its documents submitted so that the service could be resumed. The tower at the sealed site was installed by a private company and the hardware equipment and antenna were installed by the BSNL. Mobile users in 200-300 metres of the sealed site have been facing some issues. Efforts are being made to restore the service at the earliest.”Rajesh Kumar, Secretary, Municipal Council, Sadar Zone, said: “There were complaints related to a tower at Prabhu Prem Puram. Following the complaints, three notices were served upon the company. It was asked to submit permission letter and related documents, but there was no reply from the company. Following this, the site was sealed and power supply was disconnected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsnl-customers-face-network-issues-in-ambala-area-300823
23-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: Councillor Satish Kainth seeks probe into F&CC meet without quorum||Chandigarh, August 22Councillor Satish Kainth has written to the Secretary, Local Govt-cum-Home Secretary, to conduct an inquriy into the holding of a Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting by the Mayor “without the quorum.”CouncillorspeakThis meeting should have been postponed/ cancelled due to a lack of the quorum. I demand a fair inquiry into the matter because financial implications are involved.  — Satish Kainth, CouncillorAccording to him, only two members — Mayor Ravi Kant and Sunita Dhawan — were present at the July 22 meeting for clearing four agenda items. At least three members of the total five are required to be present.“As per the Municipal Act, no business shall be transacted at a meeting sub-committee unless at least more than half of the members of the sub-committee are present. This is a totally undemocratic practice and in violation of the Act. This clearly points towards vested interest,” he wrote.“This meeting at that time should have been postponed/cancelled due to lack of the quorum. I demand a fair inquiry into the matter because financial implications are involved,” the Congress leader added.However, Mayor Ravi Kant claimed, “According to officers, in these meetings, even the Commissioner is a member. We had the quorum. Kainth was inivited, but he did not come for the meeting. Now, he is making an issue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-councillor-satish-kainth-seeks-probe-into-fcc-meet-without-quorum-300824
23-08-2021||---||Anindita Mitra to join as Chandigarh MC chief today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22Anindita Mitra, a 2007-batch Punjab cadre IAS officer, will join as the new Chandigarh MC Commissioner tomorrow. She will be joining on an inter-cadre deputation from the Punjab cadre to the AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment). She will have to deal with challenges such as managing the water tariff, waste processing and Smart City and other burning issues in the city.The incumbent Commissioner, KK Yadav, was officially relieved today. He will join his parent cadre in Punjab tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anindita-mitra-to-join-as-chandigarh-mc-chief-today-300825
23-08-2021||Should the UT regularise need-based changes in CHB houses?||Allow one-time changes, don’t make it a norm||Individual preferences and needs are increasing by the day. The price of properties is touching the sky. Everyone needs to fulfil his/her needs in dwelling acquired with hard-earned money. The lifestyle has changed. People sleep inside houses and don’t require big courtyards or verandas for drying clothes. The Chandigarh Administration has rightly come out with the decision to allow changes as per the approved plans. It should go ahead with the decision and continue to regularise changes made by owners of CHB houses.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhWill increase Revenue of AdministrationSmall families living in compact houses with changes already made cater to maximum space utilisation. Every family needs a small room for their son/daughter. Regularisation of changes in CHB houses will increase Administration’s income. Property prices will also witness a boom in the UT.Malvinder Singh Sidhu, ChandigarhDon’t turn UT into an organised slumEvery ruling dispensation comes out with relaxations for illegal constructions before elections. In majority of cases, changes in residential units are greed based and not need based. Owners build illegal structures and rent them out. The UT Administration should regularise only minor alterations in CHB houses lest the City Beautiful will turn into an organised slum. Safety of habitants and retaining original design is paramount for the UT Administration.KC Rana, ChandigarhNew schemes beyond common man’s reachThe CHB housing schemes launched in the past were too costly and beyond reach of the common man. Due to soaring property prices in the UT, residents are unable to buy new houses. With the passage of time, the number of members in each family has increased. So, the Administration should allow some need-based changes in houses allotted by the CHB in the City Beautiful keeping in mind the strength of their foundations.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliAllow Additional room on rooftopHouses constructed by the Chandigarh Housing Board long ago need changes as per requirement of owners concerned. Due to increase in members of families over the years, there is need for additional space required by converting balcony into room if structurally safe. Additional parapet walls can be allowed for improving circulation in the house. Construction of additional room on roof tops can be allowed. Further, provision of lift may be allowed in multi-storey flats.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliExercise powers with sympathyThe Chandigarh Housing Board used to operate from a single-storey building. Now, its office is housed in multi-storey building. No need based additions or alterations in CHB houses are regularised in the UT. Whatever additions or alterations allowed are just cosmetic in nature and don’t serve any purpose. Children have become adults and have new families, which adjust in same small spaces. Instead of going blind, the Chandigarh Administration must exercise its powers with sympathy. Failure to do so will bring colossal loss to residents of CHB houses. Let the better senses prevail among top officials to save and not to destroy the city.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhOld-style housesThe CHB houses are constructed on the old pattern, which need some changes immediately. The changes in the rule providing relaxation to residents of Chandigarh is a good step as otherwise, people will always fear that strict action could be taken against them. With allowing necessary changes, expect positive results. However, it could have a negative side that people may start illegal constructions.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhAllow relaxationsThe CHB should allow some need-based changes as additional construction rear the courtyard, terrace or any internal changes such as additional door or coverage of corridors. After paying some essential charges and proper permission from Administration, occupants must make necessary changes in their houses. For the convenience of occupants, relaxation must be recommended by the CHB. They can only demolish illegal encroachment.Anita Tandon, KhararWill come as a reliefIf need-based changes are regularised, it will be a big relief for around 50,000 allottees Chandigarh Housing Board flats in the various sectors of the city. The authorities should allow changes that can be added to the design already approved by the board. The decision has been much awaited by the flats’ owners. Changes such as the construction of additional room on the terrace, construction of additional door, shifting of entrance door from side boundary wall to front boundary wall and fixing of grilles, which have been considered for being permitted, will really help the residents in getting some extra covered space within the same total area. This will be possible with some riders and also with limitation on the total covered area. With the changes being regularised, the owners of flats would not further violate any guidelines. If violations are reported still, multifold penalties may be imposed. If the authorities concerned have already agreed to allow need-based changes, then, it’s the duty of citizens to follow guidelines and limitations set by the CHB.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliShould not become a routine affairRegularising the changes made by allottees after buying the properties should not be done routinely. They should be allowed only when there is a real need for modification and not only for ornamental purposes. Many buy CHB flats because they are cheaper than those built by private builders, then they proceed to make unauthorised modifications to enhance its appearance/facade and sell it off at a higher price. The CHB flats are built to a specific uniform plan and priced accordingly. So, modifications should be only allowed rarely and that also inside the premises only.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhBasic structure must be maintainedThe City Beautiful has been planned and designed specifically by French architect Le Corbusier. The designer has planned all views of buildings, including commercial, housing and official. The changes proposed in the buildings to help residents must be as per the city’s basic structure plan. The unauthorised and unplanned structures and alterations to the houses may destroy the overall look of the city. The basic concept, structure and look must be maintained to retain the beauty of the city.Wg Cdr Jasbir SinghMinhas (retd), MohaliIt’s Too late to demolish changesThe Administration had mostly turned a blind eye to the matter. It should have put an end to the unlawful construction in the very beginning. Action regarding dismantling at a large scale at this juncture can pose danger to basic structures. Therefore, a panel should be set up to chalk out a plan of action for regularising genuine changes. The invisible alterations may be ignored but the encroachment must not be spared.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliA long-pending demand of residentsOver the years, residents of CHB flats have made need-based changes, but Administration did not regularise the same, rather issued notices for the violations. In view of the present scenario, the Administration should regularise the need-based changes without changing outer structure. The UT Administration and the allottees should work together to settle the problem.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaUT should Do what residents want14. As demanded by residents, the UT Administration should regularise changes carried out in houses allotted by the Chandigarh Housing Board. Regularising the need-based changes is the need of the hour. This step may be a relief for residents.Adish Sood, AmlohUT practices must Change with timeWith the changing times and fashion, the Chandigarh Administration should regularise the changes carried out in houses allotted by the Housing Board. The requirements of residents are increasing with time and they want to enjoy a lavish lifestyle. So, they are giving a modern look to their houses. They are renovating their houses for fresh air and lighting. They do not also want to reside in closed box-type houses. The Administration should work for the betterment of the citizens. The Housing Board should not have any objection if the residents give better shape to houses as per the needs of their families. A sub-committee of the Housing Board and residents should be framed to resolve regularisation matters. The houses were constructed by the Housing Board for the welfare of the residents. So, the Administration should understand the problems of residents and regularise the changes.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDon’t allow variationEarlier, the Chandigarh Administration was wary of any changes in the Housing Board houses, but now, the Administration is thinking of regularising changes asked by the allottees. Once the changes are allowed, the Corbusier’s heritage beauty will be brushed away. Tourists will not visit the city because its beauty will be spoiled by changes in the houses. Though the allottees will get benefit by making changes such as extra rooms. How the Chief Architect will think of losing the symmetry of houses? The UT Administration should think before regularising the changes.MR Bhateja, NayagaonGenuine demandThe demand of the residents to regularise the charges carried out in the houses allotted by the Chandigarh Housing Board is rational and genuine. The regularisation will facilitate a smooth transition to the new requirement of the CHB norms. Over the years, around 50,000 CHB flats have made need-based changes. Nevertheless, the Administration had not regularised these properties and had issued notices to most of the allottees. The UT Administration will also benefit from this as it can avoid long-drawn litigations. The charges calculated by the UT Administration or the CHB may not be accurate or genuine in the minds of the residents. So a one-time regularisation will do away with all hassles for all.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhCHANGES WILL MAR UNIFORMITYOther than the need-based changes that are already listed down by law, the UT Administration should not regularise the changes that are being carried out illegally in the houses allotted by the Chandigarh Housing Board, because it will change the uniformity and beautiful symmetry of the structures involved. Instead of regularising them, the unlawful and unnecessary violations should be punished by levying a fine, and the illegal structural extensions should be demolished.SIMRAN SIDHU, CHANDIGARHDecision a tightropeThose residing in CHB houses have created a comfortable space for living my making certain changes to the overall structure. Everyone should have a right to live as one pleases without much interferance from the authorities. It is not right to penalise those who have altered their houses to suit their lifetsyle requirements. However, those trying to encroch upon the area or violate all building bylwas must be taken to task at all costs. The decision will be nothing short of a tightrope for the UT Administration as it has to create a balance between the need of its residents and checking illegal activities such as sub-letting by CHB allottees.Kriti Chawla, PanchkulaQUESTIONShould the UT consider allowing leasehold-to-freehold conversion of industrial properties, which is a long-pending demand of the business community?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-one-time-changes-dont-make-it-a-norm-300827
23-08-2021||Harkanwar Kaur||Safety a concern as Covid norms go for toss in Mohali schools||Mohali, August 22It seems a number of government schools in Mohali are not concerned about the safety of children in the face of a possible third wave of Covid-19.Even as schools have been reopened for students of primary to higher classes in Punjab, the authorities are making little effort to comply with the Covid norms.During a visit to government schools in Mohali, this correspondent found that students as well as teachers were neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distance.“We have made efforts to ensure that students wear masks in the school and don’t gather in groups, in or out of the school, but we all know that primary wing students don’t take the advice seriously,” said Harpreet Kaur, senior in-charge of Government Middle School, Bar Majra, Mohali, when asked about the children sitting in corridors without masks.In many classes, both students and teachers were not wearing masks and study tables were also arranged without following the norm of six-foot distance.Baljinder Kaur, a teacher of Government Primary/Middle Smart School, Phase 2, SAS Nagar, said: “Most of the students belong to slum areas and they lack awareness regarding the Covid norms. We request the parents to send their wards to the school with masks but they often say children misplace these on the way.”Though physical activities have been put on hold as part of the Covid norms, students were seen walking in the playing areas and on the staircase.“Some teachers also don’t wear masks while teaching or checking our notebooks. They keep the masks in their handbags,” said a student.Recently, the Sub-Divisional Magistrates of three sub-divisions of Mohali had conducted a surprise check of schools in their respective areas and ordered the closure of four of these for the non-compliance of safety protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/safety-a-concern-as-covid-norms-go-for-toss-in-mohali-schools-300829
23-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||PU releases tentative calendar for inter-college championships||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22After hearing no words from the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) over conducting inter-university championships, Panjab University issued a tentative calendar for organising inter-college championships for various disciplines.For over 14 months, Panjab University did not conduct any inter-college championship owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Usually, the Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, starts organising inter-college championships in the month of July.As per the tentative calendar (subject to announcement made by the AIU), the Sports Department will host inter-college competitions for swimming, water polo and diving (men and women) in the first week of October. It will be followed by archery (men and women), athletics (men and women), badminton (men and women), baseball (men), basketball (men and women), boxing (men and women), bridge (men and women), canoeing and kayaking (men and women), chess (men and women), cricket (men and women) and cross country (men and women) competitions in the same month.In November, events for cycling road (men and women), cycling track and road (men and women), fencing (men and women), football (men and women), gatka (men and women), golf (men and women), artistic gymnastics (men and women) and rhythmic (women), handball (men and women), hockey (men and women), judo (men and women), national style kabaddi (men and women), kho-kho (men and women), shooting (men and women), soft tennis (men and women), squash racquet (men and women), table tennis (men and women), tennis (men and women) and volleyball (men and women) are scheduled to be organised.In December, the Directorate of Sports will conduct only wrestling championships - freestyle (men and women) and Greco Roman (men).After a brief break, inter-college events for netball (women), Pencak silat (men and women), roller sports (men and women), rowing (men and women), rugby (men and women), sepak takraw (men and women) and taekwondo (men and women) are scheduled for January 2022.In the next month, championships for softball (women), weight lifting (men and women) and wushu (men and women) will be organised, while in March only yoga (men and women) championships are scheduled to be conducted.Colleges and other participants have been asked to send their entries for these events till last week of September 30.Meanwhile, the AIU has not sent any schedule for conducting north zone and all-India inter-university championships.As per the schedule, championships for B-Division (colleges having strength of 500 students) will start from October. Inter-college basketball events (men) will be conducted in October, followed by events for athletics (men and women), volleyball (men), football (men) and cricket (men) in November. Hockey (men) and circle kabaddi will be conducted in December and kabaddi (national style) will be organised in January.In the women’s category, events for basketball and badminton are scheduled in October, volleyball and table tennis in November and kho-kho in December.The C-Division (evening and BEd colleges) category will start from athletics (men and women) in November, followed by events, including badminton, table tennis, kabaddi, basketball, volleyball, football and hockey, in March 2022. For women’s category, badminton and basketball are announced to be conducted in October, followed by table tennis and kho-kho in November and volleyball and yoga in March 2022.“Keeping in mind the current scenario, inter-college competitions should be organised. Players have been waiting for such platforms to showcase their talent,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-releases-tentative-calendar-for-inter-college-championships-300830
23-08-2021||---||Carrom challenge: Chandigarh's Nidhi Gupta at 3rd spot after round 1 of league matches||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22Deepa Naik of Odisha, Kavya Shree from Jharkhand and Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta lead at first three positions, respectively, after the 1st round of league matches of the Indian Online Carrom Challenge 2021-22, organised by the All-India Carrom Federation.In the league matches, four rounds of four boards will be played and the player who finishes each board in minimum chances will stand on the top.In the first round, Nidhi secured 25 (5+7+6+7) points, while Deepa and Kavya secured 20 (1+11+5+3)and 21 (4+7+5+5) points, respectively.Another Chandigarh player, Vaidhavi Mamgain, ended her opening round at the 14th position jointly with Sharmila Borha of Assam with 41 points each. Sanya of Chandigarh shared 15th place jointly with Pushkarni Bhattad of Maharashtra and Rozina Godad of DASCB with 43 points each. Sangini Mamgain is lagging behind at 25th position jointly with Jyoti from Delhi with 75 points each.In the men’s league, local lad Mohammed Talib shares 10th position with Roshan Ali of Rajasthan and Mohamed Rehan of Uttar Pradesh with 19 points each. Mohammed Hassan and Gopal Kakkar are placed at 21st and 23rd positions by scoring 32 points and 34 points, respectively. Another Chandigarh player, Paras Arora, struggled at 27th position. A total of 47 men and 41 women players are competing in the league round matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carrom-challenge-chandigarhs-nidhi-gupta-at-3rd-spot-after-round-1-of-league-matches-300831
23-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: Sri Guru Gobind Singh College lads claim rugby title||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22Sri Guru Gobind Singh College (SGGS), Sector 26, defeated Post Gradate Government College, Sector 11, to win the men’s title on the concluding day of the 5th Sub-Junior, Junior and Senior State Rugby Championship, today.The Sector 26 outfit logged (10-7) victory. Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, claimed this position by registering (15-12) win over the DAV College Club outfit. The host team of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11, logged (10-7) win over Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, to win the women’s final.Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, defeated DAV Club 15-10 to claim the third position. In the boys’ junior final, Moti Ram Club defeated Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 38 (West) 15-10. Snehalya Club won the third place by registering (7-0) win over Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 27.In the girl’s final, the Sector 26 team registered (10-5) win over Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 45. KVS, Sector 47, bagged the third place by defeating SD Club (12-10).In the boys’ sub-junior final, Snehalya (A-team) defeated Snehalya (B-team) 10-5. In the girls’ sub-junior final, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 29, defeated KVS girls (10-5) to win the title.HS Bhullar, Joint Director, Vigilance Bureau, along with Ranjan Sethi, president, Deepak Kumar, working secretary, and PS Lamba, organising secretary, Chandigarh Rugby Association, awarded the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sri-guru-gobind-singh-college-lads-claim-rugby-title-300832
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||8 faculty members elected to Panjab University Senate||As many as eight members from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges were elected to the Panjab University (PU) Senate.Harpreet Singh Dua, Shaminder Singh Sandhu, KK Sharma, Jagdeep Kumar, Jagdish Chander, Inderpal Singh Sidhu, Jagtar Singh and Tarun Ghai have been elected to the constituency.Meanwhile, the result for the constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges was not declared on Friday due to issue over the inclusion of the name of a voter in the voters’ list. The result will be produced before the High Court in a sealed cover by the PU.Also, polling for the constituency of faculties has been rescheduled for September 1. Earlier, the elections were scheduled for August 23.“The date of the election for faculties has been rescheduled from August 23 to September 1, subject to approval from the Chancellor and the permission of the UT Administration with regard to holding of meeting of combined faculty,” stated the notice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-faculty-members-elected-to-panjab-university-senate-300833
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh constable returns lost purse to man||12 booked for assaulting manZirakpur: The police have booked 12 unidentified persons for assaulting a Baltana resident with rods and sticks on Saturday night. Complainant Daya Ram, a resident of Baltana, stated that the assailants hit him on his head with rod and sticks. When one of his relatives tried to intervene, the suspects attacked him too. The victim was taken to the CHC, Dhakoli, from where he was referred to the GMCH-32. The police are investigating the matter. TNSThree of travel agency bookedChandigarh: A Mohali resident, Hamir Singh, alleged that Rajesh Kumar of Kansal, Pushap Mahajan of Sector 37 and Bawa, who have a travel agency at Sector 37, took Rs5.35 lakh from him to send his son Pawan Kumar, 20, to Germany. Neither they sent him abroad nor did they return the money, alleged the complainant. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 24 of the Immigration Act has been registered. TNSFour held for house theftChandigarh: Four youths from Sector 25 have been arrested for a theft at a house in Sector 25 here on Saturday. The suspects have been identified as Vishal (21), Harsh (18), Sagar (21) and Deep Kumar (19). In his complaint to the police, Sector 25 resident Baljinder Kumar had stated that unknown person stole an LED, an LCD, a home theatre, a gold necklace and a few other ornaments from his house on the night of August 19. A case under Sections 380, 457 and 411 of the IPC was registered. TNSCong leader joins AAPZirakpur: Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Lohgarh, who contested the Zirakpur Municipal Council elections from Ward No. 21, and his supporters, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday. AAP MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa from Ropar, AAP MLA Jai Kishan Rodi from Garhshankar and Dera Bassi AAP president Kuljit Singh Randhawa were present on the occasion. Kamaljit Singh Lohgarh said he was betrayed by Congress leaders. TNSTraining programmeChandigarh: A district-level training programme for health volunteers was conducted at the BJP office in Sector 33 here on Sunday. One of the speakers, Dr Aditya Jindal, a pulmonologist, discussed about the medical aspects of Covid-19, importance of vaccination and need to take precautions. Another talk was delivered by Dr Monica Sood, an ayurvedic expert. She discussed about various body types and foods to increase the immunity. Sheetal Kharka, a yoga practitioner, also spoke on the occasion. Vote of thanks was proposed by Dr Ruchit Uppal, convener, Chandigarh team of national health volunteers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-constable-returns-lost-purse-to-man-300834
