25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports two new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported two new Covid-19 cases, a bulletin showed.The UT has 36 active cases, with an average positivity rate of 0.17 per cent in the last seven days, a health bulletin from the administration showed.Chandigarh’s fatality count stands at 812. Some 2,026 samples were tested over the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, 7,29,822 people over 18 have got at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Of this number, 2,84,050 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-new-covid-cases-301989
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Conference on synergy between Army, BSF held at Chandimandir||The Indian Army and Border Security Force (BSF) held a Synergy Conference at the headquarters of the Western Command in Chandimandir on Wednesday.Senior officers of the Western Command and senior officers from BSF's Western Command Headquarters in Mohali, as well as Punjab and Jammu Frontiers attended the conference.The conference was chaired by Major General Devendra Sharma, Major General General Staff (Operations), Headquarters Western Command. Senior officers representing the BSF included NS Jamwal, Inspector General, Jammu Frontier, and Sonali Mishra, Inspector General, Punjab Frontier.The agenda included discussions on issues of convergence to further enhance operational efficiency between the Indian Army and BSF. Common issues of training and equipment profile of BSF and challenges of border management were deliberated upon.The chairman highlighted the importance of developing a joint security force culture to thwart nefarious designs of inimical elements.During the wars of 1965, 1971 and Operation Parakram, the Army and BSF operated together towards a common purpose of defending the national borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conference-on-synergy-between-army-bsf-held-at-chandimandir-301962
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||62 challaned for encroachments in Chandigarh||Thieves strike at sector 22 houseChandigarh: Cash and jewellery items were stolen from a house in Sector 22. According to the police, complainant Raj Kumar reported that jewellery and Rs50,000 were stolen from his house between August 20 and 22. The theft took place while the complainant was away to Delhi to celebrate Raksha Bandhan. A case has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. The police have begun an investigation into it. TNSPU-CET date rescheduledChandigarh: Panjab University has announced rescheduling of the PU-CET (UG)-2021 and PU-MPhil/PhD Entrance Test-2021 on September 19 and October 3, respectively, instead of September 5 and September 19. The websites will be reopened/extended for the fresh candidates as well as for those who have not completed their form on time. A schedule is available on the websites concerned. TNSRakesh Tikait to visit cityChandigarh: Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, is expected to arrive in Chandigarh on Friday to address a rally being organised by a farm activist group at the Rally Ground in Sector 25 on August 27. The event will begin at 12.30 pm and end by 3 pm. TNSFake TTE in 7-day police remandAmbala: Pankaj Kumar, who was arrested by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) for posing as a Travelling Ticket Examiner (TTE) and issuing fake receipts to passengers on Monday, was produced before a court on Tuesday. He was sent to seven-day police remand. Vilayati Ram, SHO of the GRP, Ambala Cantonment, said: “The main accused and other accomplices who had boarded the train in the uniform of TTE are yet to be arrested.” TNSNHM employees hold protestChandigarh: National Health Mission employees working under the Health Department, UT, held a mass protest at the Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, on the second day of their strike. The employees are demanding “equal pay for equal work”. The strike hampered the Covid vaccination and OPD services of few centres. Daily OPD reporting was also stopped. TNSDiya, Sidhak in tennis finalChandigarh: Diya Chaudhary overpowered second seed Akshita Vashisht 9-2 to sail into the girls’ U-14 final in the ongoing Roots-AITA National Ranking CS3 Tennis U-14 Championship. In the second semis, Sidhak Kaur defeated Mehakpreet Kaur 9-1. Earlier in the quarterfinals, top seed Sidhak Kaur defeated Ekam Kaur 8-1, Mehakpreet Kaur ousted Tamanna Walia 8-7(5), Diya Chaudhary outplayed Kritika Sharma 8-3 and Akshita defeated Naisha Garg 8-7(2). In the boys’ U-14 quarterfinal, top seed Anhad Singh blanked Parth Sharma 8-1. Daksh Khokhar also moved ahead by defeating Sukhpreet Singh 8-0, Prabhav Sibbal defeated Prabir Singh 8-6 and second seed Divyam Sharma outclassed Himanish Brinda 8-3. TNSMohali Cricket Assn to hold trialsMohali: The Mohali Cricket Association will start trials for admission to its academy from August 25 to 27 for the new session (2021-22). Preference will be given to boys, who are around 10 to 12 years of age. The trials will start at 4 pm in the C-ground of IS Bindra Stadium, PCA Stadium, Mohali. Players born, residing or studying for at least past one year, prior to the year of the admission, in Mohali district will be eligible for the trials. Players should carry documents, including digital birth certificate (mandatory) and passport or voter ID. TNSCity spiker for U-19 India teamChandigarh: City spiker Harshit Giri has been selected to represent the country in the FIVB U-19 Boy’s World Volleyball Championship scheduled to be held in Tehran. Other members of the squad include Sandeep (Rajasthan), Sameer Chaudhary (Delhi), Aman Kumar (Haryana), Ajay Kumar (Haryana), Tanish Choudhary (Delhi), Joshnoor Dhindsa (Punjab), Jibin Job (Kerala), Dushyant Singh (Rajasthan), Srinath Selvakumar (Tamil Nadu), Dibyam Shahi (Uttar Pradesh) and Chikkanna Venu (Tamil Nadu). TNSSGGS blank ITBP in hockey meetChandigarh: Sri Guru Gobind Singh (SGGS) Hockey Club, Sector 26, registered a convincing 3-0 win over ITBP on the opening day of the Chandigarh State Senior Men & Women Hockey Championships at the Sector 42 Sports Complex on Tuesday. CISF lads logged a 3-1 win over Audit General, Punjab, and Wanderers Club drubbed Chandigarh Hockey Academy 7-2. 3BRD Air Force team thrashed Rock Rovers Hockey Club 14-2. In the women’s category, SGGS girls blanked Shivalik Public School 5-0. Rock Rovers Club steamrolled Wanders Club 17-0, while Sector 42 Hockey Stadium trounced SGGS Punjab University Club 4-1. MCM DAV College played a goalless draw against Government Model High School, Sector 42. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/62-challaned-for-encroachments-in-chandigarh-301809
25-08-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Sudan national robbed of wallet||Seven unidentified persons allegedly robbed a Sudan national of his purse containing his passport, Rs10,000, mobile phone, visa and other belongings, near the Airport light point here.Complainant Salahuddin Bashir Khair Syed, a BTech student, told the police he was going to Delhi with his visa and passport and took a shared taxi from Banur to Zirakpur. When the taxi reached the Airport light point, the occupants told him that he was dealing in drugs and they would hand him over to the police. Syed realised that the men were planning to rob him and jumped out of the taxi, but the robbers stopped the car and started beating him. They later fled with his belongings, said the police. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-sudan-national-robbed-of-wallet-301808
25-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sukhbir Singh Badal to address workers  in Amloh on Sept 4||SAD(B) president Sukhbir Singh Badal will address the party workers of the Amloh constituency on September 4 as a part of his ‘Gall Punjab Di’ campaign.Addressing a meeting of the party workers, Gurpreet Singh Raju Khanna said the Congress government has failed on all fronts.“Every section of society is on roads, even the Congress ministers and MLAs have expressed no confidence in its Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh,” said Khanna.He said the SAD-BSP alliance will form the next government in the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhbir-singh-badal-to-address-workers-in-amloh-on-sept-4-301807
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||75MWp target: Meeting held to speed up solar energy programme in Chandigarh||In order to achieve the target of 75MWp, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests-cum-Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), with members of the Federation of Sector Welfare Association (FOSWAC) and the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) to speed up the solar energy programme in residential sectors in the city.The motive of this programme was to create awareness among FOSWAC and CRAWFED members about the monetary benefits of the installation of rooftop solar power plants, said Dalai.He said in spite of constraints of land availability in the city, CREST had so far installed 45MWp solar power projects on both government and private buildings.The UT Administration had set a target of 75MWp to be achieved by August 15, 2023, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75mwp-target-meeting-held-to-speed-up-solar-energy-programme-in-chandigarh-301806
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Taranpreet powers Rock Zone to 31-run victory||Rock Zone defeated Terrace Zone by 31 runs in a UTCA Domestic Cricket Tournament 2021-22 league match here today.Put in to bat, Rock Zone scored 152/3 in the stipulated 20 overs. Taranpreet hit a 47-ball 60, while Mohit Handa smashed an unbeaten 48.In reply, Terrace Zone could only manage 121/9 in the allotted overs. Gaurav Ghai (40) was the top scorer for the side. For Rock Zone, Varun Kumar claimed three wickets, while Orminder took two wickets.Vohra leads from frontIn another match, Manan Vohra led Leisure Zone to a six-wicket win against Sukhna Zone. Chasing 135 runs for victory, the skipper hit a sparkling 62 off 48 to guide Leisure Zone to their second successive win.Earlier, Sukhna Zone managed to score a modest 134/5 in 20 overs. Chirag Yadav made 46, while Mayank Sidhu added 42 runs to the total.Plaza boys winIn the third match of the day, Plaza Zone registered a 68-run win over Rose Zone.Batting first, Plaza Zone made 162/6 in 20 overs. Ramanjit (52) Arjit Singh (41) and Sarul Kanwar (29) did the bulk of scoring for the side.In reply, Rose Zone were bowled out for 94 runs. Akshay Kansal took four wickets, while Guneet Singh and Vaibhav Narang bagged two wickets each.Nikhil Thakur (33) was the top scorer for Rose Zone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/taranpreet-powers-rock-zone-to-31-run-victory-301805
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Online Carrom meet: Chandigarh’s Nidhi improves to second position on Day 3||Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta gained one spot from her overnight third position in the ongoing Indian Online Carrom Challenge. He now claims the second position after round three with a cumulative score to 77 (25+29+23).Kavya Shree from Jharkhand continues to lead with 66 points (21+23+22), while Odisha’s Deepa Naik slipped to third position with 85 points (20+28+37).Sanya Chadha, another girl from Chandigarh, meanwhile, improved her position to 13th to stay in top 16. Sanya finished her 3rd round with 35 points raising her cumulative position to 108 (43+30+35). Vaidhavi Mamgain is struggling at the 19th position with 118 points (41+37+40) and still has a chance to improve in the 4th round (last round of league matches).Another Chandigarh player, Sangini, is far behind at the 33rd place with 202 points (75+62+65).Mohammed Sheikh of Karnataka retains the top position in the men’s category after the 3rd round league matches. Sheikh displayed an exceptional skill and scored ultimate slam and white slam.Chandigarh’s Mohammed Talib slipped to 20th place with cumulative score of 70 points (19+23+28). Mohamed Hassan (102), Gopal Kakkar (117) and Paras Arora (135) ended their journey at the 38th, 42nd and 44th positions, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-carrom-meet-chandigarhs-nidhi-improves-to-second-position-on-day-3-301804
25-08-2021||Panchkula||Man held for firing at father in Pinjore||The Pinjore police have arrested a person who fired two shots at his father on Sunday evening. The suspect has been identified as Yograj, a resident of Khadkua village near Pinjore. He was produced in a court, which remanded him to one-day police custody.The police said victim Om Prakash (49), in his complaint, had stated that he was posted in Military Engineering Services, Chandimandir Cantt, as a chowkidar. He was living alone as his son was residing separately in an adjoining house with his family.He said a youth came to visit his son around 6 pm on Sunday. He stopped him from meeting his son. Annoyed with this, his son started quarrelling with him. Yograj hit him on his head with a glass bottle and then brought a pistol from inside the house. His son fired a shot at him. When he tried to run away, his son fired another shot. The bullet hit him in the left hip. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-firing-at-father-in-pinjore-301803
25-08-2021||Mohali||Nature camp at Siswan||Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot today inaugurated the Siswan nature awareness camp.A tented accommodation facility (three tents) has been created with a provision for boating, eco trails, birdwatching and nature exploration through trekking and cycling.The foundation stone of the nature interpretation centre was also laid that would have interactive facilities for educating tourists about flora and fauna of the Shiwalik area.On removing illegal encroachment from the forest land, Dharamsot said with the concerted efforts, we had been able to retrieve thousands of acre land. Laying emphasis on the importance of forest cover, he said people had acknowledged the values of trees in the Covid times, when patients were direly in need of the oxygen support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nature-camp-at-siswan-301801
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm activist’s manhandling: FIR lodged||The UT police today registered an FIR in connection with a woman farm activist being allegedly manhandled during Union Minister Anurag Thakur’s visit to Chandigarh on August 19.The FIR was registered after a 15-member committee comprising farm unionists and heads of several villages in and around Chandigarh met the city SSP and demanded proper redressal of the complaint filed by the woman activist. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-manhandling-fir-lodged-301800
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||8 elected heads of affiliated  arts college||As many as eight members have been elected for the Panjab University Senate as the heads of affiliated arts college. Chandigarh’s Jatinder Kaur and Nisha Bhargava, along with Punjab’s Kirandeep Kaur, Kuldeep Kaur Dhaliwal, NR Sharma, RS Jhanji, Rajesh Kumar Mahajan and Rupinder Kaur have been elected from different colleges.The result for the constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges was not declared on Friday due to issue over the inclusion of the name of a voter in the voters’ list. The result was produced before the High Court in a sealed cover by the PU, before announcing it in public domain. Meanwhile, the elections for this constituencies witnessed 96.61 per cent polling. As many as 57 votes were polled today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-elected-heads-of-affiliated-arts-college-301799
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||NSUI protests against BJP at Matka Chowk in Chandigarh||City NSUI today protested at the Tribune chowk against the BJP, alleging that the party disrespected the national flag.They alleged violation of the National Flag Code while paying tribute to Kalyan Singh, former UP Chief Minister and Governor of Rajasthan, in Lucknow.“The national flag was half covered by the flag of the BJP on the coffin. No other flag should be placed higher than or above or side by side with the National Flag,” the protesters alleged.NSUI senior leader Shub Sekhon said: “Imagine if any other party had even unwittingly committed such an illegality and a red flag or the flag of any other party had been placed over the national flag. All hell would have broken loose.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-protests-against-bjp-at-matka-chowk-in-chandigarh-301798
25-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh yet to announce annual sports calendar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24While various local associations conducted championships which benefitted hundreds of city players, the UT Education Department is yet to announce the annual sports calendar for the benefit of the government school students.The players, who participated in the championships organised by the state associations, got an opportunity to take the advantage of the gradation policy. However, those studying in government schools are still awaiting the department’s decision on conducting inter-school championships.Since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic last year, the department has failed to conduct any tournament.Officials, meanwhile, said the plan to conduct championships in coming months was ready. However, as the exams are approaching, it may take another month to conduct any tournament.“Yes, we are planning or I must say, the plan is almost ready. After discussing it with the higher authorities, we will announce the calendar. Other institutions have started the preparation and so should we. A plan will be discussed with the Director Public Instructions (DPI) schools in the coming days,” said a senior official of the Education Department.Sources claimed that before taking any decision, the department observed the steps taken by Haryana and Punjab in this regard.“The Covid situation in Chandigarh is different from Haryana and Punjab. The officials should consider the local situation before taking any decision. Both the states are perhaps not conducting gradation of tournaments, so the UT Administration should also not do it. Some players are getting proper advantage, while others are being totally ignored. If not for team games, the department can start conducting individual events,” said a senior coach.“The department should at least prepare a tentative calendar so that players/coaches can start preparing. If there’s no activity in all these months, then what duty officials are performing? They should work on having off season camps or conducting some tournaments so as to bring things back to normal slowly. If not for smaller age groups, competitions for U-19 year age groups should be organised so that the winners can get gradation benefits,” said another coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-yet-to-announce-annual-sports-calendar-301797
25-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Builder fined for not delivering plot at New Chandigarh in fixed time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a builder to pay Rs5 lakh compensation to a consumer for not delivering the plot in the promised time.The Commission also directed the builder to refund the entire amount, Rs74,24,299, along with interest @18 per cent per annum, to the consumer within a period of one month of the order.Sanjay Kansal and Vandana Kansal, residents of Panchkula, in a complaint filed before the Commission, said they were allotted a residential plot measuring 304.14 square yards by Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited in their project at New Chandigarh on September 30, 2011. They said as per Clause 24(a) of the allotment letter, the builder was to deliver the possession of the plot after the completion of development work within 24 months from the date of signing of the allotment letter/agreement dated March 14, 2013 i.e. latest by March 13, 2015.The complainants said they paid an amount of Rs74,24,299 i.e. more than 95 per cent of the total sale consideration by May 31, 2016, but the builder failed to deliver the possession of the plot.They said instead of delivering the possession of the plot, the builder vide letter dated April 10, 2017, informed them about the relocation of their plot to plot number 638 measuring 301.39 square yards. When she rejected the offer, the builder again offered relocation to another plot number 641, which too was refused by them as they never requested the relocation of the plot.They alleged that the builder launched the project and also allotted a plot to the complainants without having necessary approvals/sanction for the same from the authorities concerned.The builder, in its reply, denied all allegations and said it had all necessary approvals and was registered with the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority. After hearing the arguments, the Commission held the builder guilty of deficiency in services and using unfair trade practice by not delivering the possession of the originally allotted plot to the complainants despite receipt of more than 95 per cent of the amount of the plot.In view of this, the builder was directed to refund the entire amount i.e. Rs74,24,299, along with interest @18 per cent per annum, to the complainant from the respective dates of deposit till payment as the builder is itself imposing interest @18 per cent per annum on one-month delay in making payment and @24 per cent interest per annum, if delay is more than one month as per Clause 14 of the allotment letter/agreement.The Commission also directed the builder to pay Rs5 lakh compensation for causing mental agony and harassment as well as litigation expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-fined-for-not-delivering-plot-at-new-chandigarh-in-fixed-time-301796
25-08-2021||---||Free treatment given to 8.06L beneficiaries in 2 years: Punjab Minister||Mohali, August 24Free treatment worth Rs912.81 crore was provided to 8.06 lakh entitled beneficiaries in two years under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY). It was disclosed by Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu during a state-level function held at Kisan Vikas Chamber, Mohali, to mark the beginning of the third year of the scheme.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the SSBY had successfully completed two years of its implementation. It was an initiative to move from a segmented approach of health service delivery to a comprehensive need-based health care service.Sidhu said the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana was launched in the state to holistically address the healthcare needs at the secondary & tertiary level and more than 8 lakh beneficiaries got free treatment. Of these, heart surgeries of 13,940 patients had been conducted free of cost. Similarly, knee replacement and hip replacement surgeries of 4,964 patients, treatment of 12,133 cancer patients and dialysis of 2,03,175 patients and treatment of other diseases had been done free of cost.Sidhu said e-cards were issued to more than 71 lakh beneficiaries under this scheme in the past two years. As many as 898 hospitals were listed for providing treatment to entitled beneficiaries, including government hospitals as well as large private hospitals. In these empanelled hospitals, entitled beneficiaries could avail of cashless treatment under the scheme for indoor hospitalisation for around 1,579 treatment packages.Benefits were being provided to the families listed in the Socio-Economic Caste Census - 2011, farmers holding J-forms and sugarcane weighment slip holders, registered construction workers, small traders and yellow cardholders or accredited journalists.The Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, one of the state’s biggest schemes, has achieved several milestones, including 8 lakh hospital admissions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/free-treatment-given-to-8-06l-beneficiaries-in-2-years-punjab-minister-301775
25-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panchkula MC forms new town vending panel||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 24The Panchkula Municipal Corporation has formed a new Town Vending Committee. The civic body has also cancelled the draw to be held at the Sector 12 community centre here today to allot sites to the vendors.A notice to cancel the draw was issued by the Deputy Municipal Commissioner.The street vendors were to be allotted sites in Sectors 2, 4, 8, 12, 15 and 19.No information has been provided in the notice about when the draw will be held.There is also confusion among the MC officials over removal of the street vendors without holding a draw. As per the survey list, vendors residing in Panchkula were to be allotted sites on priority basis through the draw. However, as the draw has not been held, the work of allotting sites hangs in balance.The Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had instructed the MC authorities to approve the sites and allot these to the vendors, but the new vending zone is yet to be approved.Deputy Mayor Sunil Talwar, BJP leader Sanjay Ahuja, former councillors CB Goyal and Lily Bawa were part of the old town vending committee.BJP councillor Harendra Malik, Jai Kaushik, Rakesh Kumar and Congress councillor Gautam Prasad have been included in the new committee.Some eminent citizens of the city, including former deputy president of Municipal Council BB Singal, BJP leader SP Gupta, Rajendra Nooniwal, Rohit Sen, JJP worker Mahendra Sharma, will also be a part of the new committee.Sumit Kumar, Avdesh Kumar, Vipin Kumar, Kiran, Pramod Shah, Rajkumar, Vikas Sethi, and Shahzad Alam will represent the vendor’s side in the committee.Deputy Commissioner, ACP (Panchkula), ACP (Traffic), Chief Medical Officer (Panchkula), Lead District Manager, SE Municipal Corporation, Fire Station Officer and Labor Inspector have been made official members of the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-forms-new-town-vending-panel-301774
25-08-2021||---||Proceedings against Judge Hemant Gopal pending since Feb 2020: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, August 24Proceedings against the then Additional District and Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge, CBI, Patiala, Hemant Gopal have been pending before a vigilance/disciplinary committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court since February last year.As the matter came up for resumed hearing, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted a report received from the High Court Registrar-General showed that the committee approved the departmental inquiry report dated March 31, 2018, on the indictment of Hemant Gopal, after receiving it from the inquiry officer-cum-district and sessions judge, Panchkula.It was approved on July 25, 2018 and a show cause notice was issued to the officer concerned, who submitted a reply on August 23, 2018. Thereafter, the vigilance/disciplinary committee, in its proceedings on November 28, 2018, decided to give personal hearing to the officer concerned.The officer, on February 6 last year, was given personal hearing. But the matter was deferred for further consideration.“It appears that since February 2020, the matter is pending before the vigilance/disciplinary committee,” Justice Sangwan observed.Gopal is currently under suspension with headquarters at Faridikot.Justice Sangwan, on previous date of hearing, had asked the Registrar-General to file a status report, explaining why final decision had not been taken against the judicial officer on the basis of the inquiry report.The direction came after counsel Vishal Garg Narwana told Justice Sangwan’s Bench on behalf of a convict that Hemant Gopal was found guilty vide inquiry report dated March 31, 2018.Despite a lapse of three years, the High Court had not taken a final decision on the inquiry pending against him, said Narwana.Justice Sangwan was hearing second application filed by Mangat Rai for staying the operation of judgment of conviction dated April 20, 2013.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, Narwana submitted that the first application was dismissed on October 22, 2013. But the applicant-appellant moved the present application due to changed circumstances.Elaborating, Narwana submitted Gopal had passed the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence in the applicant’s matter. But the officer was found guilty on Rai’s complaint.Narwana also referred to another enquiry, vide which, Law Officer, Department of Legal and Legislative Affairs, Sushil Kumar, was also chargesheeted as “a conduit, who facilitated the payment of illegal gratification”.He was found guilty in a departmental inquiry and stood dismissed from service.Narwana added it was an established fact that Gopal had accepted illegal gratification of Rs40 lakh from co-accused Parminder through Sushil Kumar and demanded Rs1 crore from the present applicant-appellant and others.“Parminder Singh was acquitted because he paid gratification of Rs40 lakh, whereas the applicant-appellant and other accused were convicted as they did not pay any amount to him”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proceedings-against-judge-hemant-gopal-pending-since-feb-2020-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-301773
25-08-2021||---||No malaria, only five dengue cases in Panchkula so far this year||Panchkula, August 24The Health Department, along with the local Municipal Corporation, is carrying out active surveillance and taking preventive steps to keep a check on the vector-borne diseases in the district.This year so far, no case of malaria has been reported from the district while there have been just five cases of dengue.The health authorities had initiated preventive measures across the district ahead of the monsoon amid a devastating second wave of the Covid pandemic.The Health Department had also started “Information, Education and Communication (IEC)” activities under which it urges people to clear the stagnant water from coolers and surrounding areas.At least 432 notices have been issued to the government and private properties where mosquito larvae were found.Meanwhile, 20 breeder checkers deployed across the district have been keeping a consistent watch on high-risk dengue zones in Old Panchkula, Pinjore, Kalka, Nanakpur, Morni, Raipurrani, Hangola, Kot, Barwala and the urban areas of Panchkula since July.They have been asked to continue these activities till the end of October.Dr Mankirat Murara, Civil Hospital spokesperson, said all steps were being taken to prevent the vector-borne diseases in the district.“Active surveillance is carried out by multipurpose health workers at the sub-centre level on a fortnightly basis,” said Dr Mankirat.“A special rapid fever survey was also conducted between August 8 and 20 in all rural and slum areas. Passive surveillance is carried at the PHC level where all patients coming with fever are being tested for malaria,” Dr Mankirat added.MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh said fogging was being conducted in the areas under its jurisdiction to prevent diseases such as malaria and dengue.Our special focus is on the areas from where cases of dengue have been reported, he said.20 breeders deployed in districtTwenty breeder checkers deployed across the district have been keeping a consistent watch on high-risk dengue zones in Old Panchkula, Pinjore, Kalka, Nanakpur, Morni, Raipurrani, Hangola, Kot, Barwala and the urban areas of Panchkula since July. They have been asked to continue these activities till the end of October.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-malaria-only-five-dengue-cases-in-panchkula-so-far-this-year-301771
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panel wants civic amenities in Chandigarh villages improved||The Pendu Sangharsh Committee, which acts as a representative of city’s villages, addressed the issue of poor civic amenities in villages falling under the MC.In a meeting held at Sarangpur village, members of the committee decided to write to the MC’s Chief Engineer, demanding repair of village roads and installing new sewer lines and storm drains.The villagers have been harrowed during the monsoon and the committee has asked for improving the drainage of rainwater and sewage, drinking water supply from canal, replacement of damaged power cables and laying underground cables to improve the electricity supply in villages.Gurpreet Singh Somal, general secretary of the committee, said members of the committee would also meet the Chief Engineer in person on August 31 to seek better civic amenities. For this, committee vice-president Joginder Singh has compiled a list of demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-wants-civic-amenities-in-chandigarh-villages-improved-301769
25-08-2021||---||Man accused of raping daughter acquitted||Chandigarh, August 24A special court has acquitted a man accused of raping his minor daughter after the mother and the victim turned “hostile”.A case was registered under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act against the man in January 2016 on the complaint of his wife.She alleged that her husband raped their daughter when she was away for work. She said she had been living with her husband and three daughters. She worked as a domestic help in houses and her husband is a daily wager. She alleged that on January 19, 2016, when she returned home from work, she found that her husband was not at home. Her 10-year-old eldest daughter- prosecutrix was lying on the ground and told her mother that her father had forced himself upon her. The daughter said when she protested, her father had gagged her.When her husband came home in the evening, she asked him about this incident. He told her that he had committed a wrong act and she should forgive him. However, he committed the act again the next day when she had gone for work. Then she had approached the police.The accused as well as the prosecutrix were got medico-legally examined. The ossification test of the prosecutrix was conducted and a CFSL report was obtained. Statements of witnesses under 161 of the CrPC were also recorded and charges were filed. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed a trial.When the trial began, the mother and the prosecutrix both turned hostile. The special public prosecutor made a statement that since the main witnesses — prosecutrix and her mother — had failed to support the case of prosecution and turned hostile, no fruitful purpose will be served by examining the remaining witnesses as they were formal in nature.After hearings the arguments, the court stated that: “In these circumstances, there is no cogent and convincing evidence on record to link the accused persons with the crime. The prosecution has utterly failed to prove the charges against the accused. Resultantly, the accused is acquitted of the charges framed against him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-accused-of-raping-daughter-acquitted-301768
25-08-2021||Mohali||Two new Covid-19 cases in Mohali district||Two new Covid-19 cases, one each from Kharar and Mohali (urban), were reported on Tuesday. Seven patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Of the 68,572 cases reported from the district so far, 67,572 patients have recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-district-301767
25-08-2021||Panchkula||2 fresh cases of Covid, no death in Panchkula||The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 30,673. With no fresh death, the Covid toll remained at 377. While 30,284 people have recovered from the disease so far, 12 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fresh-cases-of-covid-no-death-in-panchkula-301763
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||One case of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||The city on Tuesday reported one case of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of two patients were cured of the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-case-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-301762
25-08-2021||---||Zero FIR against Kurukshetra boy for molesting minor from Panchkula||Panchkula, August 24The police have filed a zero FIR against a Kurukshetra boy for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl from Panchkula. The case has been transferred to the Pehowa police station in Kurukshetra.The suspect has been booked under sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.The two had become friends through video sharing platform TikTok.According to the FIR, the victim left her house with Rs10,000 and jewellery on August 7 and went to the boy’s house at Harigarh Bhorakh village at Pehowa in Kurukshetra district. The girl stayed at the boy’s house from August 7 to August 9.“On August 8, when the boy’s parents were away for work, he molested her and threatened to kill her family if she narrated the incident to anyone,” the FIR read.The boy’s sister dialled 112 on August 8 and in response, the police took the girl to Udayan Care in Kurukshetra. On August 20, Udayan Care officials contacted the victim’s parents and handed over the girl to them. The victim then confided in her parents about the incident, following which they approached the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zero-fir-against-kurukshetra-boy-for-molesting-minor-from-panchkula-301760
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Day after fatal accident in Chandigarh, ambulance driver held||A day after a speeding ambulance hit six vehicles from behind at the Sector 34/35/21/22 roundabout, claiming one life, the UT police arrested its driver.The police said the driver was identified as Ashu Ram (36), a resident of Barnala. He will be produced in the court tomorrow. The six vehicles had stopped at the traffic light and were waiting for the signal to turn green when the recklessly driven ambulance rammed into them from behind. One of the injured, Arshad, who was riding an Activa, had succumbed to the injuries sustained in the mishap.A case was registered against the ambulance driver under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC at the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-fatal-accident-in-chandigarh-ambulance-driver-held-301758
25-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Disciplinary proceedings for penalty recommended against Chandigarh judicial officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24The vigilance/disciplinary committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has recommended the initiation of disciplinary proceedings for imposing major penalty against judicial officer Manoj Dahiya. He is currently posted as the Judicial Magistrate First Class in Chandigarh.Information to this effect was placed before Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan’s Bench during the hearing of a bunch of petitions. The Bench, among other things, was told that the Officer on Special Duty (Vigilance), on May 17, 2019, conducted a discreet inquiry and submitted a report, which was placed before the High Court’s vigilance/disciplinary committee on August 9.It was recommended that disciplinary proceedings under Rule 4 (b) of the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 2016, should be initiated against the officer. The prayer, in one of the petitions before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, was for issuance of directions to the Central Bureau of Investigation to inquire into “the matter regarding corruption in gold scam, wherein one judicial officer and some police officers are also involved”.Counsel for petitioner Suresh Kumar relied upon some communications, newspaper reports and CD recordings allegedly made by the witnesses “highlighting the scam in which the accused usurped crores of rupees”. The Bench was also told that a number of complaints were submitted to the state crime branch cell.Taking up the matter, Justice Sangwan on the previous date of hearing called a report from the High Court Registrar, Vigilance. He was asked to specify whether a departmental inquiry was pending against Dahiya and another judicial officerJustice Sangwan observed that a report in a sealed cover, placed before the Bench, reflected that a complaint was received by the Haryana Director-General of Police on May 15 against the two judicial magistrates. It was forwarded to the High Court on May 15, 2019, for initiating prosecution, after which the discreet inquiry was conducted.“Since the disciplinary proceedings against the respondent-judicial officer have already been initiated and nothing is found against the other respondent-judicial officer, this petition qua the two respondents is disposed of having been rendered infructuous,” Justice Sangwan asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disciplinary-proceedings-for-penalty-recommended-against-chandigarh-judicial-officer-301757
25-08-2021||---||Nod to revised building plans for Chandigarh IT Park housing scheme||Chandigarh, August 24People will get a chance to buy a dream house in the City Beautiful as the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will soon float a general housing self-financing scheme at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology (IT) Park.“The Department of Urban Planning has given its approval to the revised building plans for the housing scheme,” said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.The drawings for approval of the Plan Approval Committee had been submitted and they are expected to be approved soon, he said.Application for environment clearance had also been submitted to the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority and the required formalities were being completed, he added.The CHB has planned to construct 728 flats in three categories in seven-storey towers on IT Park plots 1 and 2, which are spread over 16.6 acres, for the general public.In the project, the towers will have two basements with a provision for parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors. The scheme will have 28 four-bedroom, 448 three-bedroom and 252 two-bedroom flats.A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly Rs2.75 crore, a three-bedroom flat Rs1.90 crore and a two bedroom flat Rs1.30 crore.Meanwhile, Dharam Pal, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman, CHB, today visited the IT Park where the CHB is planning to construct a general housing self-financing scheme on the land. The CHB is also planning to construct flats for the governments of Punjab and Haryana for their MLAs and officers.During the visit, he went through the layout plan of 123 acres and asked the officers to sort out all issues in both these schemes and start the construction at the earliest possible. He also directed that the vacant plots for commercial activities, hospital and hotel should also be put up for auction after fixing their reserve prices.The Adviser also inspected the vacant commercial properties at Mani Majra and at Sector 61 (Kajheri). Since these properties were constructed more than 20 years ago and could not be sold despite repeated attempts, he directed that the matter to be placed before the board at its next meeting for consideration and appropriate decision in the matter. The board meeting has been scheduled for September 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-to-revised-building-plans-for-chandigarh-it-park-housing-scheme-301756
25-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Sterilising stray dogs in Chandigarh: 2 youngsters take it on themselves||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24While the Municipal Corporation (MC) has “failed to do enough” to contain the population of stray dogs in the city, two youngsters have got about 65 canines sterilised in the past three months.With a motto to create “puppy-free zone”, psychology student Diksha Gupta and start-up founder Anhad Sandhu pick canines in their personal vehicle after becoming friendly with them.“We initially used to take three-four dogs in our own vehicle. But it was not comfortable for them. So, now we hire a van to transport them to a renowned private clinic in Kharar,” she said.What got them goingThe idea struck us at the nature trail behind Sukhna Lake where we used to regularly feed dogs. We saw the number of dogs increasing there at an alarming rate. It is a threat to the wildlife and we thought of controlling their count. — AnhadDiksha lives in Zirakpur but frequents her grandmother’s house in Sector 34 where she, along with Anhad, a resident of Sector 16, started the initiative. Another volunteer Jairoop helps them.“Our aim is to first make Sector 34 a puppy-free zone, which implies their population will be stabilised and no new production will happen. We started with this sector as it has one of the biggest numbers of stray dog. About 50-60 per cent of the canines were already sterilised by the MC, but there were some cases where even neutered animals gave birth, may be due to improper operation. In some cases, dogs were sterilised but their ears were not cropped and vice-versa,” added Diksha. They were initially taking dogs for sterilisation to the Sector 38-based MC centre, but later the corporation refused to entertain them saying that they do not bring the canines properly.It costs around Rs2,500-Rs3,500 to get a dog operated. Besides, expenses are incurred on their transportation to and fro the clinic. The duo arranges funds from NGOs and public. They have sterilised 40 dogs in Sector 34 and 25 in other parts of the city.“The idea struck us at the nature trail behind Sukhna Lake where we used to regularly feed dogs. We saw the number of dogs increasing there at an alarming rate. It is a threat to the wildlife and we thought of controlling their count,” says Anhad.Unlike the MC team of dog catchers that comes with nets and other arrangements to catch strays, the duo becomes friendly with the canines or gain trust by offering them food or spending time with them, and later take them along for operation.“Stray dog menace will not end as there is no nationwide effort towards it. We need intelligent feeding. Those feeding the dogs should also take an initiative to vaccinate and sterilise them,” she suggested.On the other hand, the civic body claimed to have sterilised about 20,000 dogs since 2015 when sterilisation was first started in the city. Interestingly, a census conducted by the UT Animal Husbandry Department in 2018 pegged the number of stray dogs at 12,920. The residents, however, do not feel much impact on ground. “I think no sterilisation is done. In our sector, the number of dogs is only increasing. What kind of sterilisation is this?” asked Ravi Kumar, a Sector 30 resident.Walkers at Sukhna Lake rue that the packs of the dogs have increased there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sterilising-stray-dogs-in-chandigarh-2-youngsters-take-it-on-themselves-301755
25-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Citing cost, Chandigarh's no to paint cycle tracks red||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24Citing high cost of the project, the UT Engineering Department has turned down the proposal of the traffic police for colouring the cycle tracks along all roads in the city so that these look different.The traffic police had proposed that the black top of the non-motorised vehicle tracks needs to be changed so that it looks different as has been done in many other cities of the country.“This is essential as the black top naturally attracts motor vehicles,” the traffic police had apprised the Standing Committee (Transport) of the Administrator’s Advisory Council during its previous meeting.During a review meeting of the committee held yesterday, the UT Engineering Department stated that if the entire cycle track was to be painted with red colour, it would involve huge expenditure. To make it economical, the road marking has been done in red colour along with insignia of a cycle at a distance of approximately 50 metres to differentiate the cycle tracks from the main road. To encourage non-motorised mode of transport, the UT Administration has laid 210-km-long dedicated tracks for cycling in the city.Meanwhile, the committee chairperson had stated that there was a need to operate last mile connectivity in the city and car pooling would be the best option in this regard. Battery-operated vehicles should be operated within the sectors for last mile connectively, it was suggested.However, the member secretary apprised that a draft car pooling policy was prepared by the Transport Department but the same was not notified, as the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is in the process of preparing the guidelines for the car pooling policy. The said policy of the ministry would be applicable to all states and UTs.In the meeting, discussion on various subjects like making the roads of the City Beautiful free from animal-propelled carts, regulation of auto-rickshaws and making an inventory of the owners and drivers were held. On these issues, the committee apprised that the State Transport Authority has completed the process of regulating autos with Mohali and began the process with Panchkula.It was also shared that as per the decision of the Government of India, the STA is registering only e-rickshaw/e-auto for promoting of e-vehicles in future. The issue regarding taxation and fee amongst the tricity was also discussed. Accordingly, the Haryana Government has exempted the State Road Tax (SRT) of CTU buses plying on local routes in the tricity area of Panchkula. However, the reply is still awaited from the Government of Punjab.To improve the road connectivity between Panchkula and Chandigarh, it was shared that the work on improvement and widening of road for providing connectivity with an alternative road to Panchkula i.e. Junction 39 to the CTU Workshop and from the CTU Workshop upto Railway Road was under process of allotment.CNG/LPG autos not being registeredTo promote environment-friendly e-vehicles, the State Transport Authority has done away with registering CNG/LPG autos and only e-rickshaws or e-autos are being registered and promoted by it as per the Centre’s decision for promoting pollution-free vehicles. This was informed during a meeting of the Standing Committee on Transport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citing-cost-chandigarhs-no-to-paint-cycle-tracks-red-301754
25-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Privatisation of Electricity Department: Chandigarh gives nod, ball in Centre’s court now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24After getting approval of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, the UT Administration today sent the final bid report on privatisation of the Electricity Department to the Ministry of Power.The ministry will now take up the bid report with the Union Cabinet for final approval and after that the department will be handed over to the highest bidder.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department and seven companies – Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company – had submitted their bids.On August 3, the technical bids of the seven companies were approved, and the go-ahead was given to open the financial bids.When financial bids were opened the next day, Eminent Electricity Distribution Limited – a subsidiary of CESC Limited, which is a flagship company of RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group – had submitted the highest bid of Rs871 crore. The amount was five times the reserve price of nearly Rs174 crore.On August 9, the Empowered Committee on privatisation of the UT Electricity Department gave its approval to the highest bid quoted by Eminent Electricity Distribution Limited. Later, the report of the committee was submitted to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for approval.After getting an approval from the Administrator, the report was today sent to the Ministry of Power for further action, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. He, however, said the final call on the issue would be taken by the Union Cabinet.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1 last year stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision of the government to privatise the Electricity Department by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The High Court was also told that the process of privatisation of the department could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the department was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, on January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the High Court order and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.After the Administration restarted the process, the union again filed a petition in the High Court which again stayed the process on May 28, but the order was stayed by the Supreme Court on June 28, clearing the decks once again for the privatisation of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/privatisation-of-electricity-department-chandigarh-gives-nod-ball-in-centres-court-now-301753
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court restrains special CBI judge from pronouncing verdict in murder case in which Dera chief is accused||Just about two days before the verdict in the Ranjeet Singh murder case allegedly involving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday stayed the final pronouncement of judgment. Comments were also sought from Panchkula CBI Special Judge.The directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came after the Bench was told that “everything has been manipulated through CBI Public Prosecutor KP Singh”. Taking a note of the allegations by victim Ranjeet Singh’s son Jagseer Singh, Justice Sangwan also directed the CBI to place before the Bench KP Singh’s posting order and a specific affidavit on his appointment for CBI Court at Panchkula.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate RS Bains with Loveneet Thakur submitted that KP Singh was previously posted with the UT CBI Special Judge, when the presiding officer was posted at Chandigarh.  After his transfer to Panchkula, he was interfering in the administration of justice and was influencing the entire proceedings despite the fact there were two other special public prosecutors appointed for the trial.Another ground taken by the senior counsel was that a complaint relating to some other trial, “wherein there are allegations that the presiding officer is in constant touch with accused Manish Grover and some other influential persons facing prosecution under the Money Laundering Act”, has been given addressed to the High Chief Justice.Justice Sangwan also took note of the petitioner’s allegations that footage of the CCTV camera installed in the Court would show KP Singh was attending the Court even on Saturday, which was not a Court working day. Though some personal oral aspersions were made against the Special Judge, the same were not recorded in this order as those were not stated on oath by the petitioner,” Justice Sangwan added.“The senior counsel for the petitioner has also submitted that the presence of respondent KP Singh is suspicious as rather than assisting the Special Public Prosecutor, he is having a fiduciary relationship over the Presiding Officer. The senior counsel for the petitioner has, thus, submitted that the petitioner has the reasonable apprehension that he may not get justice from the Special Judge, CBI Court, Panchkula,” Justice Sangwan further observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-restrains-special-cbi-judge-from-pronouncing-verdict-in-murder-case-in-which-dera-chief-is-accused-301450
