27-08-2021||Vijay Mohan||Researchers discover rare occurrence of triple black holes merging to form center of newly discovered galaxy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27Indian researchers have discovered a rare occurrence of three super massive black holes from three galaxies merging together to form an active galactic nucleus, a compact region at the center of a newly discovered galaxy, which has a much-higher-than-normal luminosity.Super massive black holes are difficult to detect because they do not emit any light, but can reveal their presence by interacting with their surroundings. When the dust and gas from the surroundings fall onto a super massive black hole, some of the mass is swallowed by the black hole, while some of it is converted into energy and emitted as electromagnetic radiation that makes the black hole appear very luminous.They are called active galactic nuclei (AGN) and release huge amounts of ionized particles and energy into the galaxy and its environment. Both of these ultimately contribute to the growth of the medium around the galaxy and ultimately to the evolution of the galaxy itself.A team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, along with a researcher from College de France, Chaire Galaxies et Cosmologie, Paris, while studying a known interacting galaxy pair, labelled NGC7733, and NGC7734, detected unusual emissions from the centre of NGC7734 and a large, bright clump along the northern arm of NGC7733.Their investigations showed that the clump is moving with a different velocity compared to the galaxy NGC7733 itself. It was inferred that this clump was not a part of NGC7733; but a small separate galaxy behind the arm. This galaxy was named NGC7733N.The study, published as a letter in the journal, Astronomy and Astrophysics, used data from the Ultra-Violet Imaging Telescope (UVIT) on board the first Indian space observatory, ASTROSAT, as well as data from the European integral field optical telescope mounted on the Very Large Telescope (VLT) in Chile and infrared images from the optical telescope (IRSF) in South Africa, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of Science and Technology today.The data and images also supported the presence of the third galaxy by revealing star formation along with the tidal tails, which could have formed from the merger of NGC7733N with the larger galaxy. Each of the galaxies hosts an active super massive black hole in their nucleus and hence form a very rare triple AGN system.According to the researchers, a major factor impacting galaxy evolution is galaxy interactions, which happen when galaxies move close by each other and exert tremendous gravitational forces on each other. During such interactions, the respective super massive black holes can get near each other. The dual black holes start consuming gas from their surroundings and become dual AGN.Many AGN pairs have been detected in the past, but triple AGN are extremely rare and only a few have been detected so far using X-ray observations. However, the IIA team expects such triple AGN systems to be more common in small merging groups of galaxies. Although this study focuses only on one system, results suggest that small merging groups are ideal laboratories to detect multiple super massive black holes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/researchers-discover-rare-occurrence-of-triple-black-holes-merging-to-form-center-of-newly-discovered-galaxy-302842
27-08-2021||In view of the recent surge in dreaded dengue fever cases from different parts of Ludhiana||Know all you want to about dengue||What is dengue?Dengue is a viral infection that can lead to fever (dengue fever syndrome) and can sometimes result in severe bleeding (dengue haemorrhagic fever) and shock (dengue shock syndrome).How can one get infected by the dengue virus?The Aedes mosquito spreads the dengue virus. This mosquito bites humans during daytime and breeds in relatively clean water stored for drinking or washing purposes and in rainwater that collects in various containers like tyres, bottles, tanks, plastic bottles etc.Who can get this disease?People of all ages and both sexes who are exposed to mosquito bites can get this disease. Children usually have a milder disease than adults.How can a patient with dengue present himself in the clinic?There are basically four ways in which a patient with dengue presents himself:Mild uncharacteristic fever.“Break-bone” fever characterised by chills, high fever, severe headache, and rash spreading from trunk to extremities, muscle and joint pains preventing all movements for nearly five days.DHF or dengue haemorrhagic fever abrupt onset, high continuous fever lasting for 2-7 days with bleeding patches under skin, nose bleeding, gum bleeding, blood vomit, black tarry stools, capillary leakage (ascites and pleural effusion), low platelet count and around 20 per cent rise in haematocrit.DSS or dengue shock syndrome shows all the signs and symptoms of DHF with cold clammy skin, weak and rapid pulse, hypotension and narrow pulse pressure.DHFHow is a patient with dengue fever managed?There is no specific drug or vaccine available that acts against the dengue virus. Management follows general principles:Can remaining in close contact with the dengue patient pass on the disease?No, the disease cannot be spread by direct contact. It spreads only via Aedes mosquito bite. The transmission route is ‘Man-Mosquito-Man’.Is there any vaccine to control the spread of dengue?A live-attenuated vaccine is in the final stages of development in Thailand and France.How does one prevent the virus from spreading?This can be achieved by protecting individuals from mosquito bite (sleeping under a mosquito net, using insect repellents) and by controlling the Aedes mosquito population in the area.How can the population of Aedes mosquito be brought under control?The anti-mosquito measures include:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/know-all-you-want-to-about-dengue-302654
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile recharge costs Chandigarh man Rs 1.25 lakh!||Two snatch bag containing Rs2.50lChandigarh: Two bike-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a bag containing Rs2.50 lakh from a Panchkula resident near the Fun Republic light point in Mani Majra on Thursday night. The police said they were verifying the complaint. The victim, Kapil, who owns a grocery store, was returning home on a two-wheeler when the suspects snatched the cash bag. The police were informed, who visited the spot. They said they were scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area. TNSWeather Dept gets new headChandigarh: Manmohan Singh on Thursday joined as the new director of the Chandigarh Meteorological Department. He replaced AK Singh. Manmohan was earlier the Director of the IMD, Shimla. TNSNew Horticulture Director joinsChandigarh: Gulab Singh Gill joined as the Director (Horticulture), Punjab, at the department’s Mohali office. Gill said to promote diversification, the maximum area should be brought under horticultural crops. TNSNidhi at 5th spot after round 1Chandigarh: Local contender Nidhi Gupta scored 28 points (4+10+6+8) to claim fifth position in the opening round of super league during the ongoing Indian Online Carrom Challenge. Another local player Sanya Chadha scored 41 points (11+12+6+12) to end her day at the 14th position jointly with Reetambhara of Uttar Pradesh. In the men’s category, Abhishek Chauhan (Maharashtra) claimed lead by scoring four points (3+1+2+3 = 9 – 5 credit points for scoring a white slam in the 2nd board). Mohammed Rehan from Uttar Pradesh scored five points (2+6+6+1 = 15 – 10 points for scoring two white slams in board numbers 1 and 4) to stay at second position. In the women’s category, Aakanksha Kadam (Maharashtra) bagged the top rank by scoring 24 points (8+7+4+5), while Neha Kumari (Bihar) claimed the second position with 26 points (5+6+7+8). TNSRG Punjab FC signs VineethChandigarh: RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) announced the signing of 33-year-old CK Vineeth from SC East Bengal, here on Thursday. Hailing from Kannur, Kerala, Vineeth has eight-year experience of playing in a variety of domestic and international tournaments, including I-League, Indian Super League, Asian Football Confederation Cup, Hero Super Cup and Federation Cup. “RoundGlass Punjab FC is one of the most renowned football clubs in Punjab and the country. I am glad to be part of such a professional team,” said Vineeth. TNSAthletics trials on August 31Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletics Association will organise trials to select local teams for participating in the 60th National Open Athletics Championship scheduled to be held at Warangal (Telangana) from September 15 to 19. The trials will be held at DAV College, Sector 10, on August 31 (12.30pm). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-recharge-costs-chandigarh-man-rs-1-25-lakh-302643
27-08-2021||---||2 fraudsters land in Chandigarh police net||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26The Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police has arrested two fraudsters for duping a woman of Rs41 lakh on the pretext of providing her insurance bonus.After getting lured, the victim deposited money in different bank accounts. However, she never received any returns. Later on, the fraudsters switched off their mobile phones.During investigation, accused identified as Aashish Gupta, who got an amount of Rs2,80,000 deposited to his bank account and Rs1 lakh to his brother’s account, and one Shiv Nath, who got Rs8.40 lakh deposited to his bank account, were arrested. Both accused are residents of Delhi.They were produced in a court today, which sent them to three-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fraudsters-land-in-chandigarh-police-net-302642
27-08-2021||Mohali||Major boost to Cong in Mohali||The Congress received a major boost as several families supporting different political parties joined the party under the leadership of Jasmer Singh, a resident of Kumbhra village falling under the Mohali Municipal Corporation.Apart from Jasmer Singh’s family, families of Gurnam Singh, Pal Singh, Harjinder Singh, Baljinder Singh, Jaspal Singh, Mandeep Singh, Balwinder Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Surinder Singh, Jasbir Singh, Sandeep Singh and Kamaldeep Singh joined the party.Welcoming the families into the party fold, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said the Congress was the only party in Punjab that always focused on the overall development of the state and never allowed any discrimination in development.He said it was the Congress that had been providing relief to all sections of society and was always committed for the development of villages in particular.Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu also announced that all development works of Kumbhra village would be completed expeditiously. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-boost-to-cong-in-mohali-302641
27-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Youth Congress protests National Monetisation Programme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26The Chandigarh Youth Congress today staged a protest at the Sector 17 Plaza against the National Monetisation Programme (NMP) being implemented by the Centre.Youth Congress leaders expressed discontentment against the BJP-led Central dispensation. The protest comes in the backdrop of the announcement of the NMP, which focuses on monetising assets of the country and using them for other purposes. This blatantly greedy tactic to amass more resources by the BJP was condemnable, said the leaders.Chandigarh Youth Congress president Manoj Lubana said: “As we saw with the PM Cares fund, there was zero transparency and when we needed it the most, when our entire health system was crumbling, those funds were nowhere to be found. The Centre’s methods are anti national.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-congress-protests-national-monetisation-programme-302640
27-08-2021||---||F&CC of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation clears Chrysanthemum show||Chandigarh, August 26The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today approved the hosting of the 34th Chrysanthemum Show scheduled to be held in December.The show, which will be organised at an estimated cost of Rs10.65 lakh, will be subject to the Covid situation at that point of time.The committee which met here today also approved construction of public toilet block at a cost of Rs27.01 lakh to facilitate the women shopkeepers in Sector 47 booth market.In addition, the F&CC accorded approval for providing and fixing of 80 mm thick interlocking paver blocks along the green belt of Kajheri for parking at Sector 52 at an estimated cost of Rs31.48 lakh.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra and other members were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fcc-of-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-clears-chrysanthemum-show-302639
27-08-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Le Corbusier wanted Capitol Complex guards to live in Chandigarh's Sector 3||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26In the library of city’s Museum and Art Gallery, a peculiar letter acquaints you with the disposition of Chandigarh’s Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier, who died on this day 56 years ago.On January 2, 1958, Pierre Jeanneret, then a senior architect working with the Punjab Government, sent a translated note, originally written in French by Le Corbusier to ICS MS Randhawa. In his note, Corbusier, who worked as architectural advisor on Capital Project, highlighted problems faced by guards and peons working at the Capitol Complex. “Family accommodation for guards: This is not a professional question; it is a question of living,” he wrote.In his proposal, he suggested ‘barracks, family accommodation for guards and clear point of view on the reality of the problem: working at the right place and family life at another right place’. About the site, he wrote: “.... part of Sector No. 3 provides the right place for the barrack and two villages of guards and peons (together 1,500 people: men, women and children).”At the moment, Sector 3 is considered among the prime locations of the city, and comprises the Haryana CM’s residence and MLA Flats.In the note, he wrote: “The problem of distance between the working and living (place) is an important one. The employer (the chief judge, chief secretary, the speaker and the chairman, etc.) are inclined to admit that this distance must not be big. They would, however, be happy to have this population beside this building.”Corbusier proposed ‘containers and site’ for these shared problems of guards and peons of the Capitol Complex. “For barracks, it can be a beautiful round wall in a good useful diameter which will contain necessary amenities. For family life, villages are planned.... for approximately 750 persons, each surrounded by a belt of brick wall and beautified with trees inside.”The note was sent to Randhawa for “the consideration of the Advisory Committee of the Chandigarh Capital Project Control Board”. Randhawa, who was chairman of the panel and later became the first chief commissioner of Chandigarh, replied to Jeanneret on January 8, 1958: “I’m in entire agreement with the views expressed by Mr Corbusier,” he wrote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/le-corbusier-wanted-capitol-complex-guards-to-live-in-chandigarhs-sector-3-302638
27-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Non-compliance of order costs Ford India, Bhagat Ford dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26Taking non-compliance of the order seriously, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has issued an order to attach the offices of Ford India Private Limited, Gurgaon, Bhagat Cars Private Limited, Industrial Area, Phase 2, Chandigarh, and Bharti Axa General Insurance, Sector 34-A, Chandigarh. It also ordered to appoint a receiver who will prepare an inventory of all articles lying in the offices and take them into possession forthwith.The orders have been issued to the District Magistrates, Gurgaon and Chandigarh. The Commission has also directed the complainant’s counsel to furnish the names of the Director/Managing Director of the judgment debtors for issuing bailable warrants of arrest in the sum of Rs50,000 each with one surety in the like amount.The Commission has issued the order on an execution petition filed by consumer Arshjot Singh through counsel Dilraj K Bhinder. The execution application was filed under Section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, for non-compliance of order dated March 31, 2021, passed by it.The Commission, in the order, had directed the company and the dealer to repair the complainant’s vehicle, Ford Endeavour Titanium, and replace the defective parts of the engine or the component, if any, or if required to replace the defective engine with a brand new engine of the same specifications with fresh warranty without charging anything from the complainant and make the vehicle in a perfect roadworthy condition and return it to the complainant within a period of 20 days.Failing this, they shall be liable to refund the entire amount received towards the price of the vehicle, along with interest @12 per cent per annum. The insurance company was also directed to pay the amount incurred upon the repair/replacement of defective parts or the entire engine of the said vehicle directly to the company and the dealer. The Commission also directed to pay a compensation of Rs5,00,000 to the complainant for mental agony and harassment and also pay litigation cost of Rs50,000.The consumer approached the Commission after the vehicle he purchased from the dealer was allegedly found with manufacturing defects. When the respondents failed to implement the order, the consumer filed an execution petition.The Commission further ordered the judgment debtors to comply with the order under execution and pay the decretal amount of Rs42,32,313 to the decree holders along with up-to-date interest by way of demand draft before the next date of hearing October 13, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-compliance-of-order-costs-ford-india-bhagat-ford-dear-302637
27-08-2021||---||Dismiss plea against power privatisation, Chandigarh Administration asks HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26The UT Administration today asked the Punjab and Haryana High Court to dismiss a petition against the privatisation of the Electricity Department. Among other things, it was stated that the petition was still premature and the process would take time to finalise.As the case came up for hearing, it was argued on behalf of the Administration that a proposal had been sent to the Union Home Ministry for approval. The process of privatisation could be finalised only after the approval of the Cabinet. So, this matter was still in the initial stage.The petitioner, on the other hand, submitted in the court that the process of privatisation had been challenged in the High Court. As such, their side was required to be heard and the decision of the Administration quashed.The matter was brought to the notice of the High Court after a petition was filed by the UT Powermen Union. The Bench, on a previous date of hearing, was told on the petitioner’s behalf that the union was aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.It has also contended that the transfer scheme without calling for objections from all stakeholders could not be legally sustained and acted upon. As per Section 131(2) of the Act, the power could not be transferred to a totally private entity with no stake or control of the government.“The entire action of the respondents in privatising the electricity wing of the Engineering Department, UT, and the entire process being carried out pursuant thereto, including an office memo dated June 10, the decision taken during a meeting on the privatisation of the power department/utilities held on May 12 as far as the UT, is concerned and the notice inviting bids and documents prepared in relation thereto is not only illegal, unjust, arbitrary, unconstitutional, but also in violation of the provisions and the principles of law...,” it was added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dismiss-plea-against-power-privatisation-chandigarh-administration-asks-hc-302636
27-08-2021||---||Few takers for 2nd jab in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 26In a major concern for the Health Department officials here a large number of people are delaying the second dose of the Covid vaccine.Out of the total 7.36 lakh people who have received the first dose of the vaccine, only 1.38 lakh have got the second dose till date.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur and District Nodal Officer for Covid vaccination Dr Vikrant Nagra said the people taking the second dose of vaccine are late by 12 to 145 days, which is a “matter of grave concern”.If people had got the second dose in time, about 50 per cent of the population would have been fully vaccinated by now, they said. Pertinently, about 18,000 beneficiaries are such who are over 60 years of age and have not yet received their second dose.Dr Kaur though expressed her satisfaction at the speed of immunisation.It is the result of concerted efforts of the entire staff of the Health Department and the district administration that 99 per cent of the population in the district has been vaccinated, she said.Dr Kaur said a total of 95.21 per cent of people in the district had been vaccinated under the ongoing vaccination campaign, out of which 30.96 per cent had been fully vaccinated.She said the total above 18 year population in the district is 7,72,826, out of which 7,35,772 people have been vaccinated against the pandemic.The Civil Surgeon said a total of 9,63,542 vaccine had been administered in the district so far, out of which 7,35,772 people had been given the first dose while 2,27,770 people received both the doses. A total of 1,41,831 people above the age of 60 years have been vaccinated in the district.She also informed that 7,56,833 people had been administered Covishield vaccine while 1,47,761 people got the Covaxin shots. In addition, 8,534 people have received Sputnik vaccine, which is available only in private hospitals.At present, there are 58 functional government Covid vaccination centers and seven private Covid vaccination centers in the district.Dr Kaur said there was no shortage of Covid vaccine in the district and that the maximum number of people should come for vaccination, especially those who have been too late for the second dose.“If the second dose is not taken on time, then there is no point in taking the first dose,” she said. “Only when both doses are taken, does the body fully develop the strength to fight the deadly disease,” she said.Health officials express concernCivil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur and District Nodal Officer for Covid vaccination Dr Vikrant Nagra said the people taking the second dose of vaccine are late by 12 to 145 days, which is a “matter of grave concern”.No point in taking 1st dose if 2nd jab not taken on timeIf the second dose is not taken on time, then there is no point in taking the first dose. Only when both doses are taken, does the body fully develop the strength to fight the deadly disease. — Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/few-takers-for-2nd-jab-in-mohali-302635
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||5 new cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||The city on Thursday reported five cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of three patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNSFour fresh cases in Mohali districtMohali: Four persons tested positive for Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the district tally to 68,583. Meanwhile, no death has been reported from the district till Thursday evening while two patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, two each came from Dhakoli and Mohali. No case was reported from Kharar, Boothgarh, Dera Bassi, Lalru, Kurali, Gharuan and Banur. — TNSTwo test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: Two fresh Covid cases were reported in the district, taking the total count to 30,675. Those affected with the virus are a 14-year-old boy from Ramgarh and 13-year-old girl from Sector 11. However, no death was reported. There are 12 active cases in the district and the death toll stands at 377. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-302634
27-08-2021||Mohali||Factory worker dies in road mishap in Kharar||A man was killed in a road mishap in Kharar after the driver of a battery-operated scooter hit the motorcycle he was riding late on Wednesday night.The victim has been identified as Jagdeep Singh (26), a resident of Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib district.According to information, Jagdeep, along with his friend Sandeep Singh, was going home on a bike after performing their duty at Swaraj Factory in Kharar. As they reached Madanheri village near Chappar Chiri, a rashly driven battery-operated scooter hit their motorcycle. Jagdeep, who was riding pillion, fell on the road and suffered head injuries. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Kharar, from where he was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead. The police have arrested the scooter driver, Murari Lal of Badala in Kharar. A case was registered against him under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC. He was released on bail later. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/factory-worker-dies-in-road-mishap-in-kharar-302633
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Home Secretary to be relieved on August 31||After completion of his inter-cadre deputation period, Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home), UT, will be relieved on August 31.The three-year deputation period of the officer had ended in May, but due to a surge in Covid cases, the UT Administration had sought an extension in service for three months for Gupta, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer of the 1992 batch. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet had extended the deputation of Gupta for three months beyond May 31.However, the Central Government is still to approve the name for the post of the UT Home Secretary.The Haryana Government had earlier sent a panel of three IAS officers to succeed Gupta. The panel included the names of Nitin Kumar Yadav (2000 batch), Ravi Pankaj Agarwal (2000 batch) and Vinay Singh (2003 batch). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-home-secretary-to-be-relieved-on-august-31-302632
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Now, no manual challans, please!||Over a year after the e-challan system was introduced in the city, DSPs, SHOs and in-charge of various units, who were till now issuing manual traffic violation challans, have been directed not to issue any manual challans.The order, issued today by DIG Omvir Singh, states that the e-challan system has been implemented in Chandigarh following which all DSPs, SHOs and in-charge of units are hereby directed not to issue any manual traffic violation challan with immediate effect.The DIG has also asked the officers concerned to deposit all manual challan books in the challan branch of the traffic police. The e-challan system was introduced in July 2020, which enables violators to pay traffic fines on the spot using cashless means and from their homes using an online payment gateway. The e-challan devices were handed over to traffic police personnel to issue challans to the violators.A police official said despite asking all officers to return challan books, the traffic wing should have exhausted all printed challan books to save stationery. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-now-no-manual-challans-please-302631
27-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||PU-PGI underpass: Chandigarh to hire structural design consultant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26For stability and rigidity of structures, the UT Engineering Department will prepare a structural design of the pedestrian underpass to be constructed between the PGI and Panjab University.The department has invited bids from eligible consultants for preparing the structural design.An official said the aim was to produce a structure capable of resisting all applied loads during its intended life.The work would entail detailed geo-technical investigations to determine the properties of soil up to a depth of 35 m for designing the foundations, approaches and other structures.The firm would be required to prepare preliminary drawings and details with tentative dimensions required for calculation of quantities of various items for the construction work.In November 2019, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had given in-principle approval for the construction of the underpass after the traffic police had apprised the Administration of the need of an underpass between the hospital and the university due to a heavy rush of patients and their attendants, as thousands of people from neighbouring states reach the medical institute for treatment every day.As buses drop passengers on the road opposite the main gate of the hospital, they have to cross the road amid heavy traffic, which is a risky affair. Also, people have to wait for a long time to cross the road due to heavy traffic on both sides of the road. Likely to cost nearly Rs7.20 crore, the underpass would be 15-m wide and 38-m long. It would have 12 shops, including Photostat, so that patients or their attendants visiting the PGI could get basic facilities at one place.The Urban Planning Department had already prepared drawings of the underpass. Recently, the Engineering Department had decided to have ramps instead of the mechanised staircase at the underpass. The Municipal Corporation will shift the underground cables and water and sewage pipes while the remaining work would be carried out by the Engineering Department.On completion of the underpass, thousands of patients visiting the PGI will get relief from crossing the busy Madhya Marg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-pgi-underpass-chandigarh-to-hire-structural-design-consultant-302630
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||In death, two give fresh lease of life to 8 at PGI||The kidneys and corneas of two persons, who lost their lives in road accidents, gave a fresh lease of life to eight patients at the PGI here.Ashwani Kumar (54), a resident of Kaithal, met with a fatal road accident on August 14 and was immediately taken to the civil hospital there. As his condition worsened, he was rushed to the PGI. Despite the best efforts, Ashwani could not be revived and was declared brain dead on August 17.His wife Anita said, “It’s something no family should have to go through. We said yes to organ donation because it is far better to give someone a new life than reducing these organs to ashes.” Prof HS Kohli, Head, Department of Nephrology, PGI, said, “Following the family’s decision, the two best matching recipients, who were suffering from end-stage debilitating kidney ailment and dependent on renal dialysis for long, were identified and retrieved kidneys were transplanted to them.”Apart from the kidneys, the corneas of the donors were also harvested, which on transplantation, restored the eyesight of two other patients at the PGI. Earlier on August 9, a 28-year-old youth from Punjab was hit by a speeding vehicle and suffered fatal head injuries. He was rushed to a local hospital where doctors referred him to the PGI. All efforts to save the young man proved futile and he was declared brain dead on August 13. With the family’s generous decision, four lives were impacted with the transplantation of two kidneys and two corneas. — TNSKhali promotes causeProfessional wrestler Dalip Singh, aka The Great Khali, who was at the PGI on Thursday, said organ donation was the most valuable form of donation as it could give a new lease of life to terminally ill patients. He exhorted people to come forward to pledge their organs for donation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-death-two-give-fresh-lease-of-life-to-8-at-pgi-302628
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Licence of 3,677 vendors suspended for 3 months in Chandigarh||The vending licence of 3,677 “habitual payment defaulters” has been suspended for three months by the Municipal Corporation.If the pending monthly fee is still unpaid, the licence of the vendors will be terminated. The pending payment pertains to the period before Covid — up to January 1, 2020.MC Joint Commissioner Rohit Gupta said: “The licence of habitual defaulters, who had not cleared their dues till January 2020, has been suspended. The decision regarding those who are defaulters after this date is yet to be taken.” There are a total of 10,917 registered vendors divided in three categories — essential, non-essential and street vendors. Covid-19 has apparently rendered over 6,000 registered vendors defaulters in the city. Despite getting another chance of clearing their pending licence fee by July 26, only around 40 per cent vendors could make the payment.However, the MC is yet to decide what is to be done with those who could not pay the monthly fee during Covid. They have sought fee exemption for night food street operators and second hand car dealers. Till now, no decision has been taken in this regard.They pay a monthly fee between Rs300 and Rs2,000 depending upon the category and the area of vending. “The MC should exempt the fee for at least the Covid period as there was no business due to restrictions,” said a vendor.During the second wave, many vendors have left the work and gone back to their native places. Some are sitting in non-designated vending sites as they said the vending sites have no business. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/licence-of-3-677-vendors-suspended-for-3-months-in-chandigarh-302626
27-08-2021||---||Plan to privatise Kalka-Shimla rail track for 30 years: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26Niti Aayog, as part of its plan to monetise public sector assets, proposes to provide the Kalka-Shimla railway track to a private concessionaire for a period of 30-50 years, according to a report by the Centre’s public policy think tank.The plan for the 118-year-old railway track — a UNESCO World Heritage Site — has been prepared in Niti Aayog’s report ‘Volume II: Asset Pipeline’. According to the report published this month, the concessionaire will be responsible for operation, maintenance and development of the railway track. The report has a similar plan for the remaining mountain rail tracks of India, which are World Heritage Sites — Darjeeling Himalayan Railway located in the foothills of the Himalayas in West Bengal and the Nilgiri Mountain Railways located in the Nilgiri Hills of Tamil Nadu. “These locations are domestic tourism hubs with a heritage-based appeal to these railways,” said the report.The proposal, however, has a word of caution for interested parties and has said they will also be responsible for preserving the heritage status of the tracks. “Any development/upgrade will be subject to concessionaire provisions,” it added.However, even as the plan has been prepared, officials in the Ambala division said they were unaware of any communication being sent in regard to the report in the recent past. “In August 2020, the Ministry of Railways had included Chandigarh among 12 clusters for passenger trains to be operated as private entities through the public-private partnership,” said GM Singh, railway manager, Ambala division, under which the Kalka-Shimla section falls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plan-to-privatise-kalka-shimla-rail-track-for-30-years-report-302625
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to construct 209 bus queue shelters||After several failed attempts, the UT Engineering Department has decided to construct 209 new bus queue shelters. An official said the department would also renovate nearly 200 old bus queue shelters.The project is likely to cost nearly Rs13 crore. Earlier, the department had made several efforts for the construction and renovation of bus queue shelters. The successful bidder was to construct, repair and maintain the shelters. The firm could generate revenue through selling advertisement space there. The company has to bear the construction cost and share the advertisement revenue with the Administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-construct-209-bus-queue-shelters-302624
27-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC holding 2-day inspection  at smart parking lots in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26Following the UT Adviser’s observation regarding the ‘smart’ parking lots, a team of the Municipal Corporation today inspected paid-parking spaces in the city. The inspection work will continue tomorrow.Officials have been ordered to verify smart features with a checklist of 110 points as per the contract. If it is found the two firms managing the 89 parking lots have not introduced the features, action could be initiated against them. Penalty could be imposed for jumping several deadlines.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “Being the first day of the inspection, firms had also come. Representatives of one of these claimed to have made about 85 per cent compliance of smart parking norms and the other about 90 per cent. After receiving our inspection report, we will also conduct surprise checks.”‘Action to follow inspection report’All parking lots will be inspected for 2 days. Action will be taken on the basis of the inspection report. — Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-holding-2-day-inspection-at-smart-parking-lots-in-chandigarh-302623
27-08-2021||---||Mohali MC House meet: Constituency allowance of Mayor, councillors up 60%||Mohali, August 26In a major decision at a House meeting held here today, the Mohali Municipal Corporation unanimously passed a resolution to hike the constituency allowance of the Mayor and councillors by nearly 60 per cent.The constituency allowance of councillors has been increased by Rs10,000, that of the Deputy Mayor by Rs14,000, the Senior Deputy Mayor by Rs16,000 and the Mayor by Rs18,000.Earlier, the constituency allowance of the Mayor was Rs30,000 per month, that of the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor was Rs24,000 and Rs18,750, respectively, while that of the councillors was Rs15,000. The resolution passed by the MC House will be sent to the Local Bodies Department for final approval.Giving details of the House meeting, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said a resolution was also passed to dismiss one of the employees of the Municipal Corporation, Kesar Singh. There have been allegations against Kesar Singh that he did not perform his duty properly and had also insulted local MLA and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.The Mayor said the inquiry committee comprising three councillors — Rajinder Singh Rana, Jasbir Singh Manku and Baljit Kaur — had confirmed the allegations against Kesar Singh and he had been dismissed with immediate effect. Apart from this, a resolution had also been passed to bring the B-roads in Mohali under mechanical cleanliness through another table item, he added.He said resolutions related to maintenance of toilet blocks in different zones were also passed. At the meeting, Opposition councillors alleged discrimination in their respective wards. However, the Mayor claimed that no ward was being discriminated against.At the start of the meeting, a two-minute silence was observed to mourn the death of Rajinder Kaur Bedi, mother of Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, and Sukhwinder Kaur, wife of Master Charan Singh, councillor from Sector 66, who passed away recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-house-meet-constituency-allowance-of-mayor-councillors-up-60-302622
