28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Woman injured  in road mishap in Chandigarh||Youth held with 5.63-gm smackChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 25-year-old youth while possessing smack. The accused, identified as Ishu, a resident of Sector 37, was nabbed from the Dhanas road while possessing 5.63 grams of smack. The police have registered a case. TNSBadminton meet from Sept 3Mohali: The Mohali District Badminton Association is going to organise the Mohali District Sub-Junior, Junior and Senior Badminton Championship 2021-22 from September 3-5 at the Sports Complex, Sector 78, here. Players can compete in singles, doubles and mixed doubles categories. The entry fee will be Rs300 for singles and Rs500 for doubles and mixed doubles. Proof of residence of Mohali district is a must for the participants. No entry will be accepted after August 31. Entries complete in all respects can be handed over to Taran Arora (9888881619) from 6.30 am to 8 am and 4.30 pm to 6 pm or Daljinderpal Singh (9814641060), Akash Walis (9872800882) and Satnam Singh (9814930001). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-injured-in-road-mishap-in-chandigarh-303140
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Book on controlling  Covid launched in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-controlling-covid-launched-in-chandigarh-303138
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rakesh Tikait urges support for Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat at Chandigarh rally||A rally in support of farmers agitating against the farm laws, was held at the Rally Ground in Sector 25 here today. A large number of farmers and their supporters gathered at the venue to support the cause.Addressing the rally, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait applauded the protest held at various roundabouts and intersections by city residents everyday between 6 and 8 pm.Also read: Punjab farmers to attend UP mahapanchayatSamyukt Kisan Morcha calls for Bharat Bandh on September 25Tikait also asked farmers to mobilise support for the mahapanchayat, which is scheduled to be held at Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, on September 5.Before the rally, Tikait also held a press conference.Meanwhile, elaborate security arrangements were made by the police and barricades were put on roads leading to the Rally Ground to stop the vehicles. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rakesh-tikait-urges-support-for-muzaffarnagar-mahapanchayat-at-chandigarh-rally-303137
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Nidhi shines in 2nd round of carrom league||City girl Nidhi Gupta finished the second round of the Super League Carrom championship with her lowest tally of 19 points after she thrashed the first round topper Aakanksha Kadam from Maharashtra to improve her standing.Nidhi has a cumulative total of 47 points (28+19), while Aakanksha has 49 (24+25) cumulative points to her credit. Another city girl, Sanya Chadha, also improved her ranking as she gained a spot to share the 13th place with Karnataka’s Stelina S. In the second round, Sanya played well in first three boards scoring 8, 8 and 6 but she could not continue her form in the fourth board which she finished with 14 points thus taking her total tally to 36 points. Her cumulative score after 2nd round stands at 77 (41+36).In the men’s competition, Maharashtra’s Abhishek Chavan maintained his top position after the second round. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nidhi-shines-in-2nd-round-of-carrom-league-303118
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||256 golfers for Milkha Singh Memorial meet in Chandigarh||To celebrate the life and achievements of ‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh, the Chandigarh Golf Club will organise Milkha Singh Memorial Golf Tournament here on August 28. As many as 256 golfers will vie for the prestigious trophy to be presented by Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.The legendary athlete had died of post-Covid complications on June 18. He was 91.Chandigarh Golf Club president Ravibir Singh said: “Milkha Singh ji was an active member of our club since 1978. He always encouraged caddies and young golfers. He was very generous to less privileged.”The tournament is sponsored by Punjab Sports Department and co-sponsored by M/s Pernod Ricard India Pvt Ltd. The prize distribution ceremony will be held at the club on August 28 evening.Milkha Singh’s son and ace India golfer Jeev Milkha Singh was also present on the occasion. Reminiscing about his father’s fitness level, Jeev said: “He rarely took medicines but laid great emphasis on fitness in his daily routine.”Commenting on his future plans, Jeev said: “I will take a break to recover. I will be leaving the town in a day or so to prepare for my future tournaments. I need to divert my mind and focus on my game.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/256-golfers-for-milkha-singh-memorial-meet-in-chandigarh-303112
28-08-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||August 24 saw max air passengers depart from Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 27With 3,446 passengers departing from the Chandigarh international airport on August 24, it logged the maximum number of “departing passengers” in the northern region in a single day. The overall figure for the departing passengers in the region, excluding Delhi, was 23,900 on August 24. On an average, 6,500 passengers arrive and depart in 32 flights from the Chandigarh airport daily. There are 32 airports in the region with 28 in operation in the northern region currently.Chandigarh International Airport Limited CEO Ajay Kumar said, “Overall, it has been seen that the Covid impact on travellers has been less here. The flight operations from here to Maharashtra, Kerala and other Covid-impacted areas are restricted due to which the traffic volume has not had a severe impact here. Also, it has been noticed that tourism has picked up in Himachal Pradesh due to which there has been an increased footfall here.”Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Dharamsala and Srinagar are the most popular destinations from where passengers travel to and fro.Sharjah flights in 15 daysThe flights from Sharjah are likely to restart in the next 15 days. The air taxi service launched on January 14 from Chandigarh to Hisar and other airports in the region has been halted since August 3 due to low visibility problem in Hisar.An official said due to the prevailing weather conditions in Hisar, the visual flight rules of 5 km visibility while landing could not be adhered to. “As the weather conditions improve in the coming days, we are hopeful that the air taxi service may resume,” Ajay Kumar said. The four-seater aircraft was cleared to operate from Hisar to Chandigarh, Dehradun and Dharamsala under the Regional Connectivity Scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/august-24-saw-max-air-passengers-depart-from-chandigarh-303111
28-08-2021||---||Traffic violators in Mohali to get challans at home||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 27The Mohali Traffic Police have chalked out a comprehensive plan to deal with traffic violators strictly.If anyone is found violating the norms, he/she will get a challan delivered at his/her home, they said.Keeping in view the road safety of general public, CCTV cameras have been installed at various light points in Mohali district and violators are being closely monitored, said Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Gurjot Singh.Gurjot Singh said after identifying the violators through cameras, the challan receipts would to be sent on their home addresses.A total of 104 violators were identified through CCTV cameras in the urban areas of Mohali district from August 1 till date and challans were issued to the violators, he said.The home addresses of 11 violators have not been found to be proper, the SSP said, adding that the Regional Transport Authority concerned had been informed about it.Vehicles of those drivers whose home address has been found to be incorrect will be impounded as per law, the officer added.Gurjot Singh also pointed out that lakhs of people were involved in road accidents across the country due to non-compliance of traffic rules.The Traffic Education Cell, Mohali, and Traffic Police, Mohali, have been arranging meetings from time to time to make people aware of the traffic rules for their own safety and for the safety of others, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-violators-in-mohali-to-get-challans-at-home-303099
28-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Burail firing: Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide, 6 others to face trial for murder bid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27Monty Shah, an alleged member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, and six other accused will face trial for attempt-to-murder charge in a firing incident at Burail village as the trial court has committed the case to the Sessions Court.Monty Shah was arrested by the UT police in May this year. The police had registered a case against Monty Shah and others for commission of offence punishable under Sections 307, 120-B and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act added Section 212 of the IPC on a complaint of Tirath Singh. The complainant alleged that Monty Shah fired shots at him and Parveen on the directions of Lawrence Bishnoi. Both of them were witnesses in the alleged murder case of property dealer Sonu Shah.After Sonu’s murder, the Bishnoi group allegedly took the responsibility for his killing in a Facebook post.Monty Shah was allegedly caught on a CCTV camera with a gun and firing around six rounds on Tirath Singh in Burail on October 12, 2020. Tirath alleged that Monty wanted to eliminate Parveen and him on the directions of Bishnoi as both were witnesses in the murder case of Sonu Shah. However, Tirath and Parveen escaped unhurt in the incident.The police had already filed a chargesheet against all accused - Monty Shah, Kuldeep Singh Goshal, Parwinder Wadhwa, Virender Soni, Deepak Wadhwa, Vinay Kalyan and Mohit Kumar last month.The police claimed that after the alleged firing incident at Burail, Monty escaped to Kalka in a car and stayed at the house of his cousins - Vinay and Mohit. The police had arrested both of his cousins and recovered the car too.After hearing the arguments, Sanjay, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, in the order, said: “After hearing the additional public prosecutor for the state, the counsel for accused persons and going through the report under Section 173 of the CrPC, it appears that the accused persons have committed offence punishable under Section 307 of the IPC. The offence under Section 307 of the IPC is exclusively triable by the Sessions Court. Accordingly, the case is committed to the Court of District and Sessions Judge”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burail-firing-gangster-lawrence-bishnois-aide-6-others-to-face-trial-for-murder-bid-303092
28-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC can now recruit sanitation workers directly||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 27The Local Bodies Department here has approved the resolution passed by the Mohali Municipal Corporation for direct recruiting of the sanitary staff.The moved has paved the way for the direct recruitment of 1,234 sanitation workers and 17 jamadars by the Municipal Corporation.Earlier, the civic body used to award contracts for sanitation work in the city. It had recently extended the contract for manual and mechanical sweeping for some time.Pertinently, the corporation had on August 3 passed the resolution to recruit more than 1000 sanitation workers.After the approval, sanitation workers would directly come under the purview of the MC and the civic body would be able to maintain the sanitation system of the city in a better way.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said the process of direct recruitment of these employees would be started soon.“There will be great relief for the sanitation workers and others employed through various companies,” Bedi said, adding that the dispute between the sanitation workers and the contracting companies would also end.“Earlier, the Municipal Corporation had directly hired firemen, drivers, pioneers and clerks. They were earlier hired through companies,” he said and added the employees would directly benefitted from the move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-can-now-recruit-sanitation-workers-directly-303088
28-08-2021||Mohali||Three days on, no trace of youths who took away child in Mohali||Three days after two bike-borne youths fraudulently took away a one-year-old boy from the hands of his grandmother on the Airport Road near City Centre here, the police is yet to identify the culprits.A case was registered against the suspects under Sections 363, 365 and 120B of the IPC at the Sohana police station on August 24 and since then, grandmother Manju Devi, victim’s father Munna Paswan, his wife and four children, have not eaten properly.The police said it looked like a case of child stealing rather than kidnapping as there has been no ransom call till now.The duo suspected to be from Bihar, came on a bike around 7:30 pm on Tuesday and asked Manju Devi, who runs a roadside tea stall, for two cups of tea, the police said.The old woman initially refused as she had no milk, but the duo insisted, the police said, adding that while the woman was busy preparing tea, one of the suspects remained seated on the bike with ignition on.After finishing the tea, the other suspect asked the old woman to hand him over the child in her lap as he wanted to play with him. While the woman got busy with her work, the duo slipped away with the child, they said. It was the toddler’s brother and sister who alarmed the old woman about the incident.The CCTV footage collected from the nearby houses shows the duo wearing helmet escaping the scene with a child tucked in between.Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said, ‘’Teams have been formed to solve the case. Mobile dump data from the area is being scanned. There has been no ransom call yet. The kid’s parents eke out a living by working as labourers. The old woman runs a tea stall near the road.”“The suspects took advantage of the secluded area and took the youngest child in the group of six playing at the site so that the child does not raise an alarm. The child is just one-year-old and barely able to walk,” said the SHO.The police said one of the suspects might have come to the tea stall before to do a recce. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-days-on-no-trace-of-youths-who-took-away-child-in-mohali-303087
28-08-2021||---||Beware of fraudsters, warns Chandigarh Housing Board||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27Over reports of duping innocent residents on the false claim of allotment of Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flats, the Board has clarified that the process of allotment of dwelling units is transparent and there is no role of any private persons/middlemen.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said all residents were requested not to believe any false promise of getting CHB flats allotted by other means.“There is no role of any private persons in the process of allotment of dwelling units by the CHB. The allotment process is transparent, fair and there are no possibilities of any sort of favouritism/partiality,” he said.He said for the allotment of flats under the general housing schemes, small flats scheme, e-auction and oustee scheme, public notices were issued about the launch, or schedule of the scheme and thereafter the allotment was done through a computerised draw. The result of the draw was immediately uploaded on the CHB website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beware-of-fraudsters-warns-chandigarh-housing-board-303086
28-08-2021||Panchkula||Fraudster nabbed for duping Panchkula woman of Rs2.10L||The police have arrested a man for duping a Panchkula woman, who makes a living by ironing clothes, of Rs2.10 lakh on the pretext of providing a government job to her son in a local court. The suspect has been identified as Nikhil Moudgil, a resident of Kasauli in Himachal Pradesh and presently living in Sector 15.In her complaint to the police on March 31 this year, Urmila Devi, a resident of Sector 15, had alleged that Nikhil, who resided in her neighourhood and worked in an insurance company, took Rs2.10 lakh from her on the pretext of providing a government job to her son Sahil and relative Rahul Kanojia in the Panchkula court. She alleged that after this, the suspect left the place and they could not make any contact with him.A case under Section 406 and 420 was registered at the Sector 14 police station.The Panchkula police arrested the suspect on Thursday evening and produced him in a court, which remanded him in judicial custody. The police have recovered Rs1.55 lakh from him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraudster-nabbed-for-duping-panchkula-woman-of-rs2-10l-303085
28-08-2021||---||Ambala bizman duped of Rs 2.40 cr, 11 booked||Ambala, August 27An Ambala-based businessman was allegedly duped of Rs2.40 crore by some fraudsters on the pretext of providing a rare and expensive cancer cure medicine.The fraudsters lured the businessman on the pretext of providing medicines made of a rare two-headed snake.Complainant Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, said he runs a herbal juice and Ayurvedic medicine manufacturing factory. A clinic is also run in the factory. The police have booked 11 people for duping the businessman.The complainant said: “In January 2019, Ranjit Singh of Ambala, who used to come to take medicine, informed me that his associates prepare medicines to cure cancer. The medicine is costly because it is prepared from rare two-headed snake and it can cure cancer. A couple of days later, Ranjit came with Murslin, Jaswant, Dinesh, Jony, Rajender Singh, Harpreet, Mannu, Rajender Nagar, Vinod, Babbar Bhan and some more accomplices,” he said.“They claimed that they bring the rare medicine from the Nepal border and it can be beneficial for the factory and the clinic. I got convinced and inquired about the cost and efficiency of the medicine. They sought Rs4-5 crore, a blank cheque and a blank affidavit for the medicine. I gave them Rs2.40 crore, along with a blank cheque and an affidavit in January 2019. They assured me of providing the medicine in a week. Later, they started making excuses that the snake is not coming out due to heavy snowfall,” he said.The complainant stated that when he demanded the money back, the fraudsters allegedly threatened to kill him. He got scared and didn’t make any complaint. He recently came to know that the Ambala police have arrested Jaswant for duping a man on the pretext of providing cancer medicine, following which he contacted the police and identified Jaswant as well. A case has been registered under Sections 420, 406, 506 and 120-B of the IPC at the Mahesh Nagar police station.As per information, this is third such case registered in Ambala.Mahesh Nagar SHO Suresh said: “A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated by the economic offences wing.”Saha, in-charge of the Economic Offences Wing, said: “The matter is being investigated. We will gather information and evidences regarding the payment made to the suspects by the complainant and further action will be taken accordingly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-bizman-duped-of-rs-2-40-cr-11-booked-303084
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Engineering Department to conduct geo-technical study at site||For the construction of additional multi-level parking at the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the UT Engineering Department will conduct geo-technical study at the proposed site.The department has invited bids from the enlisted and eligible contractors for the work of carrying out geo-technical investigation at the proposed site.The parking site falls within the eco-sensitive zone around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, which was notified in 2017. It is also within the buffer zone of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Capitol Complex in Sector 1.As per the drawing submitted to the High Court in January last year, the Engineering Department has planned three underground floors. In the first phase, the parking lot will have space for over 2,800 cars. In the second phase, installation of stacks has been proposed and parking could be expanded to over 5,000 cars.Nearly 10,000 lawyers and litigants, with 8,000 cars, visit the High Court daily. The court has a parking space for nearly 800 cars.On December 20, 2019, the High Court had directed the UT Administration to submit the layout for a multi-level underground parking lot, opposite the High Court Museum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-engineering-department-to-conduct-geo-technical-study-at-site-303083
28-08-2021||Mohali||After 2 weeks, Mohali's new Covid case tally in double digits||After two weeks, the fresh Covid case tally in the district touched the double-digit mark as 10 persons were found infected during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 68,593. Earlier, on August 13, 10 cases had surfaced in the district. No fresh Covid death was reported, while two patients recovered from the virus. Among the fresh cases, one each was reported from Lalru and Kharar, three from Mohali and five from Dhakoli. Of the 68,593 cases reported from the district so far, 67,484 patients have been cured. — TNSChandigarh sees 6 casesChandigarh: The city on Friday reported six cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the infection. A total of four patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNS4 +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: Four new Covid cases have surfaced in the district. Those infected are two males — a 56-year-old from Sector 11 and a 21-year old from Sector 21 — and two females — a 24-year- old from Sector 11 and a 32-year-old from Sector 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-2-weeks-mohalis-new-covid-case-tally-in-double-digits-303082
28-08-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI to hire staff for Covovax trials on children||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here is all set to recruit staff for conducting research trial of Covovax, a Covid-19 vaccine, for paediatric population.The study is aimed at checking the safety and immune response of Covovax in children, aged two to 17.The objective of the study is to evaluate the safety of Covovax with regard to placebo, and its immunogenicity in children in the age groups of 12-17 years and 2-11 years in comparison to adult participants (in the reactogenicity and immunogenicity cohort from Covovax group) separately.Reactogenicity refers to a subset of reactions that occur soon after the vaccination and the immunogenicity of the vaccine is the antibody response provoked in the human body after administering the vaccine.A total of 920 eligible children will be enrolled in this study across 24 centres in the country. Of these, 460 participants will be in the age group of 12 to 17 years and another 460 in the 2 to 11 years age group.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “The trial will begin soon after ethical clearance in two weeks. These will be performed on children aged 2 to 17. The efficacy of the vaccine was more than 90 per cent as per the trials.”Dr Madhu Gupta, Principal Investigator, said, “We will recruit 100 candidates for the vaccine trial. The trial is expected to start by mid-September.” All eligible participants (920) will be randomised in a 3:1 ratio to receive two doses (0.5 ml each) of either Covovax or Placebo, respectively, on Day 1 and Day 22.The institute is hiring a physician, clinical research coordinator, pharmacist and a lab technician for seven months for the purpose of the study. The interview will be held on September 3.The Pune-based pharmaceutical company had submitted a revised protocol for inclusion of paediatric cohort in the ongoing Covovax phase 2 and 3 observer-blind, randomised and controlled study in Indian adults, aged 18 and above, to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-hire-staff-for-covovax-trials-on-children-303081
28-08-2021||---||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit gets additional charge; Badnore works in limbo||Chandigarh, August 27Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has been given the additional charge of the Punjab Governor and the UT Administrator.“The President of India has been pleased to appoint Purohit, the Governor of Tamil Nadu, to discharge the functions of the Administrator of Chandigarh, in addition to his own duties from the date he assumes charge of the office of the Administrator of Chandigarh, until regular arrangements are made,” said an official statement.Outgoing UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had completed a five-year tenure on August 22. However, his several dream projects could not see the light of day.The much talked about project of having an international shooting range, which was supposed to be developed at Sarangpur, was found non-feasible. After this, Badnore asked officials to look for and explore an alternative site for the shooting range. Later, the UT Administration had sought permission of the Ministry of Environment and Forests to deforest 11 acres in Sector 25 to extend the Patiala Ki Rao shooting range to match it with international standards. Badnore had given the approval to use the land for the shooting range and for related infrastructure in a phased manner.The fate of his another pet project, India International Centre (IIC), which was to come up at Beant Singh Memorial in Sector 42 on the lines of the Delhi’s IIC and christened as Sardar Beant Singh India International Centre, still hangs in balance.After failing to get any response to tenders floated to invite firms to establish a vintage car museum at the Government Press Building in Sector 18, the Administration decided to convert the building into an “Air Force Heritage Centre”.The UT Administration and the Indian Air Force (IAF) today signed an agreement for setting up of the centre, which will showcase IAF vintage aircraft, armaments and memorabilia and other IAF artefacts, including audio-video displays.Badnore, who himself is a national-level swimmer, inaugurated most number of swimming pools and badminton courts by any Administrator in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tamil-nadu-governor-banwarilal-purohit-gets-additional-charge-badnore-works-in-limbo-303080
28-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration, IAF sign pact for heritage centre||Chandigarh, August 27The UT Administration and the Indian Air Force (IAF) today signed an Agreement in Principle (AIP) for setting up of the Air Force Heritage Centre at the Government Press building in Sector 18 in the presence of outgoing UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore and Air Marshal VR Chaudhari, Vice-Chief of Air Staff.The AIP was signed by Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, Culture, and Air Marshal Vikram Singh. It will be the first such Air Force Heritage Centre in the country.Badnore expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for showing keen interest in this initiative.Air Marshal Chaudhari, while thanking the UT Administration, assured full cooperation in the setting up and operation of the heritage centre.The centre will be an iconic place, which will attract tourists from within the country and abroad and will also be one of the most educative and informative centres for people. The IAF will showcase its vintage aircraft, armaments, memorabilia and other artefacts, including audio-video displays. The centre will also include a simulator wherein the public can experience the flying of an IAF aircraft. This will also act as a platform for motivating and facilitating the youth to join the force, as this will resultantly provide not only employment opportunities but also strengthen the force and further reinforce national integration.Air Force to showcase vintage aircraft||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-iaf-sign-pact-for-heritage-centre-303079
28-08-2021||New Delhi||TN Governor Banwarilal Purohit gets additional charge of Punjab, Chandigarh||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has been given the additional charge of Punjab and the Union Territory of Chandigarh, according to an official statement issued on Friday.Earlier, V P Singh Badnore was the Governor of Punjab and the Administrator of Chandigarh.“The President of India has been pleased to appoint Purohit, the Governor of Tamil Nadu, to discharge the functions of the Governor of Punjab, in addition to his own duties from the date he assumes charge of the office of the Governor of Punjab, until regular arrangements are made,” the statement said.The President has also appointed Purohit as the Administrator of Chandigarh, in addition to his duties as the Governor of Punjab, it added. TNS/PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tn-governor-banwarilal-purohit-gets-additional-charge-of-punjab-chandigarh-302838
