29-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Six new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Chandigarh on Sunday taking the total number of cases to 65,093.A positivity rate of 0.28 per cent was recorded as 2,143 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The death toll in the city remains 813.The number of active cases is 38 while 64,242 people have been cured till date.A total of six patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A total of 7,99,546 people has received the first dose of Covid vaccine while 3,02,380 have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-303797
29-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Farmers block Chandimandir, Naggal toll plazas||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 28To protest lathicharge on farmers in Karnal, hundreds of farmers today blocked the Chandimandir toll plaza near Surajpur, causing huge traffic jams on both sides of the plaza. The call for the protest was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and the Bharti Kisan Union.Commuters’ ordealChander Mohan slams BJP govt for lathicharge on farmersCriticising the ‘brutal’ lathicharge on peacefully protesting farmers, former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan said on the one hand, the country was celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence, and on the other, farmers are on the streets for the past nine months due to the adamant attitude of the Modi government. He said the BJP government at the Centre and in the state would have to be answerable to the alleged brutal attack on farmers.As soon as the news of lathircharge reached farmers here, they gathered at the toll plaza and raised slogans against the Chief Minister and the state government. A large number of women were among the protesters.Meanwhile, the police stopped the vehicular traffic at the old Panchkula light point from moving towards the toll plaza while the vehicles on the other side were stopped at the Pinjore light point.Hundreds of vehicles were stuck in the jam. Commuters had a tough time in the hot and humid conditions. The jam continued for more than four and a half hours as there was no other route for traffic diversion.After the news of the protest at the toll plaza started circulating on the social media, the Panchkula police reached the spot. They issued an advisory urging all commuters to avoid the Panchkula-Pinjore route except in extreme emergency.Farmer leader Karam Singh said the brutal lathicharge on the farmers in Karnal, in which dozens of farmers suffered injuries in the head and fractures in legs, was highhandedness on the part of the Khattar government. The unarmed farmers were protesting peacefully about 15 km away from the venue of the BJP programme. Meanwhile, the Naggal toll plaza in Barwala, too, was blocked by protesting farmers. The blockade was lifted after about an hour and private buses operating from Panchkula bus terminal for Naraingarh and Shehjadpur in Ambala district could be seen passing through the toll plaza.A large number of passengers were waiting at the local bus terminal in Sector 5 here as there was no government or private bus service available for Pinjore or Kalka.Buses for all routes in Haryana were cancelled in view of the blockades at the toll plazas across the state.Blockade lifted at 7.30 pmAssistant Commissioner of Police Satish Kumar was seen trying to urge the protesting farmers to lift the blockade. Only ambulances are being given way by the farmers and at about 6 pm, two-wheelers were allowed by the protesting farmers to cross the toll plaza from both sides. Most of the people of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, who were on their way to Shimla, were trapped in the jam. At 7.30 pm, the farmers agreed to lift the blockade and the people heaved a sigh of relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-block-chandimandir-naggal-toll-plazas-303498
29-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Report focuses on citizen-friendly police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28The single-member Police Reforms Commission has suggested a slew of measures to improve the functioning and investigation of the Police Department.The commission, headed by former IGP KB Singh, presented the report to outgoing UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore here on Friday. Accepting the report, Badnore appreciated the sincere efforts made by the Commission in making pragmatic and meaningful recommendations to make the Chandigarh Police truly citizen-friendly.Key suggestionsThe Administrator expressed confidence that implementation of the recommendations made by the Commission would help make the Chandigarh Police more responsive, robust and efficient.The major thrust of the report was on improving the functioning of the police as well as its modernisation.According to the report, the weapons of the police are outdated. In such a situation, the policemen now need modern weapons. “There is also a need to set up five new police stations and a cyber police station in the city to curb criminal offences,” suggested the panel.The report also seeks to improve the treatment meted out to the victims at police stations. According to the report, the victims who come to the police station do not know with whom to lodge a complaint. A separate reception should be set up in each police station to help complainants, the panel suggested. With technological innovations in crime prevention and policing, the report also recommended technical training for staff for usage of modern probing techniques.The Commission also laid stress on computerisation of work, installation of CCTV cameras in all police stations and maintenance of records of the victims. The UT Administration had constituted the Commission for three months on September 1, 2020, on the orders of the Supreme Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/report-focuses-on-citizen-friendly-police-303499
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one death, 3 cases||1 case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported one fresh case of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 30,680. However, there was no new fatality. A 21-year-old youth of Alipur village tested positive for the virus. A total of 15,337 persons were vaccinated at 61 government and five private vaccination centres across the district on Saturday. As many as 5,572 of them got the second dose. — TNSEight test positive in Mohali distMohali: Eight fresh cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the district in the past 24 hours. No fresh fatality surfaced till Saturday evening while five patients have been discharged from the hospitals. Among the new cases, one came from Mohali, two from Kharar and five from Dhakoli. No case was reported from Dera Bassi, Gharuan, Lalru, Kurali, Boothgarh and Banur. So far, 68,601 persons have tested positive in the district and 67,489 of them have been cured. There are 54 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-death-3-cases-303500
29-08-2021||---||Soon, pay water connection charges through apps||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28In a first, consumers will be able to pay water connection-related charges by just scanning a QR code using any UPI-enabled application.People will be able to pay charges through the BHIM UPI app or any third party apps such as Paytm and Google Pay. The consumers will be able to use the digital service provided by any of the five subdivisonal office of the public health of the municipal corporation.The service will be for water meter security, labour, water meter testing fee, temporary/permanent disconnection, construction, ferrule and other miscellaneous charges.“However, water bills will continue to be paid as it is done at Sampark Centres and online,” said an official concerned. Sampark Centres are under the UT Administration.The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had emphasised encouraging digital payment in a letter on January 14 this year.“The proposal can prove to be beneficial in the simplification of collection and depositing of various types of receipts in the subdivisonal offices. No financial implications will be involved and handling of cash at various stages will reduce considerably,” said an official.This agenda will be taken up at the House meeting to be held on August 31 for formal approval. Following which, expression of interest will be invited to set up the system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-pay-water-connection-charges-through-apps-303501
29-08-2021||Zirakpur||Stray dog bites four in Kishanpura area||A stray dog bit four persons, including a child, near a housing society in Kishanpura this morning.Shanti Devi (50), Anju (50), Muskan (20) and Pun (8) were bitten by the canine near GMS Homes around 9 am today. The victims were rushed to a hospital in Panchkula where the condition of one of the injured women deteriorated and she had to be shifted to the PGI in Chandigarh.Eyewitnesses said Shanti Devi’s arm was badly bitten by the dog and she was rescued by people.Residents of the society said the stray dog menace in the area had made their life hell. “This is not the first time that a dog has injured someone so badly,” they said, adding that dogs often attack pedestrians and people on two-wheelers passing through here. The Municipal Council has not done anything to check the menace, they alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-dog-bites-four-in-kishanpura-area-303502
29-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC finding — parking lots lack smart features||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28A team of the MC found several discrepancies during its two-day inspection at the 89 paid parking lots in the city.Additional Commissioner SK Jain shared the findings with MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra today. Officials said action on the same would be taken on Wednesday.The report stated that all features, which had to be provided as per the smart parking lot contract, had not been implemented. The team found LEDs set up at the entrance of some parking lots not working. These were supposed to display the status of space inside the parking lot and the rates.Besides, haphazard parking was witnessed at some parking lots, majorly in Sectors 22, 17, 35 and the facilities on Madhya Marg.Two-wheelers and four wheelers were parked at non-designated sites, leading to a chaos at some parking facilities. Also, a smart parking lot mobile application, which was to be launched to inform the live status of the space in parking lots and online booking, is also not ready.Officials said two firms, which were managing the 89 parking lots in the City Beautiful, complained that due to construction works like those related to Smart City projects, some parking lots had been dug up due to which there were problems in providing the agreed features. Street vendors were seen at the parking lots in Sectors 35 and 22.Following the UT Adviser’s observation regarding the ‘smart’ parking lots, the MC had ordered a two-day inspection of the facilities in the city. Officials were ordered to verify the smart features with a checklist of 110 points as per the contract.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-finding-%E2%80%94-parking-lots-lack-smart-features-303503
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Light rain predicted for three days||The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has issued a forecast of light rain for the next three days. The city received 15 mm of rainfall till 8:30 am today. The maximum temperature recorded in the city today was 34.4°C, which is two degrees above normal, while the minimum stood at 23.7°C, which is a degree above normal. Though thundery development is expected in the coming days, the temperature is not expected to see much departure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/light-rain-predicted-for-three-days-303504
29-08-2021||---||Staff protest pay gap||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 28Members of the Un-revised and Partially Revised Joint Employees Front, Punjab and UT, today staged a protest rally near Gurdwara Amb Sahib at Phase 8 here for their long-pending demands.Led by Coordinator Sukhnandan Singh Mohnia, the protesters raised slogans against the Punjab Government.Various leaders said out of the categories which were running equal on pay from 1968 to 2011, some were given different pay grades by the sub-committee on Punjab in December 2011, cheating the highly qualified categories. He demanded that justice be done with the equal pay parity categories. They warned that if the government did not accede to their demands, they would be forced to oppose the Congress in the next Assembly elections.Daljit Singh Bhakhar, Amanveer Singh, Mukesh Kanda, Dharminder Rahi, Nareshpal Saini, Mandeep Singh, Sanjeev Kumar, Ajmer Singh, Deepinder Khaira, Sukhwinder Singh, Navneet Kumar, Gurmeet Singh, Jaskaran Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Harjit Singh, Raj Kumar, Manjit Singh, Sandeep Singh, Gurtej Singh Brar and a large number of employees were present during the protest rally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staff-protest-pay-gap-303505
29-08-2021||---||Woman held in Rs2-cr embezzlement case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 28The detective staff of the Panchkula police today claimed to have arrested a woman for her alleged involvement in embezzlement of Rs2 crore from a commission agent of Raipur Rani.The suspect has been identified as Durga Rani, a resident of Defence Colony. She was produced in a court, which remanded her to judicial custody.The police said commission agent Sanjay Singhal, a resident of Raipur Rani, in his complaint to the police, stated that two brothers - Nitin Singla and Harsh Singla - were working at his shop at the old grain market in Raipur Rani for the past 10 to 12 years. They were looking after cash transactions, besides managing the accounts.He said for the past two-three months, he was receiving complaints from farmers that the two brothers were issuing cheques of different amounts to them without receiving any farm produce and later taking cheques from them in favour of themselves and their family members. On suspicion, he got his accounts audited from a chartered accountant, following which the embezzlement of Rs2 crore surfaced.During questioning, the brothers admitted their offence and assured him of returning the money transferred to bank accounts of their family members. They also assured him of transferring the amount of fixed deposits in their names to his firm’s account.Singhal said on July 7, 2021, Nitin and Harsh closed FDRs of Rs26 lakh and Rs24 lakh, respectively, and transferred Rs50 lakh into his firm’s account and assured that they would soon close FDRs of Rs50 lakh and Rs20 lakh in the name of Durga Rani, Madhu and other children and transfer the amount into his bank account.He said the accused also requested him not to lodge a police complaint against them. Instead of returning the amount, the accused threatened to eliminate him and get a criminal cases registered against him.A case under Sections 406, 408, 420, 506 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the accused at the Raipur Rani police station. The police had already arrested Nitin Singla and produced him in a court, which remanded him to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-in-rs2-cr-embezzlement-case-303506
29-08-2021||---||Milkha Singh Memorial Tourney: Golfers Amandeep, Bindu claim top position||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28The first Milkha Singh Memorial Golf Tournament, organised by the Chandigarh Golf Club, concluded today. All from the golf fraternity remembered former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh, who was a regular at the greens of the club.As many as 256 golfers participated in the championship. In the 18-holes scramble format, Amandeep Singh and Bindu Singh took home the honours with a net score of 59.2. KS Brar and Bhupinder Singh claimed the second position with a net score of 62 and the duo of MP Singh and Harleen Giran finished third with a net score of 62.2. In the nine-holes event, GS Tandon claimed the top position with 23 points, followed by Maj Gen Manmohan Singh at the second position with 22 points.The winners were awarded with the prestigious trophy by outgoing Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore. Ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, who has announced plans to make a comeback to professional golf, remembered his father. The legendary athlete had died of post-Covid complications on June 18. He was 91.“My father liked golf as much as he liked athletics. I hardly remember a day when he wouldn’t pick up the golf irons and spend a good time at the greens. I was very much aware about his connection with the masses, but it was after his death that I realised how much respect he had earned in his lifespan. I am happy that the club remembered him and honoured me by inviting me to the event,” said an emotional Jeev.In the scramble format, Arvind Bajaj and Ashwinder Singh claimed the fourth position, followed by Vikram Bhagwan and Saguna Jain at the fifth, Col AS Dhillon and IS Atwal at the sixth position, Col SS Sandhu and Jyoti Gosal at the seventh, Sunil Sardana and Lt Gen TK Sapru at the eighth spot, Sandeep Sandhu and Manpreet Grewal at the ninth position and APS Kahai and Gurpreet Singh at the 10th.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-memorial-tourney-golfers-amandeep-bindu-claim-top-position-303507
29-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Tribunal sets aside District Bar Assn poll||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28The Election Tribunal of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has set aside the elections of the District Bar Association (DBA), Chandigarh, and constituted a five-member ad hoc committee to look after the day-to-day functioning of the association till the elections are conducted.Ashok Sharma has been appointed as the chairman of the ad hoc committee, while Karamjeet, Munish Diwan, Vikas Sagar and Vikas Kumar have been appointed as its members.The ad hoc committee will take decisions by a majority as per the rules and regulations of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana and Constitution of the DBA, Chandigarh.The Tribunal has also directed the committee to intimate every decision to the Bar Council. It has also directed the Returning Officer to hold the fresh elections of the DBA, Chandigarh, within a period of one month.The Tribunal has pronounced the order on an election petition filed by Neeraj Hans through advocate NK Nanda alleging that guidelines issued by the Bar Council were not properly followed during the elections. During the election process, membership cards of the DBA, Chandigarh, as well as no other identity proof of voters were checked due to which bogus votes were polled during the elections.Nanda also alleged that the entire election was conducted in a casual, biased and faulty manner.The petitioner also placed on record a pen drive of the videography of the entire election process of the Bar Association.In the order, the Tribunal said “while going through the videography, we found that there was no system of distribution of ballots, casting of votes by voters, no secrecy has been provided and voters are shown to be coming and going from the same gate. During the peak time, there was chaos like the fish market which is not the purpose of the democratic system. Further, we found that the voters were coming with ballot papers, but never shown that from where they have obtained the same. We are concerned about the system of voting.”The order further says “We, as members of the Election Tribunal, want to give a message to all Bar Associations to adopt proper procedure and system for smooth functioning and elections of the Bar Associations in order to bring fairness, purity, transparency and democratic values, which have not been adopted during the elections of the DBA, Chandigarh. Therefore, we are of the view that the entire election process adopted during the DBA elections has been vitiated and the entire poll process of the office-bearers of the DBA, Chandigarh, is hereby set aside. The Returning Officer is directed to hold fresh elections of the DBA, Chandigarh, within a period of one month. Till that time, the matter be put up before the chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana to appoint an ad hoc Committee for the day-to-day working of the DBA, Chandigarh.”The elections of the Bar Association were held in November, 2020, in which Bhaag Singh Suhag was elected as the president. Neeraj Hans, who filed the petition, lost the elections to Suhag.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tribunal-sets-aside-district-bar-assn-poll-303508
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||‘Clause stating that fee once paid shall not be refundable is unfair’||Any clause stating that the fee once paid shall not be refunded is untenable and unfair and therefore, not enforceable, stated the Consumer Disputes Commission, Chandigarh, while rejecting the appeal of British School against the decision of the District Consumer Forum.The District Forum had directed the school management, in its order dated July 5, 2019, to refund Rs77,300 to a student, who alleged that the school had failed to provide the facilities as promised.Rahul Pathania and her daughter Ojasvi Pathania approached the forum after the school refused to refund the fee. In the complaint before the Forum, Pathania said he got her daughter Ojasvi admitted to Class IX in the school. Within two days of joining the school, his daughter found that there were no facilities as promised by the school.Rahul said he decided to withdraw her daughter from school and requested the school to refund Rs77,300. However they did not refund any amount despite numerous requests, visits and correspondence.On the other hand, the school management denied all charges before the forum and claimed that it was made clear to the complainant at the time of admission that the fee is non-refundable. The admission form was also duly signed by him. The school also claimed that the child never turned up at the schools despite a number of calls.The forum directed the school to refund the entire fee of Rs77,300 to the complainant, after deducting Rs1,000 towards registration charges. The school was also directed to pay Rs10,000 towards the litigation cost and compensation. The school filed the appeal before the commission against the orders of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum.After hearing the arguments, the commission dismissed the appeal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clause-stating-that-fee-once-paid-shall-not-be-refundable-is-unfair-303509
29-08-2021||---||Carrom challenge: Chandigarh’s Nidhi claims fourth position||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 28Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta claimed fourth position in the ongoing Indian Online Carrom Challenge.Nidhi finished the third round with 29 points to raise her cumulative point tally to 76 and stay at the top in the super league. Shruti Sonawane of Maharashtra stood at the second rank with 77 cumulative points, while Kavya Shree of Jharkhand and Akanksha Kadam of Maharashtra claimed third and fourth position, respectively.In the third round, Shruti stood at the top with 18 (5+5+3+5) missing points as Nidhi finished with 29 (6+9+7+7) points to stay at the fourth place. Sanya Chadha of Chandigarh lost her chance to enter top eight and qualify for the champions’ league. She finished her third round match with 33 points taking her cumulative tally at 110 (41+36+33).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carrom-challenge-chandigarhs-nidhi-claims-fourth-position-303510
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Katoch Shield Trophy: Fatehgarh Sahib lads post 210 runs against Mohali||Fatehgarh Sahib lads posted 210 runs against hosts Mohali on the opening day play of Punjab State Inter-District Senior Tournament for Katoch Shield Trophy.Batting first, Fatehgarh Sahib posted 201 runs before getting all out in 78.5 overs. Devi Chand (72), Kuljit Singh (58), Vicky Singh (18) and Lovepreet (14) were the main scorers. In reply, Mohali scored 53 runs in 11 overs at the draw of stumps.In other matches, Ferozepur lads lead by 191 runs against Faridkot, Hoshiarpur lead by 69 runs against Nawanshahr, Kapurthala registered a 56-run lead over Gurdaspur and Moga has a 430-run lead over Moga. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/katoch-shield-trophy-fatehgarh-sahib-lads-post-210-runs-against-mohali-303511
29-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Zirakpur SAI Centre in assets list for monetisation pipeline project||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 28The NITI Aayog has considered the Sports Authority of India Regional Centre, Zirakpur, as an asset for the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) project. National Monetisation PipelineThe National Monetisation Pipeline is Government of India’s pioneering initiative to establish a medium-term pipeline along with a roadmap for “monetisation-ready” assets. Developed in the backdrop of the unprecedented Covid-induced economic and fiscal shocks, the project lists out assets and asset classes, under various infrastructure ministries, which will be monetised over a period of time.As per the document released by the NITI Aayog, the assets considered for monetisation during FY 2022-2025 cover two national stadiums – Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and one more national stadium to be identified later – and two SAI Regional Centres at Bengaluru and Zirakpur.The mode of monetisation for the identified assets will be Public-Private Partnership (PPP) based concessions on Operations, Management and Development (OMD) model.“While the award of the four assets is planned in a phased manner over FY 2022 and FY 2023, the actual capex may take place over a 3-4 year period,” read the document.“Further, any concession fee, upfront premium and revenue share payments to authority are over and above this indicative monetisation value and will be discovered based on market testing with transaction,” it added.The assets considered for monetisation include specific assets for which the Centre has identified specific plans towards the development of the facilities under the PPP mode. The approach has been adopted to determine the indicative monetisation value for stadium assets. The estimated capex has been considered as the approach to estimate the monetisation value.Also, the total value of assets considered for monetisation have been estimated at Rs11,450 crore for FY 2022-2025, with capex phasing including Rs1,650 crore (2022), Rs2,100 crore (2023), Rs3,200 crore (2024) and Rs4,500 crore (2025).“The PPP concept envisages that the selected PPP concessionaire will be given the rights for development and commercialisation of the sports facility through an OMD agreement,” said an official.“The project structure envisages grant of a concession to a private operator to operate, maintain and augment or redevelop and upgrade the existing facilities at the stadium. As part of the concession, the private partner may be granted development rights at the site subject to compliance with applicable local laws,” the official added.Meanwhile, the local SAI office has not received any kind of official communication in this regard.“We have not received information in this regard and are not even aware of it. If the government is planning, it must be an advantageous project for local sportspersons,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-sai-centre-in-assets-list-for-monetisation-pipeline-project-303512
29-08-2021||---||Three held for looting mobile phone, cash||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 28The Panchkula police today claimed to have nabbed three persons for looting a mobile phone and money from a Peer Muchalla resident.The suspects have been identified as Ankush, Sanjay and Arvind, all residents of Ashiana Complex in Sector 20 here.In his complaint to the police, Mohammad Nafeel (21), a resident of Peer Muchalla in Zirakpur, stated that while he was returning home from his office in Sector 28 on July 26, three unidentified youths, who were riding an Activa scooter, slapped him and attacked him with a knife before looting Rs5,000 and a mobile phone. He stated that he was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 for treatment.A case was registered under Section 392 and 394 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.A police team, led by Sub Inspector Harinder Singh, incharge of the Sector 21 police chowki, arrested the suspects on Friday and recovered the robbed mobile phone and Rs1,000 from them.The suspects were produced in a court today, which sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-for-looting-mobile-phone-cash-303513
29-08-2021||Mohali||Farmers protest||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-protest-303514
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||SGGS men, women enter hockey finals||Sri Guru Gobind Singh College (SGGS), Sector 26, will play in both men’s and women’s finals on the concluding day of State Hockey Championship at the Sector 42 Sports Complex tomorrow.In the women’s final, SGGS will play against Rock Rovers Hockey Club, while in men’s finals, the Sector 26 outfit will take the Wanderers Club.In the women’s semifinals, the Sector 26 ousted Government Model High School, Sector 42, by a solitary goal. Dhapa Devi scored the only goal of the match in the 32nd minute. In the second semi, Rock Rovers Hockey Club registered a 5-2 win against Hockey Stadium. Mohini (13th), Gurjeet (27th minute), Seema (43rd minute) and Nidhi (50th minute) scored for winners. In the men’s category, the Sector 26 team defeated CISF 5-3, while in the second match, Wanderers Club ousted 3BRD Air Force 2-1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sggs-men-women-enter-hockey-finals-303515
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two snatching incidents in Chandigarh||Three scooters, bike stolenChandigarh: Four incidents of two-wheeler theft were reported from the city. Industrial Area resident Vipin Goyal reported that unknown person stole his scooter from near his house. In another incident, a Mani Majra resident reported that unknown person stole her scooter from near her house on August 11. Mauli Jagran resident Wajid Husain reported that his scooter was stolen from near a shop in Sector 45 on August 6. In yet another incident, Sector 63 resident Lalit Dhuria reported that unknown person stole his motorcycle parked near his residence on the night of August 18. The police have registered separate cases under Section 379 of the IPC. TNSJanmashtami celebrationsChandigarh: Janmashtami was celebrated by the management, staff and students of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, on Saturday. A colourful performance by students, depicting the birth of Lord Krishna, mesmerised the audience. TNSSSG New Law CollegeDera Bassi: Sri Sukhmani Group (SSG) of Institutions has started a law college, Sri Sukhmani College of Law, after receiving all approvals from affiliating bodies. TNS70-yr-old ‘exploits’ minor girl, bookedChandigarh: The police booked a 70-year-old shopkeeper for allegedly sexually exploiting a 16-year-old girl employed as a housemaid in Mani Majra. The police said the shopkeeper used to pay the minor for sexual favours. The police are investigating the role of a neighbouring woman, who introduced the victim to the suspect, and used to accompany her. NGO Childline convinced the girl’s mother to file a police complaint and get a case registered against the suspects under POCSO Act. TNSMan booked for abusing daughterChandigarh: A 40-year-old man from Zirakpur has been arrested on the charge of sexually abusing his 14-year-old daughter. The suspect has been identified as Brajesh. The police said the Class VII girl had eloped with a youth in May this year and a missing complaint was registered. The girl and the youth were traced. The girl refused to go home and after she was counseled, she revealed that her father allegedly abused her and her mother did not help her. The victim is now in a Kharar shelter home. TNSMobile phone stolenChandigarh: A resident of Khuda Jassu, Gagandeep Singh, has reported theft of his mobile phone from the Rally Ground in Sector 25. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNS16-year-old girl goes missingChandigarh: A Dariya resident reported that her daughter, aged 16, was missing from her residence since August 27. A case under Sections 363 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSPatiala girls log 6-wicket winChandigarh: Patiala registered a six-wicket win over Barnala in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District Women’s U-19 One-Day Tournament. Batting first, Barnala lads were bundled out for 109 runs in 43.1 overs with the help of Alisha (36 off 88) and Akshita Bhagat (17 off 20). Shruti (4/11) and Tess (2/18) claimed a majority of the wickets for the bowling side. In reply, Patiala scored 110/4 in 30.4 overs. Shruti Yadav (43 off 97) and Vanshika Mahajan (20 off 39) were the main run getters for the side. Amanjot Kaur Sandhu claimed three wickets and Alisha took one wicket for the bowling side. With this win, Patiala got four points and Barnala 0. TNSTennis c’ship from tomorrowMohali: The Roots Tennis Academy will conduct the AITA-Roots National Ranking CS Championship from August 30 to September 1. The event will be conducted in the U-14 and U-16 age groups for boys and girls categories. Interested players can register themselves at the tournament venue. TNSDM XI lift Wonder CupMohali: DM XI defeated Chandigarh Blitz by seven wickets in the final of Wonder Cup in Dera Bassi on Saturday. Batting first, Chandigarh Blitz scored 123 runs. Satvik and Pawan Punyani took three wickets each. Chasing the target, DM XI romped home in style by winning the match in 11 overs. Openers Rahul Gill and Nitin Deswal gave a steady start and Abhinav Beragi’s blistering knock of 52 off 19 balls ensured a clean victory over Blitz. Satvik from DM XI was adjudged the best bowler of the tournament and Abhinav Beragi was awarded the batsman of the tournament and man of the series. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-snatching-incidents-in-chandigarh-303516
