30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Badnore relinquishes charge of Punjab Governor, Chandigarh Administrator||VP Singh Badnore relinquished the charge of Punjab Governor and Administrator of Chandigarh on Monday on completion of his five-year term.Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has been given the additional charge of Punjab and the Union Territory of Chandigarh.Badnore had taken over as Governor of Punjab and Administrator of Union Territory of Chandigarh on August 22, 2016.In his farewell speech, Badnore said that he would remain indebted to his officers at the Punjab Raj Bhavan, Punjab Government and the UT Administration for extending full support and cooperation during his five-year tenure, according to an official statement.He thanked the people of Punjab and Chandigarh for their support, love and affection.On the occasion, the outgoing governor was given a coffee table book, ‘The Raj Bhawan Punjab - A Glorious Journey’, released by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.The book has details about all the important functions and other information of the Governors of Punjab from 1947 till date.Badnore said, “Five years is a long time in one’s lifetime and my five years in Chandigarh and Punjab are not only memorable but have been glorious for me.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-relinquishes-charge-of-punjab-governor-chandigarh-administrator-304238
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 6 new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported six new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a bulletin showed.The UT has 40 active Covid-19  cases, with an average positivity rate of 0.29 per cent in the last seven days, a health bulletin from the Chandigarh administration showed on Monday.Chandigarh’s fatality count stands at 813.  Chandigarh also reported four recoveries.Meanwhile, 7,29,822 people over 18 have got at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, of which 3,04,670 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-6-new-covid-cases-304210
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Afghan situation raises new security questions: Rajnath Singh||The current happenings in Afghanistan have raised new security questions, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday, adding that the government is alert and no anti-national force should be allowed to encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the situation.He also asserted the central government is capable of dealing with any situation.He was addressing virtually the third Balramji Dass Tandon Memorial Lecture organised by Panjab University on the issue of national security.“What is happening in neighbouring Afghanistan is raising new questions in terms of security and our government is constantly monitoring the developments there,” Singh said.Along with the security of Indians, he said, “Our government also wants that anti-national forces do not encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the development there”.“We have some more concerns which can become challenges from the point of view of national security,” he added.The Taliban took control of Afghanistan on August 15, capturing all major cities in a matter of days, two weeks before the US was set to complete its troop withdrawal after a vexatious two-decade war. Earlier this week, an Islamic State suicide attack outside the Kabul airport killed over 180 people.Singh said that the Narendra Modi government was alert and capable of dealing with any situation.“We are always prepared to deal with threats arising from anywhere—air, water and land,” he said.The defence minister laid stress on continuously upgrading and updating the national security system to face new challenges and said that some new threats have emerged because of the development of modern technology.स्वर्गीय बलरामजी दास टंडन व्याख्यानमाला के अंतर्गत ‘राष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा’ विषय पर सम्बोधन। https://t.co/oBTbfn9xwRHe referred to the dropping of two bombs using drone at the Jammu air force station earlier this year.“We have to continuously update and upgrade the national security system for new challenges,” said Singh.He said the government’s aim is to make the country prosperous, strong and secure. “Such an India that does not scare anyone but develops a sense of security among small nations and that India’s growing power is not a threat to them,” he said.Singh also said that there was a trust deficit between India and Pakistan and the country needed to be vigilant of this fact from the point of view of national security.Singh said Pakistan had understood that they would not make any gains from   violations of ceasefire agreements.An agreement was signed between the Director General Military Operations (DGMO) of India and Pakistan to maintain ceasefire along the Line of Control in February this year, he said.“We are also in wait and watch mode because the trust deficit between both the nations is a major problem,” he said, adding that no ceasefire violation by the neighbouring nation has taken place ever since the agreement was signed.Pakistan understands that it is not in position to do much in Kashmir, especially after the nullification of Article 370, he said.He said Pakistan had suffered defeats in 1965 and 1971 wars and these defeats completely proved that it was not in a position to launch a full scale war against India.The minister said the inability to wage a direct war against India forced Pakistan to work on two policies—on the one hand, the neighbouring nation took steps towards finding an atomic way and on the other hand, it started working on the policy of giving ‘death by thousand cuts’ to India.Pakistan had commenced a proxy war against India, allowing their land for providing training to terrorists, money and weapons to target India, he said, adding that after 1980s Pakistan had become the “nursery of terrorism” in the whole world.On Jammu and Kashmir, Singh said an effective action by Indian security forces to stop terrorism has been going on for the last seven years there.“I believe that the remaining terrorism in Kashmir will also end. I have this belief because the strength and oxygen that the separatist forces used to get there due to Articles 370 and 35A are over now,” said Singh.He said the Modi government neither does politics nor allows it to happen on issues related to national security, and added that a free hand has been given to the security forces in performing their duties.“How high the confidence and morale of the army and security forces can be guessed from the fact that in the last seven years, they have not allowed a single major terrorist incident in the hinterland of India,” he said.“India is not only taking action against terrorism within the borders of the country, the brave soldiers of our army have done the work of destroying terrorist hideouts by crossing the border if needed,” he said, referring to the surgical strike after the Uri terror attack and the Balakot airstrikes after the Pulwama attack.“Today we can say that Pakistan-supported model of terrorism is getting demolished in India,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/afghan-situation-raises-new-security-questions-rajnath-singh-304193
30-08-2021||---||PGI faculty members display paintings||Chandigarh, August 29Three faculty members of the PGI, Chandigarh, organised an art and painting exhibition on August 28 and 29 on the Zakir Hall premises at the institute.Dr Uma Nahar, Professor of Histopathology, Dr Biman Saikia, Professor of Immunopathology, and Dr Tarun Narang, Associate Professor, Dermatology, exhibited an array of colourful paintings ranging from portrayals of various life forms, mythological figures, landscapes and abstract features.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-faculty-members-display-paintings-303856
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Patiala eves defeat Ludhiana||Patiala eves defeated Ludhiana by three wickets in the Punjab State Inter-District Women’s U-19 One-Day Tournament today. After winning the toss, Ludhiana skipper opted to bat.The side scored 111 runs in 41.2 overs with the help of Seema Prohit (26) and Manya Sharma (23). Mannat Kashyap and Tess claimed three wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, Patiala posted 112/7 in 41.4 overs. Mannat Kashyap and Shruti Yadav contributed 27 runs each and Vanshika Mahajan scored 21 runs for the winning side. Aishmine Kaur and Parineeta Saroha took two wickets each for the bowling side.In other matches, Jalandhar defeated Moga by 150 runs and Zone-B went down against Amritsar by eight wickets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-patiala-eves-defeat-ludhiana-303858
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Carrom Challenge: Nidhi Gupta qualifies for champions league round||Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta qualified for champions league matches after sailing through super league matches in the Indian Online Carrom Challenge.At the end of the fourth round, Nidhi proved her supremacy to claim the top spot with 101 cumulative points (28+19+29+25). Tanishka Vishkarma of Madhya Pradesh claimed second position with 105 points and Kavya Shree of Jharkhand finished third with 108 points.In the men’s category, Abhishek Chavan of Maharashtra dominated to emerge the winner with 34 points (4+3+9+18). Abdul Rehman of Uttar Pradesh and Mohammed Sheikh of Karnataka were ranked second and third with 37 and 58 points, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carrom-challenge-nidhi-gupta-qualifies-for-champions-league-round-303859
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Boxing championship from September 7 in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association will organise the 44th Senior (men) and 20th Senior (women) Chandigarh State Boxing Championship at the Sector 42 Sports Complex here from September 7-8.During the championship, the association will also select the men’s team to represent the city in the Senior Men’s National Boxing Championship, to be held at Bellary (Karnataka) from September 14 to 22.The championship will be held in weight categories, including senior men (boxers born between 1981 and 2002) in 46-48 kg, 48-51 kg, 51-54 kg, 54-57 kg, 57-60 kg, 60-63.5 kg, 63.5-67 kg, 67-71 kg, 71-75 kg, 75-80 kg, 80-86 kg, 86-92 kg and +92 kg and senior women in 45-48 kg, 48-50 kg, 50-52 kg, 52-54 kg, 54-57 kg, 57-60 kg, 60-63 kg, 63-66 kg, 66-70 kg, 70-75 kg, 75-81 kg and 81 kg.Interested boxers can report at the above mentioned venue with original and photocopy of valid photo identity proofs, including Aadhaar card, original institutional identity card and age proof, along with annual medical certificate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boxing-championship-from-september-7-in-chandigarh-303860
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Katoch Shield Trophy: Mohali thrash Fatehgarh Sahib||Mohali logged an inning and 33-run win over Fatehgarh Sahib in their Punjab Inter-District Tournament match today.Chasing Fatehgarh Sahib’s first innings total of 201, Mohali lads were all out for 298 runs in 65.4 overs. Ramandeep (65) and Abhijeet (60) did the bulk of scoring for Mohali. Mohit (7/85) was the pick of bowlers for Fatehgarh Sahib.In their second innings, Fatehgarh Sahib were bowled out for 64 runs in 32.3 overs.Jassinder claimed a five-wicket haul for Mohali while Arman Singh bagged three wickets. Vijay Kumar (17) was the top scorer for Fatehgarh Sahib.Mohali got seven points from the win, while Fatehgarh Sahib got zero.In other matches, Ferozepur defeated Faridkot by 110 runs, Hoshiarpur held Nawanshahr to a draw, while Kapurthala bagged three points on the basis of their first innings lead over Gurdaspur.Moga defeated Ropar and Sangrur ousted Bathinda on the basis of first innings lead. Barnala defeated Mansa by seven wickets, while Muktsar Sahib defeated Fazilka by 191 runs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/katoch-shield-trophy-mohali-thrash-fatehgarh-sahib-303861
30-08-2021||---||National Sports Day a low-key affair in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 29National Sports Day in the city remained a low-key affair as only a handful of organisations celebrated the day.While the UT Sports Department organised a cycle rally in collaboration with a cycling group – Cyclegarh – and Department of Cultural Affairs, the sports wing of the UT Education Department stayed away from the celebrations. Chandigarh Olympics Association (COA) also did not organise any event on the day.Hockey Chandigarh though conducted a felicitation ceremony, during the closing of the state hockey meet, to remember the legacy of hockey wizard Major Dhyan Chand, who was born on this day in 1905.Earlier, the UT Administration used to celebrate the day by organising a cultural evening. The event used to be hosted by both Sports Department and the Education Department. Local athletes were felicitated for their achievements and future ventures were also announced.In 2019, a state-level function on ‘Fit India Movement’ was organised to mark National Sports Day.“The day should be celebrated in a proper manner, at least by the UT Administration. Players should have been awarded, sports complexes should have been decorated, or some kind of exhibition matches could have been organised. We need to inform the coming generations about the legacy of Major Dhyan Chand,” said a senior coach.Club organises racesRotaract Club, Chandigarh (midtown), celebrated National Sports Day by organising various races at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3. The winners were awarded by Naseem Ahmad, former coach of Tokyo Games gold medallist Neeraj Chopra. Defence aspirants studying at Nimbus Defence Academy here also celebrated the day. The students participated in various sports activities with great enthusiasm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-sports-day-a-low-key-affair-in-chandigarh-303862
30-08-2021||---||16 teams for JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament||Chandigarh, August 29As many as 16 teams will participate in the 26th edition of the JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament, supported by the Punjab Cricket Association, starting on September 1 at five venues in Chandigarh and Mohali.The teams - Bihar XI, PCA Colts, Players XI Delhi and HPCA (Pool-A), Chhattisgarh State Cricket Sangh, Punjab Cricket Club, UP Cricket Association and RBI-Mumbai (Pool-B), UTCA-Chandigarh, CAG-Delhi, Delhi Capital Dev Squad and Baroda Cricket Association (Pool-C) and DDCA, Minerva Cricket Academy, Ranstar Cricket Club-Delhi and Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association (Pool-D) - have confirmed their entries.Chetan Sharma, chairman, Senior Selection Committee, BCCI, will inaugurate the tournament. The opening matches will be played between UTCA and CAG-Delhi at the IS Bindra Stadium in Mohali and Minerva and Ranstar at Sector 16 cricket stadium.The winner of the tournament will get Rs2 lakh, while the runners-up will get Rs1 lakh. The organisers also announced to give trident man of match, best batsman, best bowler and player of the tournament awards. The final match will be played at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium on September 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-teams-for-jp-atray-memorial-cricket-tournament-303863
30-08-2021||---||Sri Guru Gobind Singh College Club, Rock Rovers Club hockey champs||Chandigarh, August 29Sri Guru Gobind Singh College (SGGS) Club, Sector 26, registered a 3-2 win over Wanderers Club to win the men’s title on the concluding day of the State Hockey Championship organised by Hockey Chandigarh at the Sector 42 Sports Complex today.Yograj opened the account for the Sector 26 outfit in the 11th minute, while Raman doubled the lead in the 27th minute. Wanderers Club, meanwhile, reduced the margin as Surinder scored a field goal to make it 1-2. However, Yograj netted his second goal to make it 3-1 in the favour of SGGS Club. Wanderers Club scored its second goal in the 59th minute through Paramvir to make it 2-3. The score line remained unchanged till the final whistle.3BRD Air Force claimed the third position by defeating CISF 2-0.In the women’s final, Rock Rovers Club defeated SGGS Hockey Club (5-4) via tie-breaker. Earlier, the match ended in a 1-1 draw during the stipulated time. Rock Rovers claimed lead through Ravina Rani in the 22nd minute. However, SGGS cancelled the goal through Kritika in the 54th minute.Government Model High School, Sector 42, logged a 7-0 win over the Sector 42 hockey stadium to claim the third position.Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, along with Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sports Minister, Punjab, and Anil Vohra, general secretary, Hockey Chandigarh, awarded the winners. Technical officials Rajwinder Kaur, Gurpreet Kaur and Sarika Thakur were also honoured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sri-guru-gobind-singh-college-club-rock-rovers-club-hockey-champs-303865
30-08-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panchkula: 4 days on, cops still on lookout for auto driver||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 29Four days after a 24-year-old staff nurse of a private hospital was found unconscious with injuries on her head, neck and arms on the Morni road in Panchkula, the police are still on the lookout for an auto driver.According to the police, the woman works at a hospital in Sector 26, Panchkula. She daily commutes from her house in Baddi to the hospital. She left hospital around 8:30 pm on Thursday and was found unconscious on the Morni road by a passerby around 9 pm. The police suspect that she was dumped there by an auto-rickshaw driver.The police said the woman used to take an auto-rickshaw daily from the hospital to reach the Majri Chowk. From there, she used to board a bus to Pinjore where her father used to pick her up.As per initial investigations, she boarded an auto-rickshaw for the Majri Chowk around 8:45 pm on Thursday as well.The spot is located just 100 metres from a police station and is in close vicinity to a hospital where the woman has been admitted.The police suspect it to be a case of kidnapping, but it is not yet clear whether the woman jumped from the auto or was thrown out. Her belongings were recovered from the spot.On a complaint of the victim’s brother, a case under Section 307 of the IPC has been registered.Arvind Kumar, SHO, Chandimandir police station, said they were yet to record her statement as she was yet to regain her consciousness. They would record the statement as soon as she regains consciousness. He said they were investigating the case and scanning the CCTV footage of the road leading to the spot to get more clues.Scanning CCTV footage to get clues: SHOArvind Kumar, SHO of the Chandimandir police station, said they were yet to record the victim’s statement as she was yet to regain consciousness. They would record the statement as soon as the woman regained consciousness. He said they were investigating the case and scanning the CCTV footage of the road leading to the spot to get more clues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-4-days-on-cops-still-on-lookout-for-auto-driver-303866
30-08-2021||---||Commission sends Cooperative society secretary to jail in Ropar||Ropar, August 29The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, comprising president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma and member Yuvinder Singh Matta, sent the secretary of The Dalla Multipurpose Cooperative Agriculture Service Society in the Chamkaur Sahib tehsil to two-year imprisonment for not complying with the commission’s orders.The Commission also slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the secretary, failing which he has to undergo another year of sentence.On March 13, 2015, Ranjit Singh, a resident of Dalla village, had lodged a complaint that he had deposited money with the society and he was yet to receive his money against fixed deposit receipts worth Rs3.94 lakh despite the expiry of the maturity date.Following Ranjit’s application, the Commission on August 6, 2015 had ordered to pay the maturity amount to the applicant with a compensation of Rs10,000 and Rs3,000 as litigation cost.However, an application was filed on January 4, 2016 on the ground that the orders of the Commission were not complied with.The Commission, in its order, stated that a show-cause notice was issued to the accused on January 19, 2016. Initially, the accused kept delaying the reply and finally the reply was filed in June 2016. On July 12, 2016, the commission gave an opportunity to the offenders to comply with the orders. While nothing was done in this regard, the secretary even stopped appearing and warrants were issued through the police.While the accused kept delaying the case on one pretext or the other, the applicant was given a small amount of Rs7,000 in July 2017. In January 2019, the accused, through an advocate, recorded a statement and agreed to pay the remaining payment within four-five months. As the opposite party failed in complying with the orders, recovery warrants were issued for February 5, 2020 and the case was delayed further due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-sends-cooperative-society-secretary-to-jail-in-ropar-303867
30-08-2021||---||5 held for looting foreign national near Chhat village||Mohali, August 29The Zirakpur police today claimed to have arrested five persons for looting cash, a mobile phone and passport from a foreign student near Chhat village in Banur.The arrested accused have been identified as Beeru, a resident of Sarai Vanjana village in Rajpura; Bunty Kumar, a resident of Nagar Kheda Gujranwala and presently residing in Dhakansu village near Rajpura; Vishal, also a resident of Dhakansu village; Lakhvir Singh, a resident of Bharat Colony in Rajpura and presently residing at Dhakansu village; and Baldev Raj, a resident of Talania village in Fatehgarh Sahib district and presently living in Dhakansu village.The police said Salahidin Basir Khairalsid, a resident of Alkhatharom village in Sudan and presently residing in Housefed Complex in Banur, Mohali, in his complaint stated that he was pursing BTech from SVIET College, Banur. On August 22, he boarded an auto-rickshaw at the Banur barrier for Zirakpur. Five persons were already present in the auto.When the auto reached the traffic light point near Chhat village, the five occupants, along with the auto driver, started manhandling him and forcibly took away a kit bag containing his passport, cash and a mobile phone from him.The driver, along with the five occupants, fled the spot after the incident.A case under Section 379-B of the IPC was registered against the unidentified accused at the Zirakpur police station on August 23.The police said a special team, headed by Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh, was constituted. The police arrested the five suspects and recovered the looted articles from their possession. The police also seized the auto involved in the incident. The accused would be produced in a court tomorrow to seek their police remand to investigate their involvement in other looting incidents.Auto-rickshaw involved in incident seizedThe police arrested the five suspects and recovered the looted articles from their possession. The police also seized the auto-rickshaw involved in the incident. The accused will be produced in a court on Monday to seek their police remand to investigate their involvement in other looting incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-held-for-looting-foreign-national-near-chhat-village-303876
30-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||A policy can provide stimulus to City Beautiful industry||Admn should fix Fair price of propertyThere should be a uniform policy for the whole city. Either property should be freehold or leasehold. Chandigarh is never known for its industry. To boost industry in the city the Administration should fix a fair price for industrial properties. This will encourage businessmen to set up more and more industry in the city. If industry grows, the city will grow. The Administration should give facilities and relaxation in the policy related to industry.Vineet Gandhi, Mani MajraTurn UT into business hubThe UT should immediately consider fulfilling the long-pending demand of city industrialists. The Administration should give approval for the lease-hold to free-hold conversion of industrial properties keeping in view the changing dynamics of business in the city. This decisive move will not only ease doing business, but also attract more investments and buyers to the city. This will bolster economy and put Chandigarh on the business map of the country as an upcoming industrial hub.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhThe Issue has been hanging fireThe issue of leasehold-to-freehold conversion of industrial properties seems to be hanging fire. The UT Administration continues to be unfazed on pro-public demands. It has been dilly dallying on pending decisions. With the new Adviser, who has pro-public leaning, understanding issues, the business community now expects sympathetic decisions on its long-pending demands.SC Luthra, ChandigarhAssess fair value of propertyFair value of the property should be assessed if it has to be converted into free-hold. Lease-hold properties have many issues like payment of lease amount to the Administration for 99 years, which is cumbersome. Need of the hour is to convert all lease- hold industrial properties into free-hold. It will help in industrial growth and improve financial stability of units.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliLeasehold Concept no more workableThe concept of leasehold property is no more workable in the UT. Title leasehold of industrial property does not qualify for loan to expand his/her business. How has the Administration benefited from the present leasehold system? Besides, owners always fear resumption of their leasehold properties.Capt Amar Jeet, EnvironmentalistPolicy brought from National CapitalThe concept of leasehold properties has been in vogue since long in the UT. It is prevalent in many parts of the country including Delhi. In fact, it seems this rule has been brought from Delhi. The public is trying hard for its removal. The Administration should give a second thought to convert industrial properties into freehold. The Administration can give option to lessees to convert their properties into freehold after paying reasonable charges. The Administration can keep a lock-in period of 25 years before converting any leasehold property into freehold.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhWill be a boon for lesseesIf the UT Administration goes ahead with conversion of leasehold industrial properties into freehold, it will be boon for lessees. Though leasehold system is beneficial for the UT Administration as it holds rights of industrial plots, its conversion into freehold will bring relief for the business community. The Administration should consider the long-pending demand of the business class.MR Bhateja, NayagaonChange policy as per needs of lesseesNecessity is mother of invention. There is no harm to if the Administration allows leasehold to freehold conversion of industrial properties. These plots were allotted a long time ago on leasehold basis. Time has changed. Now, there is no meaning of leasehold policy. The Administration should fix fee to convert industrial plots from leasehold to freehold. It should change its policy as per needs/demands of lessees.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliNo interest in city’s industrial growthIf one compares the industrial growth of Chandigarh with neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal, its records are dismal. Officials heading the UT Administration are on deputation. They have no interest in development of the city, its business or industrial activities. Also, the Administration has failed to sell many properties on leasehold as their reserved price is high. If the Administration is serious about industrial growth of the city, all leasehold commercial properties should be converted into freehold at nominal charges or on the rate prevailing at the time of allotment. The authorities in Mohali and Panchkula have been able to sell more properties and earn revenue.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhMore than 5,000 lessees will benefitNearly 70% commercial and industrial plots in the city are on leasehold. Ownership rights in this case are with the UT Estate Office, Municipal Corporation and Chandigarh Housing Board. More than 5,000 lessees stand to get ownership rights if the Administration's decision to convert leasehold to freehold is approved by the Central Government. The UT industrial policy promises to allow conversion of industrial properties from leasehold to freehold to promote ease of doing business. The demand had recently got fresh impetus with the Administration's Advisory Council favouring the conversion of leasehold properties. The Municipal Corporation General House has already passed a resolution demanding a policy for properties in the UT. In the absence of the conversion policy the Administration has been losing revenue as there are few takers for leasehold properties. Lack of ownership rights has created stagnation in the market and impinged on growth of business in the city.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliWill create problems for common manThe Administration can earn one time profit by allowing conversion of leasehold properties to freehold, but it will create problems for the common man. One who buys freehold industrial property will sell at a higher margin. This will have a cascading effect. In such case the cost of production of any product on that freehold plot will go up and the hike will be passed on to the common man. Also, in leasehold property there are less chances of changing its original structure.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhEase formalities for doing business in UTThe rigid rules and too much interference by bureaucrats has lingered on many issues especially those related to the business community. The long-pending demand of industrialists to convert industrial properties from leasehold to freehold should be accepted by the UT Administration. It'll help industrialists expand their business. Conversion rates should be nominal.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliIssue is raised at time of elections onlyThe conversion of industrial properties from leasehold-to- freehold category is a burning issue, which is lying pending since decades. During elections the issue is raised by all political parties, which promise to frame a policy in this regard, but nothing happens. The Chandigarh Administration can generate huge revenue from one-time conversion fee. Residents would get reprieve from the burden of lease money and have all rights of their industrial properties. The lease conversion charges should be calculated on the basis of the allotment price. The Centre must intervene and direct the UT Administration to fulfil long-pending demand of the business community.Sukhpal Singh, ChandigarhSelling property will be easierAllowing conversion of leasehold properties to freehold would facilitate owner. Leasehold belongs to owner for a stipulated period. On expiry of the term, he/she has to get the deed renewed. Financing from banks is not easily available. In case of freehold ownership getting finance for business is easy. Conversion would enable hassle free sale and purchase of properties.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCan boost morale of BusinessmenDefinitely industrialists would be encouraged and give a fresh uplift to their projects if the UT Administration goes ahead with the conversion of leasehold-to-freehold properties. Flourishing industry is considered backbone of any city. Therefore, the Administration should consider the long-pending demand of the industrialists. Besides, the conversion process will fetch huge revenue to the Administration.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliAdmn can earn more property taxThe UT Administration has given industrial plots on lease basis to businessmen. Time has changed. The business community is likely to buy freehold properties so that it can be developed and used according to their needs. Besides, businessmen can easily buy and sell freehold properties. If the Administration allows conversion of leasehold properties to freehold it can earn more property tax.Avinash Goyal, Chandigarhfreehold policy can lessen problemsThe long-pending demand of the business community for the conversion of leasehold properties to freehold should be accepted. A suitable conversion fee should be charged for the purpose. It will mitigate problems faced by UT industrialists. It'll be easier for them to take loans for expanding business. The Administration will be able to generate more finances. The industry in Chandigarh will flourish.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhFreehold property suitable for industryThere are several pros and cons of freehold and leasehold properties. For industrial and economic growth freehold property is suitable. In case of leasehold property, it's like fighting battle with one hand tied at back. It implies lots of restrictions and limitations on additions/alterations necessary for improvement, along with period increasing of ground/lease rent of the property. And the most important is uncertainty about extension of the lease on expiry of the present term. Leasehold property is biggest risk for industrialists. So, for the benefit of the City Beautiful the UT Administration should allow conversion of industrial properties from leasehold to freehold.Sqn Ldr MS Johar (rtd), ChandigarhFree from all encumbrancesBroadly, leasehold means purchasing a property on tenure basis even after paying its full value. Under this system, the ownership will be for 99 years or so. But surprisingly, when a person purchases property at the prevailing market price, why should it not be on freehold basis? Under this piquant situation, every property should be free from all encumbrances. All properties on leasehold basis should be converted into freehold if purchased at the prevalent market rate.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONFor the past few years, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has been trying to convert paid parking lots into smart facilities. All efforts of the civic body have turned futile as contractors failed to provide smart features in parking lots. What needs to be done to ensure that people get all smart parking facilities in the UT?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-policy-can-provide-stimulus-to-city-beautiful-industry-303868
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Patent for Panjab University faculty||Dr Kavita Taneja, assistant professor, Department of Computer Science and Applications, Panjab University, Dr Harmunish Taneja, assistant professor, Department of Computer Science and IT, DAV College, Sector 10, and other researchers from Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), New Delhi, and JSS Academy of Technical Education, Noida, have been granted patent titled “Reduce, re-cycle and reuse (RRR) IoT intelligence waste management system” by The Patent Office, Government of India, on August 24.The patent suggests a waste management system for managing biodegradable, non-biodegradable and food waste. The main objectives of this system are maintenance of hygienic conditions and reduction in quantity of food waste in an efficient manner. The procedure adopted in this system includes recycling of non-biodegradable, burial of biodegradable and distribution of food waste among stray animals and humans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patent-for-panjab-university-faculty-303869
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Congress starts ‘Swachh Paani’ campaign||The Chandigarh Youth Congress today started its ‘Jal Andolan’ to help people fight for their right to clean water. A document of demands on behalf of residents was prepared, which included fair price and proper supply of potable water.Youth Congress leaders also launched a mobile number 9988888841 for the public to get connected with them. The Chandigarh Youth Congress president, Manoj Lubana, said the reason for launching mobile number was that anyone facing problem with supply of water and its cleanliness could get in touch with them and they would help address their grievances.Lubana promised that if resident called on the number, the Youth Congress would visit his/her area and make sure that their demands regarding water supply were met by the UT Administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-congress-starts-swachh-paani-campaign-303870
30-08-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI Chandigarh, doctors find connection between poor oral hygiene, Covid-19 severity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29Researchers from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have found a direct connection between periodontitis (severe gum infection) and severity of Covid in patients.Researchers, PGI, ChandigarhPatients suffering from Covid and periodontal disease are more likely to be admitted to a hospital compared to those who do not.The study is aimed to clinically assess the association between periodontitis and Covid-19 related outcomes. It involved Dr Ashish Bhalla, Department of Internal Medicine, PGIMER, Dr Mini P Singh, Department of Virology, and Dr Shipra Gupta, Oral Health Sciences Centre, among others.Periodontal disease is considered a pandemic in its own right with the reported case load far exceeding that of Covid. There is an association between the presence of periodontal disease and development and course of respiratory illnesses.Eighty two Covid patients reporting to the communicable diseases ward or admitted to the hospital between 15 January, 2021, and 20, February, 2021, were accommodated in the study. According to the study, patients suffering from Covid and periodontal disease were more likely to be admitted to a hospital as compared to those, who did not.In the present study, researchers have found a significant association between periodontal disease and oxygen requirement in Covid patients.“Higher severity of periodontitis led to 7.45 odds of requiring assisted ventilation, 36.52 odds of hospital admission, 14.58 odds of being deceased and 4.42 odds of Covid-related pneumonia,” read the study results.Researchers concluded that poorer periodontal disease outcome measures might imply a worse Covid-related prognosis. “Based on this finding, it will thus be justified to state that patients with periodontal disease seem to have a poorer chance of survival when compared to those without this ailment,” read the study.Researchers highlighted that assessment of the periodontal status of individuals could aid in identification of risk groups during the pandemic, along with reinforcing the need to maintain oral hygiene and seeking periodontal care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-doctors-find-connection-between-poor-oral-hygiene-covid-19-severity-303871
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly man duped of Rs 1.59 cr in Chandigarh||An unknown person has been booked by the local police for allegedly duping a Sector 34 resident of Rs 1.59 crore.According to the police, complainant Sandhu Singh (76) reported that unknown person(s) had contacted him on his mobile phone in 2014 and told him that his insurance policies were maturing and they could help him in getting the money. As per the complaint, the suspects later lured him and claimed that there were Central Government schemes wherein the money could be doubled in a few years. The victim fell into their trap and started depositing money in different bank accounts provided by the suspects. He was made to deposit Rs 1.59 crore over the years, but did not get any returns. The victim approached the police following which an investigation was conducted and a case registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-man-duped-of-rs-1-59-cr-in-chandigarh-303872
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Man booked for fake number on scooter in Chandigarh||Thieves strike at two housesChandigarh: Two burglary incidents have been reported from the city. In a complaint, Ajay Singh, a resident of Mani Majra, reported that two gold rings, a gold chain and Rs15,000 were stolen from his residence on August 27. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Mani Majra police station. In another incident, Suresh, a resident of Sector 39, complained that Rs40,000 and gold ornaments were stolen from his house on August 27. TNSTwo hire Innova, steal it, bookedChandigarh: Two persons, who had hired an Innova from Delhi to Katra, have been booked for stealing the vehicle. According to the police, complainant Mukesh, a resident of Kaithal, alleged that Mohit Kumar and Harjeet Singh had hired his vehicle on August 26 for a tour from Delhi to Chandigarh, Amritsar and Katra. On the intervening night of August 27 and 28, they told the complainant that they would stay at a hotel in Kajheri, Chandigarh. The complainant alleged that during the stay at the hotel, the suspects stole the keys of his vehicle and his purse. They then escaped from the spot and later met with an accident near Ambala. The police have registered a case. TNSHockey wizard rememberedPatiala: NCC cadets of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, remembered the legendary hockey icon, Major Dhyan Chand, on his birth anniversary on Sunday. Lovepreet Kaur shed light on the exploits of Dhyan Chand in Olympics. Gurpreet Kaur spoke on his life and achievements. Jatin delivered a speech on the Olympics movement and importance of sports in life. The students came to know that the highest sports award, Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna, has been named after the hockey wizard. The students also organised a volleyball match and races to mark the day. TNSYouth Congress office-bearerPatiala: Mansimrat Singh Riar has been appointed joint secretary of the Punjab Youth Congress. Talking to the media after the appointment, he said the Congress had always honoured its workers for their hard work and would continue to do so in future also. He said the Youth Congress would play a pivotal role in the coming 2022 Assembly elections and the party would again form the government in Punjab with a huge majority. TNSRopar resident held with heroinChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Ropar resident while possessing 13.90 grams of heroin. According to the police, Gursewak was arrested from Sector 46 while possessing heroin. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. TNSPurse containing Rs5,000 snatchedChandigarh: Three Activa-borne miscreants snatched a purse from a man. Complainant Arun Kumar, a resident of Maloya, reported that three unknown persons riding a scooter snatched his purse containing Rs5,000 and documents from near the Sector 38/25 light point. The police have registered a case. TNSMan booked for attacking wifeChandigarh: A Dadu Majra colony resident has been booked for attacking his wife with a sharp weapon. According to the police, the woman reported that her husband, Rajesh Kumar, attacked her with a sharp weapon near the Sector 38 (West) light point. The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The police have registered a case. TNSTwo arrested with ‘chura post’Ambala: The CIA-2 unit of Ambala police has arrested two men and recovered 17-kg ‘chura post’ and 54.700-kg ‘doda post’ from their possession. The suspects have been identified as Anil Kumar and Sukhdev, both residents of Ambala. They were produced in a court, which sent them to seven-day police remand on Sunday. A naka was laid near the Mullana grain market. A truck was stopped for checking at the naka. During the checking, the CIA-2 team recovered 17-kg ‘chura post’ and 54.700-kg ‘doda post’. TNSLocal pugilist brings laurelsChandigarh: Local pugilist Rohit Chamoli brought laurels to the city by winning a gold medal in the 48-kg weight category during the Asian Amateur Youth and Junior Boxing Championships in Dubai (United Arab Emirates). He is training under ASI Joginder Singh. Meanwhile, another local lad Krrish Pal, who trains under Bhagwant Singh, coach in the UT Sports Department, lost his quarterfinal bout. TNSFoundation day celebratedChandigarh: The 58th foundation day of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) was celebrated on the premises of Sewa Bharti, Sector 29, here, on Sunday. RSS leader Prem Goyal was the chief guest on the occasion. Goyal briefed about the establishment of the VHP and its ideology. Later, Roshan Lal, retired SP, Chandigarh Police, joined the VHP and was designated as a special coordinator, Chandigarh unit. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-fake-number-on-scooter-in-chandigarh-303877
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AAP women protesters canecharged in Chandigarh||A day after farmers were lathicharged in Karnal and Amritsar, activists of the state women wing of AAP today gheraoed the state BJP’s office here today alleging use of abusive language and assault on women and farmers.The women volunteers raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar as the Chandigarh Police tried to prevent them from marching towards the BJP office by putting up barricades.The protesters broke through the barricading, prompting the police to use batons and water cannons, leaving many women injured. AAP’s women wing state president Rajwinder Kaur Thiara and youth leader Anmol Gagan Mann were among those injured and were admitted to the hospital.“BJP men are abusing and physically assaulting women in Punjab and across the country. The state governments are avoiding taking action against them,” alleged Mann.“Even the police, under the BJP regime, were assuming atrocities on women and farmers were achievements,” said Thiara. She alleged the police responsible for protecting the citizens were supporting party men. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-aap-women-protesters-canecharged-in-chandigarh-303874
30-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to get its first solar power plant at Sector 39 waterworks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29In what could help earn a revenue of around Rs 1.38 crore annually, the Municipal Corporation will get its first solar power plant at the Sector 39 waterworks.The project will be set up by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST). The 2 MWp floating SPV floating power plant will generate 28 lakh units per annum and will be set up under the CAPEX mode where all expenditure will be borne by CREST.Of the total, 70 per cent of the revenue (Rs97.21 lakh) will go to the government treasury and 30 per cent (Rs41.66 lakh) to the cash-starved civic body.As per the construction layout plan provided by the MC to the agency, the construction of a few water tanks is to be completed by September/October. After that, the site will be handed over to CREST for installing the plant. The MC has worked out the plan and will table it in a General House meeting for formal approval on Tuesday. CREST is the agency for the implementation of various rooftop solar projects in the city. Officials said in spite of constraints of land availability, 44.5 MW had been achieved via both government and private buildings. A target of 69 MW by 2022 has been set by the Ministry of Power for Chandigarh.How much will the civic body getOf the total, 70 per cent of the revenue (Rs97.21 lakh) will go to the government treasury and 30 per cent (Rs41.66 lakh) to the cash-starved civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-get-its-first-solar-power-plant-at-sector-39-waterworks-303873
30-08-2021||---||Chandigarh roads go dark as overgrown trees envelop street lights||Chandigarh, August 28Despite the city roads being covered by the LED lights, several streets remain in darkness due to overgrown trees at light points.Interestingly, the Municipal Corporation has a dedicated horticulture wing for pruning of trees, but it has failed to do the needful.In fact, the horticulture and electricity wings of the MC work under the same superintending engineer, still there is no coordination between the two. It seems neither the electricity wing is bothered to inspect the street lights nor the horticulture wing takes note of the trees which need to be pruned.The dark spots on various streets also encourage petty crimes. In a random check, it was found there were many such points on the inner roads of Sector 29, 30, 20, 32, 33 and other places.“The streets remain in darkness as overgrown trees cover the light poles. Due to this every citizen is unsafe. Senior citizens, women and children are unsafe. There have also been cases of snatching,” said Jagdeep Mahajan, president of the Sector 32 and 33 welfare society.“When the authorities were asked for pruning of trees, they said they were not having a big hydraulic machine which would help them in the exercise,” he said.Naresh Kumar, a resident of Sec 32, said: “Many times we feel that we are living in some village, not in Chandigarh city.”“It has become difficult to move around in the evening. Some solution should be found, otherwise a major accident may happen in future,” added Shyam Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-roads-go-dark-as-overgrown-trees-envelop-street-lights-303878
30-08-2021||Mohali||Protest against Karnal lathicarge: Mohali chokes as farmers take to the streets||The framers, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, blocked various arterial roads here today to protest the lathicharge on “peacefully protesting farmers” in Haryana.The blockade led to huge traffic jams causing inconvenience to the commuters.The farmers gathered at the McDonald chowk on the Chandigarh-Ambala road in Zirakpur and blocked the traffic for nearly two hours. They, however, allowed the ambulances and other emergency vehicles to pass through.The police personnel were seen diverting traffic to save the commuters from harassment. The farmers raised slogans against the BJP and the Haryana Government for the use of force against “peacefully protesting farmers” at Karnal on Saturday.The protesting farmers also burnt the effigy of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Addressing the gathering, farmer leaders Prem Singh and Deedar Singh Shatabgarh said on one side “the Centre is bent upon harassing the farmers and is not interested in fulfilling their genuine demands” and on the other side, the Haryana Government was lathicharging the protesters to “suppress their voice”.“The Centre should not remain under any illusion. The use of force is only increasing the anger of farmers,” they said. The two further said the government had “stooped” to such a level that they were not even sparing the elderly and the children.Due to the lathicharge, one of the elderly farmer has died, they claimed and announced that the BJP leaders would not be allowed to enter any of the Punjab villages.Surjit Singh, Baljinder Singh, Jagtar Singh, Manish Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Hardeep Singh also addressed the protesting farmers.Meanwhile, hundreds of farmers converged at the Mullanpur Barrier on the Kurali-Baddi road and blocked the traffic for over two hours. The farmers also gathered at the Landran traffic light point and disrupted traffic on the Mohali-Sirhind road. — TNSDismiss SDM, demands BadheriSikh farmer leader and president of the Chandigarh unit of the All-India Jatt Mahasabha Rajinder Singh Badheri on Sunday demanded the removal of the SDM for “inflicting torture” on protesting farmers at Karnal. Badheri also said the SDM should be “prosecuted for intent to murder” as Sushil Kajal, a farmer from Raipur Jattan village in Karnal district, who was injured during the protest, died on Sunday. “His martyrdom will not go unnoticed,” he said.Let us debate farm laws: Sood to farmersOn his visit to Daria village on Sunday, Arun Sood, president of BJP’s Chandigarh unit, challenged farm activists for an open debate on the contentious agro-marked laws. The farm activists said, they have asked Sood for a time and place for the debate. “I went to Sood and humbly asked for time and place for the debate. He told me, its Janmashtami tomorrow, so we can meet a day after and debate these laws,” said Harjeet Singh, one of the protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-karnal-lathicarge-mohali-chokes-as-farmers-take-to-the-streets-303875
30-08-2021||Naina Mishra||Vaccination certificate or -ve RT-PCR report must to enter govt offices in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29Now, take your vaccination certificate (at least of the first dose) or a negative RT-PCR report of the past 72 hours before entering government offices in the city. The directions were passed by the UT Adviser this evening as a possible measure to control spread of the infection in the city.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, “I appeal to city residents to get vaccinated as soon as possible, before a possible third wave sets in. Those visiting government offices will only be allowed to enter if they have either a Covid-19 vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR report of the past 72 hours. The direction is applicable to the public and employees of government offices.”Following this, the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) appealed to the general public to come with the required documents (vaccination report or an RTPCR report) and stated that no applicant would be entertained without it. Fearing a rise in cases and a possible third wave, the UT Adviser has also asked the Health Department to speed up the vaccination (second dose) so that the target population is fully vaccinated before the next surge. “I have directed the Director, Health Services, to accelerate the second dose vaccination. The cutoff date to immunise the population of Chandigarh with two doses was December 15. However, there is wide speculation that a third wave may hit before that and thus there is an urgency to fully vaccinate a majority of the population,” said Dharam Pal.He added, “I have also asked the Health Department to review its preparedness for a third wave such as putting in place arrangements for medical oxygen supply buffer stock for Covid-19 medication and enhancement of oxygenated bed capacity, including separate arrangements for children.”No death, six cases in UTChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported six cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Six patients were cured of the disease. — TNS1 dies in MohaliMohali: After nine days, one more person succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali, taking the death toll in the district to 1,059. The caseload went up to 68,602 with one more person contracting the infection in the past 24 hours. Five patients recovered from the infection and were discharged. There are 48 active cases in the district. — TNS1 infected in P’kulaPanchkula: One new case was reported from Panchkula in the past 24 hours taking the infection count in the district to 30,681. However, the death toll remained at 377 with no fatality. There are 10 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-certificate-or-ve-rt-pcr-report-must-to-enter-govt-offices-in-chandigarh-303864
