31-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC sets six-month deadline for disposal of honour killing cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday set six-month deadline for disposal of honour killing cases, while issuing a slew of directions to the Sessions Judges, the police chiefs and the governments/administration of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The Bench also directed the holding of trials on a day-to-day basis. Coercive processes were also directed to be issued for securing presence of witnesses, if required. Another deadline of 60 to 90 days was also set for probe completion. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi directed all the Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to ensure assignment of honour killing cases to designated Court/Fast Track Court/one jurisdictional Court. Such Courts, in turn, were directed to ensure expeditious disposal of the cases, preferably within six months in accordance with the Supreme Court directions.Justice Tyagi also made it clear that the direction would apply even to pending cases.In his 30-page judgment, Justice Tyagi directed the governments and UT Administration to appoint committees of Home Secretary, Finance Secretary, Additional Director-General of Police, Legal Remembrancer and Member Secretary of the State Legal Services Authorities at the State-level within a month.The committees would examine all relevant issues regarding compliance with the Supreme Court and the High Court directions before submitting their reports with recommendations within three months. The governments and the administration would then consider the recommendations before taking policy-based action for implementation. The committee would also periodically monitor the compliance.The Directors-General of Police were also directed to create a special cell in each district to collect and maintain information and prepare data base of couples approaching the Court or the District and Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh for protection. They would call for reports regarding assessment of threat perception and take appropriate action/issue necessary instructions.They were also directed to set up a 24-hour helpline or enable existing helplines to receive and register protection pleas and to coordinate with the police officers/officials for necessary assistance/advice/protection to such coupleDirections at a glance*The DGPs directed to issue instructions to Commissioners/Senior Superintendents of Police/ Superintendents of Police in Punjab and Haryana and UT to ensure immediate registration of FIR in case of report on violence against inter-caste/inter-religion marriage or honour killing.*Upon registration of FIR, intimation to be simultaneously given to the DSP concerned, who would ensure effective investigation and its logical end with promptitude within 60/90 days as far as possible.* Immediate steps to be taken to provide security to the couple/family and to remove them to a safe house if required. Non-compliance to be considered misconduct leading to departmental action under service rules.* Progress report to be submitted to HC and time extension to be sought in cases where the trial remained inconclusive within six months.*Appropriate steps by State Legal Services Authorities for appropriate interim/final compensation to the victims of inter caste/inter religion marriage and dependants/legal heirs of honour killing victims.* Public awareness programmes to be further strengthened through para-legal volunteers, anganwadi workers, National Social Service volunteers, Saksham Yuva, students of law colleges, school/college and legal literacy clubs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-sets-six-month-deadline-for-disposal-of-honour-killing-cases-304643
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij discharged from PGI||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was discharged from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Science and Research (PGIMER) Hospital on Tuesday.Vij was admitted on Tuesday evening after his oxygen levels dipped.Sources said the 68-year-old six-time MLA from Ambala Cantonment was under the observation of a team of doctors led by a pulmonary and respiratory medicine specialist.Also read:Vij was on oxygen support at his residence at Ambala Cantonment since August 20, when his oxygen levels dipped.A team of the PGIMS, Rohtak, had earlier examined him and put him on oxygen support when his health deteriorated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-discharged-from-pgi-304557
31-08-2021||Mohali||Middle-aged man found dead||Man arrested with 7-gm smackChandigarh: The local police arrested a Dadu Majra resident with smack. The police said Rinku was arrested from Sector 38 (West) with 7 gm of smack. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act at the Maloya police station. TNSUT police book AAP workersChandigarh: The UT police have booked AAP workers for alleged violation of the District Magistrate’s orders and obstructing government employees from discharging their duty. According to the police, Sunny Singh, Arsh Gill and other AAP workers assembled near the BJP office, Sector 37, on August 29 and obstructed those on government duty. A case under Sections 188, 269, 270, 323, 332 and 353 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNS25-year-old electrocutedDera Bassi: A 25-year-old Nepalese national, working as a construction labourer, was reportedly electrocuted near Gupta Colony in Dera Bassi on August 29. The deceased has been identified as Manoj Kumar. He was working when his foot touched a naked wire around 5.30 pm. He was rushed to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The police are investigating the matter. TNSNewborn found dead in CANALPatiala: A newborn girl was found drowned in the Bhakra Canal in Samana town of the district. Unidentified persons have been booked under Section 317 of the IPC. Divers, with the help of passers-by, fished the baby out, who declared brought dead at the Civil Hospital. Doctors said the baby was only a few hours old as the umbilical cord was not clamped. TNSTeachers to halt work on Sept 3Chandigarh: Faculties of various universities and colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh, including the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations, Panjab University Teachers' Association, GNDU Teachers Association, Amritsar; Punjab Agricultural University Teachers Association, Ludhiana; Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Teachers Association, Ludhiana; Punjabi University Teachers Association, Patiala; Government College Teachers Association; Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union, will halt work on September 3. Teachers will protest daily for two hours by boycotting classes/ holding dharnas, etc. However, admission work will not be interrupted. TNSShuttlers get cash awardsPanchkula: Haryana Badminton Association awarded shuttlers at a function on Monday. As many as 19 players, two coaches, two managers and two veteran players were given cash awards. Panchkula's Anupama Upadhyaya was awarded a cash prize of Rs1.69 lakh, followed by Unanti Hooda (Rs1.30 lakh), Devika Sihag (Rs80,000), Ridhi Kaur Toor (Rs49,000), Gagan, Manab and Omkaran Sharma (Rs31,000 each), Rijul Saini (Rs25,000) , Sunny Nehra and Muskan Sangwan (Rs15,000 each) Ravi, Mihit Gauri, Kush Chugh, Abhin, Bharat, Tanvi Thakur and Sakshi (Rs14,000 each) and Kartik (Rs11,000). TNSPCA panel selects 3 all-roundersChandigarh: All-rounders Aryan Bhatia, Rushil Shrivastava and Harshdeep Singh have been selected by the PCA Junior Cricket Committee (Selection Committee) for the U-19 team, which will take part in a camp and practice matches against the visiting Madhya Pradesh team from September 4 to 12 at IS Bindra Cricket Stadium, PCA, Mohali. The players have been advised to report at the match venue on September 4 to coach Vineet Sharma. TNSCollege holds 16-km runChandigarh: The Department of Physical Education and the NSS unit of GGD SD College, Sector 32, in collaboration with the college NGO, Sanatan Dharma Aadarsh Foundation, organised 'Fit India Freedom Run'. As many as 35 students participated in the 16-km run which was flagged off by Upkar Krishan Sharma, president, GGDSD College Society. The Principal, Dr Ajay Sharma, released tricoloured balloons into the air. TNSAthletics trials in Sec 10 todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletics Association will organise trials to select local team for participating in the 60th National Open Athletics Championship scheduled to be held at Warangal, Telangana, from September 15 to 19. The trials will be held at DAV College, Sector 10, at 12.30 pm on August 31. Athletes are advised to bring latest achievement proof at the time of the trials. TNSJindal is chief of Mgmt AssnChandigarh: Dr Deepak Jindal has been elected as the president of the Chandigarh Management Association (CMA) in an election held here. Other office-bearers who were elected on the occasion include Rajnish Mittal, vice-president; Manish Aggarwal, general secretary; Ashok Verma, treasurer and organisation member; and Ashok Goyal, joint secretary. The elected executive committee members include Abhishek Gupta, Anil Anand, Rajan Arora and Manav Bansal. Gursimran Singh has been elected as the organisational member in the executive committee. Dr Jindal assured that he would leave no stone unturned to ensure the smooth functioning of the association. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/middle-aged-man-found-dead-304479
31-08-2021||---||Cricket Tourney: Sagar helps Sunrise Academy log victory||Mohali, August 30An all-round performance by Sagar Sharma (50 runs and 2/12) helped Sunrise Cricket Academy, Zirakpur, defeat Sporoot Cricket Club by eight wickets in the 1st IVCA Open Cash Prize Cricket Tournament.Batting first, Sporoot Cricket Club scored 138 runs before getting all out in 23.1 overs with the help of Orminder Singh (38) and Prashant Tomar (36). Laksh Chawla claimed three wickets, while Sharma, Paras and Bhagvender Singh took two wickets each and Jassinder Singh took one for the bowling side.In reply, the Zirakpur team posted 139/2 in 16.5 overs with the help of unbeaten 50-run contribution by Sharma. Arjun Azad (35), Tavlin (31) and Bhagvender Singh (13) were the other main scorers for the side. Ravi Verma and Babinder Ronnie took one wicket each for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-tourney-sagar-helps-sunrise-academy-log-victory-304478
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amanjot steers Plaza Zone to three-run win||An all-round performance by skipper Amanjot Kaur helped Plaza Zone defeat Rose Zone by three runs in the ongoing Women’s UTCA Domestic Cricket Tournament. Rose Zone skipper won the toss and put Plaza Zone to bat.The side posted 107 runs in 34 overs. Amanjot scored unbeaten 52 off 69 balls to top the score chart. Parul Saini claimed a five-wicket haul for the bowling side.In reply, Rose Zone was bundled out for 104 runs in 37 overs. Priyanka Guleria and Rajni scored 18 runs each to remain the top scorers for the side. Amanjot, Ramija and Kumari Shibbi claimed three wickets each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amanjot-steers-plaza-zone-to-three-run-win-304477
31-08-2021||---||Adda’s Cricket Eleven lift trophy||Chandigarh, August 30Adda’s Cricket Eleven defeated Zirakpur Cricket Eleven by 38 runs to win the Ashwani Luthra (retired IRS and Chief Commissioner) Memorial Trophy.Bating first, Adda’s Cricket Eleven posted 158/4 in 20 overs with the help of Harvinder Nain (46), Kamal (41), Saurabh (40) and Sahibjit Singh (12). Parvesh claimed two wickets, while Aditya and Arun took one wicket each for the bowling side.In reply, Zirakpur Cricket ZI scored 120 runs in 17.5 overs. Amit Malhotra (36), Aniket Jain (19), Sandeep (16) and Vicky Mittal (14) were the main contributors to the chase. Nain (3/6) and Pankaj (3/13) were the main wicket takers for the side, while Shubham, Anand, Vicky Joshi and Kamal took one each for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/addas-cricket-eleven-lift-trophy-304476
31-08-2021||---||Carrom Challenge: Rashmi claims lead, Nidhi maintains 2nd spot||Chandigarh, August 30Rashmi Kumari of the PSPB, former World Champion and 10-time national champion grabbed the top position in the first round matches of the champions league during the ongoing Indian Online Carrom Challenge.Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta maintained second position with 40 points (6+2+6+5+5+3+8+5). Rashmi claimed 28 points (6+1+8+6+3+4+2+3 = 33 - 05 credit points for scoring a white slam in the 2nd board = 28) to claim the lead.In the men’s category, Mohammed Sheikh of Karnataka exhibited a superb game to claim top position with three points (2+1+3+3+0+3+2+4 = 18 - 15 credit points for scoring one white slam in the second board and one Ultimate Slam in the 5th board).In the champions league, all players will play another four rounds of eight boards each to reach the semi-final stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carrom-challenge-rashmi-claims-lead-nidhi-maintains-2nd-spot-304475
31-08-2021||---||Ammania, Esra, Raaya shine in junior golf meet||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 30Ammania Jaspal, Raaya Nanda and Esra Dhillon claimed joint first position in girls’ putting competition during the Forest Hill Junior Golf Training Programme. Nyrah Nanda claimed second position and Aneek Raj Dhillon finished third.In the boys’ category, Yugvir and Subeg claimed top two positions, respectively. In boys’ category F, Ojasv claimed the title, followed by Zuravar Singh at second position. Gairat Kaur won the first position in the girls’ category. In category E, Fatehvir and Ojaswini claimed top position in boys and girls categories, respectively.Hriday claimed the category-D event and Daiwik finished at second position. Tanvi Kaur won the girls’ category final. In the boys’ category C, Ranvijay Singh, Gobinddeep Singh and Agam claimed first three positions, respectively.In boys’ category B, Ajay, Jai Gupta and Digvijay won top three positions, respectively, and in girls’ category, Jasmandeep Kur claimed top position and Harshita claimed second. In boys’ category A, Aditya Sood, Aryaman Rautela and Arnav Dhaka claimed top three positions, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ammania-esra-raaya-shine-in-junior-golf-meet-304474
31-08-2021||---||Top seed Vanya sails into tennis quarters||Mohali, August 30Top seed Vanya Arora defeated Saravnoor Kaur 8-1 to march ahead into the girls’ U-16 quarterfinals on the opening day of the Roots-AITA CS3 National Ranking U-16 Championship.Jasmine Kaur defeated Mehakpreet Kaur and Diya Chaudhary outplayed Saanvi Garg by identical scores of 8-3, while Rasha Dhaliwal defeated Ajenika Puri 8-1. Sidhak Kaur also defeated Tamanna Walia 8-4, Ayushi Prajapat outplayed Agampreet Kaur 8-6 and Radha Sadra thrashed Poonam 8-3 in other matches.Meanwhile, in the first round of the boys’ U-16 category, top seed Aniruddh Sangra thrashed Karan Pratap Singh 8-0. Second seed Akshat Dhull also moved to the next round by defeating Khwab Chawla 8-3 and Haralam Singh defeated Priyanshu Dhull 8-5. Parth Sharma ousted Birkaran Singh 8-6, Hardik Khanduja defeated Prabhav Sibbal 8-1, Varchasva outplayed Japnaam Singh 8-1 and Keshav Dangi beat Aryan Jolly 8-2.Results (first round)Boys’ U-16: Arnav Bishnoi bt Parmarth Kaushik 8-2, Anhad Singh bt Aabhishek Luthra 8-1, Daksh Kapoor bt Abhinav Sangra 8-6, Samarpit Bhatia bt Aarya Vaibhav 8-5, Yash Jindal bt Satvik Singla 8-4, Harwin Singh bt Advit Tiwari 8-0, Devansh Parajuli bt Shorya Jishtu 8-4.Girls’ U-16: Saravnoor Kaur bt Mannat Awasthi 8-5, Jasmine Kaur bt Soumya Hooda 8-2, Ajenika Puri bt Mankirat Kaur 8-3, Diya Chaudhary bt Vanshika Yadav 8-1, Tamanna Walia bt Priyanshi Katial 8-3, Mokshika Yadav beat Pratishtha Sharma 8-3, Agampreet Kaur bt Naisha Garg 8-3, Poonam bt Rhosyn William 8-5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-vanya-sails-into-tennis-quarters-304473
31-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Pugilist Rohit Chamoli wants to play for Chandigarh with same coach||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 30Chandigarh’s 16-year-old pugilist Rohit Chamoli hogged the limelight by clinching the 48-kg gold medal in the Asian Junior Boxing Championship in Dubai. However, his real struggle to decide whether to opt for another base in nearby states or continue under his favourite coach begins now.His concern is genuine for the reason that larger the achievement, the more practice he needs to retain the honour. Neither is his family well-equipped to provide him with a good diet, nor his coach, who is an ASI with the Punjab Police. So, like his fellow pugilists, he will either shift to the SAI Centre or the PIS Centre in Punjab. He obviously didn’t wish to, but given the circumstances he has no other option.“I wish to play for Chandigarh and under the same coach. However, good diet is a major concern. I have to shift to other hostels to fulfil this requirement. If I get everything here, I will love to stay in the city,” said Chamoli, a student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16.His coach Joginder Kumar is also proud of his ward’s achievement, but is equally concerned about him shifting to some other venue. Kumar, a former national-level boxer, trains young boxers out of his passion at Bougainvillea Garden, Sector 3.“Unlike other coaching centres, I didn’t have a proper set-up or boxing ring for my pugilists. I do give kits and a handful of other equipment to them. However, I cannot give them (trainees) a proper diet. I am a salaried person and have my children to feed too. For covering the diet of trainees, I send them to PIS or SAI centres. With this, they shift their base from here and coach at their new home. Many of my boxers won medals and also got jobs. However, no one really bothers, not even the media, unless boxers like him (Chamoli) make some big achievement,” said Kumar.Chamoli’s father Jai Prakash, who works as a cook at a hotel in Mohali, said he wished his child to achieve the highest of the honours for India, but he was also concerned about the facilities.“I wish him to win medals for India in the Olympics. He opted to learn boxing on his own,” said Prakash.Asked how he manages to give him proper diet and attention, he said: “There’s no special diet for him. I have three children. His elder sister is pursuing graduation and younger brother is studying in school. I will do whatever coach (Kumar) will ask us. Even I am helpless amid limited resources. I just hope he continues to play.”Another player in the makingKrrish Pal, another local player, went down in his quarterfinal bout. Pal, who was adjudged the best boxer at a recently concluded national championship, said he would surely win a medal next year. “I was not feeling well, which affected my performance in the championship. Nevertheless, I will surely win a medal next year,” said Pal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pugilist-rohit-chamoli-wants-to-play-for-chandigarh-with-same-coach-304472
31-08-2021||---||Chandigarh Badminton Association to felicitate players with cash incentives||Chandigarh, August 30The first association of the region to conduct its state championship during the Covid-19 pandemic — Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) — has announced to award shuttlers, who won first three positions in national championships, with cash incentives.The announcement was made during the CBA’s annual general body meeting 2020-21 held today. The meeting was presided over by Col Raj Parmar, senior vice-president, CBA. It convened by Surinder Mahajan, General Secretary, CBA. It was attended by all affiliated units, who participated actively and extended their support for the development of the game.Mahajan presented a detailed report of various activities carried out by the association in the past two years. He complimented all members and affiliated units for their support to the association and players during the pandemic. He asserted that the CBA was ready to conduct any state championship or any other national ranking championship as per the announcement of the annual calendar by the Badminton Association of India (BAI).The House unanimously also decided to provide support to the needy and talented players representing Chandigarh. It was also announced to strictly follow the BAI regulations and rules regarding the registration of players in the CBA. The registered players will not be allowed to participate in unsanctioned tournaments. It was announced to amend the existing constitution of the CBA as per the guidelines of the BAI and give priority to conduct official tournaments, including state championships of various age groups, after getting approval from the BAI. It was also announced to conduct the state veteran championship at the earliest and also give incentives to veteran players for securing first three positions in national championships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-badminton-association-to-felicitate-players-with-cash-incentives-304471
31-08-2021||Mohali||Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu launches plantation drive||Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu launched a plantation drive on the occasion of Janmashtami. He said the MC would plant around 1,000 saplings in areas from Sector 76 to 80.The Mayor said thousands of trees were also being taken care of by the MC and for this, the Horticulture Department had been divided into four zones. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg were also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mayor-amarjit-singh-jeeti-sidhu-launches-plantation-drive-304470
31-08-2021||Zirakpur||5 gang members sent to three-day police remand||The police today sent five members of a gang, who looted Rs10,000, a mobile phone and documents from a Sudan national near the Airport light point on August 24, to three-day police remand.The suspects have been identified as Biru, a resident of Patiala, and Bunty Kumar, Vishal, Lakhvir Singh and Baldev Raj, residents of Rajpura. They have been booked under Section 379-B of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station. The police have recovered the auto and other items.On August 24, complainant Salahuddin Bashir Khair Syed, a BTech student, told the police that he took a shared auto from Banur to Zirakpur. When the auto reached the Airport light point, the suspects told him that he was dealing in drugs and they would hand him over to the police.When Syed realised that the suspects were planning to rob him, he jumped out of the auto. The suspects stopped the vehicle and started beating him. They later fled with his belongings, said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-gang-members-sent-to-three-day-police-remand-304469
31-08-2021||---||World now aware of India’s strength, says Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||Chandigarh, August 30Defence Minister Rajnath Singh expressed his views on the topic of ‘National Security’ during the 3rd Balramji Das Tandon Memorial Lecture, organised online by Panjab University today.“No power in the world can separate the “Crown of the nation”, Jammu and Kashmir, from India. At present, India is not only taking actions against terrorism within the country but is also successful in destroying their outfits across the border,” he said.The minister emphasised that the whole world was now aware of the scale of India’s strength. A former national vice-president of the BJP, Avinash Rai Khanna, PU Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar and Sanjay Tandon, son of Balramji Das Tandon, also shared their views.Meanwhile, various students’ political organisations, who are opposing alleged anti-farmer stand of the BJP government, protested outside the PU Law Auditorium where the event was going on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/world-now-aware-of-indias-strength-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-304468
31-08-2021||Vijay C Roy||These tricity start-ups want to transform lives||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 30It is said that exceptional start-up ideas are born by entrepreneurs looking to solve common problems. All it takes to make a difference is the vision to see a problem and the resolve to do something about it.Considering this, a few tricity-based start-ups have come out with innovative solutions to solve the teething problems the masses are facing. For example, Keshav R Garg, a practising chartered accountant, founded Unitax in March this year, a start-up that provides online integrated solutions to GST problems faced by professionals.“With assessment proceedings going faceless in India, the drafting of replies against notices received from the Tax Department becomes critical.,” added Keshav.“Unitax helps in preparation of replies against notices, drafting of well-researched opinions and support from the latest and best databases available, including amendments/notifications and circulars,” he added.It is a B2B model which aims at supporting professionals and helps them to add a new product line, have higher margins, customer retention and most importantly saves time for the professionals.Similarly, last year, Sukant Gupta, with a team of entrepreneurs, founded Scrapbuk, an online platform (mobile application) to facilitate the sale and purchase of scrap. It is based out of the tricity and is actively collecting scrap from Panchkula, Mohali, Chandigarh and is expanding in more cities in the coming days.“Scrap collecting is a totally unorganised sector in the country. We are making it organised. The benefits of selling on Scrapbuk include a step towards saving the earth, earning profits out of waste while having the best in class services. These services include accurate weights, the special feature of scheduling pickup times, and also regular pricing notifications,” said Sukant.Scrapbuk is working with more than 40+ rag men (commonly known as raddiwalas) in the tricity. It got police verification of the ragmen done and a brief introduction about them is provided on the mobile application. It generates an OTP to authenticate a rag man and ensures the safety of users.Further, considering health and wellness trend is leading to a rise in demand for organic foods, Ram Chand and Kavita founded Healthy Prakritik Masale (HPM). An alumnus of the Government College, Sector 1, Panchkula, the founders mentioned that they processed organic masala which was procured from the nearby villages of Morni and Kalka and sold it in the local market. “My mentors at the startup incubator centre of excellence run by SACC India helped me with not just idea validation but also with an elaborate business model creation,” Ram saidIn order to cash in on the rising demand for floor cleaners, Prahar was founded by Govinda, Santosh and Vikas of the same college. The start-up is into manufacturing of organic floor cleaner, hand-washing and dish-washing liquid soap by using natural ingredients such as neem, aloe vera etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/these-tricity-start-ups-want-to-transform-lives-304466
31-08-2021||---||Social media has become a varsity of lies, says Manish Tewari||Mohali, August 30Former union minister and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari has said that these days, the social media has become a university of lies and rumour spread faster and wider than true information.Tewari, who was speaking on the 13th foundation day of the local Press Club today, said most people today spent more time on social media platforms. Disinformation spreads fast and by the time the authorities react, it is too late, he added.Lashing out at the NDA government, he said media houses were in fear and are working under tremendous pressure. It was like an undeclared emergency in the country and whenever they brought out the truth, investigating agencies were sent after them, he said.City Mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, said the media should play an important role in exposing crime, protecting public health and safety, and preventing the public from being misled by statements from an individual or an organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-media-has-become-a-varsity-of-lies-says-manish-tewari-304465
31-08-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court orders cops to conduct mental ability test of accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 30Additional Sessions Judge Jaibir Singh has ordered the police to conduct a mental calibre test of a woman accused, Preeti Jakhar, and her accomplice Athrva Chaudhary, who were arrested while allegedly trying to forcibly enter the government house of the Haryana Chief Secretary in Sector 7, Chandigarh, on June 1. The court issued the order after the woman and her accomplice showed “unusual behaviour” before the court.According to the prosecution, the woman and her accomplice tried to forcefully enter the house. The FIR was registered on a complaint of a policeman deputed at the residence for the offences committed under Section 379 A, 353, 452 and 34 of the IPC.The security personnel, who had brought the accused to the court, disclosed that they could be produced before the court with much difficulty. Even after much persuasion, the accused, Preeti Jakhar, became ready to wear a mask. Thereafter, she did not wear the mask properly in the court, rather she was putting a cloth in front of her mouth only and the requests of the court to her to wear the mask properly did not bear any fruit.The court in the order says when both women were intimated that they could be provided the help of a legal aid lawyer in case they did not want to engage any private lawyer or were not in a position to engage a private lawyer, Preeti Jakhar said agitatingly to the court that her matter might be sent to the CBI for investigation and the case was nothing.When she was apprised of the charges against her, she started questioning the court that how a Haryana police constable could lodge the complaint with Chandigarh police against her and said she would go to the house of Vijay Vardhan repeatedly as a wife couldn’t be stopped from entering the house of her husband.“After observing the conduct of both accused, this court is of the considered opinion that prior to passing any further order in this case, let both accused persons be examined medically to adjudge their mental capability because they were talking in a manner in which a prudent person cannot and should not talk, said the court. Accordingly, the state, through its Public Prosecutor Hukam Singh, is directed to make arrangements throughJail Superintendent of Modal Jail, Burail, so that both accused can be examined by some government medical experts to adjudge the mental calibre of both accused,” says the order .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-orders-cops-to-conduct-mental-ability-test-of-accused-304463
31-08-2021||---||Commission rejects insurance firm’s appeal against forum order||Chandigarh, August 30Saying that delay of a few days in lodging an FIR cannot be permitted to be a valid reason or ground for the insurance company to repudiate the genuine claim of theft of a vehicle, the State Dispute Redressal Consumer Commission, Chandigarh, has rejected the appeal of the insurance company filed against the order of the District Consumer Forum, Chandigarh.The forum had directed National Insurance Company Limited to pay the ‘insured declared value’ (IDV) of the vehicle to a consumer along with Rs5,000 litigation cost. The consumer approached the forum after the insurance company denied the claim on the ground that the complainant delayed the filing of an FIR regarding the theft of the vehicle and he also filed the complaint four years after the case was closed. The company said the consumer also failed to submit the untraced report duly attested by the court.Randeep Singh, a resident of Sector 20, told the forum that his Mahindra Bolero was insured with the company. The vehicle was stolen while it was parked outside his house. He lodged an FIR in this regard on October 16, 2013. The incident was also reported to the company and all available documents were supplied as demanded.He said all documents were kept in the vehicle. He alleged that the company repudiated his claim without reasonable cause and justification.It justified the decision saying there was a delay in lodging the FIR by the complainant as the theft took place on October 9, 2013 and the FIR was registered on October 16, 2013.The company also said the complainant was negligent in taking due care of the vehicle as he left the keys as well as all documents in the vehicle. The complainant also did not inform the registering authority about the theft.The company said the case was closed as “No Claim” on August 8, 2014. So, the complaint filed in 2018 was time-barred.The district forum found the company guilty of deficiency in services and directed it to pay the ‘insured declared value’ (IDV) of the vehicle to the consumer along with the litigation cost of Rs5,000. The company challenged the order before the commission.The commission, after hearing the arguments, said there was no illegality in the district forum’s order. The commission said delay of a few days in lodging an FIR cannot be permitted to be a valid reason or ground for the insurance company to repudiate the genuine claim of theft.“If the insurance companies keep on doing like this, then it would be detrimental to the rights of consumers and there would be no meaning of taking comprehensive insurance policies by paying hefty premiums by such consumers,” the commission said in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-rejects-insurance-firms-appeal-against-forum-order-304462
31-08-2021||---||Ambala bizman duped of Rs 90L||Ambala, August 30A businessman has allegedly been duped of Rs90 lakh on the pretext of providing a rare cancer treatment medicine in Ambala.The police have registered a case against the suspect, Rupesh, under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Shahzadpur police station.Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Naraingarh, in his complaint to the police, stated that he runs a factory in Himachal Pradesh and Rupesh used to work for him in the past. One day, Rupesh, along with four persons, reached his factory and informed him that they prepare rare and expensive cancer treatment drug. Their medicine can treat any type of cancer.The complainant claimed that Rupesh told him that if he (complainant) spends Rs50 lakh, then he could earn up to Rs3 crore. Since Rupesh worked in his firm earlier, he got convinced and gave them Rs90 lakh in instalments. Later, they asked him to reach MDM Palace where they provided him a box in which they had kept a two-headed snake. He (Sukhdev) got scared. In the meantime, the accused managed to flee with the money.“When I contacted them, they threatened me of dire consequences. They duped me on the pretext of providing rare cancercure medicine. I later came to know that they have cheated several people in a similar manner,” said Sukhdev.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-bizman-duped-of-rs-90l-304461
31-08-2021||Amit Bathla||257 farmers booked for blocking highway at Chandimandir||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 30The police have booked seven farmer leaders and their 250 “unidentified supporters” for blocking the Panchkula-Shimla highway at the Chandimandir toll plaza on August 28 to protest lathicharge on farmers in Karnal.Those named in the FIR included Gurjant Singh, Bhim Singh, Gurmail Singh, Narender Singh, Taranjeet, Sumitra Dahiya and Rajwinder Kaur.Rajwinder Kaur (80) is one of the two women, and the eldest among those booked by the police. They have been charged under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 143 (unlawful assembly), 145 (joining or continuing in unlawful assembly, knowing it has been commanded to disperse), 147 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 283 (obstruction in public way), 341 (wrongful restraint), 431 (mischief by injury to public road, bridge, river or channel) of the Indian Penal Code and section 8B of the National Highway Act.The police registered the FIR at the Chandimandir police station on a complaint of a police official deployed for maintaining law and order at the toll plaza.“Farmer leaders, along with their 200-250 supporters, blocked the national highway, affecting traffic movement. I, along with my fellow policemen, tried to persuade them to allow free flow of traffic but they remained adamant and obstructed public servant in discharge of duty,” the FIR read, quoting the policeman.Rajwinder Kaur, while speaking with the Chandigarh Tribune, said: “The FIR is a shameful act. Can a woman of my age cause damage to public property or lead to riots? We will continue to protest until the protesters arrested in Karnal are released.’”“Such actions can’t stop us from speaking what is right. We are even ready to die for our generations to come,” she added.Narender Singh, a Bharatiya Kisan Union leader, said: “No one was hurt, neither was public property damaged during the protest. The protest was peaceful, but the police booked us on serious charges, including criminal conspiracy and rioting.”Sumitra Dahiya (59), one of the two woman protesters booked by the police, said: “We have a right to hold a peaceful protest. The FIR filed against us is illegitimate. We have videographic evidence that our protest was non-violent.”Sub-Inspector Raj Kumar, who is the investigating officer in the case, said they were gathering videographic evidence to initiate action against farmer leaders and the protesters.On August 28, hundreds of farmers blocked the Panchkula-Shimla highway at the Chandimandir toll plaza for over four hours to protest lathicharge on a group of farmers in Karnal, causing heavy traffic jams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/257-farmers-booked-for-blocking-highway-at-chandimandir-304446
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 29 water supply hit||Several households in Sector 29 have not been getting proper water supply for the past three days due to a broken water pipeline.Residents said they were getting water supply at low pressure. Those living on upper floors were not getting water supply at all. This had made them look for water tankers. “We went to the local water supply office to complain. They said Monday was a holiday so they could not fix the problem. Then, I called up an MC official to at least send a water tanker,” said Mohan, a local resident.The broken pipeline is resulting in water wastage, but officials do not seem to bother. Water was seen flowing on a road the whole day.Commuters, especially two-wheeler riders, had a tough time wading through the watelogged road. An MC official said they would soon get the issued resolved. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-29-water-supply-hit-304418
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports six cases of Covid-19||Mohali sees one death, 6 casesMohali: For the second consecutive day, one more person succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,060. Six more cases surfaced in the district and six recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, one each was reported from Dhakoli, Gharuan and Mohali, while three cases surfaced in Kharar. Of the 68,608 positive cases reported so far, 67,501 patients have been cured. There are now 47 active cases in the district. The toll has reached 1,060. TNSNo fresh case in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district reported no fresh Covid case on Monday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,681. The virus toll also remained at 377. While 30,295 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, nine cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-six-cases-of-covid-19-304413
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||In Covid battle, GMSH mulls paediatric facility||In the battle against Covid-19, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, has proposed setting up an exclusive 32-bed paediatric hospital for the younger population.Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent of the GMSH, Sector 16, said: “We have proposed a hospital for the paediatric population with 12 ICU beds installed in the block. The hospital will be set up at the nursing college as the building is vacant after the college was shifted to the GMCH, Sector 32.”“The Architecture Department has already been involved in the project and a tender will likely be passed in two days,” said Nagpal.The hospital had recently increased the ICU-bed capacity from eight to 20 to meet the demand of Covid patients. The soon-to-be-operational ICU will have state-of-the-art ventilators, beds and multi-para monitors. An additional PSA plant with 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) capacity will be installed soon at the hospital.The Health Department has also decided to make the Sector 45 Civil Hospital a 42-bed paediatric Covid centre. Of the total beds, 12 will be made available for the ICU while 30 will be oxygenated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-covid-battle-gmsh-mulls-paediatric-facility-304412
31-08-2021||Sandeep Rana||Driest August in 5 years, Chandigarh recorded 39% deficit rainfall||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 30The city recorded 39 per cent deficit rainfall in the three monsoon months this year, with August being the driest in the past five years.The month recorded 168.3 mm of rainfall, the lowest for August since 2016. More than double rainfall (441.3 mm) was witnessed in August last year compared to this year.The month in 2019 also saw a good rainfall of 284.4 mm. Similarly, the month recorded 304.6 mm and 264.8 mm of rainfall in 2018 and 2017, respectively. However, 2016 saw less rainfall (127.4 mm).“Chandigarh has seen 39 per cent deficit rainfall and Punjab around 24 per cent deficit rainfall so far. The main reason for less rain in Chandigarh is that July remained dry overall in northern India,” Manmohan Singh, Director, Chandigarh Meteorological Department, told Chandigarh Tribune.Less rain is not good for agriculture and groundwater level. Rain is not expected to improve in the coming days. The Met Director said: “In the coming week, not much rain is expected. The city may witness scattered or isolated rain.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/driest-august-in-5-years-chandigarh-recorded-39-deficit-rainfall-304411
31-08-2021||---||Past 2 years were trying, VP Singh Badnore’s parting shot||Chandigarh, August 30“I don’t want to go into the development side of my tenure; whatever I achieved and whatever I could not, I leave it to you to judge. As development is a continuous affair...it doesn’t stop...there is always scope for more,” said outgoing Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore in his farewell speech here today.Badnore today relinquished office on the completion of his five-year term. He had taken over as the Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator on August 22, 2016.In his emotionally charged farewell speech, Badnore said he would remain indebted to his officers at the Punjab Raj Bhawan, Punjab Government and the UT Administration for extending full support and cooperation during his tenure.“I don’t wish to make a long speech today, but would like to recall coming here five years ago. I also recall that there was a downpour at my swearing-in ceremony and everybody got wet. All dignitaries and guests had to leave the function and could not even have the high tea which was organised. But that seemed to be very auspicious,” Badnore recalled.He said, “In my journey of five years, the past two were trying and challenging for the entire world, and Chandigarh and Punjab were no exceptions. Together we faced many difficult moments but with the grace of the Almighty, we sailed through. I must say it was good team work. The real concept of the tricity was virtually seen during this Covid crisis; I am happy that I was a part of that.”I want to thank the people of Punjab and Chandigarh for generously showering love and blessings and also bestowing faith in me during my memorable and fulfilling term.With all humility at my command, with a sense of gratitude and a prayer in my heart, I take leave of you. I am leaving with a sense of fulfilment and happiness of having served the people of this state through this institution to the best of my ability.”On the occasion, the outgoing Governor got a coffee table book, titled “The Raj Bhawan Punjab - A Glorious Journey”, which includes all important functions and other details of the Governors of Punjab from 1947 till date, released by the Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, and also presented him a copy. Another book titled, “Punjab Raj Bhawan Mini Rock Garden- A tribute to Padma Shri Nek Chand” was also presented to the Chief Minister.Badnore and his wife Alka Singh were accorded a ceremonial send-off by officers and staff of the Punjab Raj Bhawan.New Administrator to take oath today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/past-2-years-were-trying-vp-singh-badnores-parting-shot-304410
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||Babla flays move, writes to Chandigarh Adviser||“Residents of Sector 27 have been badly hurt by today’s incident. On the festival of Janmashtami, it is shameful to not allow residents of the sector to leave their houses. I strongly oppose this,” wrote Devinder Singh Babla, councillor and the leader of Opposition, MC, to UT Adviser Dharam Pal.He addressed problems faced by sector residents during the Khattar’s visit to the city today. Babla wrote: “The entire sector was converted into a police cantonment.”He told the Chandigarh Tribune that several locals had frowned upon today’s incident in a WhatsApp group.Bhupinder Sandhu, a senior citizen who lives alone in Sector 27-B, said: “My house help had to come, but was stuck. He was harassed like anything and had to find a way to my house through inner roads. I’m an old woman and was troubled.”Somila Sandhu, vice-president of the Residents Welfare Association (Sector 27-A and 27-B), said: “If Khattar wanted to do such a conference, he could have held it as his residence or at the Rally Ground. Why make the residents suffer?.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-flays-move-writes-to-chandigarh-adviser-304408
31-08-2021||---||Chandigarh: Sector 27 locked down for Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, locals fume||Chandigarh, August 30Almost all roads leading to Sector 27 were blocked today as Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar arrived at the Press Club for a conference.The fortification of the sector, from 8 am to 2.45 pm, had been done “in view of a threat from farm protesters”. On the holy day of Janmashtami, residents of Sector 27 were locked down in their homes for over six hours. The Chief Minister, however, was at the conference for three hours, from 11.30 am to 2.30 pm.The roads separating Sector 20 and 19 and Sector 27-D and 19-C were also barricaded by the police. The traffic was allowed inside the sector only from two points — the roads separating Sector 27-C and 27-D and Sector 27-A and Sector 27-B. However, on the latter stretch, the traffic was being diverted to the residential area of Sector 27-A so it could reach the Sector 27-D market.In the market, a harrowed Sector 8 resident, Kamlesh, who had to walk all the way to a temple, said, “I had to go to a temple here, but the road was blocked. So, the auto dropped us on the light point here at the market. I have a knee problem, but I’ll walk, what else can one do?”Even though the markets in the area remained open, the business was slow. A shopkeeper in Sector 27-D said: “We had no prior intimation about the area being cordoned off. Since it’s a holiday, I was expecting more footfall, but now, the business is slow.”Ramji Das, chairman of the Market Welfare Association, Sector 27-D, said: “Shop owners didn’t get many visitors most of the day, but who will listen to them?”Farm activists protest at least a km awayIn front of the market facing the T-point leading to the Khattar’s conference venue, two women waived pro-farmer flags. “One of them was rounded up by the UT police. A baptised Sikh woman, Surjit Kaur Khalsa, was detained for about half an hour,” said Satnam Singh Tanda of the Kisan Ekta, Chandigarh.SP (City) Ketan Bansal denied having detained anyone. He said: “We didn’t detain or round up anyone.”“We gathered at a masjid of Sector 20 and wanted to go to the venue from inner roads of Sector 19. In front of the Sector 19 police station, the police stopped us, even used mild force and made a human chain. We turned back and went to the main road. Then, we reached the road separating Sectors 19 and 20. There too, there was some argument with the police. They didn’t want us to even go to Sector 27, leave alone the venue where Khattar was present. So, we decided to protest on the Sector 19 side of the dividing road,” said Tanda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-27-locked-down-for-haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-locals-fume-304407
31-08-2021||Chandigarh||India wants solution to border dispute with China through dialogue, won’t allow unilateral action on LAC: Defence Minister||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday that India wants a solution to the border dispute with China through dialogue and asserted that the government would never allow the sanctity of borders to be violated.The Modi government has made it clear to the forces that any unilateral action on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) should not be ignored, he said.Afghan situation raises new security questions: Rajnath SinghSingh was delivering virtually the third Balramji Dass Tandon Memorial Lecture organised by Panjab University on the issue of national security.The defence minister said that there have been “perception differences” on the border with China. “Despite this, there are some agreements, protocols which the armies of both countries follow to conduct patrols.”    Referring to the clashes in eastern Ladakh last year, Singh said Chinese forces had ignored the “agreed protocols.”                 “We cannot allow the Chinese Army PLA to act on the LAC in a unilateral manner under any circumstances.“That is what the Indian Army did that day in Galwan and bravely confronted the PLA soldiers and forced them to retreat,” he said while terming it as a “historic” incident.India wants a solution to the border dispute with China through dialogue, the defence minister said and asserted that the government will never compromise on issues of the “country’s borders, its honour and self-respect”.स्वर्गीय बलरामजी दास टंडन व्याख्यानमाला के अंतर्गत ‘राष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा’ विषय पर सम्बोधन। https://t.co/oBTbfn9xwR“We will never allow the sanctity of borders to be violated,” he said.Recalling the Galwan incident, he said the bravery, valour and restraint shown by the Indian Army are incomparable and unparalleled.In the first deadly clash in the border area in nearly five decades, 20 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 last year in the Galwan Valley in fierce hand-to-hand combat with Chinese troops, triggering a large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both armies at the friction points in eastern Ladakh.In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher.In a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquility in the region, the Indian and Chinese armies completed the disengagement process and restored the pre-standoff ground position in Gogra in eastern Ladakh after 15 months. The development came after the 12th round of military talks between the two sides on July 31 at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point in eastern Ladakh.Earlier, the Indian and Chinese frontline troops had conducted the first synchronised disengagement at the south and north banks of the Pangong lake in February.The Army is trained to press the trigger on seeing the movement of the enemy, but the Indian Army has shown both courage and restraint while working with great maturity, Rajnath Singh said.He said despite this, questions were raised by some opposition leaders on the Army’s capability.The defence minister said India has learnt a lot from the 1962 war against China.On improving infrastructure, he said that the Atal Tunnel project in Rohtang, which was on hold for a long time, was completed by the Modi government. “This tunnel has strategic importance,” he said.The Border Roads Organisation is developing infrastructure projects and all-weather connectivity was being given to Ladakh, he said, adding work on several alternative roads has started.The minister said it will also help the people who live in border areas as these people have “strategic importance for us”.“Keeping their interests in mind, it is necessary to strengthen the border infrastructure,” he said.Referring to the situation in the Northeast, the minister said an era of peace has come in this region in the last seven years.There was a time when the entire region was in the grip of insurgency, he said and dubbed the restoration of peace in the Northeast as the “biggest strategic victory” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tenure.The minister said the government has succeeded in controlling Left Wing Extremism as well in the last seven years.When the BJP government was formed in 2014, as many as 160 districts were facing the Naxal problem, while this number reduced to 50 in 2019. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/india-wants-solution-to-border-dispute-with-china-through-dialogue-wont-allow-unilateral-action-on-lac-defence-minister-304196
