05-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Molested’ passenger jumps off auto in Calcutta||The driver of an autorickshaw allegedly molested a woman who was seated beside him, forcing her to jump off the vehicle when it slowed down near the CAP camp island bus stop near the CF block swimming pool in Salt Lake on Sunday night. The woman lodged a complaint with the Bidhannagar North police station on Monday. Police tracked down the driver, Pralay Mallick, with the help of footage of CCTV cameras installed on the stretch of First Avenue where the woman was allegedly molested and arrested him on Tuesday afternoon. The woman, in her late 20s, mentioned in her complaint that she had boarded the autorickshaw at Ultadanga and had to sit beside the driver because the rear seat was occupied by other passengers, an officer of Bidhannagar North police station said. After the auto entered Salt Lake, the driver allegedly started misbehaving with the woman. “She said in her complaint that the harassment stopped when he protested but resumed after the passengers on the rear seat got off,” the officer said. “The driver kept touching me inappropriately. At first I thought it was unintentional, but I soon realised that it wasn’t so. None of the co-passengers protested…. When the auto driver slowed down the vehicle and was trying to take a U-turn near the CAP camp bus stop, I jumped out,” the officer quoted the woman as saying. She then walked home and narrated her ordeal to family members. On Monday afternoon, family members accompanied the woman to Bidhannagar North police station, where she lodged the complaint. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they scanned footage of CCTV cameras installed on the stretch and were able to track down the vehicle. Mallick has been booked under various sections of the IPC, including 354 (using criminal force for outraging modesty of a woman) and 363 (kidnapping). If convicted, he can be jailed for up to seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta gyms worked up over viability||Gymnasiums, closed since March as a precaution against Covid-19, have been allowed to reopen from Thursday but many owners are doubtful whether their businesses would remain viable amidst the pandemic. Over four months of complete shutdown has meant zero income for the owners. But they have been paying rent and partial salaries. Unable to bear the losses, some of the establishments have shut down for good. For those who have not, with reopening comes additional expenses on sanitisation, further straining the bleeding coffers. There is little chance of recovering the losses because even if they reopen, the gyms will have to do with a reduced number of patrons to follow the social distancing norms. “We are reopening out of a survival instinct but the future is extremely uncertain. I don’t know how long the mounting losses can be sustained,” said Gagan Sachdev, the owner of the Karma Fitness Studio chain, with outlets on Southern Avenue and Hazra Road and in Mudiali. The Mudiali outlet spans 3,000sq ft and over 35 people can work out simultaneously. But from Thursday, the number is going to be 15 at best, said Sachdev. Under the guidelines issued by the Centre on Monday, gyms need to space equipment and individuals six feet apart to curb the spread of the new coronavirus. The guidelines also call for redesigning the floor area to reserve 4sq m for each client. With a sharp drop in the number of patrons, the revenue will go south, making it difficult for owners to sustain the additional investment. “I have invested around Rs 30,000 in buying equipment like fumigation machines, sanitisers and thermal guns. By allowing people in accordance with the social distancing norms, I will not even be able to recover my rent component,” said Rupam Sinha, the owner of Physiomax chain of gymnasiums. Before the Covid pandemic struck, he ran three outlets — in Salt Lake, Nagerbazar and near the Central jail intersection in Dum Dum. The last one is now shut for good. Earlier, Sinha’s fixed cost component was over Rs 5 lakh. To counter the crisis, he has had to lay off almost half his employees. “I am opening for survival. If things do not improve in the next few months, I might have to shut down the business altogether,” said Sinha. The investment on sanitisation is taking a toll on many users. The component also includes face shields and masks, which will have to be replaced regularly. Ditto for the chemicals used in sprays and hand sanitisers. Some owners are deputing staff only to clean and fumigate touchpoints and equipment after every use. A representative of the Gym Owners’ Forum (West Bengal), which comprises 120 members, said the additional cost came to around Rs 25 per month for each square foot. “According to a conservative estimate, it comes to roughly Rs 800 per person per month,” he said. To offset a part of the loss, the forum has decided that each member will be charged Rs 300 extra per month. Most of the city-based gyms have a six-monthly or annual membership option that most patrons opt for. Many patrons who have already paid the fee are asking for refunds for the months when the gyms were shut. “We are trying to negotiate with the members. We are trying to reach a win-win situation but a complete refund is impossible,” said Sachdev, who heads the owners’ forum. Ranadeep Moitra, the co-owner of Endorphins chain, has three outlets in Ballygunge, Alipore and Park Street. He will open the Ballygunge outlet for now. He had to shell out over Rs 30 lakh in fixed cost per month before the Covid-19 crisis struck. But his chain was still profitable and among the popular ones in the city. Moitra is unsure of the future. “The challenge is to remain viable with the new pricing model. I am reopening because fitness is my passion. But I don’t know what the future has in store,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Call government or CMC for ambulance: Official on Covid||Covid-19 patients in need of an ambulance can call up the Calcutta Municipal Corporation or the state health department, instead of private operators who are asking for a premium to ferry patients, the state government has said. Home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Calcutta’s nodal officer for Covid-19 management, announced there were enough ambulances to shift patients after a meeting with officials of the health department, police officers and civic representatives on Tuesday. If all ambulances are busy at a given point in time, the patient should wait for two to three hours till an ambulance picks him or her up, he said. Sources in the health department said the department’s ambulance service helpline number is 033-40902929. The CMC numbers for ambulances are the same as its control room numbers - 033-22861212/1313/1414. The families can also call the health department’s telemedicine helpline (033-23576001) to know about availability of beds and the phone numbers of hospitals with vacant beds. The government is linking the ambulances with GPS so their movement can be tracked. If a patient tests positive for Covid-19 while being admitted at a hospital for some other ailment, it will be that hospital’s responsibility to inform the health department or the civic authorities about the need for an ambulance to shift the patient. “There are enough arrangements and people should not panic. If someone needs an ambulance to be shifted to a hospital, please call the numbers of Swasthya Bhavan or the Calcutta Municipal Corporation for an ambulance,” Bandyopadhyay said. Bandyopadhyay said they had found instances of fleecing when patients admitted in a non-Covid hospital tested positive. As the patients need to be shifted to a Covid hospital, their families are getting in touch with ambulances waiting outside. But the drivers are demanding exorbitant rates. “Do not fall in the trap. Call the CMC or Swasthya Bhavan,” he said. A state government official said on Tuesday the health department had over 100 ambulances (for Calcutta) and the CMC 25 for Covid-19 patients. “We will expand the fleet,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather update: rain check||On Tuesday, the city received light to moderate rain during the day. Alipore recorded around 20mm and Dum Dum over 40mm. A low-pressure area over the north Bay of Bengal was supposed to bring heavy rain to the city. “But the system passed over Bangladesh and central Gangetic Bengal, towards Jharkhand, not coming close enough to the city,” a Met official said. The Calcutta sky is likely to remain cloudy in the first half of Wednesday. The showers on Tuesday brought the maximum temperature down by several notches. Some parts of the city received a fresh spell of rain at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Former JU professor passes away||Manabendra Bandyopadhyay, a former professor of comparative literature at Jadavpur University, passed away on Tuesday. He was 82 and is survived by daughter Kaushalya. Bandyopadhyay was among the five students of the first batch of the comparative literature department at JU, which was launched by poet Buddhadev Bose in 1956. He had been admitted to a private hospital for a procedure, said a professor of the department. “The procedure went fine and he was supposed to go home. But he had some complications. His Covid test report came on Tuesday afternoon and it was positive,” the professor said. Bandyopadhyay was widely known for translating Latin American literature into Bengali. Ipshita Chanda, a JU teacher who did her PhD under him, said: “Death does not diminish professor Manabendra Bandyopadhyay’s presence as the scholar, translator and ‘rasika’ who introduced the Bengali reader to literatures of the ‘third world’ as well as to literatures in other Indian languages. Not only did he translate prolifically, he also, on principle, produced scholarly  and creative work in Bangla, inspiring and encouraging his students to do the same. He was not only a PhD supervisor but a mentor, a guide and above all an understanding and humorous friend.” Another teacher said he introduced Gabriel García Márquez in the syllabus of the department before the Latin American author won the Nobel prize. “He was the one who translated Jules Verne in Bengali. Dev Sahitya Kutir would publish the abridged version initially. Later, as his expertise grew, he started coming up with unabridged versions,” said a teacher of the department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
05-08-2020||Calcutta||False claims over cycle threshold value in Calcutta||What is my CT value? Many hospitals and diagnostic laboratories in Calcutta are flooded with calls asking for the value from people who tested positive for Covid-19 there, a trend that experts say is based on unfounded claims. CT, or cycle threshold, is a number indicating the presence of a gene in a swab sample. The lower the CT value for a specific gene, the higher the presence of that gene in the sample. Till a few days back, most people going for tests were not bothered about the CT value, said officials of several hospitals and laboratories. But in the last three to four days, the query for the CT value has gone up for two reasons. Many are saying the doctors treating them want to know the value, while some are keen to know the number to understand whether they can infect others easily. Microbiologists and doctors said there were no studies yet to correlate the CT value with the contagiousness of the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19, but still many people are demanding to know their viral load. Officials of hospitals and laboratories feel some videos and posts on social media were triggering the interest in the CT value. In one such video, a person identifying himself as a doctor is explaining why the CT value is important. “.... ask the lab what is my CT value. They can’t say no. If the CT value is less than 24, then it is highly contagious. Till now the cut-off was not known but studies now have shown the cut-off is 24,” the doctor says in that video. On Monday, AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria received 15 calls from people who have tested positive for Covid-19. “They wanted to know their CT values. We are telling whoever wants to know his or her value,” an official of the hospital said. Doctors said many people in home isolation were concerned whether they co-uld easily infect others in the family. Experts said there was no authentic study yet to prove that a higher CT value meant a person had less chance of spreading the infection. “There is no reliable study which shows direct correlation between the CT value and the severity of the disease or contagiousness,” said Arpita Bhakta, the head of the microbiology unit at AMRI Dhakuria. “CT values differ from one diagnostic kit to another. They also depend on how the sample is collected and in what temperature,” said Bhakta. Pulmonologist Suranjan Mukherjee said he had no idea why some doctors were asking for the CT value. “I am not interested in the CT values of my patients who are Covid positive. Guidelines by the authorities clearly state the number of days a Covid patient needs to stay in isolation,” said Mukherjee. Peerless Hospital chief executive Sudipta Mitra said he had seen patients with a high CT value, indicating a lower viral load, getting critical, while those with lower values not needing ICU support. “Patients in early stages of the disease are showing high CT values, but the numbers are decreasing subsequently,” he said. According to public health experts, a high CT value can give a false sense of security. “In our hospital, the CT value is not used by doctors for treatment. It is for academic interest,” said Abhishek Chakraborti, internal medicine resident, Brookdale Hospital Medical Centre, New York.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Modern High girls plan fest to ‘celebrate’ new normal||Students of Modern High School for Girls have found a way to work around the pandemic by organising an inter-school fest with the theme “The New Normal”. The events are conventional with a twist like a rap battle between software platforms, pitching a business idea that will work in the pandemic, making a guess at revolutionary figures from history because the world is going through a “massive revolution” or taking a classic song and modifying the lyrics to the current times. The anxiety during the pandemic is real and organising a fest is keeping them happy and engaged while they simultaneously accept the new realities, Somali Mitra, the cocurricular coordinator and teacher closely working with the girls, said. “Over the past few months, redefinition has become an unforetold reality. Home, family, friendship, communication —concepts we thought we knew — have been transforming and reshaping themselves.... History is being remade every passing hour, as life goes through tumultuous change.... It is time for us to usher in the new era of interaction and engagement on a virtual platform...,” reads the fest’s concept note. Maitree 2020 for students of Classes IX to XII is scheduled for Saturday and Sunday with 12 events, some of which will be live-streamed. Judges will ask questions online. At least 14 schools will participate in the two-day fest. Four are from other cities — Mayo College, Ajmer; Vasant Valley School, Delhi; The Assam Valley School, Tezpur; and Rukmani Birla Modern High School, Jaipur. The online platform has given the girls an opportunity to extend their reach and enabled many more from across the country to participate, unlike other times when fests usually remain a city affair. Over 100 girls are working under the leadership of the head girl, Mayukhi Ghosh, and deputy head girl Aastha Bagree for the past one month. Their work includes long meetings, at times late into the night, ideation, and definitely not giving classes or assignments a miss. “We have kept the usual staples of a fest but restructured it to suit the online curriculum,” Mayukhi said. “The most challenging part is the logistics and we have had to run multiple trial runs, constantly check security measures and keep our lines of communication open at odd hours because participants have queries.” “We are making use of an app to spin the wheel to substitute for the draw of lots to decide on turns... but it is keeping us engaged and looking at ways to stay positive despite the negativity around us,” Aastha said. A total of 450 students will participate in the fest and the response has been “overwhelming” so far. “This is the last year for many of them… we want them to create happy memories that they would remember despite the pandemic. They should find fun and creativity in the midst of all this,” Somali Mitra said. “We wanted them to experience the thrill and sense of achievement of organising such an event themselves and did not hesitate to give them permission. It is keeping their spirits up,” director Devi Kar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown changes torment fliers ||Thousands of people have to cancel or rebook their flight tickets following the change in the lockdown dates announced by the Bengal government on Monday. Airlines said the change of dates was leaving passengers inconvenienced as many of them have already cancelled their tickets more than once before because of the state government’s last-minute decisions on stalling flights. The government had earlier announced that the state would be under “complete lockdown” on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31. The dates announced on Monday are 5, 8, 20, 21, 27, 28 and 31. “In view of the government order issued on August 3, flight operations at the Calcutta airport will remain suspended on the revised lockdown dates,” an official at the airport said. Which means flights will operate on August 16, 17, 23 and 24, the days the state was to be in lockdown according to the earlier order. Airport officials said around 110 flights were operating to and from Calcutta every day. The number could go up to 160 after August 15, if the state government allows flights from six cities with “high Covid prevalence” — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad. Flights from these cities to Bengal were banned on July 6 following a request from the state government. All airlines have opened bookings on flights from the six cities. Most flights on August 20, 21, 27 and 28 had about 60 per cent of the seats booked, sources said. According to officials of multiple airlines, the change in dates and the last-minute decisions were not only jeopardising their plans but causing immense inconvenience to thousands of passengers. The state government had earlier said flights and trains were not included on the list of services exempted from the lockdown. A Behala resident who works in Abu Dhabi had booked tickets on IndiGo flights from Calcutta to Mumbai through Indore on August 20. He has a ticket on a flight from Mumbai to Abu Dhabi on August 20. “I came to Calcutta in February and have been stuck here since. Now, I have to rejoin work. I had earlier booked tickets on August 16 but the moment the state government announced lockdown on that date, I changed it to August 20,” he said. He will have to reschedule again because according to the latest order, the state will be in lockdown on August 20. Airlines said they were flooded with calls for cancellations and rebookings throughout Tuesday. “Now, most passengers are travelling only out of necessity. There is no leisure travel. Such frequent change in dates is jeopardising important plans of people,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. He said many of his clients who had earlier cancelled tickets are yet to get refunds from the airlines. “On top of that they have to spend additional money for fresh bookings,” he said. According to Punjabi, many passengers are going to Delhi and Mumbai via other cities to board evacuation flights to the countries where they work. SpiceJet officials said they were not sure whether the flights they would run on August 16, 17, 23 and 24 — which are no longer lockdown days — would get enough passengers. “People are sceptical about whether the flight (on which they are booking tickets) will finally operate. The only hope for us is that most passengers are booking three to four days prior to the departure because of this uncertainty,” said Debjit Ghosh, regional sales head (east), SpiceJet. IndiGo airline has about 90 flights on each of those four days, including those from the six cities. “We might have to cancel some of the flights because there might not be enough bookings if we reintroduce them now,” an IndiGo official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Expelled cop, 3 others  in trader cheat net||A trader who started dabbling in dry fruits after his business failed during the lockdown was cheated by an expelled cop, a taxi driver, an auto driver and a man with criminal cases against him, police said. All four have been arrested. One of the suspects had befriended the trader and promised to use his FCI contacts to procure cheap supplies. He took Rs 6.18 lakh outside an FCI godown in Taratala in June to make his claims look authentic, the police said. Minutes after the money was handed over, a man in police uniform reached the spot in a taxi and whisked away the trader, saying he was “wanted” in a criminal case, the police said. Later, when suspect Bikash Das could not be contacted on the phone and the trader did not get his supplies, he realised he had been cheated. Only manufacturing units can procure grains and pulses from the FCI. Also, the FCI doesn’t supply dry fruits, the police said. The complainant has told cops he was not aware of FCI rules and was duped into paying the money with the false promise that the new business would fetch him a huge margin of profit, an officer quoted the complainant, a Baranagar resident, as saying. Officers of Taratala police station tracked down the taxi by scanning CCTV footage. The vehicle’s registered owner lives in Ekbalpore. He told cops that the driver lived in Haridevpur. “Initially, the driver claimed innocence. He later admitted to the crime and named an auto driver from the neighbourhood saying he was part of the gang and a former cop,” an officer said. The former cop was a Calcutta police assistant sub-inspector whose service had been terminated in 2009. Cops have arrested the taxi driver and the auto driver in the past two weeks. They have told cops they were without work during the lockdown and that they needed money to sustain their families, the police said. Cops arrested the former police officer and a man who were part of the gang. Cops seized Rs3 lakh from under a steel cupboard at Das’s home after his arrest on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Highrise resident held for ‘swab collection’||A resident of an upscale highrise off the Bypass was arrested on Tuesday for posing as a representative of a superspeciality hospital in the city and collecting swab samples for Covid test, police said. Soumitra Chowdhury has been booked for cheating and forgery based on a complaint by officials of the hospital. Chowdhury had created and circulated a WhatsApp message with a web link with his photograph and name saying he was an authorised employee of the hospital, the police said. “According to the hospital’s complaint, this person was earlier employed with the hospital. He is no longer attached with the hospital,” an officer of East Jadavpur police station said. “In the message he kept circulating on WhatsApp, he presented himself as a representative of the hospital to win the confidence of people and collect their swab samples for a Covid test.” Chowdhury had claimed in the message he had started a private laboratory, which had tested over 200 samples in the past few months. “He has claimed to have been collecting samples for Covid tests. We are still to verify if these are correct,” the officer said. Allegations have surfaced he would overcharge people for Covid tests although the government has fixed the rates for tests. “Hospital officials have said he not only cheated the hospital by impersonating as a staff but he also tarnished the hospital’s image by overcharging people,” the officer said. Cops will investigate the authenticity of the reports issued from the laboratory in the Picnic Garden areas, the police said. Last week, officials of a private laboratory in Netajinagar were arrested in connection with false Covid test reports. A bank manager, who had tested negative from the laboratory tested positive during a retest. He died in hospital later. Based on his family’s complaint, the laboratory officials and the owner had been arrested. A resident of Khardah in North 24-Parganas was arrested on Tuesday for siphoning off nearly Rs 3.6 crore from the bank account of a woman who lives in Chennai, the police said. A team from the Salt Lake cyber crime police station picked up Samiran Saha, a scrap dealer, from his house based on a complaint lodged by an official of the bank, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Saha had managed to change the woman’s mobile number registered with the bank and had transferred the money to multiple accounts in the names of various people. He had forged documents and opened the accounts, the police said. The bank got to know of the forgery when the woman complained. “The money trail led us to Saha,” the officer said. A Salt Lake court has sent him to 14 days’ judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
05-08-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University arts admissions from August 10||Jadavpur University will accept online applications to undergraduate humanities courses from August 10, a university official said on Tuesday. The admission committee of the arts faculty approved the dates and the mode of admission: only Plus II board marks. The committee passed a resolution that it was not feasible to conduct written admission tests because of the pandemic. The application and admission process will be held online through the JUMS (Jadavur University Management System) portal. The university will publish a list of candidates selected provisionally for admission to various departments. “Documents uploaded by such candidates will be sent to department heads for verification. A detailed routine will be announced soon,” the university official said. After verification, the provisionally selected candidates of each department will get a link to pay admission fees online. The fees have to be paid within three working days. Failing to do so will lead to cancellation of candidature and those on the waiting list will get an opportunity, the official said. “However the modalities suggested here are applicable for this year only to address the exceptional circumstances arising out of the pandemic,” the admission committee has said. “This is not to be taken as a precedent in subsequent years.” The university has been admitting students to humanities courses based on equal weightage to admissions tests and Plus II board results for the past two years. The statement on not making this year’s modality a precedent was noted in the resolution as the university administration had in 2018 tried to scrap admissions tests in deference to an education department’s suggestion and teachers had to launch a protest to retain tests, an English department teacher said. Among the seven departments in humanities, five — English, comparative literature, international relations, sociology and Sanskrit — will admit students based on their Plus II board marks. The Bengali and economics departments will admit candidates based on Plus II and Class X board marks. The economics department will consider the marks in the secondary board exams only for candidates  from the Bengal board. The department will consider aggregate marks obtained in the secondary board exams (out of 100), along with marks obtained in the language group at the Higher Secondary (out of 100), a teacher said. “The weightage will be combined with marks obtained in mathematics in the Higher Secondary exams (out of 200). A merit list of candidates from Bengal board will be based on a weightage of 400,” the teacher said. For students of the CBSE board and the ICSE council, marks in core language /compulsory language obtained at the Plus II level (out of 100) will be considered with marks in Mathematics at Plus II (out of 200). The HS council could not hold tests on physics, chemistry and statistics among others; so, the weightage from Madhyamik will be taken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
