07-08-2020||Calcutta||Rustle up dishes for a quick and tasty meal||Serves: 4 Ingredients Method Serves: 3 Ingredients For rice Method For preparation of rice Serves: 2 Ingredients For rice 150g white rice Few parsley leaves, finely chopped Salt to taste  Method For preparation of rice Serves: 2 Ingredients Method Serves: 4 Ingredients Method Serves: 3 Ingredients Method||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Tricks of trade to cast a spell||Ahili Das, a resident of EE Block who goes by the stage name of Magicianne Lee, takes a magic class for readers to learn from and impress others with. Like The Telegraph, she too has just turned 15 On the 15th birth anniversary of The Telegraph, I feel like sharing some magic with you. Yes, you too can do magic! “Don’t be a wallflower in your friend’s next birthday party; learn magic for fun and entertainment,” my magic mentor Solyl Kundu used to tell me and now I say the same to you. The type of magic I shall teach here is called close-up magic in magicians’ jargon and is normally done with everyday objects available at home without having to step out in the middle of lockdown. However, let me first share the three golden rules of magic- 1. Never share the secret of the magic with anyone. 2. Never tell the audience in advance what you are going to do. 3. Never repeat a trick for the same audience. Finally, a magician’s mantra is practice, practice and practice. Practice will make your moves smooth. So learn, practise and entertain your family and friends. The magic: You will be turning an ordinary drinking straw so strong that you can pierce a big potato with it. What the audience sees: Use a few paper straws and a big fresh potato. Ask someone in your audience to try to pierce the potato with any straw. They will find that it is not possible as the straw will bend or break. Finally, you take another straw from the bunch and announce that you will turn it into a Karateka and pierce the potato. And then do as you say. The secret: Carefully but casually, hold the straw with your right hand curling the fingers around the straw and the right thumb covering the top opening of the straw as shown in the figure above. Take care that no one notices your thumb covering the top hole of the straw. At the same time hold the potato stationary in the left hand about 10 inches or so below the straw. Stab the potato as fast you can while secretly bending the end of the straw, thereby trapping the air inside and making the straw strong enough to pass through the potato. The magic: Turn a glass upside down and watch it stay in the glass. What the audience sees: Use a glass tumbler and a cotton handkerchief. Spread the handkerchief covering the mouth of the tumbler. Then with your fingers, poke a small well into the handkerchief over the mouth of the tumbler. Pour some water into the well to fill the tumbler almost to the top. Now, stretch the handkerchief tightly over the mouth of the tumbler, holding it down at the sides over the glass and quickly turn the glass over. The water will stay in the glass. Finally after a few moments, turn the tumbler back again. The secret: Frankly, there’s no secret in this magic which is self-working. When making the little well and pouring water in the glass, stretch the hanky as explained and the water will make a film and over the surface of the damp cloth and the water will not pass through. The magic: You shall make a knot in a handkerchief without letting go of the ends. What the audience sees: Make your presentation interactive by asking for an assistant from the audience. Ask the lucky audience member for a gent’s handkerchief and tell him/ her to tie a knot on it without letting go of the ends. He won’t be able to (unless he reads this article!) Now you take the handkerchief and put a knot in it without letting go of your hands. The secret: A cotton gents’ handkerchief is needed. It can be any other cotton handkerchief too but it has to be big enough. Now twist it along its length so it becomes rope-like as shown above. Now, cross your arms as shown in the picture above. Then ask your assistant to put the two ends of the handkerchief in the fingers of yours both hands as shown in the picture above. Now with a jerk, uncross your hands and surprise! There is a knot in the centre of the hanky as shown in the last picture. Practice repeatedly so you can do this faster and smoothly. The magic: A rubber that you place on the base of two fingers will skip to two other fingers. What the audience sees: The magician takes a rubber band and puts it at the base of his two fingers as shown in the picture right. Then he makes a fist as shown in the picture right. As he reopens his fist the rubber band magically jumps to his other fingers as shown in the picture right.  The secret: Get a couple of rubber bands. Make sure they are tight. Now note the pictures below, from the magician’s point of view — A) Put the rubber band around the base of your two fingers on your left hand towards the left side, as shown in picture. B) Then close your hand by pulling the rubber band but secretly put all your fingers into the band. The audience will think you have just pulled the band to check the tension. While doing this movement say: “This band is tight enough” as shown  in picture. C) Now, chant your magic spell. In the meantime note your fingers’ position as shown in the next picture. D) After chanting the magic spell, quickly open your fingers and the effect will be seen in the picture. The secret moves should be done in a fraction of a second. Practice well and your audience will be left speechless. Effect: Count off a number of cards from a deck of cards, and the rest of cards put aside. Any one of the packets is turned face up and put on the other face-down packet. Next, shuffle the packets together, intermixing the cards face up and face-down. The cards will show a mixed group of face up and face down cards. You can even offer the cards to anyone for shuffling. After receiving the cards back, place it behind your back for a few moments and bring it forth. Place the deck on the table. Announce that within a split second you have been able to make two packets, one face up and the other face down. Moreover, the face-up cards in each packet will be the same as in the other pack. Now the cards are divided again into two piles, both are spread out to show that if the first pile has four face up cards, the second pile too has four face-up cards. Knowhow: Count off 20 or 30 cards — the number does not matter as long as the numbers is even. The audience need not know the number of cards. You can place your little finger between cards as you are counting to make the piles even. Now divide cards in two packets, turn one of them face up and intermix the cards in any manner. You may even hand out the cards to a spectator for further shuffling. You now take the cards and place them behind your back. All you need to do is count half the cards off the top of the deck with your right hand. For instance, if the total number of cards was 20 count off 10 cards. The remaining 10 cards in your left hand are turned over. Both packets are brought in front and placed on table. The trick is done. All that remains to be done is to spread the packets and count the face up cards. The face up cards in both packets will tally. Here is a magic that is “sure fire”, no set-ups. It can be done with any deck and is very simple to perform. Enjoy friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
07-08-2020||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake turns 15||Independence Day August 15, 1947 was India’s Independence Day. The day marked the end of British rule in the country and Jawaharlal Nehru became India’s first Prime Minister. The day continues to be celebrated by Indians every year. A girl’s 15th birthday is a big celebration in Mexico and other Latin American cultures. Called quinceanera, the birthday marks the transition from childhood to womanhood. An important ritual at the ceremony is when the birthday girl hands over 15 candles to 15 people who have been influential in her life and dedicates speeches to them. March 15, 44BC is a notorious date as the Roman general Julius Caesar was assassinated by his senators, led by Marcus Brutus. The Ides of March, as the date is known, was a turning point for the region and led to the formation and rise of the Roman empire. Measure of time The number of minutes in a quarter of an hour is 15. Fifteen minutes past or before an hour is known as quarter past and quarter to, respectively. 15 minutes of fame is a phrase used to describe short-lived celebrity status, inspired by American artist Andy Warhol’s words at a 1968 exhibition: “In the future, everyone will be world famous for 15 minutes.” The phenomenon is particularly used in reference of people in the entertainment industry. First point in tennis The first point scored by a player in the game of tennis is not one but 15. This is, apparently, because back in Medieval France, the hands of clocks would be used to denote tennis scores. To indicate the first point, the minutes hand would be moved to the 15-minute mark. This is a game of 16 squares. The 15 numbered squares are muddled up and the player has to slide them to bring in numerical order, with the last slot left empty. 15 Park Avenue is a 2005 film directed by Aparna Sen. A multi-starrer with the likes of Waheeda Rehman and Shabana Azmi, it deals with schizophrenia that Konkona Sen Sharma’s character suffers from. Length of rulers 15 centimetres is the standard length of rulers used in schools. The compact size is suitable for drawing borders, art work  and fits into most pencil boxes. The Plus 15 Skyway network in Calgary, Canada, is one of the world’s most extensive overhead pedestrian walkways. Built in 1970, it has 62 bridges stretching over 18 kilometres. The system is so named as the skywalks are about 15ft above street level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Before you bring a pup home||With everyone home during the lockdown, many families are bringing home pet dogs. But there’s a lot to consider before making this big decision. Paramita Das, canine trainer and behaviourist and a resident of FE Block, held a webinar recently to address the issues. Here’s the first installment of what she had to say-  While a dog will enhance your life, you have to understand that he is not a toy. He has emotions and his own likes and dislikes and getting a dog is a big responsibility. Here are some pointers to consider before becoming a pet parent- The average life span of your dog would be 12-14 years so ask if you can make that long a commitment. Do you have the time, money and will you make the effort? Time- Keeping a pet means grooming him, training him, taking him to the vet for his shots and check-ups. Grooming is easier for short-haired dogs like Dachshund and Labradors but they will still need nails clipped, ears and anal glands cleaned periodically. You must also be up for unpleasant jobs like inspecting your dog’s poop to report to the doctor and checking his coat for ticks and fleas. Money- The pet will have his share of expenses. It is sad that many dogs are being abandoned during the lockdown as their pet parents have lost their jobs. So be careful about your decision. Support system- Getting a dog has to be a family decision. Don’t take home a pup if your husband detests them. Yes, most of the time the person who hates the pup comes to love him the most after six months but what if this isn’t the case in your family? What if you live alone and get Covid? Who would look after the dog for you? For that matter, who will look after him when you go for a vacation? Will you keep him in a creche, will a family member stay back with him or will you only go on pet-friendly holidays? What if you get a job out of town? Your dog has left his species to be with you and are you thinking of leaving him behind? Allergies- Get your family members tested for allergies before bringing home a dog. While most people melt seeing a puppy’s eyes, a pup comes with caveats. His baby teeth will be needle-sharp and you will be bitten as he grows. Your expensive shoes may get chewed up and you will be stepping on his pee everywhere till he gets toilet-trained. That way, adopting an older dog will be easier as he will be toilet-trained but you’ll miss out on the fun of watching a pup grow. There’s no right answer for this but you have to sure of which you want. The right age You must never separate a puppy from the mother before 60 days (eight weeks). For the first 60 days of its life, a puppy is learning “primary socialisation” from his mother and siblings. He gets immunity from his mother’s milk too. After about four weeks (30 days) the mother needs “me time” and leaves the pups from time to time to play by themselves. When she returns, if the pups jump at her to have milk, she growls in a way that trains them. It teaches them that they are not to jump unless the other person wants it. If the pup bites too hard while feeding, again, the mother smacks him. The pup understands that he should not dig his teeth hard on skin. If this had happened on a human, the human would have thrown his hands and legs in the air and created such a fuss that the pup would think biting was a game. The best trainer for the pup is his mother and even the best human trainer comes nowhere near her. After about seven weeks the mother starts rejecting the pups and this is the right time to bring home one. This is when “secondary socialisation” starts (to be discussed next week). Check the mother- After about seven weeks, the mother should let you touch the puppies. If not, she may have a behavioural problem, which may be passed on to her children. The mother should be friendly and not display visible signs of genetic problems. For instance, if she limps she may have hip dysplasia, which again may be passed on to her kids. Health and behaviour- Yes, even the sick puppies need to go somewhere but they need homes that are committed to caring for a weak dog. The average person should check for overall good health — the pup shouldn’t be skinny or with a poor coat. As for which pup to pick from a litter, it requires detailed study. A first time pet parent, for instance, is better off not picking a dominant or excessively timid puppy as he lacks experience to raise him. It would be easier if the pup’s nature compliments your and your family’s temperament. Living conditions- In all my years of experience, I have come across very few cases of genetic aggression. It is mostly “learnt aggression”, that can arise from childhood. So if there are five pups, there should be more than five water bowls and toys for them. Then the pups do not need to fight for resources and are not prone to food aggression or possessiveness. The sleeping area should be clean, hygienic and the toilet area must have a different ground texture, even if it is simply paper. That is how the mother teaches her pups where to do their business. Getting an adult dog Sometimes a family can adopt a dog that is given up another family due to some reason. Such dogs fit in seemlessly in their new homes; actually it depends on the new family. However, before taking in an adult dog a family should run behavioural tests to see if he is possessive, aggressive or has fear issues. For these, it is best to consult a professional. Once the pup comes home From the age of 60 days (eight weeks) to about 20 weeks, the pup’s sense of smell, sight and touch is developing rapidly and he is curious about his environment. Ideally you should expose him to 100 new experiences every month at this stage. Throw steel vessels on the floor, open and shut umbrellas before him, burst fire crackers, play Rabindrasangeet and rock music…. Otherwise your summer-born dog may panic on Diwali night or in winter, when he sees people wearing hoodies. You also need 100 new people to handle him in this period. Sadly, we live in an age when we have 5,000 friends on Facebook but none that we can call to play with our pup. Nonetheless, allow the puppy to explore. Unless the pup explores now, his curiosity will get replaced by fear later and you’ll need a behaviourist to help him out of it. You’ll complain that he bites but you won’t realise that he bites out of fear and not aggression. Impose limits Your dog is learning from his first day and unless you teach him what’s acceptable, he will be teaching you his rules. This is especially the case with headstrong breeds like Beagles (more on this later). The more restrictions you put on your dog early in life, the more freedom he’ll enjoy later and vice versa. Otherwise, if you let him tear things and jump over people in his early days, you’ll have to keep him tied up later on when guests come calling. It’s all right to keep your dog in a crate for a couple of hours but don’t let it be only to discipline him. Make the crate a den that dog loves - make it is big, well-ventilated and enriching. Keep chew toys or ones home-made toys made of old towels and jeans. Choose a breed that suits your lifestyle. Spend time researching breeds and don’t just pick one up as it looks cute. Activity level- Do you sleep till 10? Do you watch TV all evening and want your dog to sit next to you or are you a runner who wants to take your dog on treks? Do you have kids at home or adults? These questions are important in picking a breed. People think Labradors and Golden Retrievers make great companions but this is not what they were bred for. These dogs were bred to retrieve fishermen and hunter’s catch. So you may want to relax in the evening but your Lab is energetic and wants to play then. Mind you, not giving your dog exercise amounts to cruelty. People think they can make Calcutta comfortable for a Siberian Husky by air-conditioning his room but that’s not enough. These dogs were bred for endurance, to survive miles in the snow. To keep a Husky healthy you have you wake up at 4.30am and take him for a long run before it gets hot. Can you do that? After the lockdown we all know how frustrating it is to be stuck indoors. This is how your dog feels if you don’t let him out. Flooring- Breeds like Labs and Golden Retrievers are prone to a condition called hip dysplasia. Pups of these breeds should not be running on marble floors, that can be slippery. Grown-up dogs with this condition should not be walking on marble either. Games- Beagles are extremely popular as they are compact-sized with short coats but they are also stubborn. You have to design mentally stimulating games for them else they’ll get frustrated and destructive. Beagles are scent hounds and so they see the world with their noses, even more than other dogs. To keep a Beagle happy you can hide his toys in the house or in the park and ask him to find them. Training- Should you want breeds like German Shepherd Dogs, Rottweilers and Belgian Malinois, you must train them well. These breeds were meant to rear sheep and cattle and nipped the legs of these animals when they tried to go astray. Unless trained, these dogs may bite children they see running. One need not always hire a professional trainer, you can do it yourself but you need to learn it yourself. While many homes are taking in pets now, it is not without challenges. No touch and feel- Many breeders are not allowing people to go over and see the litters. But it is not enough to choose a puppy by simply seeing his video. How will you check if his living conditions are clean? The deadly parvovirus is doing the rounds the now but how will you check if the pup is healthy on camera? Lack of socialisation- Secondly, even if you get home a puppy, how to give him 100 new experiences and 100 new people to interact with every month? The best you can do is dress up in different get-ups yourself. Wear a hat, shawl, lungi, hoodies, crawl on the floor, stand on a chair… even if your smell is the same, at least you’re looking different to your dog. While exposing him to these new experiences, do not force him to go near it. Allow him time and distance and he will explore and overcome the fear himself. Separation anxiety- Dogs are getting used to their pet parents being around all the time now but what will happen when the lockdown is finally lifted? You will go to work, movies, wedding ceremonies and your dog will be miserable home alone.   The solution is to not to allow him to around you all the time. Encourage him to relish some me-time. In fact, right from the day he comes, don’t spend the first 48 hours glued to him. He’ll cry for a bit but then quieten up. Otherwise he’s training you to be at his beck and call. You can keep your dog home alone for six to seven hours safely as that’s how long he can hold his bladder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Land of rising sun, ramen and oolong||It was late evening, and we were walking down the streets of Nagoya. My Anime-fanatic friend stopped a stranger and spared no effort in trying to have a complete conversation in Japanese. I rolled my eyes, took a break from scanning random billboards and shop names with my Google Translator, typed out “Where’s the nearest 7-Eleven store?” and held it out to them. We were a team of 10 students and a professor from the department of instrumentation and electronics engineering in Jadavpur University, visiting Nagoya University for the Sakura Science Exchange Programme that is organised and funded by the Japan Science and Technology Agency. The intent of the programme was to promote a healthy relationship between the students of the two countries, make us aware of the academics and ongoing research work in our host college, and expose us to the unique and vibrant culture of Japan. In late January this year, we spent a week in Nagoya, one of the country’s most populated cities, famous as the hub of industry and commerce. Every day, we travelled between our hotel and the college on Japan’s immaculately planned subways with colour-coded route lines and unfailing punctuality, and our loud, excited team of 20-somethings soon learnt to blend with a crowd that was soft-spoken and unimaginably disciplined, compared to us Calcuttans. We interacted with the faculty and scholars at the department of agricultural sciences of the university and learnt hands-on about their research on the application of spectroscopic techniques — something that our department also works on rigorously — one of its most notable examples being the development of a complete setup for the quality assessment of tea leaves. After college, we would go out for walks along lines of DVD stores and restaurants. Occasionally, we would stop to appreciate homes depicting the unique Japanese architecture, made of wood and with a minimalistic design. Of course, we tried out the authentic ramen, sushi and other dishes whose names I’ve forgotten by now, and drank lots of oolong tea. Japanese cuisine is more of an acquired taste and I started loving it only towards the end of the trip (by this time, I had also perfected the skill of using chopsticks)! Although Covid-19 hadn’t become such an important part of our lives by then, people could be seen wearing masks in public places, and so did we. Japan boasts of high-rise buildings and there is only an extent to which one gets dazzled by the glitz and allure of modernisation. As part of the itinerary, we visited a plant factory in Mie Prefecture, which is a quiet place away from the bustling city life. For me, it was a breath of fresh air, the most beautiful part of the trip. On our way, looking out of the train window, we could see a number of beautiful cottages and tiny cafes spread out on either side of the track. It rained that day, adding more colour to the trees lined along the roads. We were also taken to visit the Nagoya Castle, a popular tourist attraction with historical significance. Built by the shogun Tokugawa Ieyasu in 1615, it was Japan’s first castle to be declared a national treasure. Large parts of the castle were destroyed during World War II but it has now been beautifully restored, and a replicated version of it is open for visitors. We also visited the Toyota Automobile Museum, which was a magnificent and spectacular experience. The museum features over a hundred cars from all over the world, with the entire region divided according to eras, tracing the evolution of automobiles from as old as 1936 to the modern-day advancements. Lined with models of the first cars with doors opening in opposite directions to the royal El Dorado Biarritz, it is complete with interesting trivia about each. It’s a treat for car enthusiasts. An Indian meal in Japan There’s one incident I must talk about. One night, we hunted down an Indian restaurant near us and visited it eagerly, yearning for some spicy dishes that tasted like home. Being the perpetually broke college-goers that we were, we first checked the price list hung outside. The restaurant being a well-known and reputed one in the area, its prices were far beyond our budget. Dejected, we stood at the door. As we were about to leave, the owner came out, invited us in and asked us the reason for our hesitation. What followed was the perfect Indian meal and a happy conversation with a Delhi-ite. As we thanked him later, he bid us a warm farewell and said: “Apne logo ko bhukha kaise rakhte?” Japan feels a little closer home to us Bengalis because our favourite person, Rabindranath Tagore, visited the country years ago, made friends, and was loved by its people. On our last day, my friend sang a Rabindrasangeet and I danced to another (our saris attracted quite a few stares on the subway!) The audience was delighted and curious and a student came up to me and asked: “Does every Indian know how to sing and dance?” Exploring a new land with friends by our side — Japan has been an unforgettable experience for us. If I had to describe the country in a word, I’d borrow it from their language — shibui — subtle, simple, modest beauty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Let the kids cook||If you think the only off-screen activities to keep kids busy during this lockdown are sit-and-draw and building blocks, you should let them cook. If you are still unconvinced, you should have visited AJ Block days before the lockdown. A food festival by juniors had an eight-year-old making Fish Tikia and a six-year-old cooking Chicken Biriyani! “I love eating biryani and wanted to make it for everyone today,” smiled Bhramoree Kar, rattling off the proportion of ghee, salt and food colouring that she added to the dish. “It’s only the layering of rice and chicken that my mother did as it was too heavy for me,” said the student of Class I who wants to become a chef when she grows up. Aranya Majumdar doesn’t understand why he has to learn math when he too wants to become a chef later in life. “A chef of Japanese food,” he adds. “Cooking is an art and this is what should be taught in school.” The Class II student had made Fish Tikia with a twist of mayonnaise and kasundi and all 22 plates sold out. The crowds thronged. Papiya Chakraborty, the lady whose brainchild the fest was, had got a Class XII student Esha Barman to make the announcements and a Class XI student Debargha Choudhury to man the cash counter but the queue became so long that adults had to step in and bail him out. Sampreet Saha’s Dahi Puris were such a hit that he could only scrape up three leftover pieces to serve his last customer instead of four that the others were getting. Mehul Chakraborti had begun his mocktail counter with nine bottles of cola but had to send his aunt rushing to the market for four more when he realised demand would fast exceed supply. If the kids thought they would get a bite of what they had rustled up, they were so wrong. “Let alone the ghoogni I had made to sell, customers even took away the platter I had kept for display,” said Ambali Kar of Class VII. Nine-year-old Judhajit (Jude) Chakraborty did get a lick of his pani puri-flavoured ice cream but not how you’d imagine it. “I love this ice cream made of tamarind water and pani puri masala but the customers left nothing for me! I only got one lick and that too from a drop that had fallen on the table,” he grumbled. “I understand now how difficult it must be for waiters to control themselves from eating what they serve others at restaurants.” After facing the mad rush of customers, Ambali said she realised how parents must feel at being ordered by children to get tasty food every day. Aditya Sarangi too had new-found respect and empathy for waiters. “It was crazy making sandwiches and answering customers’ queries all at once. From now on, I’ll be patient with waiters when we go out to eat.” While some kids took part in the show for the love of cooking, those like Ronit Das, eight, did so for fun. “I’m not into cooking; I like football. But cooking is a skill we should all pick up, even if only the basics,” said the boy who sold Chicken Roll. Mimi Saha, mother of little Supriyo, was very happy with the Jhal Muri he had rustled up. “For once, we moms are carefree and the kids are tied up,” she laughed. With the money earned from the fest, Ujjesa Barman wanted to buy Barbie dolls. “My father runs the restaurant and catering company Scone at AJ and BJ blocks and he makes delicious snacks for us at home. I like learning cooking from him,” said the Class V student. The kids reportedly helped out in the kitchen when no cooks were allowed to come in the early days of the lockdown. Chakraborty, who organised the event, was proud of the kids. “None of them could imagine a food fest for children before this but they sat attentively at meetings and listened to rules and guidelines. Kids are capable of a lot but adults usually show no faith in them due to their age. Well, this show proved them wrong!” Ingredients Tamarind chutney Soak 50g tamarind in hot water for 10 minutes. The puree will come out. Add some jaggery or sugar to this, along with some water, to reduce thickness. Your tamarind chutney is ready.  Method Mix all the ingredients and garnish with coriander and bhujia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Club offers cycle tours, lessons||New Town Business Club has three offerings on the anvil for cyclists and aspiring cyclists. The first is for women who would be invited to come together for cycling tours of the township. “This group, called The New Town Divas, will be kickstarted on August 13, 6.30am from the club itself,” says the club’s general manager Col (retd) Indrajit Roy. The women will use the cycle lanes on the street and ride down to the clock tower and then the Unbox Garden underneath Biswa Bangla Gate for tea and snacks. “While we may undertake longer routes later, the focus at the beginning will be to make women feel confident about cycling. Many have not ridden since their school days.” While the tour is free for members, non-members are to pay a token Rs 10 per day. While the women are expected to get their own cycles, the club will keep one or two as standby. The second group, called The New Town Leaders, to be launched on August 14, 6.30am, is for men and women who are in the habit of cycling. “Their tours will be longer. On the first day we shall ride from the clock tower to the Eiffel Tower replica in Eco Park and later we may visit the wetlands.” Rates are the same. The final initiative is cycle training. Primarily for children, the classes will be imparted at the cricket ground near City Centre 2 on Sundays from 4 to 6pm. “The fees will be Rs 200 a month and there is no upper age limit. Adults who wish to learn cycling are welcome,” says Roy. “Since the cycles will be ridden on grass, one would not be hurt much if one falls.” This service will start about a fortnight after the other two. “By encouraging cycling we will be guiding members towards an eco-friendly lifestyle,” says Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||IIEST waives mess advance of Rs 17,500||Students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, will not have to pay the mess advance and water and electricity charges this semester, an institute official said. The decision was taken at a meeting the students’ senate had with institute director Parthasarathi Chakrabarty on Thursday afternoon. Ever since the institute announced that classes will be held online from August 24, students have been demanding that mess and hostel fees be waived as they would not use these facilities, the official said. The Shibpur institute is entirely residential. “The fees will be charged proportionately if the campus reopens this semester,” he said. At the start of the semester, students are required to pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent, and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges. “In addition, the students activities fee of Rs 500 has been waived and the infrastructure fee has been brought down to Rs 1,000 from Rs 2,500,” director Chakrabarti said. But students will have to pay the hostel maintenance charge of Rs 2,200 and mess establishment fee of Rs 4,000 though they will stay at home this semester. These fees are a must so that members of the hostel staff who are temporary workers continue to get some support during the pandemic. At IIEST, students were asked to vacate hostels in the third week of March after the Centre announced the lockdown. “Chances of the campus reopening this semester are extremely slim. So, why will we pay for the hostel and mess?” a student asked. The institute will issue a notice this week regarding the extent of relaxation. Another institute official said the decision on waiving certain fees at IIT Kharagpur prompted IIEST students to demand a similar relaxation. The Kharagpur institute had waived mess fees and hostel overhead charges, along with some other charges, on July 21, following a demand for exemption from students. The students had cited online classes as the reason behind their demand. The students’ senate — the official representative body of the IIT Kharagpur student community — had written to the dean of students’ affairs, demanding that mess fees and hostel overhead charges be waived. “The move must have motivated our students. Besides, the argument of financial loss cannot be ruled out. Students, though, have to keep paying the tuition fees and examination fees as fixed by the Centre,” the IIEST official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||You’ve got talent? RKM Vidyamandira will give due credit||The Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira in Belur will give additional weightage to participants in math Olympiads and national talent search examinations for admission to undergraduate mathematics and physics courses. The college that has featured among the top 11 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for the past three years did not want to rely only on Plus II board results. The institute has scrapped admission tests this year because of the pandemic. Several top institutions have been trying new ways to pick the best students but no one has so far used performance in Olympiads and talent search exams as a screening layer. Apart from those, performance in mathematics and physical science in Class X board exams and scores in the subjects in the Plus II board exams will be taken into account to select students, Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of the college, said on Thursday. “This year, we are considering a student’s performance in competitions as admissions tests cannot be held. Tests have been scrapped for all subjects and new mechanisms that will test a candidate’s command over the subject have been put in place,” Swami Ekachittananda said. In mathematics, additional weightage will be given for successfully qualifying in the International Mathematical Olympiad and the Indian National Mathematical Olympiad. For physics, the qualification in competitive exams like the National Standard Examination in Physics (NSEP), considered to be the first stage in the selection of students for the International Physics Olympiad, and the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), will act as a screening layer. In mathematics, marks will be given for the competitive exams in order of preference. Qualification in the International Mathematical Olympiad will fetch 10 marks and in the Indian National Mathematical Olympiad nine marks. The institute will consider nine such competitions. Students will have to send scanned copies of certificates of such exams to mathematicsrkmv@gmail.com on or before August 21. “Last year, the college had considered qualification in these competitions in case a student narrowly missed the subject cut-off. This year we are awarding weightage,” Swami Ekachittananda said. In physics, qualification in competitive exams like the National Standard Examination in Physics, the National Talent Search Examination, and the Jagadis Bose National Science Talent Search, will fetch 10 marks. In case scores are tied, the marks in the competitions will act as a tiebreaker for both mathematics and physics. “Since the screening this year will revolve around board marks, the possibility of scores remaining tied are greater,” Swami Ekachittananda said. In chemistry and industrial chemistry, the student’s performance in the science group and aggregate score at the Class X board exams will be considered, along with Plus II board results. “In physics, chemistry and industrial chemistry, the Class X board results will be considered as the state Higher Secondary council could not hold some of the exams because of the pandemic,” a teacher said. “But the college is not making any specific rule for state board students to give everyone a level playing field.” For English, the Higher Secondary (or equivalent) score in the subject will be considered. The Plus II board aggregate and the mathematics score will be considered for economics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown: Tax and fee relief for private buses ||The Bengal government on Thursday waived all taxes for bus and minibus owners till September 30 and the annual permit fee, which together will provide a relief of around Rs 5,000 for each vehicle. The waiver, with retrospective effect from April 1, came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses have been reeling from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a sharp drop in the passenger count because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state cabinet at its meeting at Nabanna on Thursday decided that private bus and minibus operators would not have to pay any tax under the West Bengal Motor Vehicles Act 1979 from April 1 to September 30. They have also been exempted from paying the permit fee this year. If a bus or a minibus owner wants to clear his pending dues till March 31, he or she can do so by August 31 without inviting any penalty for the delay. “We had proposed a relief of Rs 15,000 for bus operators. They (bus operators) gave us this particular proposal. The finance department has accepted it. We have decided to replace the earlier offer with this,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. Earlier, the chief minister had proposed a grant of Rs 15,000 to 6,000 buses each for three months from July. Mamata had met represen-tatives of the operators at Nabanna on June 26, before announcing the dole, which she said would cost the state exchequer Rs 27 crore. The amount was expected to cushion the financial blow suffered by the operators and enable them to run buses at current fares. The operators refused to accept the offer saying the figure 6,000 (bus count) was discriminatory. Almost all urged the government to revise fares, which they said would be a lasting solution to their problem. Of the 21,000-odd private buses across Bengal, around 7,000 used to ply in Calcutta and its adjoining areas before the lockdown was imposed in March. Almost all operators have been battling financial distress since the diesel price started soaring. In Calcutta, diesel sold at Rs 77.06 a litre on Thursday, up by Rs 11.44 a litre since June. Most operators said fuel comprised almost 60 per cent of their expenditure and the escalating price of diesel had created a problem whose only solution was a fare hike. Private bus operators said they had long been demanding relief in some form from the government. “Only 40 per cent of the buses are plying. Bus owners are struggling to pay EMIs and arrange money for other regular expenses. Even a small relief is a big help for us,” said Tapan Bandyopadhayay, of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. Transport department officials said a six-month waiver of road tax would help operators save Rs 2,800 for each vehicle. If other taxes are combined, the relief would come to around Rs 5,000 for each bus. “What if someone has already paid a quarterly tax? Will he be eligible for additional relief?” asked Rahul Chatterjee, of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samanoy Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Cured of Covid but neighbours need proof||“Dear All, This is to inform you that… and family is out of quarantine.” This was the message sent on Thursday to residents of a housing complex in south Calcutta by its welfare association after one of the residents who had tested positive for Covid-19 completed 14 days of isolation. “Please get yourself tested after 14 days. Step out only if the result is negative.” This message was verbally communicated to a resident of a standalone apartment block by the residents’ welfare association when he tried to step out of his flat after completing seven days of isolation following his discharge from a hospital, where he was treated for Covid-19. The first message helped the person who recovered from Covid step out of home without facing any resistance from neighbours. The recipient of the second threatened to go to police. In the absence of any clear communication from the health department, the residents’ welfare associations of many housing complexes and standalone buildings across Calcutta are deciding when a resident will step out after recovering from Covid. A guideline issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research states: “After one week from sample collection or detection of Covid-19 symptoms, if a patient does not have fever and other symptoms for another three days, then no further test will be required and the doctor will discharge him/her with a certificate from the hospital or safe home. The patient must stay under home quarantine for an additional seven days before returning to normal life.” Many people who suffered from Covid told Metro that health department officials had called them up during the period of isolation but did not tell them when they could resume normal life. “I received two calls from the health department. On both occasions, the callers were very polite and wished me good health and speedy recovery. During the first call I was given a number, which the official said I could call if I developed any symptoms,” said a resident of Kasba, who was discharged from hospital a week back following his recovery from Covid-19. “The second call came a couple of days back. The caller wished me good health before hanging up. He did not tell me whether I could resume normal life,” the man said. The secretary of his building’s residents’ welfare association asked him to get yet another Covid test done and step out only if the report was negative. A Garia resident who has recovered from Covid alleged that members of the residents’ association of his building threatened him after accusing him of stepping out before completing the mandatory quarantine period. He said he had isolated himself at home for seven days after returning from hospital. “I received a call from a Covid patient who was under my observation, requesting me for a certificate that he could end his isolation. I told him he had completed 14 days and could go out but he said his neighbours might create problems,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. Chowdhury — a mentor of Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, government officials and people who have recovered from Covid — said the network was getting calls from people who alleged that residents’ associations were not allowing them to return to normal life. Health department officials said there was a protocol for the callers on how to communicate with Covid patients or those who have recovered from the disease. “Maybe some callers are not telling the recovered person when they can end their quarantine. We are looking into the problem,” an official said. Physician Amitabha Saha said several welfare associations have doctors as members and they were taking the decision after calculating the number of days a person should be in quarantine. “This is beneficial for the patient and their neighbours. A clear communication can dispel confusions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Unlock: Calcutta gym-goers relieved on reopening day||A teacher with mobility problems. A youth aspiring to be a professional powerlifter. An insurance sector employee who calls himself a fitness freak. A handful of Calcuttans hit the gym on Thursday, when they reopened after over four months. The attendees were yearning for the places to reopen for different reasons. Arpita Chakraborty, 40, came from her Picnic Garden home to a gym in Ballygunge riding her two-whee-ler. Chakraborty, a school teacher, suffers from severe rheumatoid arthritis, a chronic inflammatory disorder that leads to joint pain and impairs mobility. She was facing severe challenges in movement when she joined the gym last year. The gym, Endorphins, is known for not being a machine-oriented place. A daily routine of mobility exercises has improved Chakraborty’s condition. “But I have to do it without fail, every day. It is like my personal hygiene,” she said. For the past four months, Chakraborty had been working out at her home. “But working out in a dedicated space is important because of the guidance of a trainer and zero distraction,” she said. Her six-year-old daughter often interrupts her training at home. As the reopening day came close, Kinjal Paul, 22, started becoming restless. Before the lockdown, he used to spend over two hours every day at Devil’s Den, a gym in Salt Lake’s CB Block. Paul has just completed a bachelor’s in business administration but he aspires to a career in powerlifting. He had booked an afternoon slot for Thursday. “I did not realise how the time flew. I did squats, deadlifts and bench-press. It was the first day after four months. So, I did not go overboard,” said Paul. Moderation for Paul is lifting over 130 kilos. He said his usual quota was 170 kilos. Paul had mostly been working out at his Paikpara home for the past four months. “But serious powerlifting needs a lot of equipment. It is difficult to assemble them at home. I used to go to a friend’s place that has some,” said Paul. Some of his family members and friends had cautioned him against going to “a public place when Covid-19 cases are increasing”. But Paul said he was satisfied with the safety measures adopted by the gym. Most gyms had asked members to pre-book slots and come accordingly. They followed a 10 to 15-minute interval between two slots for sanitisation. Equipment inside the gym were being sanitised after every use. Face shields, masks and gloves were provided to the members. “Blocks” were carved out for each user. The guidelines issued by the Centre on Monday said gyms would need to space equipment and individuals six feet apart as a precaution against Covid-19. Many owners had reduced the number of functional equipment. “I used to have six treadmills. I have shifted three to the store room,” said the owner of a gym in New Alipore. Most members avoided public transport to reach the gyms. Himangshu Valechha had booked an hour’s slot from 8.20am at Karma Fitness Studio in Mudiali, which was his regular den before the lockdown. Valechha, an employee of a private insurance firm, considers “fitness to be his religion”. “I was so pumped up once inside the gym. I had been working out regularly inside my house. But there is no mind-muscle synergy. There are too many distractions,” he said. Valechha did shoulder exercises on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Moderate rains and choked drains swamp Salt Lake||The rainfall was moderate on Wednesday but several pockets of Salt Lake and areas off VIP Road still witnessed waterlogging. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said debris, leaves and branches had choked the rainwater drainage channels and gully pits, leading to flooding. To add to the problems, the Kestopur and the Bagjola canals, which drain out accumulated water from Salt Lake and VIP Road, are filled to the brim. The Dum Dum observatory of the Indian Meteorological Department recorded 27.94mm of rain, while the Alipore Met office recorded 33mm of rainfall over 24 hours till 6.30pm on Thursday. However, the showers proved to be enough to swamp several roads in Salt Lake as well as parts of VIP Road on Thursday. In Salt Lake, the Karunamoyee intersection and the Karunamoyee Housing Estate had ankle to knee-deep water, making it tough for motorists and pedestrians to move. Residents of the Karunamoyee Housing Estate and EE Block said they had a harrowing time reaching the nearby markets as well as going to their workplaces. “At least three app cabs cancelled the ride after seeing the water on the road leading to my house,” said Animesh Bhattacharya, a resident of Karunamoyee Housing Estate in ED Block. Similar scenes played out in several other blocks, including FA and AA Blocks. Several places along VIP Road, such as Chinar Park, were flooded on Thursday morning. Residents of housing complexes like Sriram Nagar and Space Town had a harrowing time reaching VIP Road or the Chinar Park crossing. “Every time it rains, this area gets waterlogged. The water doesn’t recede even after the rain stops,” said Shyamal Chaudhuri, who lives in the neighbourhood. A 1km-long stretch of the service road near the Haldiram’s bus stop was under knee to waist-deep water. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had cleaned up their rainwater drainage network after Cyclone Amphan. But the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation did not carry out such an exercise. Devashish Jana, the mayoral council member in charge of drainage at the civic body, said the entire drainage system in Karunamoyee needed to be upgraded. “We will need at least six months to upgrade the drainage network there,” he said. Places along VIP Road, Jana said, are prone to waterlogging because these are low-lying areas. The Bidhannagar civic body and Hidco, which builds infrastructure in New Town, will set up a drainage pumping station near City Centre II to solve the problem of waterlogging in these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid antigen test to focus on hawkers and traders  ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s drive to conduct antigen tests for Covid-19 will focus more on hawkers and traders, who get exposed to many people every day, than members of other professions once it opens testing centres, an official said. The civic body has planned to set up permanent testing centres in each of the 16 boroughs. An official said there would be at least three centres in each borough for conducting the antigen test. The first such centre was inaugurated inside the Roxy cinema building earlier this week. An official said hawkers of the Grand Arcade and other traders of the area would be asked to undergo tests at the centre. The outgoing councillor of Ward 46, which covers the central Calcutta shopping hubs, is talking to the various traders associations and hawker unions, urging the members to get themselves tested at the centre. Another centre will open in Ballygunge on Saturday. “After we open centres in the Ballygunge and Gariahat areas, traders and hawkers will be told that those with Covid-19 symptoms must get themselves tested at the earliest,” said a CMC official. “A hawker selling wares on a footpath or a trader inside a market talks to multiple customers daily. If a trader contracts the virus from one of the customers, she or he might pass it on to many others. Chances of the virus spreading from such people are much more than those who are mostly staying at home. If a vegetable seller or a fish seller is infected, she or he can go on to infect many of the customers. Hawkers and other traders are our initial target for the antigen test,” the official said. The CMC official said the plan was to conduct at least 100 antigen tests at each of the centres every day. The target is to conduct 1,600 tests across the city daily. “Each centre will remain open at least two days in a week,” the official said. The centres will also collect swab samples for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19, the traditional and more confirmatory test for the coronavirus disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
07-08-2020||Calcutta||A poem about being a 'true believer' ||Writer, educator and motivational speaker Barry O’Brien penned a poem on Thursday on what he thought being a ‘true believer’ was. A practising Christian, O’Brien feels “religion is a very private matter” and should be kept that way, especially in these most “crucial and changing times”. He said: “Unfortunately, over centuries, religion has ended up separating people more than bringing them together. The need of the hour is to live the faith, not shout it from the rooftop”. This is what he wrote: If Only... By Barry O’Brien If only I was a true Muslim, I would find the time to thank God five times a day. Not fool myself to believe that Jihad is a synonym for  violence against people. If only I was a true  Christian, I would forgive those who hurt my religion for they know not what they do. Not bear grudges for  centuries or fight wars In The Name Of The Father. If only I was a true Sikh, I would feed people, comfort them, serve them at a  Gurudwara, not desecrate it by stockpiling arms and ammunition beside the Granth Sahib. If only I was a true  Buddhist, I would shun idol worship and nurture the Buddha in my heart, Not hero worship and spend millions on giant statues of gold. If only I was a true Hindu, I would be the most tolerant person in the world, Respecting other people’s  beliefs much more than they  do mine…as I have done for thousands of years, Not force my way of life on them just because they are fewer in number. If only I was a True  Believer... I would build a Mosque, a Church, a Gurdwara, a Monastery and a Temple where it mattered most… where it would be safe from bombs, from ridicule, from harm, from all that is evil. I would build it in the  only place that matters… the silence, safety and sanctity of my heart. There it will be pure and private and perfect Far from the din of  religiosity Deep in the silence of  spirituality Me and my  religion… If only...||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
07-08-2020||Calcutta||NKDA opens safe house for New Town residents||A safe house exclusively for the residents of New Town is ready to start operation. It will house Covid-positive patients who do not have severe symptoms. The facility, operated by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), is located in a two-storeyed house next to Tank 12. “With hospitals unable to accommodate all Covid-19 positive patients, many with little or no symptoms are being asked to stay in home isolation. For that, one has to give an undertaking that one can self-isolate in a room and avail the services of a caregiver. But those who share a single room with other family members cannot opt for home isolation. This facility is for such people,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of NKDA. The building that has been identified for the facility in Action Area II is owned by Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) for use of the public health engineering department as a water supply point. The unoccupied building has a 4,000 sq ft. first floor which will house 20 beds. “Of them, 15 will be for men and five for women. The two wards have been partitioned off. We have placed cots. The health department has provided medical equipment like oxygen cylinders and masks, nebulisers, personal protective equipment and pulse oxymeters. It has been fitted out with telephone and closed circuit television. Other rooms like chambers for doctors and nurses and a dispensary are coming up,” Sen said. The facility will have two nurses in attendance. Two doctors will do the rounds twice a day. “It is basically a resting place with food provided for by the government.” In case an inmate turns serious, the NKDA has tied up with neighbouring Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) and Charnock Hospital to get them picked up in their ambulance and admit for treatment. So far, NKDA could send patients to the safe house being operated by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation at Royal Banquets in Sector V for about two months now. The safe house, currently housing 13 inmates, can keep around 30 patients and is also tagged with CNCI for support. Only two people have needed hospitalisation so far, a civic official said. There are three safe houses in New Town — Haj House, NBCC Square and CFL Building. “But these are more a resource for all of Calcutta and the neighbouring districts,” Sen clarified. NKDA also plans to start Rapid Antigen Test at its health dispensary in Action Area III. “We are on the lookout for trained technicians which the health department is unable to provide us,” Sen added. The tests will start with the shopkeepers at NKDA markets who can be super spreaders as well as the Hidco and NKDA drivers. “Their lists have been drawn up. We have already started sending them to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital in Salt Lake in small batches. The hospital is testing seven patients referred by us daily. We can ramp up testing once we have our own testing facility,” he said. Another reason to start a facility in New Town is the reluctance of shopkeepers to travel all the way to Salt Lake for the test. “When our doctors are calling them up when their turn is coming they are refusing to travel such a distance, leaving their business unattended. If it is in New Town, it will be easier to convince them.” The Rapid Antigen Test gives out results almost instantaneously, unlike the RT-PCR test which takes almost 48 hours to yield results. NKDA had recently organised two health screening camps for labourers staying in New Town. Ten people were shortlisted for symptoms like loss of sense of taste and smell, high temperature and cough, and recommended for Covid-19 test by the attending doctors. “But they left their quarters once they learnt of the need to get themselves tested,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 patient takes shelter in CK Market stall||A shopkeeper who tested positive spent four to five days living in her shop inside CK Market after her family asked her not to return home. When other shopkeepers found out they hounded her out. The lady, in her late 50s, sells puja material and sundry items at her stall. On Friday, the sub-divisional hospital in DD Block handed her a report confirming that she had Covid-19. Since her case was not severe, doctors advised her home isolation. But her family members refused to take her in. “I stay in Barasat with my daughter, her husband and my grandson. But when I got fever a week back, they asked me not to return home fearing Covid. They were even more adamant when I went for my test and the reports came positive. Since our house doesn’t have separate rooms they claimed isolation would not be possible,” she said. With nowhere to go, she spent about five days and nights at her stall. “I have a second daughter who stays in a single room in the tenements near City Centre, a third daughter who stays with her family at a garage near Udayachal Tourist Lodge in DG Block and a fourth daughter who stays in Nayapatty with her family. Everyone refused to have me.” By Sunday, other shopkeepers got suspicious and confronted her about why she was wasn’t going home. “She had been moving about freely despite her condition,” said one of the shopkeeper who uncovered the case. “She could be a super spreader. When we found out we drove her out of the market.” With nowhere to go, the woman spent at least six hours on different pavements in Salt Lake. The Telegraph Salt Lake found her on the pavement opposite the Tank 9 petrol pump. Clad in a printed sari, carrying a black umbrella and a packet with her medical report, the lady was sitting on the pavement with a number of passers-by and commuters waiting close by to board autos and buses. A call was made to Bidhannagar City Police commissioner Mukesh, after which a police team alerted the health department and got an ambulance to escort the woman to a safe house. “It was unfortunate that the woman had nowhere to go. Our team stayed with her while maintaining proper social distancing protocol,” said the police commissioner. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said the woman had committed a grave mistake by living inside the market. “She could have called the Covid-19 helpline number or any of the councillors. If she needed help she could have asked us,” said Chakraborty. The woman, on her part, said she did not have any of these phone numbers. “No one from the corporation or health department got in touch with me to ask if I needed help,” she said. The lady is now in isolation at a Sector V safe house. “She only has mild fever,” said Maya Sarkar, the daughter who lives near City Centre. “It’s best that she stays there as none of us have homes big enough to keep here in isolation.” The state government has set up several safe houses across the city for people who have tested positive but are asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has a safe house in Sector V.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
07-08-2020||Business||Pledged gold to fetch more||Individuals can now borrow more against their gold jewellery. The RBI on Thursday raised the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio in gold loans for non-agricultural purposes to 90 per cent from 75 per cent. LTV is the proportion of the collateral value which can be financed. Thus, an LTV of 75 per cent means that banks and non-banks can lend up to 75 per cent of the value of the gold ornaments or jewellery pledged by an individual. This has now been raised to 90 per cent. The central bank expects this enhanced LTV ratio will help borrowers tide themselves over their temporary liquidity mismatches on account of Covid  19. However, this relaxation will be available till March 31, 2021. “Gold loan is an easy product and people can avail this loan over the counter within 30 minutes. At the same time banks and NBFCs will have to have strong risk management to ensure this easing is used effectively,’’ Saurabh Kumar, head of gold loans at IIFL Finance, said. Non-banking finance companies and banks have a major share of the organised gold loan market. Recently, IDBI Bank had announced the launch of four specialised gold loan branches as it looked to cash in on more individuals taking such loans. Equitas Small Finance Bank is also offering gold loans through easy documentation and instant cash. It is giving loans with an average ticket size in the range of Rs 30,000 to Rs 40 lakh. The maximum tenure for any scheme is 24 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
07-08-2020||Business||RBI announces one-time loan restructuring mechanism||The RBI on Thursday conceded to a major demand of banks labouring under the burden of a moratorium scheme and announced a one-time loan restructuring mechanism. This facility will be available to advances made to individual borrowers and corporate loans. In a separate step, the central bank allowed banks to restructure their exposure to micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs). Announcing the new framework, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das disclosed that the central bank will provide a window under the prudential framework spelt out in the June 7, 2019 circular to enable lenders to implement a resolution plan in respect of eligible corporate exposures without change in ownership and personal loans while classifying such exposures as standard “subject to specified conditions”. Necessary safeguards will be built into this facility which will include prudent entry norms and clearly defined boundary conditions, specific binding covenants, independent validation and strict post-implementation performance monitoring, he added. Only those borrower accounts shall be eligible for resolution that were classified as standard but not in default for more than 30 days with any lending institution as on March 1, 2020. The resolution plan may be invoked any time till December 31 and shall have to be implemented within 180 days from the date of invocation. Lenders will have to keep additional provisions of 10 per cent of the post-resolution debt. There will be specific voting thresholds even for invocation of the resolution plan. Lenders who do not sign the inter-creditor agreement within 30 days will have to make a higher provision of 20 per cent. An expert committee has been constituted under K.V. Kamath which shall make the recommendations on the required financial parameters, along with the sector specific benchmark ranges for such parameters, to be factored into each resolution plan. Ficci president Sangita Reddy said they were happy with the measures announced towards the resolution of loans. “We keenly look forward to the details and execution,” Reddy said. This expert panel will also have the responsibility of vetting the resolution plans to be implemented under this window in respect of all accounts where the aggregate exposure of the lending institutions at the time of invocation of the resolution process is Rs 1,500 crore and above. A final notification in this regard shall be issued by the Reserve Bank after considering the recommendations. While the loan moratorium scheme announced by the RBI will end on August 31, veteran bankers like Deepak Parekh of HDFC have been calling for a one-time restructuring scheme as bad loans could spike in the second half of the current fiscal even as extending the current moratorium could lead to moral hazard. The RBI has itself projected that the gross non-performing asset (GNPA) ratio of banks may rise to 14.7 per cent by March 2021 if the macro-environment worsens further. Under the June 2019 framework, any resolution plan that involves relaxation in terms of repayment to a stressed borrower would lead to an asset classification downgrade (banks would then have to make higher provisions), if it is not accompanied by a change in ownership. The central bank said that it is coming out with the scheme as the Covid-19 pandemic could impair the entire recovery process, posing significant financial stability risks. However, the latest resolution window will be available only to those who are under stress because of the pandemic. For personal advances, the resolution plan would include rescheduling of payments, conversion of any interest accrued, or to be accrued, into another credit facility, or, granting of moratorium, based on an assessment of income streams of the borrower, subject to a maximum period of two years. The moratorium period, if granted, would come into force immediately upon the implementation of the resolution plan. In the case of other loans, if there are multiple lending institutions that have exposure to the borrower, the resolution process will be treated as invoked if these entities representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities, and not less than 60 per cent of the lending institutions by number agree to invoke the plan. “The loan book under moratorium stood at ~50 per cent at system level as on April 30, 2020 and almost all lenders have reported further decline in loan books under the second phase of moratorium. With expectations of further reduction in moratorium in coming months, and proposals to have necessary safeguards around these restructuring, we expect such loan restructuring is unlikely to exceed 5-8 per cent of the overall loans at system level,” Anil Gupta, sector head-financial sector ratings at Icra, said while commenting on the restructuring framework. Das also said that restructuring of MSME debt would continue till March 31 next year to help alleviate the Covid-related stress on the sector. Here, the RBI stipulated that existing loans to MSMEs classified as standard may be restructured without a downgrade in the asset classification, subject to various conditions. While the aggregate exposure, including non-fund based facilities, of banks and NBFCs to the borrower should not exceed Rs 25 crore as on March 1, 2020, the borrower’s account should also be a “standard asset” as on March 1, 2020. Further, the borrowing entity should be GST-registered on the date of implementation of the restructuring. However, this condition will not apply to MSMEs that are exempt from GST-registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
07-08-2020||Business||Inflation poses bigger threat to revival of tottering economy||The RBI on Thursday kept the policy repo rate unchanged as it wanted to cool down inflation before offering stimulants to revive a tottering economy. All the members of the Monetary Policy Committee  (MPC) voted to keep the repo rate and reverse repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent and 3.35 per cent, respectively, at the end of their three-day meet. Retail inflation was above 6 per cent in June, while the economic picture remained dismal with both industrial production and service sector activity showing contractions. The MPC forecast a negative GDP growth for the fiscal but did not commit itself to a specific number. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the MPC is conscious that its primary mandate is to achieve the medium-term target for CPI (consumer price index) inflation of 4 per cent within a band of +/- 2 per cent, despite the growth gloom.  “The MPC decided to keep the policy rate on hold while remaining watchful for a durable reduction in inflation to use available space to support the revival of  economy.” Das cited a number of reasons why inflation remained a major concern: food prices are high on account of the severe disruptions caused by the lockdown and the floods in eastern India. High taxes on petroleum products, hikes in telecom charges and rising raw material prices have generated cost-push inflation. “While space for further monetary policy action is available, it is important to use it judiciously to maximise the beneficial effects for underlying economic activity.’’ The RBI has cut the repo rate by a cumulative 115 basis points this year on top of a 135-basis-point-reduction last year. Das said the MPC chose to hit the pause button to allow commercial banks to play catch-up with its earlier cuts. “The cumulative reduction of 250 basis points is working its way through the economy, lowering interest rates in money, bond and credit markets, and narrowing down spreads,” Das said. He said monetary transmission had been strong with the weighted average lending rate (WALR) on fresh rupee loans sanctioned by banks declining  162 basis points during February 2019-June 2020, of which transmission during March-June was as much as 91 basis points. “Spreads of 3-year AAA-rated corporate bonds over similar tenor government securities have also declined from 276 basis points on March 26, 2020 to 50 basis points on July 31, 2020.Even for the lowest investment grade bonds (BBB-), spreads have come down by 125 basis points as on July 31, 2020,” the RBI governor  said. CII president Uday Kotak said the status quo in rates was understandable given the liquidirty deluge. Realtors, however, were disappointed. Surendra Surendra Hiranandani, chairman and managing director, House of Hiranandani. said the RBI needed to drastically and aggresively lower interest rates and make them "enticing for home buyers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
07-08-2020||Business||Banks get relief on mutual fund exposures ||The RBI has reduced the amount of capital that banks must set aside while putting money in debt mutual funds and debt exchange-traded funds (ETFs). According to the current guidelines, if a bank holds a debt instrument directly, it has to allocate a lower capital compared with holding the same debt instrument through a mutual fund. At present, bank investment in these instruments are treated on a par with that in equities in terms of providing a specific risk capital because of which they have to set aside more funds. However, if the lender was to hold the debt instrument directly, a lower risk capital must be provided against the investment as they are done on the basis of the rating of the debt instrument. RBI will now harmonise this differential treatment. Murthy Nagarajan, head-fixed income, Tata Mutual Fund, says: “The move should see good amount of flows in the mutual fund industry and stabilise bond yields. Mutual funds normally sell in quarter ends to meet redemption request of banks. However, no measures in terms of increasing held-to-maturity Limits or an OMO calendar is a negative for the bond market.” The relaxation will not only lead to more bank investment in debt mutual funds, but will also have a positive impact on the corporate bond markets, feels Unmesh Kulkarni, MD of Julius Baer India. “The announcement to harmonize the capital charge (for market risk) treatment of investment by banks in debt mutual funds or ETFs and direct debt instruments, augurs well for the bond market, as there could be higher participation by banks in the bond markets over a period of time’’ Unmesh Kulkarni, Managing Director Senior Advisor, Julius Baer India said. However, the RBI pointed out that since in the event of default of even one of the debt securities in its investment basket of a debt mutual fund, there could be severe redemption pressure, banks will have to maintain a `general market risk charge of 9 per cent’. Despite this, the central bank added that when it comes to the total computation of capital charge, there will be substantial capital savings for banks which will also give a boost to the bond market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||RBI: Curbs on current account ||The central bank on Thursday said that banks will not be allowed to open new current accounts for customers who have already availed themselves of credit facilities in the form of cash credit or overdraft and all transactions shall be routed through his existing account. Cash credit (CC) is a short term loan, while overdraft (OD) is a type of funding where the customer can withdraw money by paying a certain interest even if his account balance is zero. The move has been taken to instil credit discipline after the RBI noticed that many borrowers were circumventing rules by operating multiple current accounts and cash credit/overdraft accounts. In case of customers who have not availed of CC/OD facility from any bank, banks may open current accounts under specified rules: for borrowers where exposure to the banking system is Rs 50 crore or more, banks shall be required to put in place an escrow mechanism. Accordingly, current accounts of such borrowers can only be opened/maintained by the escrow managing bank. However, there is no restriction on opening of “collection accounts” by lending banks if the funds are remitted from these accounts to the escrow account at the frequency agreed upon. In case of borrowers where exposure to the banking system is Rs 5 crore or more but less than Rs 50 crore, there is no restriction on opening of current accounts by the lending banks. Similarly, in cases exposure of the banking system is less than Rs 5 crore, banks may open current accounts subject to obtaining an undertaking that the customer will inform the bank, if and when the credit facilities availed becomes Rs 5 crore or more. Where a bank’s exposure1 to a borrower is less than 10 per cent of the exposure of the banking system to that borrower, while credits are freely permitted, debits to the CC/OD account can only be for credit to the CC/OD account of that borrower with a bank that has 10 per cent or more of the exposure of the banking system to that borrower. Funds will be remitted from these accounts to the said transferee CC/OD account at the frequency agreed between the bank and the borrower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||Vodafone loss widens to Rs 25,460 crore ||Vodafone Idea, the country’s third-largest telecom operator, on Thursday reported a sharp rise in its losses to Rs 25,460 crore for the April-June quarter of 2020-21 because of the high provisioning for statutory dues. The losses stood at Rs 4,874 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations came in at Rs 10,659.3 crore for the first quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 11,269.9 crore in the same period of the previous year, according to a regulatory filing. Net loss against exceptional items stood at Rs 5,537 crore. The company said it has recognised an additional charge of Rs 19,440.5 crore in the June quarter towards adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liabilities. “During this quarter, on prudence, we have recognised a charge of Rs 194.4 billion as an exceptional item towards the total estimated AGR liability, in addition to estimated recognised liability of Rs 460.0 billion as on March 31, 2020,” a company statement said. Gross debt (excluding lease liabilities) stands at Rs 1,18,940 crore, including deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 92,270 crore due to the government. Cash and cash equivalents were Rs 3,450 crore and net debt stood at Rs 1,15,500 crore against Rs 1,12,520 crore in the fourth quarter of 2019-20, the operator said. The company said the first-quarter numbers were impacted by the nationwide lockdown because of coronavirus. Ravinder Takkar, MD and CEO of Vodafone Idea, said, “Q1FY21 was challenging as availability of recharges because of store closures and ability of customers to recharge on account of the economic slowdown were impacted.” “We have launched a cost optimisation initiative that will drive further cost-savings. We also continue to actively engage with the government seeking a comprehensive relief package for the industry, which faces critical challenges,” he added. The average revenue per user (ARPU) declined to Rs 114 in the April-June quarter from Rs 121 in the January-March quarter. Rivals Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel have reported good traction from tariff hikes introduced in the third quarter of 2019-20. Bharti’s ARPU has increased 22.7 per cent since the second quarter of 2019-20, while Jio’s ARPU is up 16.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||Bata turns austere on capex plan||Footwear major Bata will remain conservative on capital expenditure and expansion as the pandemic-induced lockdown has affected demand for shoes and led to a decline in footfall at  the company’s retail stores. With more than 1,500 stores, Bata will evaluate the expansion of its own stores and prefer to go more for the franchisee model. In manufacturing, the company had invested around Rs 11 crore for the upgradation and modernisation of its manufacturing unit at Batanagar in Bengal last year. But unlike the usual capex spend, the focus this year would be on managing the existing capacity of 21 million footwear pairs per annum along with cost control initiatives. The company is also realigning its product offering to cater to the increasing demand for open and washable footwear and expanding its e-commerce presence. “A substantial part of the renovation and modernisation is done. The situation right now is unique. We have capacity available and at the same time we don’t want to lose out on the surge in demand when the market recovers,” Ashwani Windlass, chairman of Bata India, told The Telegraph on Thursday, adding that the company would not go “too boldly out” for capex at present. Addressing shareholders at the annual general meeting of Bata India, Windlass said, “Given the social distancing norms and the shift to work-from-home, there would also be an impact on lifestyle products and, accordingly, on the company,”adding that the actual demand recovery will be concurrent with the overall economic situation. “There is still some more time to go before we can see a complete reinstatement of pre-Covid state of affairs,” Windlass said. The company, however, remains optimistic about the end-of-season sale and the upcoming festive season with expectations of higher footfall. “Our omni-channel home delivery offerings cover more than 900 stores pan India. We are continuously ramping up our online presence across India. We have also realigned our product offerings to cater to the demand for open footwear and washable footwear,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||Eveready rating gets an upgrade||Eveready Industries has received the first “upgrade” after a gap of three years from credit rating agency India Ratings & Research (Ind-Ra), signalling a directional change for the dry cell battery maker which has been bogged down by group debt problems. Ind-Ra, a Fitch Group company, cited improving profitability led by growth in the battery business and improving credit matrix apart from increasing stake by the Burman family as the key drivers. The EIL stock touched a fresh 52-week high on the bourses on Thursday, closing the session with a gain of Rs 6.65 at Rs 139.80 on the NSE, after hitting the upper circuit ceiling of 4.99 per cent. The stock has rallied 73 per cent from the end of July 13, a day before the Burman family of Dabur raced past the promoter group to become the largest shareholder of EIL. The Burmans now have a shade under 20 per cent in Eveready compared with a little over 15 per cent held by the promoters. Ind-Ra upgraded the long term issuer rating by one notch to ‘Ind-BB+’ from ‘Ind-BB’ with a positive outlook. The BB rating indicates elevated vulnerability to default risk, particularly in the event of adverse changes in business or economic condition over time; however, business or financial flexibility exists that supports the servicing of financial commitments. “The upgrade reflects EIIL’s improved liquidity position aided by deleveraging in 2HFY20, coupled with sustained profitability in FY20. The positive outlook reflects Ind-Ra’s expectations of a further improvement in EIIL’s business profile and its liquidity position in FY21, backed by the improving performance of its battery and flashlight segments, a possible resolution of the contingent liability issue and the possibility of a managerial/board representation by the Burmans.” Ind-Ra said. The last upgrade Eveready received was on August 9, 2017 when Ind-Ra had profiled it at ‘Ind AA-’. The company witnessed multiple downgrades in 2019 as the promoters — the Khaitan family of Williamson Magor Group — got trapped in a downward debt spiral. They borrowed heavily on the strength of the balance sheets of EIL and McLeod Russel and by pledging their shares in these two firms and lent forward to cover the losses in McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. Noting expansion of margin due to combination of factors — benign commodity prices, sharp decrease in imports from China leading to increased product prices — Ind-Ra expects EIIL’s profitability to continue to improve in FY21 on the increased contribution from the battery and flashlight businesses and the discontinuation of the loss-making tea business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||RBI: Priority loans for start-ups||The RBI on Thursday brought start-ups under the priority sector lending (PSL) category as it looked to encourage bank investment in this segment. The surprise move from the central bank comes after the government tightened foreign direct investment (FDI) rules for firms or entities who share a border with India as it sought to monitor investments from Chinese firms, which according to reports have funded more than two dozen start-ups in India. While the RBI did not disclose details, it said tersely in the statement that it is broadening the scope of PSL to include start-ups. The PSL guidelines were last reviewed in April 2015. The central bank added that these guidelines have been reviewed with a view to align them with emerging national priorities and bring sharper focus on inclusive development. Apart from facilitating banking support to start-ups, the RBI said it would increase the credit borrowing limits for renewable energy sectors and the targets for lending to “small and marginal farmers” and the “weaker sections” under PSL. Under PSL, eligible entities get access to credit on easier terms from banks. Banks are required to assign 40 per cent of the adjusted net bank credit to the priority sector, including agriculture and micro-enterprises. Despite the RBI relaxation, it remains to be seen if start-ups will turn to banks apart from other sources such as incubators, angel investors or venture capital funds. At present, lenders such as Bank of India (BoI) provide funding to start-ups (having turnover of up to Rs 25 crore or not completed five years) up to Rs 5 crore. “Shortage of risk capital in India had led the foreign private equity to fund most Indian start-ups. Inclusion of start-ups in the priority sector lending category is a welcome move,” Navneet Munot, chief investment officer of SBI Mutual Fund, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||RBI set to offer loan resolution mechanism||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday decided to keep interest rates unchanged, forecast negative real GDP growth for the year and braced for elevated inflation in the second quarter. The RBI signalled that there would be no extension of the loan moratorium regime beyond August 31 but decided to put in place a loan resolution mechanism with some tough conditions to address concerns within the banking sector over a looming bad loan crisis. A committee headed by banking doyen K.V. Kamath will recommend the financial parameters and relevant thresholds that will be factored into the resolution plans, Das said. Eligible corporate borrowers and individuals who have taken personal loans will be able to invoke the resolution plan at any time till December 31 but must implement it within 180 days. The priority sector lending guidelines will be rejigged to remove regional disparities in the flow of credit while the ambit of the programme is being widened to cover start-ups. Borrowers who pledge gold ornaments with banks and non-banking finance entities will be entitled to get higher loans as the loan-to-value ratio is being raised to 90 per cent from 75 per cent earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||India||Air India Express plane skids off runway in Kozhikode; pilots dead||At least 16 people on board an Air India Express plane from Dubai were killed when the aircraft overshot the runway and fell into a valley while landing at Kozhikode in Kerala amid heavy rain, police said. The two pilots of Flight IX 1344 were among the dead. The flight, which was part of the Vande Bharat programme, had 174 passengers, 10 infants, two pilots and five cabin crew members on board. After landing, the flight continued to move towards the end of the runway and fell into a valley and broke into two portions, a DGCA statement said. Television channels broadcast images of rescue and ground personnel spraying the fuselage with water. The incident took place amid heavy rain around 7.41pm, the civil aviation ministry said. According to flight-tracking website FlightRadar24, the aircraft circled the airport several times and made two attempts to land. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter that he was pained by the plane accident. Union home minister Amit Shah said he had instructed NDRF teams to reach the site of the accident and help in rescue operations. The Indian consulate in Dubai has activated four helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the passengers on the flight. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has deputed state minister A.C. Moideen to coordinate the rescue operations. The condition of a mother and child injured in the accident was very serious, state health minister K.K. Shailaja said. The injured have been taken to the local medical college.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
07-08-2020||India||Kejriwal launches 'Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy' ||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday launched 'Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy' under which his government will waive registration fee and road tax, and provide incentive of up to Rs 1.5 lakh for new cars in the national capital. Addressing an online media briefing, he said the policy, which aims to boost the economy, will create jobs and reduce pollution level. The chief minister termed it a "progressive policy" of the country and said it also aims to constitute 25 per cent electric vehicles by 2024, which is currently just 0.29 per cent in the city. Under the policy, the Delhi government will give incentive of up to Rs 30,000 for two-wheelers, autos, e-rickshaws and freight vehicles while for cars, it will provide an incentive of up to Rs 1.5 lakh, he said. He confirmed that the AAP government will also give low-interest loan on electric commercial vehicles. "After launching this policy, we expect five lakh new electric vehicles in the next five years...the Delhi government will set up dedicated 'EV Cell' to implement the policy," Kejriwal said. He said the government will also set up a 'State Electric Vehicle Board', adding that his government will set up 200 charging stations in one year and ensure that people driving these vehicles can get a charging station within the radius of three kilometers. The Delhi government will give a ''scrapping incentive'' under the electric vehicle policy, which will be first-of-its-kind in the country. "We are also going to give a scrapping incentive for those wanting to exchange their petrol or diesel-run vehicles. In the country, this is the first time that scrapping incentive is being given," the chief minister said. Initially, this policy will be for three years and thereafter, the government will review it, he said, adding that if needed, amendments will be made during three years. The chief minister said that at present, there is already the Centre's scheme on electric vehicles called 'Fame India Phase-2', under which the Union government also provides some incentives. The Delhi government's electric vehicle policy will be an addition to the Centre's scheme and people can also avail benefits under both the schemes, Kejriwal said. He said youth will be trained so that they get jobs as electric vehicle sector will need them at a large scale after implementation of this policy. According to him, there has been a 25 per cent reduction in pollution level in Delhi in the last five years and the policy also aims to reduce pollution in the national capital. "We are not satisfied with it (25 per cent). We do not need such development where pollution level is high," Kejriwal said. China is the first name to be taken when there is a discussion about electric vehicles in the world, he said. "I hope that after five years, the name of Delhi will come atop due to this policy when there is a discussion on electric vehicles in the world... "Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy has been prepared after a detailed discussion in the last two-and-a-half years. It has not been prepared sitting in an AC room," the chief minister said. Kejriwal exuded confidence that after five years, Delhi Electric Vehicle Model' will also be discussed in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
07-08-2020||India||Elgar case: DU professor sent to judicial custody till Aug 21||A special court in Mumbai on Friday remanded Delhi University (DU) associate professor Hany Babu, arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, in judicial custody till August 21.  Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil, 54, associate professor at the Department of English of the university, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on July 28 for his alleged involvement in the case.  He was sent to judicial custody by special court judge D E Kothalikar at the end of his NIA remand on Friday.  Earlier, the NIA had submitted before the court that the accused had links with the CPI (Maoists).  The case relates to the alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial where lakhs of Dalits had converged to commemorate the battle. One person was killed, and three others were injured in the clash.  The Pune police filed a charge sheet and a supplementary charge sheet in the case on November 15, 2018 and February 21, 2019, respectively.  The NIA took up the investigation in the case on January 24 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
07-08-2020||India||Rhea appears before ED after an unsuccessful plea attempt||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, accused of abetting suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Friday in connection with the money laundering case lodged by it. The 28-year-old arrived at the agency's office in the Ballard Estate area here, accompanied by her brother Showik, shortly before noon. Her business manager who also worked for Rajput, Shruti Modi, also appeared before the agency soon after as she too was summoned. The statements of Chakraborty and Modi were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), officials said. Rajput's friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani has also been called by the ED to appear on Saturday in connection with this money laundering case that stems from a complaint filed by the actor's father with the Bihar Police in connection with his death, they said. Pithani is stated to be out of Mumbai at present and he has said in various news channel interviews that he was present in the Bandra flat on June 14 when the 34-year-old actor hanged himself. The IT professional, stated to be living with Rajput for about an year, had earlier recorded his statement with the Mumbai Police as part of their accidental death report (ADR) probe in the case. It was not immediately clear if the agency questioned Showik as he left the agency office after a few hours. Chakraborty, accused by Rajput's father of abetting his son's suicide, had initially refused to appear before the agency citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court. "In view of the fact that the ED has informed the media that the request to postpone her attendance is rejected, Rhea has appeared before the ED office," her advocate Satish Maneshinde said. The advocate, issued a statement, saying Chakraborty is a law-abiding citizen and would cooperate with the probe. Chakraborty has filed a petition in the apex court requesting that the case lodged by the Bihar police against her be transferred to the Mumbai police. The plea will be heard next week. The agency is expected to question Chakraborty, who stated in her petition to the court that she was in a live-in relationship with Rajput, about her friendship with the actor, possible business dealings and the developments that took place over the last few years between them and record her statement under the PMLA. It is expected that the ED's line of questioning would revolve around Chakraborty's income, investments, business deals and professional deals and links. A property located in the Khar area of the city, linked to Chakraborty, is also being probed by the ED for the source of its purchase and ownership. The agency has already questioned Rajput's Chartered Accountant (CA) Sandeep Shridhar and his house manager and staffer Samuel Miranda twice in the case. Rajput's father had, in his complaint, alleged that Miranda was hired by Chakraborty after she allegedly fired the staff hired by his son. The ED has also summoned Chakraborty's CA Ritesh Shah for questioning. Rajput's 74-year-old father K K Singh, who resides in Patna, had on July 25 filed a complaint with the Patna police against Chakraborty, her parents (mother Sandhya Chakraborty and father Indrajit Chakraborty), brother Showik, Miranda and Modi and unknown persons accusing them of cheating and abetting his son's suicide. The CBI had re-booked this FIR as a fresh case on Thursday and named as accused the same persons. The Mumbai police has been carrying out a separate probe in Rajput's death and has questioned a number of prominent film producers and directors till now. The father had also alleged financial irregularities in bank accounts of his son. In the complaint, Singh alleged that Rs 15 crore was siphoned off from Rajput's bank account in one year to accounts of persons not known or connected to the late filmstar. Under the ED's scanner are at least two companies linked to Rajput and some financial deals involving Chakraborty, her father and Showik who are stated to be directors in these companies. Rajput starred in films like 'Shuddh Desi Romance', 'Raabta', 'Kedarnath', 'Chhichhore' and 'Sonchiriya'. His most prominent role was in cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni's biopic 'MS Dhoni: The Untold Story'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Disha’s dad: No foul play suspected||The father of Disha Salian, former manager of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has said he does not suspect any foul play in her death and he is “completely satisfied” with the probe being conducted by Mumbai police in the case, an official said. In a letter sent to Malvani ACP on Wednesday, Satish Salian alleged that journalists were harassing his family by repeatedly questioning their faith in Mumbai police and their way of inquiry, the official said. According to police, Disha, 28, allegedly committed suicide by jumping from a high-rise building in Malad here on June 8. An accidental death report was registered in connection with Disha’s death at Malvani police station. According to the official, in his letter, Satish alleged that “news about her (Disha’s) involvement with any politician or attending parties with big names of the film fraternity, rape and murder are all stories cooked up by media people just to sell it to channels and these stories hold no truth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Players pitch in for relief fund||Footballers in Kerala have donated their national jerseys as part of a campaign by CPM youth wing DYFI that initially started by collecting and selling recyclable waste to pool in money for the chief minister’s disaster relief fund amid the pandemic but soon enlarged in scope because of widespread participation. The amount raised by auctioning the jerseys, which were sold to the highest bidders, is part of a total amount of Rs 10.95 crore that the three-month campaign has raised. Some 3,281 tonnes of recyclable waste from across Kerala were collected and sold during the drive that began in May. Anas Edathodika, who played for the Calcutta-based ISL team ATK in the last season, former ATK member Mohammed Rafi, East Bengal midfielder C.K. Vineeth and Kerala Blasters young star Sahal Abdul Samad donated one Indian jersey each to the DYFI, which auctioned them through social media to raise funds for the Recycle Kerala initiative. “We thank the footballers who donated their Indian jerseys that helped shore up some good money for the chief minister’s disaster relief fund,” Kerala DYFI secretary A.A. Rahim told The Telegraph on Thursday. While Rafi’s India jersey fetched Rs 2.44 lakh, Sahal’s was bought for Rs 2.25 lakh and Edathodika’s for Rs 1.55 lakh. Vineeth’s national jersey could not be auctioned as the concerned DYFI unit’s Facebook page had crashed. Cricketer S. Sreesanth bought a painting for an undisclosed amount and donated the money to the DYFI’s cause. Rahim said people from across Kerala donated old newspapers, magazines, notebooks, unusable utensils made of aluminum, stainless steel and copper, and plastics. “There were people who donated old motorbikes and cycles, which we sold to scrap dealers,” the leader said. Some even gave their entire crop of vegetables to the DYFI, which sold the farm output and raised funds. “It was a different experience collecting recyclable waste. Never did we imagine that we could raise so much of waste materials even from waterways,” Rahim said. An organisation that has for years been engaged in unclogging waterways and storm water drains collected 6.65 tonnes of plastic waste that would have led to choked drains and flooding during the monsoon. The plastic waste was sold to scrap dealers who transported them to commercial recycling plants in Tamil Nadu. The CPM bastion of Kannur in north Kerala accounted for the maximum donation amount — Rs 1.65 crore — among the districts. “A farmer in Munnar donated his entire crop of cabbage that weighed about three tonnes. A family in Kottayam donated wood from trees that had been cut down,” Rahim said. DYFI workers, too, earned money for the cause by doing manual labour and farming and cleaning household premises. “Many of our members tarred roads, worked in farmland and engaged in pre-monsoon clearing of the surroundings of houses in many places in Kerala to earn daily wages that were donated to the fund,” Rahim said. Earlier this year, the DYFI had envisioned a “TV Challenge” campaign to carry forward the Kerala government’s plan to help students with no access to TV, gadgets and the Internet to attend online classes. As part of the “TV Challenge”, the DYFI had urged people to donate their second TV set or old smart phones and tablets. “We collected 11,602 brand new television sets, 163 tablets and 157 smart phones that were donated to needy children,” Rahim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Gujarat blaze kills 8 Covid patients ||A blaze in the wee hours at a private hospital here has killed eight Covid patients, a fire brigade official said on Thursday. The victims — five men and three women — were being treated at the ICU ward of the Covid-designated Shrey Hospital at Navrangpura where the fire broke out around 3.30am, the official said. Around 40 other Covid patients at the facility were rescued and shifted to a civic hospital in the city, he said. “Eight coronavirus patients admitted in the ICU ward of Shrey Hospital have died due to the fire, which has been doused,” said an official of the Ahmedabad fire department. Primary investigations revealed that the fire on the fourth floor of the four-storey hospital was caused by an electrical short circuit, police said. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani has ordered an inquiry. A report will have to be submitted in three days. Three elderly patients were saved from the raging fire at the hospital by a 25-year-old attendant who showed presence of mind and unflinching courage When the fire broke out, there were 11 patients on the fourth floor. According to the police, a special ICU chamber had been created on the fourth floor for critical Covid-19 patients. Hospital attendant Chirag Patel, who risked his life and saved three elderly patients, said the fire was first spotted by another attendant on the fourth floor around 3am. “When I went to the fourth floor after that, I saw flames coming out from a monitor of some medical equipment near a patient’s bed. Soon, that patient’s hair caught fire. I doused it immediately,” Patel told reporters after giving his statement to the police. “Just as I pulled the bed away from the monitor, another attendant’s PPE suit caught fire. Luckily, a doctor came upstairs with a bucket of water and poured it on the attendant and saved him. “Suddenly, there was a blast inside the ICU ward. Though we went up again to rescue patients, it was not possible to go inside due to thick smoke and extremely low visibility,” he added. According to Patel, other attendants and doctors were feeling uneasy because of the smoke. “Therefore, I decided to stay there and asked others to go downstairs,” he said. Meanwhile, the hospital staff alerted the fire brigade. Patel said rescuing 11 patients was a difficult task. “I was the only one left on the fourth floor and I decided to save as many as possible. I first lifted an elderly patient, who could not walk, in my arms and took her downstairs,” he said. Patel returned to the spot even as thick smoke had engulfed the area. He helped another elderly woman, who had fallen down and could not walk, in climbing down safely along with a male patient. “As the smoke was getting very dense and my oxygen level was dropping, I couldn’t go inside again. I then climbed the fourth floor using pipes outside and tried to rescue the patients from windows, but couldn’t break them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||TV actor found dead||Television actor Samir Sharma, best known for his roles in Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi and Left Right Left, was found dead at his home in suburban Malad where he lived alone, police said on Thursday. The 44-year-old was found hanging from the fan of the kitchen on Wednesday night, police officials said. “We have not found any suicide note at the spot. It seems to be a suicide case. It is suspected that he hanged himself two days back. We have sent the body for an autopsy,” senior inspector George Fernandes said. Sharma’s body was first spotted by the building’s watchman. The actor’s last Instagram posts had been about depression, Sushant Singh Rajput, death and dreams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Centre releases Rs 890cr for Covid fight||The Centre has released Rs 890 crore to 22 states and Union Territories as the second instalment of a financial package to improve healthcare infrastructure to respond to the coronavirus epidemic, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. The health ministry said the financial aid was intended to be used to improve testing facilities, add hospital infrastructure such as intensive care unit beds, oxygen generators and bedside oxygen concentrators, among others, and to provide training and incentives to healthcare workers. The recipient states are Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim. The Centre had in April released the first instalment of Rs 3,000 crore to all states and Union Territories to ramp up testing, augment hospital infrastructure, procure drugs and other supplies and conduct surveillance. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in his address to the nation on March 24 said the central government would provision Rs 15,000 crore for the treatment of patients with the coronavirus disease and for strengthening medical infrastructure across India. The health ministry said that under the financial package, states and Union Territories had established around 580,000 isolation beds, 136,000 oxygen-supported beds and 31,255 intensive care unit beds in Covid-19 hospitals. The states and Union Territories have also added over 96,000 healthcare staff and incentives have been provided to over 665,799, the ministry said. India’s 1,370 testing labs collectively screened over 600,000 samples for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. But several states continue to show test positivity rates — the proportion testing positive among those tested — higher than what health experts say is the ideal of below 5 per cent. Health officials have stressed the need for aggressive testing as part of a strategy to detect as many Covid-19 positive persons as possible to isolate and treat them and curb the spread of the infection. The health ministry had said earlier this week that 28 states and Union Territories were performing more than 140 tests per day per million population, a threshold for comprehensive testing set by the World Health Organisation. However, the seven-day rolling average test positivity rates for Delhi, Maharashtra and Telangana on Thursday were all 16 per cent or higher. India on Thursday recorded 56,282 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of lab-confirmed cases to 1,964,536, of whom 595,501 patients are under medical supervision, 1,328,836 have recovered and 40,699 have died, 944 deaths over the past day. The health ministry has said the focused and coordinated implementation of its test, track and treat strategy has helped in early identification and effective clinical treatment, which in turn have resulted in lowering the case fatality rate from 3.36 per cent on June 17 to 2.69 per cent on July 11 to 2.07 per cent on August 6. Health minister Harsh Vardhan, interacting with the WHO South East Asia region’s regional director on Thursday, said India’s containment strategy had been successful. Ten states account for 82 per cent of the country’s cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Plea: don’t harass activists ||More than 1,300 people, including Congress MP Kumar Ketkar, have issued a public appeal against the “harassment” of activists by police that they said was part of a “larger design to shut down all dissent in the country so that no one dares question authority”. Referring to the questioning of pacifist activist and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand Jha in connection with the riots in the capital in February, the appeal said: “It is not unusual, or even improper, for the police to ask citizens to cooperate in the crime they are investigating. What matters is the context and manner in which this is happening.” The signatories added: “Like dozens of others in the past two months, professor Apoorvanand has been summoned under Section 43F of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). This is not all — the summons mentions 19 sections of the IPC; two sections each of the Prevention of Damage of Public Property (PDPP) Act; two sections of the Arms Act; and, finally, four different sections of the UAPA.” The signatories alleged that “this is not a normal inquiry or police business as usual”. “It is part of a clear strategy by the Delhi police to present protests against the CAA as a conspiracy to plan and stage the communal riots that shook Delhi in late February. This, in turn, is part of the larger design to shut down all dissent in the country so that no one dares question authority.” The signatories include former navy chief admiral L. Ramdas, former CPM MP Sudarsan Raychaudhuri, former bureaucrats Javid Chowdhury, Jawhar Sircar, Nandita Sehgal, N.K. Raghupathy, P.R. Dasgupta, Prateep Kumar Lahiri, S.P. Ambrose, Sundar Burra, Ashok Vajpeyi, V.P. Raja, Sudhansu Mohanty and A. Selvaraj, and former diplomats Deb Mukharji, K.P. Fabian and Madhu Bhandari. They said: “We appeal to all citizens committed to the values enshrined in the Indian Constitution — freedom of speech, equality before the law, secularism — to resist this attempt to turn India into a police state where all dissent is criminalised under the most draconian laws.” “We demand that this systematic harassment of voices critical of the government and the blatant misuse of the law and the state apparatus be stopped immediately. If we fail to protest the muzzling of our democracy today, there may be no democracy left tomorrow,” they added. Prof. Jha was grilled by the police’s anti-terror unit on Tuesday. The FIR, which does not name Jha, accuses several people of planning violent protests against the new citizenship matrix during US President Donald Trump’s visit in February, which the police claim led to the communal riots in which 53 people died. JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita of the women students’ group Pinjra Tod, besides another member of their group, Gulfisha Fatima, are all behind bars in the case. So are Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Asif Iqbal, and alumni office-bearer Shifa-ur-Rehman. Also in jail are suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain, who is accused of abetting the murder of an Intelligence Bureau employee, former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and rights activist Khalid Saifi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Hope of political outreach in Valley||The appointment of Manoj Sinha, a politician, as the new lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir has sparked hopes of a political outreach in the Valley. Politics in Kashmir has been in limbo for a year with the government unwilling to loosen its grip on old parties like the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party, some of whose leaders, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, remain in detention. The tenure of Sinha’s predecessor G.C. Murmu, which ended unceremoniously on Wednesday, had been marked by his squabbles with top bureaucrats and a surge in militant violence against local BJP leaders that prompted several others to give up pro-India politics. Unlike the bureaucrat Murmu, Sinha is a three-time MP, former Union minister and a member of the BJP nation council. “It (his appointment) is apparently a signal to the so-called mainstream politicians that Delhi wants to reach out to them. But I’m afraid that Delhi has nothing to offer to us except statehood,” a politician released recently after months of detention told The Telegraph. “The problem is that asking for statehood (without restoration of special status) has become taboo. You had (former chief minister) Omar Abdullah recently asking for statehood, and he was roasted.” Sinha, however, begins his tenure on a controversial note, with many flagging his warning last year that “any eye that looks menacingly at BJP workers or any finger that points at them would not survive even four months”. “I am looking for a finger donor,” PDP politician Firdous Tak tweeted. “This is sahi main Apna Banda (He is truly a Sangh man).” During his nine months at the helm, Murmu had never seemed to have any connect with a population still traumatised over the scrapping of Article 370 and anxious that the Centre might force demographic changes. This may have prompted the recent pro-people utterances from Murmu — a call for early elections with or without delimitation and restoration of 4G services — that seemed to annoy the Centre. The Centre has already begun redrawing Assembly seats, seen as a move to give more seats to Hindu-majority areas in Jammu. And home secretary Shaleen Kabra extended the ban on 4G till at least August 19, days after Murmu’s call. Officials said Murmu had been locked in a “cold war” with a group of bureaucrats led by chief secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyum, who flaunts his connections with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Pipped by Yogi in UP race, now J&K boss||Former Union minister Manoj Sinha, who was believed to have missed the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s chair by a whisker in 2017 before losing the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has been appointed the new lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir. For the 61-year-old dhoti-kurta-wearing heartland politician, the posting has come as a complete surprise, people close to him said. Sinha’s appointment suggests the Narendra Modi government is more comfortable with a politician in the Srinagar Raj Bhavan than a bureaucrat. The previous lieutenant governor, IAS officer G.C. Murmu, resigned on Wednesday and is expected to be appointed comptroller and auditor-general. Sinha had been licking his wounds since losing in last year’s general election from Ghazipur, which borders the Prime Minister’s constituency of Varanasi, despite a Narendra Modi wave. He had been disappointed in his expectation of returning to the Union ministry through the Rajya Sabha route, given his performance in the first Modi government as minister of state for communications (independent charge) and railways, and his past RSS association. Now, after more than a year of fruitless wait, he suddenly finds himself in charge of the troubled Valley. “He (Sinha) never expected to be appointed lieutenant governor, that too for the key Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” an associate said. “But he is happy and excited.” Sinha rushed to Srinagar on Thursday to take charge of his new job. The three-time Lok Sabha member had won Modi’s trust as a minister who did his job discreetly and sincerely. It’s this quality that, people close to him say, had made him the front-runner for the chief minister’s post in Lucknow when the BJP secured a big victory in the 2017 Assembly polls. Sources close to Sinha claimed he had been tipped from the top to prepare for the hot seat. Sinha had quietly left Delhi and begun offering prayers in temples in Varanasi, a city where he had cut his political teeth as a student leader. Suddenly and mysteriously, the saffron-clad monk Adityanath emerged on the scene and Sinha, the no-nonsense politician, lost out to the strident Hindutva hard-liner. Last year, an unfavourable caste combination ruined his chances in the general election despite voters in Ghazipur lauding him for his development efforts as Union minister. Sinha’s unwavering association with the RSS-BJP ideology now seems to have helped him bounce back. Sinha had been with RSS student wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad at Banaras Hindu University, from where he earned his BTech and MTech degrees, in the early 1980s. He had been elected students’ union president at BHU. In the early 1990s, he secured a place in the BJP national council. He won the Ghazipur Lok Sabha seat in 1996, 1999 and 2014. “We feel that the Srinagar assignment is a temporary one. His bond with the people of Ghazipur is too strong and he will return when the next Lok Sabha polls are held,” one of his confidants in Ghazipur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Bhushan makes proof offer||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Thursday offered to produce evidence in support of two of his tweets that are facing contempt proceedings if the Supreme Court did not accept his “preliminary reply”. The top court on July 22 initiated contempt proceedings against Bhushan for two tweets — one about Chief Justice S.A. Bobde posing on a Harley Davidson motorbike and another alleging that democracy had been destroyed in the country during the last six years under the last four Chief Justices. In an application moved through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan also said that a lawyer’s complaint on the basis of which the Supreme Court had issued the suo motu contempt notice mentioned only the June 29 Harley Davidson tweet. Bhushan contended that when the court issued the notice almost a month later on July 22 and heard the matter, it also mentioned the June 27 tweet on democracy. The contempt notice had referred to a newspaper report that had “mysteriously” appeared the same day on the democracy tweet, Bhushan pointed out. Bhushan had in his preliminary reply justified the tweets saying it was his “bona fide impressions” and had sought to draw the inference that the Supreme Court had not dealt fairly with matters relating to the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute, the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, electoral bonds issued by the Modi government, the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and a host of other issues linked to the fundamental rights. He had said in his affidavit that the Supreme Court had “largely failed in its duty to protect these and thus failed to prevent the subversion of our democracy”. In his application filed on Thursday, Bhushan has requested the court that in case it is not satisfied with his preliminary reply and wishes to proceed further, he should be allowed to provide further evidence under Section 17(5) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. He has also pleaded for a copy of the complaint of advocate Mehak Maheshwari that forms the basis of the contempt case. Bhushan has cited the apex court ruling in the 2019 Vijay Kurle case wherein it had held that a contemnor is entitled to all materials on the basis of which he or she is sought to be prosecuted for contempt. He has also pleaded that the proceedings on the suo motu notice issued to him with respect to the June 27 tweet on democracy be placed before the Chief Justice of India for allocation to another bench, essentially seeking that the two tweets be dealt with separately. Bhushan’s case is before the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Bhushan Gavai and Krishna Murari. Justice Mishra is set to retire next month. “The Hon’ble Court converted Mr Maheswari’s petition which was only as regards the Harley Davidson tweet dated 29.06.2020 into a suo motu petition. Further, Suo Moto cognisance was taken by the Hon’ble Court of a second tweet of 27.06.2020 regarding ‘destruction of democracy’ that was mysteriously published in (a newspaper) on the morning of 22.07.2020 and notice was issued to me as regards that also,” Bhushan said in his application. According to him, the contempt notice did not include a copy of Maheshwari’s petition. This was in violation of Rule 6(2) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975, framed under Article 145 of the Constitution, Bhushan pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Temple plainspeak by Congress MP||Congress Lok Sabha member from Kerala T.N. Prathapan has strongly objected to the enthusiastic support offered to the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya by senior leaders such as Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh while endorsing the subtle line chosen by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Prathapan has written a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi saying: “We can’t chase an extreme religious nationalism with its soft prototype. We need to realise this situation and should accept an alternative immediately. That should be upon the legacy of the politics of unity, harmony and tolerance. “Let Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Subhas Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel be our models. I believe that what ultimately matters is not the failures we face, but it matters that we are not bowing low for the temporary successes.” While Rajya Sabha member and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya had said Rajiv Gandhi had already laid the foundation for the Ram temple, Kamal Nath, the recently deposed chief minister of the state, had organised a two-day Hanuman Chalisa recital to coincide with Wednesday’s bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya and promised to send 11 silver bricks for the construction of the temple. A day before the bhoomi pujan, Priyanka had issued a statement explaining how Lo-rd Ram symbolises sacrifice, truth, justice, righteousness, unification and fraternity. Prathapan wrote in the letter: “I strongly believe that the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi and the demolition of the Babri Masjid were the most treacherous incidents in independent India. The basic values that this country was built on, like secularism and pluralism, had been facing a devastating future all these times. It was always the Congress which held the hope of this great nation and (kept) its beautiful legacy of plurality alive.” Fearing that the temple would be used by the RSS for further communal politics, the Congress MP said: “The Supreme Court verdict on the Ayodhya land dispute was a hope that an era of hate politics would end. But unfortunately, it is going on relentlessly. We cannot take any type of stakes in it. I think that this particular event is a Sangh parivar sponsored ‘religious-political’ one. If we are not invited to this, why would our leaders beg for that?” Prathapan added: “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has taken a position which is acceptable, as she is wishing unity in the name of the temple. We certainly know that such unity wouldn’t be there as far as the Sangh parivar has power. “Still, by considering the ground realities of the politics in north India especially in Uttar Pradesh, Priyankaji has kept the concern and dignity in her statement. But, other statements of some other leaders like Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh have disappointed me a lot. “There are millions of people who are grieving in the memories of Babri Masjid even though they are accepting the court verdict because the demolition was a kind of attack to their conscience. We are including that demography also. We can’t leave them in despair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Muslim board member raps PM||An All India Muslim Personal Law Board member on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had violated the constitutional convention “by attending a function exclusively of the Hindu religion in a country where the members of other religions also have similar rights”. “The Prime Minister and the chief ministers are not for just one religion in a secular country like India. It would have been fine had Modi and Yogi Adityanath made it a private function instead of marking their presence as Prime Minister of India and chief minister of Uttar Pradesh,” Zafaryab Jilani, who was counsel for the Sunni Central Waqf Board in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case, said. Modi had performed bhoomi pujan and laid the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Adityanath was with him. “If you look at it closely, you will find that it was a private function in which the Prime Minister and the chief minister were present officially. They used official flights and vehicles, deployed government officers to organise it, and wasted crores of the taxpayers’ money. They converted a religious programme into a celebration of the government,” Jilani said. “The Prime Minister said in his speech that the temple was going to be built at the same spot after many centuries of a continuous movement. He said (a previous Ram) temple was broken down. The Supreme Court had said in its order in November 2019 that there was no evidence of the construction of a temple there after the 12th century. This was based on the report of the Archaeological Survey of India. In that situation, where is the question of pulling down a temple to build a masjid?” The Hindu side had claimed in the Supreme Court that a Ram temple was razed in 1528 at the behest of Mughal emperor Babar and the Babri Masjid built at the spot. “We have accepted the order of the Supreme Court but the winner in the case is contradicting what the highest court of the country has already authenticated. Further, the Hindu side couldn’t confirm when Lord Ram was born there. Their statements were on record in the court that Lord Ram was born there 9 lakh to 1.5 crore years ago,” Jilani said. Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim plaintiff in the Ayodhya case, however, declined comment on the matter. “I don’t want to comment on this issue simply because I don’t want any further bitterness between the two communities. The court handed 2.77 acres of land to the Hindus and thus ended the dispute,” he said. “The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone — it was the choice of the government. It would be better if we look ahead and maintain peace and harmony in the country.” Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust that will oversee the temple’s construction, had two days ago played down comments by some Muslim leaders against Modi’s plan to attend the ceremony. “Some people may have their opinion but there is no point getting involved in that,” Rai had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Why is PM lying on China: Rahul ||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that Lord Ram’s “unwavering commitment to truth, honesty and righteousness” would be the source of national inspiration, his main rival Rahul Gandhi had occasion to confront him with a blunt question on why he is “lying”. The Congress leader was referring to media reports of a defence ministry document on Chinese intrusions at several places in Ladakh, an admission that runs counter to the Prime Minister’s claim that none had encroached into Indian territory or captured Indian posts. Uploading a media report on the defence ministry document uploaded on Wednesday and citing “unilateral aggression by China” since May 5 and transgressions, Rahul tweeted: “Why is the Prime Minister lying?” Four days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed by the Chinese at the Galwan Valley, Modi had told an all-party meeting on June 19: “Na wahan koi hamari seema mein ghus aaya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje mein hai (Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, neither is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else).” The Congress couldn’t have prayed for a better opportunity to drag the Prime Minister out of the blinding triumphalism of Hindutva that the start of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has heralded barely hours earlier. Shortly after Rahul’s tweets and the media reports, the suspicions deepened when the document could no longer be found on the defence ministry website, providing the Congress leader another opportunity to open fire. Uploading a media report on the document disappearing from the website, Rahul tweeted: “Forget standing up to China, India’s Prime Minister lacks the courage even to name them. Denying China is in our territory and removing documents from websites won’t change the facts.” Rahul raised the matter again during the day while interacting with leaders from Bihar through videoconferencing. He emphasised that the Prime Minister had lied to the nation on Chinese intrusions and put even the Indian Army in a difficult spot by claiming that nobody had intruded into Indian territory. The former Congress president also dwelt on the disastrous economic situation, the mismanagement of the Covid crisis and the alarming unemployment situation while motivating party workers for the impending elections in Bihar. Other Congress seniors also moved in swiftly, bringing the discourse back to issues of vital national concern like the Chinese incursions, Jammu and Kashmir, the economy, jobs and even politics unconnected with religion and divinity. Party spokesperson Ajay Maken said at a media conference: “The Prime Minister should explain how the report vanished from the defence ministry website. Was it done to save the Prime Minister or any other reason prompted the withdrawal of the report?” He went on: “Though the facts about Chinese intrusions were known to the entire world — military commanders’ negotiations with the Chinese and satellite pictures made it absolutely clear — the Prime Minister’s June 19 statement and flip-flops by the government created confusion. But this was an official confirmation by the defence minister as the report had a section on Chinese transgressions. It also said the standoff might be prolonged.” Maken asked why the Prime Minister had made the claims when official records make it clear that the Chinese had entered Indian territory as early as May 17-18. “What is true — what the defence ministry said or what the Prime Minister said?” the Congress spokesperson asked. Asked if defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had raised the Chinese encroachment during a visit to Ladakh last month, should resign over the flip-flops, Maken said: “The defence minister had publicly talked of the intrusions and even said there was no guarantee of disengagement. We want a clarification from the Prime Minister.” The Congress also criticised Modi for comparing the temple movement with India’s freedom struggle. Senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge said: “The Prime Minister’s comparison of India’s freedom struggle and the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in equal measure is untenable. The freedom struggle had united all of us irrespective of caste and creed, while the other movement was meant to polarise and divide the society. Nationalism cannot be driven through religion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Why sharp blades lose edge to hair & cheese ||Three scientists in the US on Thursday delivered the most comprehensive account yet for an everyday observation unexplained for centuries — how the sharpest steel blades soften after cutting things much softer, whether potatoes, cheese or hair. Through cutting experiments observed under electron microscopy, |the materials science researchers |at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have identified three |factors that contribute to the wear of |steel-blade edges under realistic |shaving conditions. Their studies suggest that micro-|cr­a­­cks that emerge from microscopic |ir­re­gularities on the blade edge, micro-str­uctural variations in the blade |edge, and differences in the cutting |angles resulting from hair bending while being cut, all work in concert |to weaken the edge. The findings, to be published |on Friday in the US journal Science, provide micromechanical insights into how stainless-steel blades 50 times harder than human hair can cause the wear and suggest strategies to create longer-lasting sharp edges. “Bits of this puzzle were known — there are different factors at play. Our work shows the full picture of what’s going on,” Cemal Cem Tasan, an associate |professor of metallurgy at MIT who |led the research, told The Telegraph |over the phone. Tasan and research scholars Gianluca Roscioli and Seyedeh Mohadeseh Taheri-Mousavi performed cutting experiments and documented through electron microscopy the contact-interactions between blade edges and hair, simulating real shaving conditions through disposable razor cartridges. They used image analysis to quantify the average blade wear along the sharp edge. The level of wear they observed was 12 cubic nanometres per nanometre after five shaves and 13 cubic nanometres per nanometre after 10 shaves. But the tests also revealed chips along the sharp edge. The researchers have underlined that although at a macroscopic level the edge appears sharp and smooth, it is actually rugged and uneven. Their studies have shown that micro-cracks emerge from these microscopic irregularities on the edge. They have identified two additional factors that contribute to the wear — the presence of heterogeneity or micro-structural diversity at the blade edge and the relative positions of the irregularities on the edge and hair during the cutting process. “This micro-structural heterogeneity is something that might be relatively easier to engineer,” Roscioli told this newspaper. “This is impressive work — it shows the actual reasons for blunting,” said Kuttanellore Muraleedharan, a senior materials science researcher and director of the Central Glass and Ceramics Research Institute, Calcutta, who was not involved in the study. The scientists have filed a patent application for a technique to reduce this heterogeneity, which would bring more uniformity to the edge and improve its hardness. Tasan said the study was part of a broader effort in his lab to understand how materials behave and specifically why they fail under certain circumstances. Insights into failure mechanisms could lead to strategies to improve the performance and the lifespan of the materials. “The study shows that blunting of sharp edges occurs through three modes of deformation,” Muraleedharan said. “Technology to reduce blunting could have huge industrial applications — although makers of disposable blades would probably turn it down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Vanished: Red-hot document on China||An official document acknowledging China had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh was quietly removed from the defence ministry website on Thursday. Ministry officials said this was done as the document contradicted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s June 19 assertion that none had entered Indian territory or captured Indian posts. Uploaded on Wednesday, it was the first government document to admit to Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control, which happened in early May and snowballed into a clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15, killing 20 Indian soldiers. “It was taken down this morning following instructions from the top brass as it could have triggered a political controversy,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph on Thursday. “Somehow, it had escaped us that its content did not match the Prime Minister’s earlier statement.” “Chinese aggression has been increasing along the LAC and more particularly in Galwan Valley since May 5, 2020. The Chinese side transgressed in the areas of Kugrang Nala, Gogra and north bank of Pangong Tso Lake on 17-18 May, 2020,” the document said. It added: “The situation in eastern Ladakh arising from unilateral aggression by China continues to be sensitive and requiring close monitoring and prompt action based on evolving situation.” The document, titled “Chinese Aggression on LAC”, was part of the website’s “What’s New” section. Its ambit was the month of June, ministry sources said. “It was part of the routine updates and reports, based on the ground situation, that the ministry uploads regularly on its website,” a ministry official said. A defence ministry spokesperson refused comment. Kugrang Nala refers to Patrolling Point 15, north of Hot Springs and Gogra PP-17A and adjoining the Pangong Lake, where Chinese troops have held on to newly acquired territory up to 8km inside India-claimed lines despite five rounds of military talks. The Chinese have also occupied territory up to 18km within India-claimed lines in the Depsang Plains in northern Ladakh, but the document restricts its focus to eastern Ladakh. Four days after the clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers, Modi had said: “Na wahan koi hamari seema mein ghus aaya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje mein hai (Neither has anyone intruded into our frontiers there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else).” The government has since then only added the qualification that the statement referred to the post-June 15 situation, thus reaffirming that no intruders have been occupying Indian territory for the past 52 days. Two days before Modi’s statement, India’s foreign ministry had said: “The Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC. While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties.” Ministers have since Modi’s statement largely tried to avoid the topic of Chinese intrusion. Last month, defence minister Rajnath Singh tied himself in knots trying to stick to the official line during a Ladakh visit. He first asserted that no one could “touch or capture even an inch of Indian territory”, implying there was no intrusion. He then said the “progress” of the talks suggested the situation should be resolved — implying intrusion. Finally, he said he couldn't give any “guarantee” (of a resolution). The ministry document said that following the transgression, ground-level interactions were held between the two armies to try and defuse the situation. “(A) corps commander-level flag meeting was held on June 6. However, a violent face-off incident took place between the two sides on June 15 resulting in casualties from both sides,” it said. “Subsequently, (a) second (round of) military-level talks took place on June 22 to discuss modalities of (the) de-escalation process. While engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic level is continuing to arrive at mutually acceptable consensus, the present standoff is likely to be prolonged.” A ground assessment by the security establishment last week had revealed that the Chinese had not disengaged from the Pangong Lake or the Depsang Plains, while the minimal disengagement at Hot Springs/Gogra did not honour the agreement struck during the fourth round of military talks on July 14. Instead, the Chinese have made ownership claims on the areas around the Pangong Lake they have occupied, raising fears they are aiming at “a revised status quo” and dashing hopes of any progress through the military talks. Defence ministry sources said that during the fifth round of military talks on Sunday, China had asked the Indian side to pull back from its present military position north of the Pangong Lake as part of the negotiations to break the logjam. “This was shocking to say the least, and the Indian side rejected it outright,” a ministry official said. “They are already occupying our land in the Pangong Lake and are demanding we should move back further as a pre-condition for disengagement. Any retreat by India would mean leaving an area that is under our control. This would certainly change the status quo.” India has already retreated 1.5km within its own claimed territory in the Galwan Valley — the only area to witness substantial disengagement — in response to the Chinese pulling back by a similar distance although they are said to be still within India-claimed lines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Salary crisis in varsities and schools||Six days into August, teachers and staff of two central universities dedicated to Sanskrit education are yet to receive their salaries for July. Private schools say they can’t pay teacher salaries because parents are refusing to pay the school fees, citing the coronavirus-induced classroom closure. Many private colleges are sending their teachers on unpaid leave. The education sector at large is reeling amid a pandemic-hit economy, although the reasons for the salary delay at the Sanskrit universities are not clear. The delay has shocked the 400-plus regular and contract teachers and the about 100 other employees at the Delhi-based Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and the Central Sanskrit University (CSU). “Never has such a delay happened before. At the end of the financial year in March, the salary is sometimes delayed by a day or two. Otherwise, we always get the salary on the last working day of the month,” a teacher at the Shastri University said. “Luckily, I had the required amount in my bank for my EMI, which I pay on the fifth of every month. I shall have to borrow money for the rest of my expenses.” Both these premier Sanskrit-teaching institutions were upgraded in April from deemed university to central university through a law enacted earlier this year. A contract teacher at the CSU said the salary delay wasn’t the only issue. Immediately after the institution became a central university, all the 160 contract teachers on its 12 campuses had to wait without work or pay for over two months. A teacher said that previously, the teachers’ yearly contracts started with the academic session in mid-June and ended with it in mid-May, meaning they were unpaid for a month. “We had expected our jobs to be regularised after our institution became a central university. But this year our contracts were not renewed for two months, and we had no salary from May 18 to July 21,” the teacher said. Shastri University vice-chancellor Ramesh Pandey said the University Grants Commission had not released the salary funds this month. “It will come soon; I have checked with the UGC. They have sanctioned the funds. For some reason it could not come on time,” he said, without elaborating. Neither the commission nor the education ministry answered emails seeking the reasons for the delay. Teachers and staff of 12 colleges under Delhi University have not received their salaries for the past three months, either. These colleges are funded by the Delhi government, which has withheld funds on the ground that their governing bodies are vacant. The colleges have received notices threatening to cut their electricity, telephone and Internet connections if they don’t clear their bills. About half the parents, on an average, have defaulted on fee payment in the past four months, several school principals said. Such default is higher in the rural areas where the online classes are grappling with problems like poor Internet services, lack of gadgets, unhelpful home environments and power failures. Besides, the lockdown has hit incomes, constraining the parents’ ability to pay the fees. Amit Kumar Srivastava, principal of the Lotus Public School in Pipraich town of Gorakhpur district, Uttar Pradesh, said that 90 per cent of parents had since March not paid the monthly fees, which range between Rs 400 and Rs 600. “The parents are hesitant about online classes. They say they would resume paying after the school reopens,” Srivastava said. He said the school’s 18 teachers had been asked to look for alternative jobs till normal classes resumed. If the situation doesn’t improve in a few months, he said, the school will close down. Ashok Pandey, director of the Ahlcon Group of Schools in Delhi, too complained of unpaid student fees. “Private schools are funded entirely by the fees the parents pay. The courts have not given the parents any relief; many state governments also agree in principle that the parents must pay fees, albeit a reduced amount. That should be acceptable to the parents,” he said. “Fee payment is an unwritten trust deed that must not be breached. The schools too must examine the individual hardship of the parents.” The Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi has said the private schools can only charge tuition fees but have to pay full salaries to teachers and other staff. Srinivasan Sriram, principal of The Mann School, and Pandey said this was “not feasible”. “Fee compliance by the parents is about 50 per cent. Many schools cannot pay full salaries because they haven’t the money,” Sriram said. “Some parents may genuinely be facing difficulties but several others may be taking advantage of the coronavirus crisis.” A private college in Odisha asked its teachers to go on leave without pay as early as April. “I’m still on leave without pay; the college will inform me when to rejoin,” one of the teachers said. He said most private colleges had adopted this strategy while some had forced teachers to resign. The All India Council of Technical Education has received complaints of salary default and issued a public notice asking institutions to desist from such practice. H. Chaturvedi, alternate president of the Educational Promotion Society of India — an association of private professional institutions — said these colleges were in a crisis. “In several countries the governments have given (an economic) package to educational institutions, including private institutions. But the financial package announced by the (Indian) government offered no relief to the stressed private educational institutions,” he said. “Institutions that need help should be provided with working capital at zero to five per cent interest, repayable in the next five years. The government should frame a policy on this,” Chaturvedi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||70 doctors of Odisha hospital quarantined||As many as  70 doctors of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Science and Research (VIMSAR) at Burla here have been put under quarantine after some of them showed symptoms of Covid-19. Director, VIMSAR, professor Lalit Kumar Meher told The Telegraph, “Majority of them are from the medicine department and the rest are from other departments. In the course of discharging their duty, they had come in contact with Covid-19 patients. After some of them developed mild symptoms, we went for contact tracing and put all the 70 doctors under quarantine.” “Those who have mild symptoms will be tested for the virus after undergoing seven-day quarantine and if found negative they will be allowed to join duty,” he said. Sources said nearly 38 doctors of medicine department of the institute have been put under quarantine. The out patient department (OPD) of the hospital has been closed for seven days. “Like other reputed institutes, we are offering telemedicine services and carry out emergency services on a priority basis. Even though we are short of staff, we have been able to render good service to the people,” Meher said. People can contact the hospital on 7655051598 and 7655051601 to avail of its telemedicine services, officials said. So far, 15 doctors from VIMSAR have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Not only VIMSAR, other medical institutes such as the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Sishu Bhavan and Acharya Harihar Cancer Institute, Cuttack, AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, and a dozen of hospitals located in different parts of the state have been hit by the pandemic and been forced to limit their services. Besides doctors, frontline workers such as police officers,  Anaganwadi workers and several others, who are working overtime to contain the spread of the virus, have been hit by the virus. On Thursday, Khurda district superintendent of police Ajay Pratap Swain and 10 employees of state health and family welfare department were tested positive for Covid-19. Seven CRPF jawans tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The state has so far reported 40,717 corona positive cases. It witnessed the highest ever-single day spike of 1,699 cases on Thursday. So far, 235 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state and 25,737 people have recovered. In order to keep the morale of frontline warriors, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had on Wednesday held prayers for them. A minute’s silence was observed by people across the state at 6pm on the call of the chief minister to express solidarity with Covid warriors. The state government has stepped up efforts to provide plasma therapy to as many patients as possible. The government has set up five plasma banks in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Online entry to Visva Bharati this year||Visva-Bharati will start its admission process for the current academic year from August 10 through online registration only because of the raging pandemic. Varsity officials said applicants could access the official website, visvabharati.ac.in, for admissions from August 10. The entire admission process would be done online. “We will prepare the merit list (of applicants) within a month and ask the (selected) students to get admitted online,” said a senior official. Asked how they would verify student testimonials, an official said: “We will verify the testimonials once the situation improves. If a testimonial is found fraudulent during physical document verification, the admission will be cancelled.” Online admissions are a challenge for Kala Bhavana (department of fine arts) and Sangeet Bhavana (department of music) as students are selected on the basis of their performance. So, admissions are likely to be held up in the departments, said a varsity source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University introduces tea science course||Students aspiring to a career in the tea industry can now join an undergraduate course on tea science from this academic session, authorities of the North Bengal University (NBU) said on Thursday. “For the first time in north Bengal, we are introducing tea science in the undergraduate level. Those who take admission will get a BSc degree in tea science and the three-year course will be taught on varsity campus itself. This is the first time any varsity in India, other than some agricultural universities, is offering such a course,” said Nupur Das, secretary of the undergraduate council of the NBU. A student who has cleared Class XII with science subjects is eligible to apply. As of now, there will be 20 seats at the undergraduate level with five faculty members. Pranab Ghosh, an advisory committee member of the course at the NBU, said students could learn “scientific aspects of tea cultivation and processing to the management of tea gardens”. Students can also take up postgraduate course on the subject too. “In fact, we are offering a diploma on tea science at NBU,” Das added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown: more vessels for Hooghly rides as train services remain suspended ||The government has increased the number of vessels connecting Calcutta with districts such as North 24-Parganas and Hooghly to meet the demand of transport as suburban train services remain suspended since the lockdown was declared in March. As most of the ferry services to the districts across the Hooghly depended on motorised boats with limited passenger capacity, a source said, the transport department had directed the authorities concerned to halt those as it would double the number of bigger vessels. “Before the lockdown, we had 16 vessels to ferry passengers across the Hooghly river to the districts of Hooghly and North 24-Parganas. After the unlock I period, we started to increase the number of vessels. At present, we are operating 27 vessels,” said Rajat Kanti Biswas, the joint managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation. Biswas was present at Khardah in North 24-Parganas on Thursday to officially inaugurate launch service to Rishra, which is on the other side of the Hooghly. The Khardah municipality had recently approached transport minister Suvendu Adhikari for two vessels to ply between Khardah and Rishra as a lot of people faced problems in commuting. “Post-lockdown, people need to move for work. Trains, the main mode of transport, have not been running since the beginning of the lockdown. So, we requested the transport minister to start the ferry services from Khardah to Rishra,” said Kajal Sinha, the chairperson of board of administrators at Khardah municipality. The municipality requested the transport department to start a ferry service from Khardah to Babughat to help commuters reach Calcutta using the waterways. The new vessels would replace the motorised boats that used to operate on the route earlier. “The transport department has assured us that they will start trial run of the ferry service soon,” said Sinha, who was present in the inaugural ceremony of the vessel services along with Trinamul MLA from Uttarpara Prabir Ghoshal. Sources in the transport department said already four new vessels had been allotted for Serampore to ply between various ghats in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas amid the post-lockdown situation. “We have started a speed-vessel from Chandernagore that reaches Babughat in 40 minutes. It is helping commuters from Hooghly to reach Calcutta fast while maintaining physical distancing as per Covid protocol,” said a transport department official. “All the ferry ghats have been asked to submit their demands for vessels to meet the rush of passengers and the government is trying to do its level best,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Tides flood Digha, 1,000 evacuated||High tides triggered by a low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal since Wednesday night, coupled with full moon, triggered inundation of some parts of the Digha-Mandarmani coastal zone and forced over 1,000 residents of five villages to take refuge at local schools and two cyclone shelters. The development came as a surprise to local people who had witnessed minimal damage to the area during Cyclone Amphan on May 20. “The under-construction Digha-Mandarmani metal road was seriously breached by high waves on Wednesday night,” an official of the East Midnapore district administration said, referring to the chief minister’s “dream project” of a scenic route, christened Marine Drive between the two beach towns. Sources said the worst-affected villages included Shyampur, Jalda, Chandpur and Tengamari, where agricultural plots and brackish fishing waters were overrun. “Nearly 100 families have been shifted to the cyclone shelters at Tajpur and Jalda as well as a few local schools,” said an official, adding that cooked food was being provided at the evacuees. “The full moon worsened the low pressure formation causing waves as high as seven metres. The damage is worse that what we suffered on May 20,” Ramnagar 1 block development officer Bishnupada Ray. A team of panchayat samiti functionaries and irrigation department engineers on Thursday surveyed coastal parts of Digha to repair Marine Drive as soon as possible. “It is important to revive and complete the project,” said panchayat president Nitai Sar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Rain & storm disrupt hills, boy swept away||A sudden storm accompanied by torrential downpour disrupted life across the hills from Wednesday afternoon to late Thursday morning. Sources at the Regional Meterological Office in Calcutta said that in the past 24 hours, that is till 8.30am on Thursday, it rained 130mm in Kalimpong and around 100mm in Darjeeling. Because of the downpour, numerous small hilly streams and drains have suddenly swelled across the region. A 12-year-old boy who was swept away by the water of a gushing stream from a locality in Kalimpong on Wednesday evening has not yet been found, said sources. The schoolboy, Allah Rakha, a resident of Bhalukhop in Kalimpong, was standing near his home on Wednesday evening. Suddenly, the water level of the Malikholajhora, a hilly stream that ran near his home, rose. The boy was swept away. The administration’s hunt for him has not been successful yet, triggering panic in the area. On Thursday, authorities of Kalimpong municipality took up the onus to clear waterlogging in various parts of the town. “There is waterlogging in many parts of the town because of the heavy rainfall. This has also bared the ignorance of a section of people who have built houses and other buildings that encroach on the town’s drainage systems. In ward 3 of the town, for instance, there was a flood-like situation and water had entered shops and houses. This happened only because the drains were choked with pipes, clothes, furniture, stones and boulders. There was no space for rainwater to flow out,” said a source from the municipality. He added: “Let this be a warning call for the town’s residents that we have to ensure that drains do not remain blocked and people should stop treating drains as trash cans for discarded items.” Rainfall was accompanied by a storm that uprooted a number of trees throughout the hills. The fallen trees in turn, snapped electricity distribution cables in Darjeeling town and in suburbs like Ghoom, Bijanbari, Takdah and Lodhama. “Most power transmission lines got affected as uprooted trees or broken branches fell on the cables. In all, there were eight power substations where power supply was disrupted. Work started from Thursday morning and we hope power will be restored in due course,” said an official of the Darjeeling district administration on Thursday morning. From afternoon onwards, power supply started resuming and became normal by evening in most areas. Weathermen said that the hills and some other areas of north Bengal and the neighbouring state of Sikkim would experience heavy rain during the next couple of days. “Southwest monsoon is active over the region. There is a forecast of heavy rain or thundershowers in some places of Sikkim and Bengal during the next few days,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Panic buying before Nadia lockdown kicks in||Long queues were witnessed at markets in Nadia district on Thursday as people scrambled to stock food and essential commodities before the start of a week-long lockdown in eight municipal areas and 25 gram panchayats from Friday. The district on Thursday reported 95 fresh Covid-19 cases with Kalyani municipality topping the chart with 20. The total number of positive cases in the district till Thursday stood at 1,379. The spike in Covid cases had compelled the district administration to enforce stringent lockdown from August 8 to 14. However, the people appeared to be unperturbed about the rise in cases as they jostled at crowded markets throughout Thursday. Most buyers and sellers were wearing no masks. The panic shopping, coupled with incessant rain, resulted in a sudden spike in prices of vegetables in some areas. Demand for potatoes was the highest. The produce was sold at Rs 32 a kilo, while tomatoes were priced at 150 a kilo. Frenzy buying was witnessed at markets in Kalyani, Chakdah, Ranaghat, Santipur, Krishnagar, Tehatta, Karimpur, and Geshpur. In the morning, hundreds stood in long queues in front of shopping complexes, grocery shops, medicine stores and bakeries. In Santipur, chaotic scenes in the markets forced traders to take the help of police to control the crowd. Ashish Kumar Naha, a state government employee from Chakdah, who stood in a queue outside a departmental store, had to return as the wait became too long for him. “There was a huge rush everywhere in the market. People panicked as if they would get nothing eventually...I finally gave up and returned home. I will try on Friday,” Naha said. The administration’s order that all shops and markets would remain closed during the lockdown contributed to the rush. But, essential services like medicine shops and LPG supply would run as usual. District magistrate, Nadia, Vibhu Goel said: “We have given ample time to the people to store essential items in sufficient quantities. Our objective is to keep people confined to home during lockdown.” A homemaker in Kalyani said: “The administration’s intention is good but the way it is being carried out is wrong. Storing vegetables for seven days is an impractical idea even for those who have refrigerators.” “The administration should find an alternative way while ensuring stringent monitoring. The administrative order has also pushed up prices of vegetables, while people crowded markets ignoring the protocol of physical distancing,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Scholar Amaresh Datta no more||Professor emeritus Amaresh Datta, a noted scholar of English from Assam who evoked awe and respect in equal measure from his students and admirers, passed away at his Dibrugarh residence on Thursday morning. He would have been 102 in November and is survived by his wife and five sons. Datta was cremated with full state honours at Chowkidinghee, about 2km from his Naliapool residence in the Upper Assam town. In attendance were Dibrugarh MP and Union minister of state Rameswar Teli, Dibrugarh MLA Prasanta Phukan, Dibrugarh deputy commissioner P.G. Jha and SP Sreejith T, among others. Glowing tributes and the heartfelt condolences poured in from all quarters, an indication of the impact Datta had on people he came in touch with. An ex-student and former head of the English department, Dibrugarh University, Udayon Misra, 75, said Datta was the “doyen of teachers” of English Literature in the region and in his long career he “inspired” several generations of students. Former student Kashi Nath Hazarika, a member of Assam State Innovation and Transformation Aayog and former chairman-cum-managing director of NEDFi, said, “…these rare and diminishing breed of revered teachers reflected the values of their times... simplicity, integrity, passion and sheer joy of teaching.” Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal described Datta as a “stalwart of modern education in India”. AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya said the demise of the “scholar” has created a big void in the field of education. Datta started his teaching journey at Sagar University in Madhya Pradesh in the early fifties before moving to Gauhati University from where he retired as professor and head of the department of English. He joined Dibrugarh University as head of the department, English, and moved to Delhi as chief editor of the Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature, a project of the Sahitya Akademi. Datta was an authority on Shakespeare. His book, Shakespeare’s Tragic Vision and Art published in 1963, received appreciation from eminent scholars and critics like professors G. Wilson Knight, E.M.W. Tillyard and A.G. Stock. His collection of poems, Captive Moments (1952), bagged an award from the International Association of Poetry in Rome. Some of his published works include Time’s Harvest and Lotus and the Cross. Datta also received an honorary doctorate degree by Assam University, Silchar, the title of Professor Emeritus by Gauhati University, the Kamal Kumari National Award in 2010 and the Krishna Kanta Handique National Award in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata opts for low-key Independence Day celebrations||The Bengal government has decided to scale down the celebrations this Independence Day because of the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Thursday. “Only (the national) flag will be hoisted and some Covid warriors will be felicitated, but by maintaining social distance,” she said. “Clubs can hoist the flag with four to five people...,” she said, urging people hoist flags at homes. She emphasised that Independence Day was “the most important day in our lives”. Sources in Nabanna said that since 2011, Independence Day celebrations were taken to new heights as the Trinamul-led state government shifted the venue of the programme to Red Road from Writers’ Buildings. Cultural events and tableaux focussing the achievements of the state government were included. “But since the ministry of home affairs has issued a guideline to scale down Independence Day programmes this year, the state government would do the bare minimum,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty passes away||Veteran CPM leader and the party’s central committee member, Shyamal Chakraborty, 77, breathed his last in Calcutta on Thursday. Known as a labour leader, Chakraborty, a many-time MLA who had been Bengal’s transport minister and a Rajya Sabha member, had tested positive for Covid-19. He had been put on ventilator on August 1. Condolences poured in from chief minister Mamata Banerjee, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPM leaders Biman Bose and Surjya Kanta Mishra, Congress leader Abdul Mannan, among others. He is survived by his daughter, actor Ushasie. Expressing her grief over Chakraborty’s demise, Mamata tweeted: “Saddened at the passing away of veteran leader, former Member of Parliament and former Bengal minister Shyamal Chakraborty. My condolences to his family, friends and supporters.” Yechury tweeted  to mourn the death of a “friend and comrade”. “He was an astounding fighter for the rights of the working class and was a very able parliamentarian.” CPM leader Biman Bose remembered his colleague as “a student leader, a labour leader and a mass leader”. “I was among his friends and he was one of my mother’s favourites,” Bose said. Mannan said they had “ideological differences and yet shared a cordial relationship”. A popular trade union leader, Chakraborty became a member of the undivided Communist party in 1959 and was elected as MLA in the 1981 bypoll and in 1982, 1987 and 1991. He had served as a member of the Rajya Sabha from  2008 to 2014. At present he was the state unit president of the CPM’s trade union wing, Citu. Mishra added that all Covid safety protocols would be followed during the cremation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Relatives to get access to Covid patient data||The Bengal government has decided to upload health parameters of all hospitalised Covid-19 patients on a website and make the same available to relatives in an apparent bid to scotch charges that families are kept in dark about the condition of the admitted positive persons. The details will be uploaded on the website of the state health department and the public can get to know overall particulars like the number of critical patients and those in ICUs. “We have already started maintaining the records of coronavirus patients admitted to both government and private hospitals and monitoring their condition under the Critical Covid Patient Management System (CCPMS ) that was launched on August 1. Details of the patients’ condition will be uploaded on the health department’s website within two weeks,” said a senior state government official. “A mechanism will be developed so that only relatives can access the health parameters of patients. Common people will be able to know the overall condition like, how many are critical or the number of patients on the life support system,” added the official. The move — assumed to be the first in the country — was initiated purportedly to counter allegations that relatives were not informed of the health details of the patients admitted to Covid hospitals. At a news conference at Nabanna after a cabinet meeting on Thursday, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said 96 doctors of the health department were monitoring all admitted Covid patients 24x7 under the CCPMS. “All health parameters, including oxygen saturation level, pulse rate, blood sugar, functioning of different body parts, are being shared by hospitals at regular intervals. A team of doctors is monitoring reports of each patient and suggesting next course of action,” said an official. Sources said the government was forced to take the step to bring details of each hospitalised patient to the public domain as pressure was mounting on the authorities amid complaints that death toll was rising because of improper treatment. The CCPMS was introduced in the state with an aim to bring down the number of deaths after the authorities found that the allegation of neglecting Covid patients were true at some hospitals. The sources said the CCPMS would ensure that hospitals were on their toes to provide proper treatment to the patients as they would be under scanner all the time. “If a patient dies because of low oxygen saturation, the hospital would be liable to say whether he/she was put on oxygen support. As everything would be made public, all hospitals would be under pressure,” said a source. The top brass of the government was hopeful that the step would help them in making public aware that patients with comorbidities were vulnerable to the coronavirus. “The health parameters will make it clear which patients are more critical. This would erase misconceptions,” said an official. The state government is also laying stress on putting several other facilities in place so that people don’t panic about the pandemic. Besides arranging ambulances for the patients who are calling up the helpline (1800 313 444 222), the government is also making arrangements for hospitalisation of the patients. “We have arranged ambulances for 54,571 patients since July. We have admitted 72,158 patients to the hospitals during the same period,” said the chief secretary. He also said people were being helped through telemedicine helpline. A total of 42,584 people have secured consultation from the service. “All these assure people that there is somebody to help in case of an emergency. Our target is to ensure that people don’t panic,” said an official. On Thursday, the state cabinet approved recruitment of 500 house staff to government hospitals. Besides, the government allowed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to recruit 53 doctors and 18 medical technicians through walk in interviews.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government seeks to calm nerves amid Covid spike||The Bengal government on Thursday tried to soothe nerves over the spike in Covid-19 cases, asserting that it still had “full control” of the pandemic’s management and underscored certain “qualitative aspects” of the data to allay fears. Hours before the daily Covid-19 bulletin from the state health department reported the highest 24-hour  rise in new cases at 2,954, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had suggested at a news conference — attended by chief minister Mamata Banerjee — on Thursday that there was more to the statistics than meets the eye. Sinha announced that the state had achieved on Thursday the target Mamata had set for August 15, that of taking the number of tests from around 10,000 a day to 25,000. With Thursday’s 25,224 tests — the maximum intra-day test count — the total crossed 10.28 lakh, at 11,425 per million. “Because we are testing a lot more, of course, we have been getting more cases. But our decision is firm, we will keep ramping up testing, tracing and tracking… irrespective of what some other states might be doing. Because there is a lot more testing, there are more cases being found,” said Mamata. Sinha pointed out that out of the total Covid-19 cases of nearly 87,000, only around 24,000 were active cases and there were over 61,000 recoveries. “Of them (the active cases), as of 9am, 1,144 patients were critical, 1,043 patients moderate, 1,946 mildly symptomatic…. Each patient in Bengal, we have every status update,” said the chief secretary. “We issue all key statistics in our daily Covid-19 bulletins, but some qualitative aspects are not adequately reflected, sometimes, in them. Therefore, some points I would really like to assert here…. The targets, by way of capacity augmentation and necessary intervention, that we have been setting, we have been achieving,” said Sinha. “The entire Covid management, even now… is under full control of the state government and the associated partners.” Sinha said the recovery rate of the state was now 70.34 per cent. On Thursday, till 9am, the state reported 2,061 more recoveries in 24 hours. With 56 deaths being reported on Thursday, the toll from Covid-19 rose to 1,902. But Sinha offered further insight. “The mortality rate is 2.2 per cent. So, barely two out of every hundred Covid-19 patients have died. Of those two, 87.8 per cent (1,670 of the total) were comorbid,” he said. “Covid-19 on its own is not that dangerous, only if there are comorbidities, it is a deadly combination…. Many deaths have been because of delayed hospitalisation, because they thought they would be okay for three more days, but deteriorated drastically in three hours,” he added. Sinha also asserted that the state had bettered by 60 its target to augment the number of dedicated Covid-19 beds by 500 by July 31, taking the total bed count to 11,560. “Occupancy, over the past 10 days, we have kept around 39 per cent. That means over 60 per cent beds remain available. No dearth of beds, even in high-load districts,” he said. Mamata advised the administration to have a survey conducted and a helpline set up for police to come to the aid of senior citizens living alone, especially at urban centres. The chief minister said she had found out on Wednesday that one of her neighbours was ill and needed hospitalisation. “He is very senior. Both his daughters are professors. One of them came to visit him yesterday, and then everybody came to know he had been with fever for three days, living alone…. The Kalighat police station hospitalised him immediately,” she said. “He could have died like that, then it would have been said that nobody looked out for him…. It got me thinking. Something must be done specifically for such elderly,” added Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Festivals forced change in Bengal lockdown dates: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that the Bengal government had rescheduled dates of complete lockdown because of festivals and sought to address concerns over rumours of district/townwise weeklong complete lockdown. “We have already given you some dates for the lockdown, for the complete lockdown. Saturday is the next one. After that, August 9 was planned, but there is a tribal occasion (International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples)…. So, after Saturday, August 2021. 2728 and 31,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. On July 28, she had announced complete lockdown on August 2, 5, 8, 9, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31. Later that night, August 2 and 9 were dropped from the list. But the Opposition and apolitical netizens were outraged when the dates were changed again on Monday. “Everything has to be seen... In this, we have Manasa Puja, on August 17, so that date had to be changed. Janmashtami (on August 11), Parsi New Year’s Day on August 16… all of this had to be factored in. These festivals and occasions have been taking place in Bengal. Nothing new,” said Mamata. Although the saffron camp had mounted a hate campaign against her over complete lockdown in the state on Wednesday — the day of the bhoomi pujan at Ayodhya — the Trinamul Congress chief steered clear of trying to explain that choice of date. “Everything has to be accounted for in taking these decisions. We still have to break the chain using this complete lockdown method, which is scientific… two days at a |time, wherever possible,” she said. Mamata went on to soothe nerves over rumours of district specific or townwise complete lockdown by districts administrations over several days. “Some lockdowns in the districts, being carried out by the district magistrates and the district police chiefs. That is not related to the state (government). This was advised by the Centre, that district magistrates could exercise discretion and do this in their containment areas, on |a needbased basis,” said |Mamata. “I am sure they are not going to shut a whole district down. Some neighbourhoods, some areas, where infections are high or chances are high. At those places, the district administration sometimes implement localised lockdowns. Not complete, mind you, but containment areabased lockdowns,” she added. “There is a great deal of difference between complete lockdowns and this.” Sources said the chief minister had been aware of panic being triggered over widely circulated “information” on social media regarding complete lockdown in the districts and wanted to convey a message of calm. “Complete lockdowns, only the state government can declare, which we have done. These are specific to a village, or a ward, or a neighbourhood,” she said. “Where four six cases have suddenly been found, it has to be done, there is no way out… maybe just one small road, or neighbourhood, or area, nothing larger.” “But not three days at one go… or seven days. No more than two days in a row… in small areas. Where there is no need, there will not be such measures. Where there is need, it must be done, for the sake of the people,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||North East||Scholar Amaresh Datta passes away||Professor emeritus Amaresh Datta, a noted scholar of English from Assam who evoked awe and respect in equal measure from his students and admirers, passed away at his Dibrugarh residence at 7.50am on Thursday. He would have been 102 in November and is survived by his wife and five sons. Datta was cremated with full state honours at Chowkidinghee, about 2km from his Naliapool residence in the Upper Assam town. In attendance were Dibrugarh MP and Union minister of state Rameswar Teli, Dibrugarh MLA Prasanta Phukan, Dibrugarh deputy commissioner P.G. Jha and SP Sreejith T, among others. Glowing tributes and the heartfelt condolences poured in from all quarters, an indication of the impact Datta had on people he came in touch with. Apart from being an authority in his subject, he was simple, caring and an inspiration, his former students said. An ex-student and former head of the English department, Dibrugarh University, Udayon Misra, 75, said Datta was the “doyen of teachers” of English Literature in the region and in his long career he “inspired” several generations of students who have left their mark in diverse fields. Misra said “poet and scholar” Datta will be “greatly missed” by the large family of students and admirers that he had created. “I will always fondly recall my relationship with a great teacher,” he added. Datta had a long and eventful career, starting his teaching journey at Sagar University in Madhya Pradesh in the early fifties before moving to Gauhati University from where he retired as professor and head of the department of English. He joined Dibrugarh University as head of the department, English, and then moved to Delhi as chief editor of the Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature, a project of the Sahitya Akademi. Another former student and former Assam DGP, Deepak N. Dutt, said, “His sterling contribution to the overall educational scene in Assam will remain etched in the minds of all his students. A towering figure in more ways than one, Dr Datta exuded simplicity in deportment and impressed one and all with his incandescent scholarship.” Datta was an authority on Shakespeare. His book, Shakespeare’s Tragic Vision and Art published in 1963, received appreciation from eminent scholars and critics like professors G. Wilson Knight, E.M.W. Tillyard and A.G. Stock. His collection of poems, Captive Moments (1952), bagged a prestigious award from the International Association of Poetry in Rome. Some of his other published works include Time’s Harvest and Lotus and the Cross. Datta was the recipient of an honorary doctorate degree by Assam University, Silchar, the title of Professor Emeritus by Gauhati University, the Kamal Kumari National Award in 2010 and the Krishna Kanta Handique National Award in 2018. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal described Datta as a “stalwart of modern education in India”. AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya said the demise of the “scholar” has created a big void in the field of education. Former student Kashi Nath Hazarika, a member of Assam State Innovation and Transformation Aayog and former chairman-cum-managing director of NEDFi, said, “…these rare and diminishing breed of revered teachers reflected the values of their times... simplicity, integrity, passion and sheer joy of teaching. I lament the vanishing breed of such stalwarts like Datta Sir and values they espoused,” Hazarika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
07-08-2020||North East||Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation for just, long-lasting, honourable Naga solution||The Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation (UNPO) has “adopted” a resolution supporting a peaceful solution to the Indo-Naga issue which is just, long-lasting, honourable and acceptable to both the sides, the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) said in a statement released on Wednesday night. Founded in February 1991 at the Hague with its secretariat in Brussels, the UNPO is an international membership-based organisation established to empower the voices of the unrepresented and marginalised people and protect their fundamental human rights. The UNPO has more than 45 members worldwide, including Tibet, Taiwan, Balochistan, Sindh and Chittagong Hill Tracts. The NSCN(I-M), which is in a ceasefire with the Centre to find an amicable solution to the decades-old Naga political issue, became a UNPO member on January 23, 1993. The NSCN(I-M), in its release, said the resolution adopted at its XV General Assembly held in Washington DC from July 31 to August 2 stated, “Support a peaceful resolution of the Indo-Naga issue which is just, long-lasting, honourable and acceptable to both the sides.” It called upon the international community to “appeal to India to fulfil its commitments in the Framework Agreement on the Indo-Naga issue.” The resolution also urged India to “repeal acts such as the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act and the Disturbed Area Act which overly militarise the situation facing the Naga people”. The development comes close on the heels of the outfit stating on eve of the fifth anniversary of the Framework Agreement, signed on August 3, 2015 with the Centre, that the pact has been “ironically put in cold storage.” The agreement has not yet been made public. The NSCN (I-M) also made it clear that the Centre must undo the environment of mistrust. “What has been mutually agreed upon should be honoured in letter and spirit and that is the only way forward,” the statement said on August 2. The general assembly was held through video-conferencing for the first time because of the Covid pandemic. The NSCN(I-M) was represented by Naga delegates, led by vice-chairman Lt. Gen. (retd.) V.S. Atem, along with senior members V. Horam, Kihoyi Swu, Ninghor Raikham and Asing Shimrah, who moved the proposal that Indo-Naga political issue be adopted. “Accordingly, the Naga representatives were privileged to speak at three different sessions. Finally, it culminated to the adoption of the resolution after passing of votes in the plenary session on the last day,” the NSCN(I-M) said. In the UNPO, Nagalim is listed as a member, represented by the NSCN (I-M), formed in 1980 but has since undergone multiple splits. The UNPO overview of Nagalim says, “The Naga are originally from Mongolia, having migrated to the region of Nagalim in the 10th century BC. The term Nagalim refers to the entire Naga ancestral domain, which was partitioned by the British between India and Burma, now Myanmar. The Nagas’ history is one of colonisation, in the 19th century by the British, and then by India, who inherited the territory from the British colonial power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
07-08-2020||Opinion||A clash of two visions: Gandhi’s Hinduism, Jinnah’s Islam||What happened when an unstoppable force met with an immovable object? Gandhi’s epic, but ultimately futile, confrontation with Jinnah — the subject matter of M.J. Akbar’s unexceptional enquiry — is perhaps best expressed in such metaphorical terms. The outcome, unfortunately, was the sundering of the subcontinent into two distinct political entities. Akbar chooses to explore the dynamics of the Gandhi-Jinnah relationship through the ebb and flow of a choppy political tide. To be fair to the author, a holistic assessment of their engagement is impossible without locating it in its context. But Akbar’s problem is one of control — the lack of it rather — over scale. The attention on the rivalry between the principal protagonists is inevitably diluted as the narrative begins to accommodate other players in the saga. This is not to suggest that Akbar’s broader analysis lacks depth. The differences between Viceroy Wavell and Premier Churchill on the Bengal famine or, later, the barely-concealed antagonism between Mountbatten and Cripps are engrossing. But Gandhi and Jinnah get lost in the crowd on such and other occasions. The fleshing out of the two adversaries is uneven too. Gandhi, understandably, dominates, with Akbar tracing his political journey ably, even though the trajectory of this journey would be familiar to the serious scholar. One inference about the Mahatma, however, does strike a chord. Could the horror of Partition have been avoided had Gandhi, as Akbar suggests pointedly, not “sought to reach Indian Muslims through Jinnah...?” The Jinnah that Akbar portrays is consistent with the prevailing stereotype: ambitious, unbending, tactical and myopic. But what is expected from such an analysis are answers to enduring riddles. Could egotism alone explain the shocking transformation of Jinnah the Constitutionalist? Akbar ticks off Jinnah’s singular speech in the Pakistan Constituent Assembly, calling to bury division among communities, as a subversion of his earlier inflammatory prejudice. Could it be that Jinnah’s obduracy was as much the result of his political aspirations, imperial chicanery as the Congress’s — Gandhi’s? — failure to take advantage of his limitations? Punjab’s Unionist Party, a coalition of Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs, provided the Congress with a formidable alternative to Jinnah’s sectarian model. Yet, Punjab — and Bengal — were bled dry by Partition. Jawaharlal Nehru — in a sign of the times — comes out as poorly as Jinnah in this interpretation of the tumultuous events with Akbar blaming Nehru for lighting the fire that singed the Cabinet Mission Plan. The shadow of the present on the past seems to be lengthening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Make a change: Urgency of police reforms||Sir — The article, “Poisoned stick” (July 28), by Ruchir Joshi, emphasizing the urgency of police reforms in India and across the world, is thought-provoking. Joshi’s acquaintance is right to underline the fact that there is need for the police force to exist but, at the same time, it is necessary to make efforts to sensitize the forces. It is true that the level of policing has reached an abysmally low point under the current regime in India. But it is the people in power who inculcate and abet the unethical policies. In India, beating a confession out of an accused by the police who consider themselves above the law has become a normal practice because of the impunity that they enjoy. Reports suggest that the police often pass off custodial deaths on account of torture as suicides or attribute them to co-morbidities. The officers higher up in the hierarchy must also have a role in defending the errant policemen. Data reveal that between 2001 and 2018 there were around 1,727 recorded deaths in police custody, but only 26 policemen were convicted of custodial deaths. The former home minister, Indrajit Gupta, had taken up the cause of police reform sincerely and made attempts for the country to break out of the colonial system of policing. In 2006, the Supreme Court, too, directed state governments to set up a security commission to insulate the police from extraneous pressure, a police establishment board to provide autonomy to the police in matters relating to personnel, and a complaints authority to ensure a higher level of accountability by the police. But even today the states seem to be dragging their feet. Unless the ruling dispensation in each state takes the matter seriously, police reform will remain a distant dream in India.Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — Reform in the police force has been long due in India. It is now time to bring about a change in the behavioural and ethical code by which the force conducts itself. But it should also be noted that the misbehaviour of a few can give the whole force a bad name. As such, even the policemen who are dutiful and honest end up being resented by the common people. While a nexus between the police and political leaders cannot be condoned, perhaps there is need for a deeper look at the circumstances that lead to such alliances. Not every policeman is part of such nexus for profit: one can also be coerced into it out of fear of losing the job on account of defiance. Dedication to one’s vocation and its true purpose — this applies to all working citizens, and particularly to ones in uniform — is of utmost importance.Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — The recent murder of George Floyd in the United States of America and the heinous death of a father and son in Tamil Nadu in police custody has brought police brutality into the limelight. There is no denying that policing while abiding by the rules is difficult, but this is no excuse for resorting to torture. It is also worrying when extra-judicial killings are lauded by the common people. They should remember that one is innocent until proven guilty, and any deviance is not acceptable. Otherwise, what is the point of having any law at all? Debapriya Mondal,Hooghly Time to go Sir — It was disappointing to learn that the iconic Spanish goalkeeper, Iker Casillas, has hung up his boots (“Casillas calls time”, Aug 5). Nicknamed ‘Saint Iker’ for his spectacular saves, Casillas has been one of the greatest goalkeepers of all time. Casillas has had a memorable two decades. As captain of the national team, he led Spain to victory at the UEFA Euro 2008. Spain also won its first World Cup in 2010 under the captaincy of Casillas, where he held a joint-record of five clean sheets, winning the Golden Glove award. That win made Spain overcome the tag of a jinxed football superpower and the team became a force to reckon with. ‘Tiki-taka’ footballing, too, came to the fore. Casillas has won many accolades in his career — his records would have been unparalleled if only he had not narrowly lost the International Federation of Football History and Statistics’s World’s Best Goalkeeper of the 1st Decade of the 21st Century award to Gianluigi Buffon. Nonetheless, Casillas has a way of striking chords at a personal level. He was one of the reasons why many football lovers, myself included, followed Real Madrid. During his term there, he defined a generation of world-class goalkeepers. It is comforting to know that Casillas will reportedly act as advisor to the club’s president in the next chapter of his career.Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta Sir — The news that one of the best goalkeepers of present time, Iker Casillas, has announced his retirement from professional sport was disheartening. Casillas — both Real Madrid and the Spanish national team must be grateful to him — has left his mark in history as the skipper who lifted his country’s maiden World Cup in 2010 as well as two consecutive European Championships in 2008 and 2012. Casillas and his unmatched talent will undoubtedly be missed not only by thousands of his fans but also by all football lovers across the world.Sourish Misra,Calcutta Better safe than sorry Sir — While the Dutch government has decided against advising citizens to wear face masks in crowded areas — the authorities believe that research has not proven the use of face masks to be effective in curbing the spread of Covid-19 infection — the city of Amsterdam has gone against the national policy and made them mandatory. Following the relaxation of lockdown rules in July, the Netherlands has seen a spike in coronavirus cases. Given that leading scientists are yet to fully understand the nature of the virus and come out with a cure, all possible preventive measures should be taken in view of the safety of the people.Asmita Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Clear lens: Portraying Indian Army on screen||Some terrains, it would seem, require more cautious treading than others. This appears to be one of the prominent implications of the letter sent recently by the Union defence ministry to the Central Board of Film Certification. The missive — it was despatched in response to a web series episode that allegedly portrayed the army in a ‘distorted’ manner — requested the CBFC to ask producers of movies and web series to seek permission from the said ministry before airing visual content depicting the Indian army or military personnel. There is a degree of merit in the concern that has been expressed — after all, the sensitive nature of the army as an institution as well as its strategic importance in safeguarding the interests and sovereignty of the nation cannot be ignored. As such, there might be a case to be made for regulating depictions of the history of the military for, say, factual accuracy. Indeed, in its bid to valorize the army, popular visual content on the armed forces in India — mainstream cinema is an example — has often demonstrated a penchant to undermine the rigour and discipline that lives in the military are subjected to. A degree of institutional supervision might, perhaps, help make portrayals of army life more realistic. This acknowledgement must be accompanied by a caveat. The licence of supervision must not be used to censor and, consequently, stifle creativity. This is especially pertinent at a time when spaces for dialogue, free speech and dissent are rapidly shrinking in India. There is a case for implementing a system of checks and balances as well. If film-makers are henceforth to obtain no-objection certificates from the defence ministry before airing visual content on the army, measures must also be taken to make the monitoring process transparent. For instance, the ministry should offer justifiable reasons for preventing objective portrayals of, say, reversals that the army may have suffered, notwithstanding its long and glorious record of service. This would ensure that a regulatory mechanism would not be used to limit public knowledge of the army. The armed forces are the nation’s pride precisely because, unlike in totalitarian polities, they have remained accountable to the people of India. This element of accountability must be emphasized since there are mounting fears — even among senior and retired officers — that the army is being used to score political points by the powers that be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Audacious: Equating temple with freedom struggle||Odious comparisons are par for the course in politics. But some politicians seem more vulnerable to this contagion than others. The Indian prime minister, unfortunately, belongs to the extremely vulnerable category. In his speech during the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya, Narendra Modi compared — audaciously — the movement to build the Ram temple with that of India’s heroic struggle against the yoke of colonialism. Those with a modicum of knowledge of history — not the version of history that the Bharatiya Janata Party would like to impose on the nation — would take umbrage at Mr Modi’s decision to match the two distinct kinds of mobilization. India’s freedom struggle is a testament to the spirit of inclusion. A nation fragmented on the lines of faith, caste and ethnicity had risen together as one under the leadership of the Mahatma — India’s original unifier — to challenge and then overthrow a mighty empire. A notable blip in this glorious chapter of unity among diverse communities was the Partition, which tore India apart along sectarian lines. These fault lines are visible on the horizon of New India. There is no doubt that the Ram Janmabhoomi movement was a popular phenomenon. But could it envelop every Indian, including all Hindus, in its embrace? A substantial number of Indians have distanced themselves from the movement on account of the toxic rhetoric of Hindutva. While India’s freedom movement served as a glue to keep a polity together, the political campaign that the BJP unleashed in the name of Ram led to division and conflict, elements that are anathema to M.K. Gandhi’s vision of Ram rajya. It is pertinent to note that Mr Modi stated that the temple construction signified freedom from slavery. It would be interesting to speculate on the implications of this statement. It has been argued, not without reason, that the demolition of the mosque in an orchestrated campaign — the Supreme Court did take note of this desecration in its verdict on the matter — signified the dismantling of the edifice of constitutionalism. Is the ‘slavery’ then symbolic of the collective commitment to the values of pluralism and secularism enshrined in the Constitution? More ominously, is the ‘freedom’ that Mr Modi mentioned suggestive of a clean break with constitutional imperatives? The answer is not clear yet; but it would be in the coming days. What is clear, however, is that Gandhi’s dream of Ram rajya and the one that Mr Modi is working to realize are like the metaphorical chalk and cheese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Sharks on Land: Termination of CRDA ||The bill to repeal the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Act, 2014 was passed in June. With it, the capital city development project on 53,000 acres of land was terminated in the fifth year of operation. Another bill passed earlier enabled the replacement of the Amaravati Metropolitan Region and Urban Development Authority. The present government has also decided to offer additional land compensation to farmers whose land had been pooled under the land-pooling scheme. Most developmental projects require land. The government finds it easier to acquire land from the people. The State has the inherent power of eminent domain after just and fair compensation. Under the new land acquisition Act (LARR), the compensation is fair but higher. This often makes projects expensive. The CRDA found a way around this expensive and time-consuming land acquisition process via the LPS, which bypassed the protections provided to landowners under the LARR Act.By force In April 2017, the CRDA proposed to acquire 20,000 acres of farmland under the provisions of LARR Act from ‘unruly’ landowners. The farmers who refused to give up their land under LPS were served with acquisition notices under the LARR Act. The LARR Act mandates that a social impact assessment must be conducted to decide on compensation and other aspects of rehabilitation of the people whose lands would be acquired. Reports from the region suggested that these procedures were flouted. The LARR Act makes acquisition conditional upon the consent of landowners in certain cases, curtails the powers of the collector, provides for higher compensation, appellate mechanism and compulsory rehabilitation and resettlement mechanism. It also states that a government cannot acquire more than 1 per cent of farmland in a five-year period. Several of these provisions were violated and there are allegations that the Telugu Desam Party government and businessmen coerced farmers to take possession of their land. Further, land-pooling only works if the agency uses some of the pooled land for infrastructure development in the future while the rights to new parcels in the pooled land are transferred back to the original landowners in some proportion with effective benefits. As per the LPS, farmers were offered 19-30 per cent pooled land, some compensation and additional future benefits. However, after the Andhra Pradesh general election in May 2019, the new government decided not to go ahead with the project and shifted the proposed capital to Vizag. The shift ruled out any future benefits to the landowners.Rude jolt The bill to terminate the CRDA was introduced in January 2020. It was passed in June. Two public interest litigations were filed in late January against the repealing of the CRDA Act but were dismissed. Under the new scheme, the Andhra Pradesh government would increase the pension amount being paid to landless farm labour from Rs 2,500 per month to Rs 5,000 per month. The annuity term would increase from 10 to 15 years. Additionally, it would give returnable plots to those who gave land under the LPS on a par with dry land farmers. LPS farmers would now get 0.33 instead of 0.28 acres as promised in the principal Act. The strategy of coercion and co-option employed by the earlier state government to force landowners to part with their land was a misadventure. The termination of the project came as a jolt to the LPS farmers, but benefited those who had refused to give their land under the scheme. Most stakeholders gained little while the farmers and landowners lost everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Indelible stain||Sher Ali Afridi. The name may make no sense to us in 2020. I cannot say that Afridi is a forgotten name. It would be much better to say that he has always remained unknown. Ali Afridi was from that area of the erstwhile Punjab province, which is now in Pakistan. A Pakhtun and a former sepoy in the Khyber Agency, he lived a short life during high colonial times. He was arrested and transported to Andaman for serving his jail term. This was almost a quarter century before the construction of the Cellular Jail commenced in 1896, and a few years after the first batch of some 800 ‘expelled’ persons was packed off to what is now Port Blair. Afridi, a lover of freedom, had his flitting moment of glory when he succeeded in killing Lord Mayo. Popularly known as Mayo in India, born in 1822 and educated at the Trinity College, Dublin, Richard Southwell Bourke, the Sixth Earl of Mayo, was posted to India in January 1869 as Viceroy. He is remembered for his work of improving relations between the Afghans and the British. In India, he is generally remembered for carrying out the first ever caste-based census. In February 1872, as the Viceroy was on a visit to Andaman, he was stabbed to death by Sher Ali. The reason? Barely 15 weeks before the murder, Mayo had given the green signal to the first Criminal Tribes Act of India, which turned a large number of innocent persons into criminals. The work towards CTA-1871 had started several decades ago. William Sleeman (1788-1856) was appointed specifically to ‘crush organized gangs’ during the 1830s-40s. He did his industrious work by listing every group of armed persons and every armed clash. He listed them by their caste and community names. And, in the process, he floated an immensely popular idea that there were hordes of thugs freely roaming about in Central India. The Victorian imagination in England was ready to lap up the ‘thuggee’ story. Indians, in contrast, were completely unaware of Sleeman’s action and its potential for a long-term consequence. The most dramatic consequence was the formulation of the CTA around two decades later. The less dramatic, but far more destructive, consequence was that people in India accepted the idea that some sections of society are ‘naturally criminal’. One does not know if Ali Afridi had foreseen the forthcoming demonization of the communities branded by the CTA. Whether he did or did not, the tag of criminality has continued to stick to a large number of Indians, and for far too long. One might tend to think that the communities that were brought under the purview of the CTA-1871 and all its subsequent revisions were, in a way, like all other classes, communities and groups victimized by colonial rule. That they certainly were; but their real tragedy began after colonial rule ended and India gained independence. During British rule, they were restricted from making frequent movements, from going out of the specific area within which they were restricted, or were confined to reformatory settlements and deprived of traditional livelihood and land ownership of any kind. However, when India gained independence, adopted the Constitution, and started preparing for its first general elections, the CTs were still inside their confinement areas and settlements. It was not until August 1952 that they were declared ‘free’. But this freedom came with a catch. Their reformatory settlements were thrown open after several generations had wasted themselves inside, carrying out the unpaid, compulsory labour for colonial civil construction projects, but they had nowhere to go. The life of any individual without land or livelihood is difficult enough; but if, in addition, the person has to carry a social stigma, it becomes far more unbearable. The CTs ‘denotified’ in 1952 had to face a wretched life. They became the non-persons drowned in the dung heap of scorn, contempt, atrocity and utter poverty. They had missed the relief bus as most states had already formed the lists of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. The denotified tribes — DNTs — remained, in most cases, out of the safety net of social justice. So far, no systematic enumeration of all ‘denotified’ CTs has ever been carried out. But statistical projections on the basis of the 1871 and 1931 population census indicate that a close to accurate guess should place their present population at 14 crore. These people normally try to live without making themselves noticed in any conspicuous way. The stigma has not ceased to chase them. Over the last 25 years, ever since I started working with the DNTs of India, I have noticed that the single column, short-notice news items in district-level newspapers in regional languages about a person maimed to death, mob-lynched or picked up by the police and found dead in police custody often lead the trail, on close scrutiny, to a DNT, sacrificed at the altar of our imperviousness and ignorance about their existence. An eight-year-old Bakerwal girl raped and murdered somewhere in the foothills of the Himalayas; a Pardhi woman forced to undress herself in full view of a crowd and asked to drink someone’s urine in Maharashtra; a 50-year-old Bajania beaten to pulp on the mere suspicion of stealing a green gourd, to name just a few of the incidents, fail to rouse India’s conscience the way George Floyd’s breathlessness moved the entire world into protest and repentance. Make no mistake: the majority among the migratory labourers, who walked hundreds of miles after the lockdown, many of them perishing on the way, were DNTs who had lived a migratory and nomadic life in the pre-colonial times. The Indian State — elite, upper class and sedentary people — failed to respond to the plight of the migratory labourers because we have fully internalized the colonial branding and stereotyping of the DNTs. One would imagine that the DNTs return the society’s attitude of scorn with an equal degree of scorn, its emotional violence with a matching emotional violence. But that is a gross mistake. Recently, I was speaking to various groups of youngsters among the DNTs, and asked them how, next year, they would like to ‘celebrate’ the 150th year of their ‘notification’ by the CTA of Mayo in 1871. Their answer was, “by going to Cumbria — in North England — where a statue of Mayo has been standing in pride, and to offer roses as our expression of forgiveness. We would like to forgive them for what they did to us, for historical revenge is not good for civilized Indian people.” What a noble thought! I too would like to accompany them to Cumbria in 2021. I hope Indians who are busy settling historical scores with Mohammed Ghori and Babur have a moment to spare for the resolve of the DNTs. The author is a cultural activist and founder of DNT Rights Action Group ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Garhwa cops bust 2 minigun factories, six arrested; Covid saviour Remdesivir crisis in Bokaro||The Garhwa police on Friday morning busted two minigun factories in the Ketar and Bhawnathpur police station area of the district, where illegal gun-making was being done, and arrested six persons on the charge of being engaged in illegal gun-making business. Seventeen country made pistols, one made in China pistol, one 315 bolt rifle, three semi-made native revolvers, one air gun, 105 live cartridges , two smart phones and Rs 1,25,000 cash has been retrieved. While addressing a press conference, SP Khotre Srikant Suresh Rao said that he received information about the gun making racket in the Bhawnathpur police station area. A task force was immediately constituted under the leadership of the Garhwa SDPO Brahman Tuti. Besides Garhwa thana in-charge Laxamikant, other thana in-charges and district police personnel were also included in the task force. A raid was conducted at the house of an arms dealer Pappu Chaudhary in Nawada village, where a large number of illegal firearms, cartridges, money related to illegal arms sales were recovered. On the tip off of Pappu, raids were  conducted at two places, Batokala village and Makari village under Bhawnathpur police station area early on Friday morning. The SP said that the three persons arrested on the charge of illegal gun making have been identified as Rajkumar Vishwakarma, Narendra Vishwakarma and Ramesh Vishwakarma, all residents of Batokala village under Kettar police station area. Two others, including Shiva Vishwakarma and Ranjan Jaiswal were arrested along with illegal weapons. The SP revealed that the clandestinely made weapons were supplied to the criminals of three states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. SP added that the cops, who were involved in the grand success against the illegal arms supply net, would be rewarded. Covid saviour Remdesivir crisis in Bokaro MLA, Bokaro, Biranchi Narayan and other political leaders on Friday raised their voices demanding anti-viral drug Remdesivir for the dedicated Covid Hospital of Bokaro. The district is facing a huge crisis of antiviral drug Remdesivir, which is said to be the only current effective medication available for Covid-19. Remdesivir is a very costly medicine that is not sold in the open market. The company as per government instruction only provides it to institutions. Narayan came to know about the drug crisis after Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) wrote a letter to the district health department asking to provide Remdesivir urgently witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases here. For critical patients Remdesivir is proven as a life-saving drug. Ever since BGH has been declared as a dedicated Covid Hospital, it has not received antiviral drugs from the state government. Till now more than 80 Covid-19 positive patients were cured here. Narayan wrote a letter to state health secretary, Nitin Madan Kulkarni requesting him to provide Remdesivir to hospitals here on an urgent basis. The MLA said to The Telegraph Online, “There are two serious patients in BGH, who were administered Remdesivir. They are recovering fast. BGH has arranged two files of Remdesivir from its own sources. Now it has no Remdesivir for other patients." Senior Congress leader Sweta Singh also requested state health minister Banna Gupta to provide Remdesivir to BGH as soon as possible. “I called state minister Banna Gupta and apprised him of the situation arising without anti-viral drug especially Remdesivir in Bokaro. If any Covid positive patient becomes critical, then doctors here become helpless in saving his life in absence of Remdesivir. Health minister told me that he is arranging it soon,” she said. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said that efforts are being made to obtain Remdesivir from the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Paramedics, nurses call off strike for pay parity after talks with govt||Health services, particularly Covid testing, that were intermittently disrupted in some districts over the last few days, would be streamlined from Saturday, the state health minister said on Friday after around 12,000 contractual paramedics and nurses decided to postpone their planned strike to demand full-time jobs and better pay. Several rounds of meetings were held on Friday with representatives of the paramedics and nurses during which the government was able to convince them to call off the indefinite strike plan after promising to look into their demands later. “We had extensive talks with the agitators and have assured them that all their issues will be sorted out once the coronavirus period is over,” health minister Banna Gupta said. “In the evening, chief minister Hemant Soren took stock of the situation. Ours is a sensitive government and paramedical staff are our family too. They have decided not to go on strike on humanitarian grounds,” he added. Gupta said in some districts where the strike was on, the local authorities tried to rope in an alternative workforce to ensure that Covid testing did not suffer. Around 12,000 contractual paramedical staff, pharmacists and nurses, under the joint banner of Jharkhand State Contractual Paramedical Staff Association and Jharkhand State NRHM (National Rural Health Mission) ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) and GNM (general nursing and midwifery) Sangh, have been on the warpath against successive governments’ sustained indifference towards their decade-long demand for regular jobs and better pay. On Tuesday, all the outfits held a day-long strike across district headquarters and medical college and hospitals as a prelude to an indefinite strike from Saturday. However, in several districts, various units representing paramedical and nursing staff and lab technicians haven’t been reporting for work since then. District administrations were in a tizzy and tried their best to organise additional workers in the face of a steady increase in the number of Covid cases. In places like Dhanbad, Bokaro and parts of Ranchi, the strike had impacted Covid testing, in addition to disrupting general health services. Manju Minz (33) of Lalpur, who is eight months pregnant, had to return from sadar hospital without undergoing her scheduled check-up. “Covid testing has been made mandatory for all those turning up at the hospital before any treatment. However, when I went to sadar hospital for a check-up, I was told there was no one because of the strike,” she said. Juhi Minz, president of Jharkhand State NRHM ANM and GNM Sangh said they had put off the strike in public interest. “We were forced to strike (on Tuesday) to ensure the government woke up from its slumber.There is no one to take care of us. Many of our colleagues died due to Covid but got no help,” she said. On their key demands, general secretary of Jharkhand State Contractual Paramedical Staff Association Raghav Kumar said they were fighting for job regularisation and pay. “We are working at state health centres for over a decade but still on contract without any incentives. Even in case of on-duty casualty, we don’t have insurance,” he said, adding that they were now hopeful that the government would help. “We have been given a positive and time-bound assurance,” he said. There are 23 district hospitals, 113 sub-divisional hospitals, 330 primary health centres, 188 community health centres and 3,958 sub health centres in the state. Of the 12,000-strong paramedical staff, over 6,000 are auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), 2,000 general nursing midwifery (GNMs), 1,000 pharmacists, 1,500 lab technicians and 500 X-ray technicians. All work on contract.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Gun-shot attack at Adityapur by drug peddler gang, one arrested||Barely a fortnight after Dolly Parveen the lady kingpin of an infamous drug supply racket was arrested, associates led by her husband on Thursday night shot and wounded his brother-in-law in a twisted family drama after the latter, suspected to be  police informant, decided to install CCTV cameras to expose the continuing sale of drugs in Adityapur Muslim Bustee under Adityapur thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about four kms away from here.  The victim, Ramzan Hussain (30) sustained gun-shot injuries in his waistline and has been admitted at MGM Medical College Hospital, where his condition is described as serious.  Police have arrested one of the attackers, Moiuddin Chisti, from his house at Adityapur Muslim Bustee early on Friday morning, whereas the three others, including the main culprit Mohammed Kadim, who is Dolly's husband, are absconding.  Officer in charge (OC), Adityapur thana, Rajesh Prasad confirmed that they have arrested one of the four accused, who were involved in a gun-shot attack on Ramzan at Adityapur Muslim Bustee.  "From the preliminary investigation it is learnt that Kadim, who had conspired the attack on Ramzan had suspicion that the latter had informed the police leading to the arrest of Dolly on July 19. This was the reason that Kadim, alongwith his associates, Saddam, Aurengzeb and Moiuddin had swooped over the house of Ramzan at Adityapur Muslim Bustee late on Thursday night. The attackers had fired several rounds of shots at Ramzan, causing him to sustain two shots in the waistline," said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online.  According to sources in the police, a section of the Adityapur Muslim Bustee residents was opposed to the sale of narcotic drugs at the slum.  Dolly's brothers Ramzan and Sabir also opposed to the racket of brown sugar sale at the slum.  "So long as Dolly was not arrested, the act of running the racket was under her control completely. But after she was arrested on July 19, her husband Kadim started to run the business by engaging criminal elements like Saddam and Aurengzeb. Having come to know about the resumption of the brown sugar sale at the slum once again, Ramzan who was opposed to this illegal business, had decided to install CCTV cameras at some strategic points at the Adityapur Muslim Bustee and also at home. Kadim had opposed the act of installing the CCTV cameras at the slum, fearing that the police will get easy access to the drug peddlers," said the sources while talking to this website.  Sabir said his brother-in-law Kadim had first tried to convince Ramzan not to install the CCTV cameras having come to their house at the Adityapur Muslim Bustee on Thursday afternoon.  "But as my brother refused to oblige and expressed his intention that he wanted to keep his surroundings clean of any drug business, Kadim had swooped over our house along with four-five criminals. After shooting at my brother, all the accused fled the scene by crossing the nearby railway line," said Sabir, who claims to be an eye-witness.  According to police, Moiuddin was arrested from his house at about 5.30 am on Friday. The police are trying to arrest the rest of the accused and have been conducting raids at different places in Adityapur and its adjoining areas.  In another incident, a 35-year-old man, Mohammed Javed was shot at and injured by a gang of three youths near Albela Garden under Azadnagar thana area in Mango at about 10.30 pm on Thursday.  OC, Azadnagar thana, Vishnu Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online said "Javed, who is a civil contractor and resident of Old Purulia Road in Mango, was returning home and had stopped at Albela Garden after seeing some youths fighting. As he intervened to disperse the warring youths, one of them fished out a pistol and fired a shot which hit the victim's left hand. We are trying to identify the one who had fired the shot."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant files civil suit against Nishikant Dubey for ‘baseless’ tweets||Chief minister Hemant Soren has filed a case against Nishikant Dubey in response to a tweet of the BJP’s Godda MP which he and the JMM had then dismissed as baseless and defamatory. Hemant’s lawyer Prashant Kumar filed a title suit online in the court of sub judge 1 at Ranchi civil court on Tuesday, August 4, under section 26 of civil procedure code (CPC). The case, bearing registration number 151/2020, will be heard on August 22. Besides Dubey, the case also mentions Twitter Communications India Private Limited and Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd. A Ranchi civil court lawyer explained that a case under CPC section 26 was a title suit. In the next hearing, the case would first get formally admitted in court and notices issued to the concerned parties. Thereafter, the court would ask the pleader about the nature and kind of defamation suit he wants to file to proceed with the case. Dubey had on June 28 announced via his twitter handle that he had written to the Maharashtra government demanding reopening of a rape case, which was lodged against Hemant by a Mumbai based woman in 2013. Dubey further alleged that Hemant, who was also chief minister of Jharkhand then, had used his influence to force the complainant to withdraw the case. Hemant refuted Dubey’s charge on twitter, calling them baseless, saying that the MP would be given a befitting reply legally within the next 48 hours. “We shall fight such baseless allegations and cheap politics legally. We shall respect healthy debate and politics but not such wild allegations,” said an aide of Hemant. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee had last month criticised Dubey for making wild allegations at a press meet in Ranchi. He warned the BJP against pursuing “below-the-belt” politics, adding that the JMM too had enough ammunition to counter Dubey and his party. Dubey conceded he had received a communication regarding a case filed against him by Hemant. “Rape and kidnapping case against Hemant Soren was levelled by a girl in Mumbai not me. Rather than filing a case against her, CM has filed a case against me. Thank You! It is my honour, just like veteran Saryu Roy (ex-BJP) to have got a chance to fight against CM,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro hotels may offer paid Covid isolation for asymptomatic patients||With the rising number of positive cases and limited number of beds in government isolation centres, the district administration of Bokaro is planning to turn hotels into paid isolation centres for asymptomatic affluent patients. Sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, along with civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak on Friday held a meeting with the owners of about a dozen hotels to understand their views on the matter. Earlier in March, the district administration had turned 10 luxurious hotels into pay and use quarantine centres. Now the administration is trying to turn these hotels into paid isolation centres for the residents, especially those belonging to the affluent class in the district. The paid isolation facility model is already functional in Ranchi and a few other cities of Jharkhand. Of the 211 active cases in the district, barring three, all are asymptomatic and undergoing treatment in dedicated Covid Hospital, Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) and Covid Care Centre in Camp-2 of the district health department. Among the recent spike of 71 cases on Wednesday and 12 positive cases on Thursday, there are many people belonging to affluent families, who are hesitating in getting admitted in the Covid wards due to lack of adequate facilities. They requested the administration to come up with paid isolation centres in hotels similar to the ones available in other districts. SDO Singh said, “In the meeting, I asked hotel owners to turn their hotels into paid isolation centres. They will have to declare room charges before the administration so that we can have a discussion on it. Health department will provide doctors and other medical help to the patients availing the paid isolation facility in these hotels. However, it is upto the hotel owners whether they want to come up with a paid isolation centre or not.” Administration and health department will closely monitor the patients in hotels. Hotels will have to make arrangements of hygiene, regular sanitisation, medical gadgets like oximeter, sugar and BP testing tools, etc. The medicines including multivitamins, vitamin-c will be provided by the health department. The hospitality industry which has been badly affected in this Covid crisis can see this as an opportunity of earning revenue. Zaika resort situated in the outskirts at Pindrajoda near the Jharkhand- West Bengal border has started a paid isolation facility that got functional from Thursday night. It got its first lot of seven Covid-19 positive patients, all officials of banks, for its deluxe rooms. They all are asymptomatic. “We have a hanging basket in the balcony of each of these rooms through where food and snacks are served to patients. Waiters or anyone are restricted to go on that floor,” said Vikram Shanan, proprietor of Zaika Resort. The SDO and civil surgeon inspected the resort and gave necessary instructions to Shanan. The resort is situated in a secluded place on the Chas-Purulia road, and the amenity belongs to the tourism department which it has outsourced to Zaika group. However, a few hoteliers fear that keeping positive patients may affect their business in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Trio of minor girls drown in Koderma farm pond while taking a bath||Three minor girls, who were also cousins, drowned in a pond in the Kari Khokho village of Markachcho block in Koderma on Friday afternoon. Officials said the trio went to a nearby forest to graze their cattle but died when they went to take a bath in a pond. The victims, all school-going students, were identified as 16-year-old Kajal Kumari, Vinita Kumari(12) and Pinki Kumari (11). Their fathers were brothers. The girls had taken their goats to a nearby forest for grazing, as they would do every day, about 1km away from their village, and decided to take a bath in the dobha (farm pond). When, Pinki slipped and started drowning. Hearing her screams, Vinita who was near to her rushed to help but was trapped in the deep water. Kajal also reached and tried to save the duo, but they all drowned one after another.  At that time, Pramila Devi, an aunt to the trio was also present with her cattle. When she came near the dobha, she spotted the trio girls’ clothes but didn’t find them. Within no time, she understood that girls had drowned and shouted for help. The bodies were fished out after half an hour.  Nawalshahi police station officer-in-charge Abadulla Khan reached the spot and sent the bodies for post-mortem to the Koderma sadar hospital. A pall of gloom has descended the village with residents gathered outside the houses of the victims’ families to console them. “We saw the girls so happy during Raksha Bandhan,” said a villager Kishori Mahto. He added that the dobha was made for the purpose of irrigation and fishery. “But no one knew that it would claim the lives of three young girls,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Raipur trust ensures these boys and girls will have healthy hearts||A Chhattisgarh-based trust that had facilitated a telemedicine connect with a district hospital here last year, has now ensured that six girls and boys with congenital heart disease will get the medical attention they deserve. Collaborating with the state government, the Sri Sathya Sai Aarogya Vahini Trust organised ambulances for the six patients, who left on Thursday to undergo surgeries at the Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Heart Hospital in Naya Raipur, Chhattisgarh. The oldest of the group is 19 and the youngest is four. Notably, in September last year, a telemedicine centre was started at the Sadar Hospital at Khasmahal, on the outskirts the of steel city, following an initiative of the then civil surgeon, Dr Maheshwar Prasad. The telemedicine centre, which was inaugurated by then deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla, connected Jharkhand with Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Heart Hospital in Naya Raipur. Since then, a list of 42 children, from various Jharkhand districts, have been prepared, from which the first batch of five children were referred to the Sanjeevani Hospital last year. They got operated upon and are now leading a normal life. Due to the ongoing pandemic, the case load at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital at Raipur is now low and they requested the local chapter of the trust to send a second batch of youngsters in separate ambulances. "We had requested Ravi Shankar Shukla, mission director, National Health Mission, for a vehicle and after his approval a batch of six boys and girls and their parents left for the hospital by two ambulances on Thursday. The cost of travel will be borne by the state government while the trust will bear the cost of surgery," said Dr Maheshwar Prasad, the brain behind the project. He, along with Dhalbhum SDO Chandan Kumar, flagged off the two ambulances from Sakchi on Thursday evening. Civil surgeon H.N. Jha and members of the trust were also present. The six girls who would undergo surgeries are from Jamshedpur, Giridih, Chatra, Bokaro and Dhanbad. All are suffering from congenital heart disease. Their ailments were detected at the telemedicine centre at the Sadar Hospital here. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Maheshwar Prasad said after reaching Naya Raipur, the girls and their families would be provided separate rooms for five days of quarantine. After that a Covid test would be done, followed by surgery, depending on the test results. "We thank the Mission Director of NHM Ravi Shankar Shukla, U.C Sinha state nodal officer, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) and Dr Maheshwar Prasad without whose support this would not have been possible, " said Krishna Mohan, a functionary of the trust. The trust, he added, provided dinner packets and dry snacks to all the families for a comfortable journey. "Once they reach Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospital will take care of their stay and other requirements free of cost," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC’s new head coach cherishes memories of the ‘Furnace’||Newly-appointed Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle may have been to the steel city just once, but the Englishman hasn’t forgotten his experience at the “Furnace”, the affectionate title for the JRD Tata Sports Complex. “Well, Jamshedpur is magnificent. It’s good as any other city I’ve been to. I loved the wonderful support of the fans for the home side and also the hospitality. The playing surface at the Furnace was superb and the stadium and training facilities are fantastic. It’s a wonderful opportunity and I am really excited to be on the JFC board,” said the 54-year-old, joining in at an online press meet on Friday from his home at Langho, 30km from Manchester. Jamshedpur FC chairman and vice-president (corporate services), Tata Steel, Chanakya Chaudhary, club CEO Mukul Choudhari and chief of Tata Steel sports wing Farzan Heerjee were also present at the virtual press meet. The Telegraph Online had reported on August 3 that Coyle was likely to be the JFC head coach. Coyle, who had been to Jamshedpur as coach of Chennaiyin FC in a match against JFC last year, added playing the Indian Super League (ISL) at a single venue would be totally  challenging. “But everybody (read franchises) will be on the same page. It will be a level-playing field for every team. I would like to maximise the opportunity,” he added. On how difficult it was to leave Chennaiyin FC, the JFC head coach said, “Chennaiyin FC is a wonderful club and the people are also great. I had a good time with the club,” he recalled. The former Burnley and Bolton Wanderers manager had a highly successful stint with Chennaiyin FC. He steered the team to the final in the last season. Coyle, an avid golfer who replaced Spaniard Antonio Iriondo, added he has plans to work for the ongoing grassroots football programme of JFC and would be happy to nurture young talent and see that their potential grows to the maximum. Welcoming the head coach, JFC chairman termed Coyle as the “White Star” who lifted Chennaiyin FC from rock-bottom. “We are looking at a top 2 finish under Coyle. We are sure he is in tune with our vision and thoughts.” Chaudhary added. JFC CEO Choudhari said while dealing with the pandemic, all club officials had been working in the background. “We’ll be coming up with more announcements later this week,” he added On dealing with Covid during the tournament, he said it would be very demanding. “Adhering to social distancing guidelines, travel and training logistics will have to be taken care of,” Choudhari added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation sanitation staff resume work after assurance||The age-old practice of boycotting work clicked once more, when more than 100 sanitation workers of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) on Friday who had sat on dharna in front of the DMC office demanding pending salaries for around two months were assured by the local governing body's commissioner Satyendra Kumar that their demands will be looked into. The protestors, who staged dharna under the banner of district unit of Bhartiya Karmchari Mazdoor Union, were also demanding payment of arrear of more than one year of assured career progression (ACP) scheme benefit, besides restoration of jobs of those who have been removed without any valid reason. Its 18-point demand charter included leave and leave encashment facility for the regular workers, insurance facility, besides provision of mask, sanitisers and gloves and other facilities, including medical check up for sanitation workers on a regular basis and Covid 19 tests. State working president of Bhartiya Karmchari Mazdoor Union, Baibhav Sinha, who led the agitation, said, “We had several rounds of meeting with the Municipal Corporation authorities with regard to our long pending demands like payment of arrear of ACP, implementation of seventh pay commission, pending arrear of the retired employees. Assurances have also been given but no positive result has come out compelling us to boycott work." One of the protestors, requesting anonymity said, “We are risking our life working in containment zones carrying out santisation work, saving the life of others but our own life is at stake as we are deprived of protective gears like masks, sanitisers, face shield and in some cases PPE kits also.” “When Covid testing of policemen are being carried out then why can’t our sample testing be carried out, especially when we are working in such an exposed situation?” asked another protestor. The work boycott came to an end after the meeting between the protestors and DMC Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar during which he assured them of paying pending salaries within a day or two and also providing  protective gears like masks, gloves, santisers and PPE kits in sufficient quantity soon. Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar in his brief reply said, “We had a meeting with the sanitation workers after which their agitation came to an end.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Effigy of priest cremated after burial of body sparks row ||The burial of a priest, who died of Covid seven days ago, sparked controversy among relatives who were not happy at the way his last rites were conducted. The administration in Ramgarh allowed the family to make an effigy and conduct the priest’s last rites on Thursday evening in a selected spot. After taking permission of his family, the body of the priest, who was identified as Sitaram Mishra, was buried 9-feet deep at the IFCO ground. However, relatives of the priest as well as some elderly people claimed that burying of his body was against the rules of Hinduism, and that the body should be consigned to flames. They also got the support of some political parties. Ramgarh circle officer Bhola Shankar Mahto said that the relatives were told that it was not possible to exhume the body. “We suggested they take up the last rites with an effigy in the spot where the body was buried, and they agreed,” he said. Officials agreed and allowed some relatives of Mishra to carry out the rites. They were given PPE kits, gloves and face shields to avoid any infection. Mishra’s two sons, Arvind and Chintu, consigned the effigy to flames. His grandsons, Abhishek Mishra and Bablu, were present at the ceremony, during which the IFCO grounds were sealed. Sub divisional police officer of Ramgarh Anuj Oroan and officer-in-charge of Ramgarh police station Vidya Shankar were also present on the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-342
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Health workers’ strike hits Covid testing at PMCH||Covid testing at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) has been adversely affected because of a strike by health workers launched on Tuesday, even though the local administration made fresh appointments to ensure more and mor people could be tested. As many as 82 lab technicians and six data entry operators were appointed by the district administration to speed up swab tests. But the timing of the strike upset all plans. “The testing might have been accelerated following the appointment of lab technicians but more than the number of those who joined work went on strike,” rued PMCH principal Shailendra Kumar. “We are currently carrying out 600-700 tests per day, which is slightly more than the 500-600 samples we were testing. We expect the situation to improve after those who are on strike join work,” he told The Telegraph Online. Besides samples from Dhanbad, PMCH lab also tests samples coming from several adjoining districts, namely, Giridih, Koderma, Chatra, Deogarh, Dumka, Godda, Sahebganj, Pakur, and Jamtara. Ever since he joined office on July 15, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has focussed on accelerating Covid testing. He inspected the PMCH microbiology lab on July 19 and spoke to the staff there, after which he decided to add manpower. Two microbiologists, namely, PMCH biometrics head of the department Sunil Verma and microbiology head of the department B.C. Banerjee, were deputed at the PMCH microbiology lab on July 28 to step up Covid testing. Apart from them, 92 others, including 86 lab technicians and six data entry operators, were appointed on August 2 across the district. While 17 lab technicians were deputed at PMCH to work with TrueNat machines, 35 were posted at Dhanbad Sadar Hospital to work on both RTPCR and TrueNat machines, in addition to six data entry operators for compiling reports. The district administration has also constituted block-level mobile teams to collect swab samples. For Dhanbad block, two teams of six persons each have been set up. Baghmara, Jharia and Baliapur have been assigned one team of four technicians each, while Govindpur, Topchanchi, Tundi, Purbi Tundi,  Egyarkund, Kalisol and Nirsa have been assigned one team of two technicians each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coking coal production picks up after lockdown slump||Production at Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), the Dhanbad based subsidiary of Coal India Limited, has picked up and is expected to rise to about 29 to 30 million tonnes in August, marking a swift turnaround after a downturn during the first quarter of the new financial year 2020-21 due to lockdown and resultant lack of demand.  This was divulged on Friday by Chairman cum Managing director of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), PM Prasad, who expressed hope that production will reach breakeven position soon.  Not only other industries but powerhouses and steel factories, which are major buyers of coal from BCCL, had also demanded lesser coal from BCCL leading to stockpiling  of huge amounts of coal during April. The usual production which was around 80 thousand tonnes to 1 lakh tonnes per day before lockdown had reduced to around 40-50 thousand tonnes during the month of April.  Talking to The Telegraph Online, Prasad said, "The monsoon has not impacted the coal production much, the impact was more due to the lockdown as only only 10 million tonne of coal destpatch took place during the month of April. The situation slightly improved in May with some of the industries opening up and the process of gradual increase in production and despatch continued in June which finally rose to around 19 million tonnes during July making it almost double of that of April.”  The situation has further improved during the first week of August. "We are expecting the total despatch to increase to around 29 to 30 million tonne as the per day despatch is inching towards 2 million tonne. We are expecting the situation to further improve by next month when the per day despatch is expected to reach around 2.8 million tonne per day,” said Prasad.  Asked about the impact of monsoon on production and despatch, Prasad said, "Around  40 per cent rains out of total 1000-1100 mm of rains, which takes place in area, has already taken place so we are expecting the remaining part of monsoon to not significantly affect the production as we are continuously monitoring the situation through area-level control rooms as well as the control room at the BCCL headquarter."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||False ceiling of Assembly building library caves in due to seepage||Within a year of its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Rs 465-crore Jharkhand Assembly building witnessed another mishap with a large chunk of a false ceiling of the library caving in on Thursday following seepage because of the ongoing monsoon downpour, damaging portions of the common study table and few other infrastructure.  While no injury or casualty was reported as the library was vacant when the incident occurred late evening, the episode can become a political hot potato similar to the major fire that had gutted the newly-inaugurated assembly building and damaged the entire infrastructure on the first floor within two months of launch.      Officials in the Assembly secretariat on Friday told The Telegraph Online that they have summoned officials from the building construction department to put things in order after taking stock of the damages. Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said, “A human disaster was averted as the library was vacant when the roof caved in. Seepage seems to be its cause. We have asked the building construction department to probe the mishap and take corrective steps.”  Rajesh Kumar, executive engineer of the building construction department (Ranchi division), too, blamed seepage as the reason. He said, “Since the building has a large dome on it, rain water may have seeped inside the building through it. Usually in any new construction, there are chances of such seepage during first rainfall. We have begun assessing the damages to initiate repairs soon.” Seven months ago on December 4, a major fire had gutted the newly-inaugurated assembly building, just two months after its grand launch by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run up to the 2019 Assembly elections. The incident had prompted the Hemant Soren government to raise question marks over the quality of construction.  The sprawling building, which is spread over 39 acres of land in Kute on the outskirts of Dhurwa. Its foundation stone was laid in 2014 by erstwhile Raghubar Das government and work began in 2016. The dome-shaped building, having a height of 37 metres, partially resembles that of Parliament building, and boasts of manicured gardens, seating arena for 150 lawmakers in the central hall, separate rooms for speaker, chief minister, leader of opposition and legislators, conference hall among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Vegetable ‘thief’ lynched, 6 held ||Six persons have been arrested on charges of lynching a man from the minority community for allegedly stealing vegetables from a farm in Jamtara district of Jharkhand on Tuesday night. Jamtara police arrested the accused on Wednesday evening on the basis of an FIR filed by one Binod Mondal, who was grievously injured in the incident. Another accused is still absconding, the police said. “We were informed about the incident late on Tuesday night. On reaching the spot, we found Binod, 50, writhing in pain near a bush close to the farm in Karmatar. He said his friend Yusuf Mia alias Lal Mohammed, 46, had been thrown in the well. We recovered the body from the well and sent it for post-mortem to Jamtara Sadar Hospital on Wednesday. On the basis of the FIR lodged by Binod, we have arrested six of the named accused while one is absconding,” said R.S. Tiwary, officer in charge of Karmatar police station. Binod was referred to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad on Thursday. Tiwary said Yusuf and Binod were residents of Kashitand village under Karmatar police station. “Both the deceased and the injured were from Kashitand village which is close to Karmatar village where the incident took place. There have been incidents of vegetables (like ridge gourd, bitter gourd and cucumber) being stolen from farms in the last fortnight. Subsequently, villagers of Karmatar had started night vigil. On Tuesday night they spotted four persons entering the farm of Mahendra Singh. On raising an alarm, two persons fled while the villagers managed to catch hold of Yusuf and Binod and beat them with rods, sticks and rained blows,” said Tiwary. When Yusuf and Binod lost consciousness, they were thrown in a well by the irate villagers. But, Binod managed to climb out using the ladder in the well but lost consciousness near a bush. But Yusuf could not climb out and died in the well, the officer said. “On getting information from the village chowkidar, we rushed to Karmatar and recovered Yusuf’s body from the well and sent it for post-mortem to Sadar Hospital on Wednesday. Binod was also rushed to Sadar Hospital from where he was referred to PMCH Dhanbad. We have lodged a case under Section 302 (murder) along with other sections of the IPC against the accused,” Tiwary said. Jamtara superintendent of police Anshuman Kumar ruled out that it was a communal incident. “It was merely a violent reaction by villagers against thieves. There is nothing communal in it and there has been no untoward incident or reaction anywhere in the district,” he said. Karmatar is around 220km northeast of state capital Ranchi. Jharkhand, which has witnessed over 22 cases of alleged mob lynching between 2015 and December 2019, was termed the “lynching capital” by CPM politburo member Brinda Karat last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
07-08-2020||Jharkhand||Unicef official clears air on moms||A mother, who has tested positive for Covid-19, can safely breastfeed her newborn, experts have said. The question on whether a Covid-19 positive mother could breastfeed her newborn was put frequently to a Unicef team in Jharkhand during an interactive orientation session with youths and volunteers on the occasion of World Breastfeeding Week, which is being observed from August 1 to 7. “A large section that we interacted with had a misconception that a newborn could be exposed to the infection if the baby is breastfed by a mother, who is Covid-19 positive. However, breastfeeding is totally safe and beneficial,” said Prasanta Dash, chief of Unicef field office in Jharkhand. “A Covid positive mother can breastfeed her baby safely provided she wears a mask and washes hands before taking the baby,” Dash said, adding that even the World Health Organization has recommended breastfeeding. According to WHO, mothers with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 should be encouraged to initiate or continue to breastfeed as the benefits substantially overweigh the potential risk of transmission (of the disease). Unicef has been organising the interactive sessions with stakeholders like volunteers, youths and members of rural communities for encouraging breastfeeding. “We couldn’t organise any gathering due to the (lockdown) restrictions but held virtual orientation sessions this year,” said Unicef communications officer Astha Alang. “We always encourage new mothers to start breastfeeding within an hour of delivery as the colostrum or the first milk after delivery is very helpful for newborns,” said Unicef nutrition specialist Preetu Mishra. Leading medical journal The Lancet published on July 23 a research article titled “Neonatal management and outcomes during the Covid-19 pandemic” confirming the benefits of breastfeeding. “Our data suggest that perinatal (time immediately before and after birth) transmission of Covid-19 is unlikely to occur if correct hygiene precautions are undertaken and that allowing neonates to room in with their mothers and direct breastfeeding are safe procedures,” the article, quoting the research team, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-343
