08-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid patient's escape attempt at CMCH||A Covid-19 patient in Calcutta tried to jump off a hospital building on Saturday after breaking the windowpane with an oxygen cylinder but was saved by an alert health worker, police said. The incident happened around 9 am at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, they said. The 56-year-old man tried to jump off the third floor of the Super Speciality Block of the hospital after smashing the windowpane with an oxygen cylinder, a senior officer said, adding that they are looking into the matter. The man, a resident of North 24 Parganas district, was diagnosed with COVID-19 around 10 days back. Since then he is undergoing treatment at the hospital. A source at the hospital said he has been under severe stress for quite some time. The source also revealed he had earlier beaten up other patients in the ward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
08-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Body swap’ at BR Singh Hospital||The body of a woman who died at BR Singh Hospital after testing negative for Covid-19 has been handed over to the CMC for cremation instead of a Covid positive person’s body, her family has alleged. The Telegraph could not contact the hospital. Family members of the woman, a 67-year-old Howrah resident, have made the allegation in a letter to Narkeldanga police station. They said the hospital called them on Friday to collect the body as her test reports were negative. On reaching the hospital they were handed over another body. It was then they got to know the woman’s body had been handed over to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation for cremation two days ago in an apparent case of mistaken identity with another woman who had died of Covid-19, the family has said in the letter. The family received a communication from the hospital, signed by its director, saying the body had been “wrongly handed over after identification of the dead body” by the other woman’s son. The letter said the process of handing over the body had been videographed. This woman died on July 31 and the Howrah resident on August 3. A 72-year-old woman in Kestopur who had tested positive for Covid lay dead in her bedroom for over 15 hours till Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation officials removed the body for cremation on Friday. Usha Rani Mondal, who used to stay alone, had fever for several days. She took a Covid test on August 2. Her report on Tuesday showed she was positive and she was advised home isolation. On Thursday evening, neighbours alerted her son when she did not respond to knocks on the door. Her son got in touch with the local councillor. The body was removed on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Drive in for contactless pandal-hopping this Durga puja||This Puja, Calcutta will get to experience drive-in darshan of the goddess. Three pujas in a lane near the Rashbehari Avenue crossing have joined forces to offer an experience for which one would not have to get out of the safety of one’s car. The idol will be right on the streetside facing the street and one will simply have to slow down in front of the pandal, take a look and drive on. Two of the three pujas figure among south Calcutta’s crowd-pullers — Badamtala Ashar Sangha and 66 Palli. A third along the lane — Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club — has been pulled in to complete the triad. “This is the first time in the history of the city’s Durga puja that three pujas are coming together. Desperate times call for desperate measures. With social distancing being a mandatory safety norm, drive-in is the one way in which pandal-hopping can take place without jostling in the crowd,” said Sandip Chakraborty, the secretary of Badamtala Ashar Sangha. The idea was mooted by New York-based businessman Mridul Pathak who has roots in the neighbourhood and whose non-profit outfit International Foundation for Sustainable Development (IFSD) has been involved with Durga Puja since the mid-90s. Speaking to The Telegraph from Texas, he said: “The boys were crest-fallen at the uncertainty over organising Puja this year. So I called them together in a video conference in June. Here in the US, all shopping malls have started a drive-in counter whereby people pay online in advance and simply pick up their order from the counter without getting off the car. “Even if things do not improve by October in Bengal, people will still go out by car. So I told them to make the pandal two-dimensional, cutting out the third dimension of depth which requires visitors to go closer to the idols. That way people can watch while simply driving by. Another lane can be kept for pedestrians. Traffic would be easier to control if all three pujas in the lane follow the same principle. This will reduce budget and yet allow each club to retain its autonomy.” The drive-in concept is gaining ground across the world because of the zero-contact experience. Drive-in theatres, popular in the late 1950s and early 1960s, are making a comeback. Walmart, for instance, has announced transforming its parking lots at 160 stores across the US into drive-in theatres with customers having to sign up to reserve parking space. Each site usually has a pole with a speaker. Bangalore has started one in July. Drive-in eateries are also starting, with two already in operation in the city — in New Town and Salt Lake. “So why not drive-in Durga puja?” said Pathak. IFSD is facilitating a digital campaign to market the concept. Badamtala already had Satyajit Ray in mind as the theme, given that this is the start of his centenary year. With three pujas on board, the Apu trilogy became a natural choice. “Badamtala will portray Pather Panchali, we will do Aparajito while Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club will do Apur Sansar,” said Pradyumna Mukherjee, the general secretary of 66 Palli Sarbojanin. He pointed out that the area is connected to the trilogy. “Bachan Singh, the owner of Bachan’s Dhaba on the main road, from where our drive-in route will start, used to be a taxi driver earlier. It was his duty to drive the young Subir Banerjee, who played Apu in Pather Panchali, to the shooting spot every day,” he said. A second link is a scene in Aparajito where Apu is leaving the village after his mother’s death. “When his great uncle asks why he was leaving without performing the last rites in the village, Apu replies that he would do it at the Kalighat temple, which is right next door to us,” Mukherjee added. The organisers have asked their theme maker duo, Eshika Chandra and Deep Das, to incorporate the scene in the pandal décor. The worsening Covid-19 infection graph has kept all plans on tenterhooks. “We have only decided on an 11ft idol. How elaborately we can execute the theme will depend on the time we get once the government gives the go-ahead,” said Snehasish Maity, who is in charge of the Badamtala pandal. Chakraborty plans some basic safety measures — a piped sanitising shower for the cars at the entry point, hand sanitisation and thermal  check for pedestrians, and no stalls next to the pandal. “We want to dedicate the entire stretch to Ray. Food stalls, if any are allowed, will be booked in the lane between us and 66 Palli.” Rabindra Bharati University (RBU) observed the 79th death anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore at the Jorasanko Thakurbari, the poet’s ancestral house, on Friday. A team of senior RBU officials paid tribute to the poet at the Nimtala crematorium, where he was cremated. The team then went to the Thakurbari and placed flowers in the rooms where the poet was born and breathed his last. The officials then garlanded the poet’s bust. Since Tagore passed away in 1941, a programme remembering him would be held at the Thakurbari on this day. “The programme had to be cancelled this time because of the pandemic,” vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Advanced CT-scan unit at Fortis Hospital||Fortis Hospital in Anandapur has introduced a CT scan machine, which gives faster and clearer pictures of the lungs and the heart and helps doctors diagnose clots in the lungs of a Covid patient, doctors of the hospital said on Friday. The machine will be able to take images of every bit of the chest in one go and the patient need not be brought again and again for taking images of various organs. A city-based pulmonologist said pulmonary embolism, a blockage in pulmonary arteries of the lungs, is common in Covid-19 patients and doctors conduct CT scans to detect the complication. “At a time when the number of tests were low, a CT scan of the lungs was done to assess whether someone had symptoms of Covid-19. But now tests are done to assess the complications in a Covid patient,” said Sumit Sengupta, a city-based pulmonologist. Raja Dhar, a pulmonologist at Fortis Hospital, said clots in segmental arteries or branches of the pulmonary artery have also been noticed in Covid-19 patients. “The CT scan that we introduced in our hospital will be able to detect the clots even in the segmental arteries that an older CT scan machine may miss.” A CT scan gives more detailed pictures of organs inside a human body and allows doctors to diagnose an illness better. The images produced by a CT scan is more detailed, said a radiologist. The machine will also help in diagnosing ailments in elderly, children and trauma patients. “Unlike the older machine, this one can take the picture so fast that a trauma patient with multiple injuries does not need to be sedated before they are put in the gantry,” said Salim Pervez, the head of radiology of Fortis Hospital, Anandapur. Pervez added that children and elderly patients, too, would benefit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Plasma therapy for critically ill patients at Calcutta Medical College||The Bengal government has decided to start plasma therapy for a select group of Covid-19 patients as an alternative treatment at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Immunohaematology experts will join a team of doctors engaged in treating Covid patients and decide who all can get plasma therapy, depending on their degree of infection and status of immunity. A team of doctors will closely monitor those receiving plasma therapies. “We will start this therapy, hopefully, in the next two weeks,” Prasun Bhattacharya, the head of the department of Immunohaematology and blood transfusion at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said. The hospital is now a dedicated Covid treatment centre. “Given the rise in the number of Covid patients, we had to start this therapy,” Bhattacharya said. In plasma therapy, plasma from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid is transfused to a critically ill Covid patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from Covid develops antibodies. When injected into the blood of another patient, these antibodies are supposed to help the patient fight the virus. Doctors will rely on the plasma bank that is coming up at the hospital, a health department official said. Plasma cells — donated by people who have recovered from Covid — from the bank will be infused into patients undergoing treatment for the disease, the official said. Plasma collected from the blood of a person three to four weeks after he/she has recovered from Covid is expected to contain antiviral antibodies. As part of the therapy, a patient will get 200ml of plasma, thawed after being stored in -80 degrees centigrade, daily for two days. After a few days, the blood will be analysed for immune-response. “We have decided that only critically ill patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) will be chosen for the therapy,” Yogiraj Ray, a specialist in the Covid expert committee set up by the health department, said. “There is no shortage of plasma donors now; so, getting plasma will not be a challenge. A team of specialists will take the final call on the patient to receive plasma therapy. This team will include an expert in medico-legal affairs.” Several states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have already started plasma therapy as an alternative treatment for patients whose oxygen requirement progressively increases despite using steroids. Several private healthcare units in Delhi and Maharashtra have been giving plasma therapy to patients. In Calcutta, this alternative mode of treatment has started in a few private units. “We tried plasma therapy on a young patient. He showed signs of improvement but unfortunately we couldn’t save him,” Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, said. The infrastructure is ready at the Calcutta Medical College, a health department official said. The Drug Controller General of India has given the permission for this treatment. The immediate requirement, though, is kits to collect plasma. “Each kit costs anything between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000. We are getting kits so that plasma can be collected and stored in the bank,” the health department official said. The treatment will have nothing to with the ongoing randomised controlled trial on plasma therapy, Dipyaman Ganguly of the Translational Research Unit at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology said. The trial is taking place at the Beleghata ID Hospital and initial findings have thrown up encouraging results. “We expect to complete the trial in another one-and-a-half months,” Dipyaman Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Gym comes home as fitness gear sales soar   ||When you cannot go to the gym, bring the gym home. The sale of fitness equipment and weights has seen a sharp spike for domestic use in the past few months, according to several retailers in Calcutta. From treadmills and cycles to resistance tubes and dumb-bells, every equipment has takers. “There has been an almost 40 per cent jump in the sale of equipment like treadmills, cycles and cross trainers. The sale of dumb-bells, barbells and folding benches have registered a near 60 per cent rise. All of them are domestic orders,” Gagan Sachdev, the owner of Bodyline chain of stores, said. The chain has four stores — in Ballygunge, Hiland Park, City Centre II and Avani Mall. The spike has been visible since mid-April and has stayed so far, he said. Till March, Sachdev sold around 30 treadmills a month, from four stores combined. Since April, he has been selling over 50. Gyms have been shut from mid-March. But it took fitness freaks a while to realise the shutdown will be a lengthy affair. The trend is here to stay even after gyms reopen, according to retailers. Aishwarya Krishnan, 20, a rower and fitness enthusiast, was a regular at a Ballygunge gym before the lockdown. “But I am not ready to head to a gym now. My parents, too, are concerned. They have asked me to get whatever stuff I need and work out on the rooftop. That is what I have been doing for the past four months,” she said. Her list includes dumb-bells, barbells, kettlebell and resistance tubes. On Friday afternoon, she did an hour’s workout with resistance tubes on the rooftop of her Lake Road home. Rajdeep Lahiri, a Tollygunge resident, ordered a treadmill in the second week of May. “I used to run for three 15-minute sessions at a local gym to lose weight. Since the gym shut down, I tried running at a park. But the number of people at the park kept increasing with every passing day. So, I thought of buying one.” Even those who are not fitness freaks have woken up to the concept of fitness, thanks to the pandemic, Adeep Kapoor, the third-generation owner of GK Sports, said. “They are ordering treadmills and cycles.” GK Sports has outlets on Ballygunge Circular Road and Park Street. His stores have seen “an at least 50 per cent jump” in the sale of fitness equipment. Apart from treadmills and the usual dumb-bells, the hot-selling items include skipping ropes, toning tubes and twisters, Kapoor said. Lifters are not to be left behind. Sukhdeep Singh, 22, bought a pair of dumb-bells and barbells. “I cannot do without my daily dose of workout. Gym is better but if not, home has to be acceptable,” Singh, a Sinthee resident, said. Amid the craze for ordering equipment, strength and conditioning coach Ranadeep Moitra had a word of caution. “Any machine-based workout should be under the guidance of a trainer. Random use of treadmills and other equipment can lead to aberrations in muscles and injuries. If people are hesitant to step out, they can take the advice of trainers online,” Moitra, the co-owner of Endorphins chain, known for training schedules that are not machine intensive, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Chartered flights get Bengal nod||The state government will allow chartered flights to bring back stranded people from abroad from August 10, provided they test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure, officials said. The state government has prepared a standard operating procedure which states that a person from abroad with a negative test report (RT-PCR) need not stay in institutional quarantine for seven days, which they were earlier required to do. A number of chartered flights and evacuation flights had brought back people from Bengal stranded abroad till the state government suspended the services on July 1. Sources said this was the first step towards allowing evacuation flights to operate once again to Calcutta. The state government’s decision comes in the wake of the ministry of health and family welfare’s revised guideline which states that an international passenger with a Covid negative report within 96 hours before journey need not undergo institutional quarantine after landing in a city in India and can fly onwards immediately to their actual destination within the country. “.... the government of West Bengal has decided that presently only chartered flights carrying stranded Indian nationals from abroad having a negative test report (RT-PCR) conducted within 96 hours of flight departure may land at airports within the state of West Bengal,” states a letter from the state government to the external affairs ministry. The airlines whose aircraft will be hired for chartered flights should apply for a no-objection certificate from the state government by giving details such as the names of the sponsors who have hired the flights and an undertaking that all passengers have tested negative for Covid. On arrival, passengers will have to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. If they develop any Covid symptoms, they will have to contact the local medical officer or the state government. A public health expert in Calcutta said the incubation period for the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19, is five days, after which symptoms manifest. Evacuation flights to Calcutta were stopped on July 1, after the Bengal government requested the civil aviation ministry not to allow any such flight without a no-objection certificate from the state. When such flights were allowed, hundreds of evacuees, many of them medical students, had gone home straight from the airport in violation of the quarantine norm. A few days back, representatives of airlines had spoken to the airport authorities requesting them to urge the state government to allow resumption of evacuation flights. The Telegraph had on August 1 reported that the airline operators committee was planning to write to the state government on this. Later, the committee and the travel agents’ associations spoke to state government officials requesting them to allow evacuation flights. IndiGo airline said it was planning to provide aircraft for chartered flights. “We had operated around 15 chartered flights before July 1. Now, many operators are keen to hire aircraft,” said an official of IndiGo. “Calcuttans stuck in places such as Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Singapore are requesting us to operate chartered flights. We’ll arrange for such flights soon,” said Pallavi Singh, an official of Accretion Aviation, which arranges evacuation flights. “This is the first step but there are many passengers who might not get a seat on such chartered flights. So, the state government should think of allowing evacuation flights with the same SOP,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. State government officials said they were not allowing  evacuation flights by airlines like Air India because then the responsibility of testing would be on an individual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Hospitality career talk tomorrow||A virtual session on Sunday, helmed by seasoned hoteliers, will discuss careers in hospitality management in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Virtual Insights — an ABP initiative in partnership with IIHM presents a virtual session on “Careers in Global Hospitality Management” will be held between 5pm and 6pm on Sunday. The webinar will be held on Zoom platform. Like all other sectors, the pandemic has hit the hospitality sector hard. Hotel rooms do not have boarders, restaurant tables are vacant, tourism is crippled and airlines are struggling. Tens of thousands of students enrol in a professional course after their Plus II board exams every year. But this time, the Covid-19 crisis has left them worried. Parents, too, are in two minds about investing money in such courses because they are not sure if the course will fetch their children jobs. They are not sure when physical classes will resume. They are not confident of enough internship opportunities. On Sunday, the speakers at the session will answer these queries. Suborno Bose, chairman and CEO of IIHM and IHC London, will moderate the session and the panellists will be — Kumar Shobhan, general manager, Hyatt Regency Kolkata; Vijay Malhotra, cluster executive chef, ITC Royal Bengal and ITC Sonar; and Abdullah Ahmed, director, IIHM Delhi, and associate director, Indismart Global. The programme will include a question and session after the panel discussion. “We expect many questions — on placements, on the possibility of resumption of physical classes, on the chances of good internship opportunities. Practical lessons and hands-on training are the key to a professional course. They can never be substituted by online classes,” Suborno Bose said. People who want to take part in the webinar can register for free at https://bit.ly/VIwithIIHM The first 500 to register will be able to interact with the speakers directly on Zoom. The session will be available on Facebook Live at www.facebook.com/ iihmhotelschool as well. “Right now, there is turbulence. But once this crisis is over, the sector will bounce back stronger than ever. People will start travelling — for business and leisure. Many people have been furloughed or have lost their jobs, creating a big gap. When the sector bounces back, there will be a demand for skilled professionals,” Bose said. Career prospects in hospitality management in the wake of the pandemic ⚫The shift from online to physical classes ⚫The lack of internships ⚫What: Virtual Insights — an ABP initiative in partnership with IIHM presents a virtual session on “Careers in Global Hospitality Management” ⚫Where: Zoom webinar ⚫When: Sunday, 5-6pm ⚫Registration: https://bit.ly/VIwithIIHM The first 500 to register will be able to interact with the speakers directly on Zoom ⚫Panel: Kumar Shobhan, general manager, Hyatt Regency Kolkata; Vijay Malhotra, cluster executive chef, ITC Royal Bengal and ITC Sonar; and Abdullah Ahmed, director, IIHM Delhi and associate director, Indismart Global ⚫Moderator: Suborno Bose, chairman and CEO of IIHM and IHC London||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||JEE board to verify documents online||Students aspiring to study engineering this year won’t have to visit “reporting centres” to get their testimonials verified before admission because the Covid pandemic has forced the state JEE board to conduct the process online, a board official said. The board announced the measure while announcing the results of the Bengal JEE, which were held in February. Altogether, 73,119 candidates had written the test on February 2 and 72,298 will receive rank cards. The board’s vice-chairman, Dilip Kumar Mitra, said they had made some “special arrangements” this year so candidates could take admission without exposing themselves to any health hazard. “The engineering aspirants will not be required to go to any reporting centre to get their documents verified after they lock their choice for an institute during online counselling,” Mitra said. “The verification process will be held online.” The candidates have to upload documents such as the Class X and Class XII mark sheets on the counselling portal developed by the board during registration. “The documents will be verified by the virtual reporting centres. Candidates need not visit any reporting centre amid the pandemic,” Mitra said. An official said a candidate would get a text message if all documents were accepted by a virtual reporting centre. “An alert will be sent if any document is rejected. He or she can log in and find out the reason for rejection. The candidate can also contact the central control room in the board’s office,” the official said. Documents will be physically verified when campuses reopen. The counselling is likely to start on August 12. A board official said that earlier the candidates would have to visit reporting centres for verification of documents after locking their choice for an institute. They would pay the semester fee only after their testimonials were vetted by the centre. The special measures also include making provisions to help students encountering connectivity issues so they could take part in the online counselling. The board has set up more than 17,000 service centres across the state where students without internet connectivity at home could register for counselling, upload documents and choose an institute where he or she would like to study. Earlier, such students would have to visit cyber cafes to get the work done. “Services at these centres will be free…. The list of the service centres will be announced soon,” said Mitra. Figures released by the board shows that 51 per cent of the students on the merit list are from the Bengal board, compared with 31 per cent from the CBSE. But among the top 10, eight are from the CBSE. Only one student from the Bengal board is in the top 10, at the eighth position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Residential complexes urged to keep tabs on elderly||Residents’ welfare associations of housing complexes should keep a close watch on the aged in their communities and let the police or civic bodies know if they need any help, Calcutta’s nodal officer for Covid-19 management said on Friday. The police and the civic bodies in and around Calcutta have been told to get in touch with the residents’ welfare associations and exchange phone numbers, said Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the state home secretary who was recently named Calcutta’s nodal officer for Covid management. “The members of the residents’ welfare associations of these complexes should have the phone numbers of ward coordinators, local police stations, the health department and other necessary numbers. The housing societies should be able to contact the authorities if there is any need,” Bandyopadhyay said. “On our part, we should have the phone numbers of officer-bearers of the associations. Police and municipal workers will establish this connection over the next few days.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Thursday spoken about the need to reach out to elderly people in gated communities and figure out a way to help them. At a meeting at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Friday, Bandyopadhyay said the police and the civic body would reach out to all housing societies or gated communities. Since health workers are often denied access to gated communities, the residents should keep tabs on the elderly neighbours themselves, he said. The police commissioners of Calcutta, Howrah and Bidhannagar and senior officials of the Howrah and North 24-Parganas district administrations attended the meeting. “We have seen that health workers get access to slums and middle-class neighbourhoods. But they are denied access to many gated communities. So we are requesting officer-bearers of the residents’ associations of the gated communities to keep a tab on the health of the elderly people living there,” Bandyopadhyay said. He said the nodal officer for North 24-Parganas was asked to adopt a similar strategy in Barrackpore and Dum Dum. On Thursday, Mamata asked officials to conduct a survey of senior citizens living alone, especially in urban areas, and set up a police helpline where one can seek help for elderly people. The chief minister said she had found out on Wednesday that one of her neighbours was ill and needed hospitalisation. “He is very senior. Both his daughters are professors. One of them came to visit him yesterday and then everybody came to know he had been running a temperature for three days, living alone…. Kalighat police station got him hospitalised immediately,” she had said. An official of the CMC said Friday’s meeting stressed the need to reach out to apartment buildings in Calcutta, Howrah, Bidhannagar and New Town. “All urban areas have to follow the same strategy. We are also asking all municipalities to open control rooms where people can reach out if they are in need,” he said. Bandyopadhyay said all municipalities have been told to increase the numbers of ambulances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Business||Emami margins rise amid lockdown||FMCG player Emami has surprised the Street by expanding its margin and registering a growth in net profit in the first quarter despite a sharp drop in revenues as a lockdown caused disruptions in the business environment in April and May. Gross margin increased by 230 basis points during April-June on a year-on-year basis, while the EBIDTA margin zoomed 487 bps compared with the same period a year ago. Revenue was down 25.7 per cent to Rs 481.34 crore from Rs 648.64 crore a year ago, while profit after tax inched up 1.2 per cent to Rs 39.58 crore compared with Rs 39.12 crore in the June quarter of 2019. The Emami scrip jumped 8.14 per cent to close the week at Rs 257.65, a new three- month high, after the numbers were announced. Mohan Goenka, director of Emami Limited, said the company is on a growth path from June onwards, including a double-digit jump in July. “Our margins grew because of the stringent cost control measures and all our new products performed well, particularly the personal hygiene and immunity building categories. Going forward, we expect the growth momentum to continue,” Goenka said. Emami made a slew of launches under the Zandu brand as consumers were spending more on wellness and immunity-boosting products during the pandemic. Edelweiss Research in a note said 43 per cent of Emami’s portfolio, which is aligned to the health and hygiene range, grew 29 per cent while the rest declined 44 per cent year-on-year. Harsh Agarwal, director of Emami, said the Zandu healthcare portfolio grew 23 per cent and new launches contributed 5 per cent to the revenue. “The discretionary products such as 7 Oils, Kesh King and Navratna,  which suffered during April and partially in May, have since recovered since May,” Agarwal said. Even though the first quarter witnessed a dip in advertising by over 50 per cent, the company plans to spend as much as last year, indicating a higher adspend in the next three quarters. It will continue with a slew of launches. Birla Corporation’s June quarter profit fell 53 per cent to Rs 66 crore from Rs 141 crore a year ago. Revenues were also down 35 per cent to Rs 1,241 crore. Construction activities in urban areas have been affected because of a substantial reduction in workforce during the lockdown. Cash profit declined 44 per cent to Rs 172 crore in the first quarter from Rs 305 crore in the year-ago period. Bata India has suffered a consolidated net loss of Rs 100.88 crore for the June quarter of 2020 as sales were hit by the nationwide lockdown. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 100.97 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations was down 84.69 per cent to Rs 135.07 crore from Rs 882.75 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Uber suffers $1.78bn loss as Covid made millions stay at home||Uber lost $1.78 billion in the second quarter as the pandemic carved a gaping hole in its ride-hailing business, with millions of people staying home to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. Its food delivery business grew as more people ordered in, but that booming part of its business didn’t turn a profit. The San Francisco-based ride-hailing giant brought in $2.24 billion in revenue during the second quarter, down 27 per cent from the same time last year, on a constant currency basis, the company said on Thursday. Uber’s mobility business, which includes ride-hailing and micro-mobility options such as scooters and bikes, saw its revenue shrink to $790 million, down 67 per cent from $2.38 billion a year ago. “While we would have all hoped that by now we had a clear line of sight to the end of the pandemic, hope is not a strategy and it’s my job to ensure that Uber is well prepared for any scenario,” CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said in a conference call with investors on Thursday. Uber’s Eats delivery business — once just a fraction of the company — brought in $1.21 billion in revenue during the quarter. That was up 103 per cent from $595 million in last year’s second quarter. As some people stay closer to home, more people are ordering from Uber Eats than ever before, Khosrowshahi said. “The Covid crisis has moved delivery from a luxury to a utility,” he added. Gross bookings for Uber’s mobility business plummeted 73 per cent from the same quarter last year. Its delivery business grew 113 per cent on a constant currency basis, but did not turn a profit, instead losing about $232 million during the quarter. Uber’s quarterly losses included $382 million in restructuring and related charges as the company laid off 6,700 people — a quarter of its workforce — in May. Uber said at the time that it would be closing or consolidating 45 offices worldwide. Its revenue fell in the US and across the world except in the Asia-Pacific region. Uber said it still expects to become profitable sometime in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Mindspace REIT makes market debut at 10.5% premium||The successful launch of India’s second REIT with an issue size of Rs 4,500 crore and its listing on the bourses at more than 10 per cent premium on Friday will encourage more builders to monetise their rent yielding commercial assets through this route, according to industry experts. The units of the REIT listed at Rs 304, reflecting a gain of 10.54 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. During the day, it touched a high of Rs 308.90, zooming 12.32 per cent. Later, it closed at Rs 303.87, up 10.49 per cent. On the NSE, it closed at Rs 303, a gain of 10.18 per cent after debuting at Rs 302, a rise of 9.81 per cent. The company's market valuation was at Rs 18,020.04 crore on the BSE. In volume terms, 18.45 lakh shares were traded on BSE and 2.70 crore on NSE. The Rs 4,500-crore public issue of Mindspace Business Parks REIT was subscribed nearly 13 times late last month. The participation of retail investors will also increase in future REITs, enabling them to earn dividend income from fully leased and listed commercial real estate, they added. Mindspace Business Parks REIT, which is owned by K Raheja and Blackstone, made its market debut on Friday, with a premium of nearly 11 per cent against its issue price of Rs 275 per unit. The units of the REIT are listed at Rs 304, reflecting a gain of 10.54 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. This is India’s second REIT. The first Embassy Office Parks got listed in April last year after raising Rs 4,750 crore. Commenting on the listing, Jonathan Gray, president and chief operating officer of Blackstone, said: “Blackstone is honoured to be partners with the Rahejas to help create India’s second public REIT. Like Embassy last year, Mindspace has tremendous assets and a real commitment to producing shareholder value.” Anarock chairman Anuj Puri said, “REITs are good news for investors who have a small appetite and yet want to invest in the otherwise highly cost-intensive commercial real estate (CRE) market. With REITs, they can literally take a small bite of the large Indian CRE pie.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra quarterly profit nearly wiped out||Mahindra & Mahindra saw its quarterly profit nearly wiped out as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the supply chain. The company’s net profit fell 94 per cent year-on-year to Rs 54.64 crore in the quarter ended June 2020 against a net profit of Rs 894.11 crore in the same period last fiscal. Revenue from operations during the quarter under review stood at Rs 16,321.34 crore against Rs 26,041.02 crore in the year-ago period, down 37 per cent. The automotive segment posted a revenue of Rs 6,508.6 crore in the first quarter, down from Rs 13,547.84 crore in the same period a year ago. The farm equipment segment’s revenue was Rs 4,906.92 crore against Rs 6,077.9 crore in the same quarter last fiscal. The group’s operations and financial results for the quarter have been adversely impacted because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown due to which operations were suspended for part of the quarter and gradually resumed with requisite precautions, M&M said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra to cut SsangYong stake||Mahindra & Mahindra has decided to reduce its stake in SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC) of South Korea to less than 50 per cent. It is also open to the possibility of ceding control over SYMC “in full or in part, at one time or over time”. According to M&M’s annual report for 2019-20, as on  March 31 2020, its investments in SYMC stood at Rs 2,450 crore, while its ownership interest was at 74.65 per cent. In April this year, the board of M&M had rejected a proposal to inject any fresh equity into the Korean arm. The management and labour union of SYMC had sought a funding of 500 billion won ($406 million) from the domestic auto major over the next three years. Mahindra had acquired SsangYong in 2010 but failed to turn it around despite several attempts. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges, M&M said its board on Friday has agreed to take shareholder approval through postal ballot for the reduction its shareholding in SYMC to less than 50 per cent “and/or for cessation/extinguishment/change/modification of control of the company over SYMC, in full or in part at one time or over time”. M&M added that it wanted  the approval so that it can induct potential investors into SYMC or to otherwise meet the funding requirements of SYMC through other sources. Meanwhile, chairman Anand Mahindra said the Mahindra group will continue to invest in successful businesses and prepare for the future by nurturing and investing in verticals that have a potential of over a billion dollar market cap, while “appropriate action” is being taken on those that do not live up to expectations. Addressing the company’s shareholders at the annual general meeting, Mahindra said the Covid-19 pandemic had turned lives upside down and the economy faces an uncertain future. He, however, added that it has given “us an opportunity to reboot our thinking, to reinvent our approach and to recommit ourselves to our financial goals”. Recollecting how the group navigated what it “appeared to be in the worst of times” in 2002 when the share price of M&M had come down to Rs 56, he said the group took action to turn things around with a ruthless focus on financial returns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||RBI's gold loan plan raises credit risk for banks||The Reserve Bank of India’s decision to raise the loan-to-value ratio on gold loans has sparked concerns about a higher credit risk for banks. The RBI on Thursday raised the permissible loan-to-value (LTV) ratio for gold loans for non-agricultural purposes to 90 per cent from 75 per cent. Gold prices have been rising but could moderate in the near future and an LTV of 90 per cent on the value could reduce the value of the collateral if the prices go down, analysts said. LTV is the proportion of the collateral gold, which can be financed by banks. The pandemic and the ensuing lockdown have devastated the world economy, raising the lure of gold as a safe haven asset. However, Brickworks Rating said the RBI move raises the credit risk as the collateral available in the form of gold ornaments or jewellery may not be sufficient to fully cover both the principal and interest components of the loan. “Gold loans would result in a negative carry for banks as the total exposure will exceed the value of the pledged gold. It could adversely impact the recoverability and asset quality in the case of a weakening in the borrower credit risk profile or sharp decline in prices,” Brickworks director Vydianathan Ramaswamy said. The risk for banks is for a limited period as the scheme is valid till the end of this fiscal year. Besides, the loans are usually over a short period of three months to two years. “With gold prices close to their peak a higher LTV does pose additional risk, and lenders may choose to offer the higher LTV to shorter tenure loans and to customers who have a higher credit score,” V. Swaminathan, joint president — government business & gold loans, Kotak Mahindra Bank, said. Gold prices fell to Rs 55,845 after hitting a record high of Rs 56,191 per ten gram in intra-day trade on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||RBI names four members to debt recast panel||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday named four members to the KV Kamath committee which will work on the details of the one-time debt restructuring plan for individuals and companies having stressed accounts because of Covid-19. The debt recast plan will be introduced as soon as the loan moratorium ends on August 31. Two of the four members chosen to the Kamath panel — Diwakar Gupta, vice-president of the Asian Development Bank, and Canara Bank chairman T.N. Manoharan — will join the panel after they finish their current assignments. While Gupta will join on September 1 after his tenure at the ADB ends, Manoharan will join earlier on August 14 after he completes his term as chairman of Canara Bank. The other two members  are Ashvin Parekh, managing partner at Ashvin Parekh Advisory Services, who will be the strategy adviser; and Sunil Mehta, CEO of the Indian Banks’ Association, will be the member secretary. The panel will submit its recommendations to the central bank, which may make some modifications and notify the recommendations within a month. The RBI on Thursday announced a debt recast plan for individuals and firms that have turned defaulters on account of Covid-19, which will be based on the norms of its resolution plans for  stressed assets released in June last year, called the Prudential Framework on Resolution of Stressed Assets issued on June 7, 2019. The panel will set the financial parameters for the resolution of the stressed assets. The recast panel will also undertake the process validation for the resolution plans in respect of all accounts with an aggregate exposure of Rs 1,500 crore and above at the time of  invocation. The RBI has said lending institutions should ensure the resolution under the one-time facility is extended only to borrowers facing stress in their accounts because of Covid-19. Accounts which do not fulfil the required eligibility conditions may be considered for resolution under the prudential mechanism of June 2019. On personal advances, the RBI said only those borrower accounts shall be eligible for resolution that were classified as standard but not in default for more than 30 days with the lending institution as on March 1, 2020. A resolution should be invoked not later than December 31, 2020 and must be implemented within 90 days from the date of  invocation. For the other borrowers, the RBI had said if there are multiple lending institutions with exposure to the borrower, the  resolution process shall be treated as invoked if the institutions representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities and not less than 60 per cent of lenders by number agree to the exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||India||Black box recovered, sent to accident investigation bureau||The crucial black box of the ill-fated Air India Express flight that could throw light on how it overshot the runway here and crashed was recovered on Saturday with the toll in the accident rising to 18 after a passenger succumbed to injuries, officials said. Investigations into the cause of the crash are underway with top officials of the airlines and aviation regulator DGCA rushing here. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri also arrived here to oversee relief measures. The AIE flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the tabletop runway at the international airport in Karipur, about 30km from here in neighbouring Mallapuram district, while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night. The state government said the condition of 23 of the 149 injured undergoing treatment at various hospitals was critical. One person succumbed to his injuries, taking the toll to 18. "The digital flight data recorder (DFDR) and cockpit voice recorder (CVR) of the aircraft have been retrieved. AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau) is conducting investigations," Puri tweeted. The minister said he would consult "with senior civil aviation officials & professionals", adding that the reasons for the mishap, in which the two pilots were among those dead, were being investigated. Puri later announced Rs 10 lakh interim relief for each of the deceased, Rs 2 lakh for the seriously injured and Rs 50,000 for those who suffered minor injuries. He also said the pilot in-command of the crashed Boeing 737 aircraft Deepak Vasant Sathe, a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF), was one of the most experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Karipur airport in the past. The state government said Rs 10 lakh each would be given as compensation to the families of the deceased. The medical expenses of those under treatment will be taken over by the government, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. While the toll was put at 17 on Friday, it rose to 18 with the death of one more person, Malappuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan said. According to the official list released by him, four of the deceased were children -- three girls and a one-year old boy -- and seven were men and other women. Two girls were aged two and the other was five. "Currently, 149 people are in various hospitals of Malappuram and Kozhikode, out of which 23 are critical. Earlier, 23 were discharged after being provided initial medical assistance," Vijayan said. The chief minister along with Governor Arif Mohammad Khan visited the injured at the Kozhikoide Medical College hospital. Vijayan, who held a high-level meeting here in which Governor Khan also participated, told reporters that all the crash victims would be tested for Covid-19. "So far, only one victim has tested positive for coronavirus," he said. The CM appreciated the instant response of residents living in the vicinity of the airport and also the local authorities to the tragedy, which ensured minimum loss of lives in a disaster of such large magnitude. Black box with aviation investigation bureau An official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the “black box”, comprising the data recorder and the voice recorder, are with the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau and will be sent to Delhi for further investigation. The cockpit voice recorder keeps a recording of all the conversations taking place in a plane’s cockpit and along with the digital flight data recorder that details such as airspeed, altitude and fuel flow can help in finding out the cause of the crash, the official said. Amid the tragedy, there was a coronavirus scare too with samples of a passenger who died in the mishap testing positive for the pathogen, prompting  state health minister K.K. Shailaja asking all those engaged in rescue operations to go on self-quarantine and get themselves tested.Minister assures victim families Puri also assured the kin of victims that steps would be taken to get them compensation in line with an international convention of International Civil Aviation Organisation(ICAO). "We are working very closely with the state and central machineries to tide over the difficult situation and extend possible support to the families of deceased passengers and provide all kinds of assistance to the injured," Puri said. Earlier, he along with his ministerial colleague V Muraleedharan and others visited the accident site. Muraleedharan, the minister of state for external affairs, arrived here this morning from New Delhi on the directive of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Four crew members safe The Air India Express said four crew members of the flight were safe, while the employees union of the low-cost carrier, said they were under treatment at the hospital here for injuries suffered in the mishap. It said families of the deceased pilots have been escorted to Kozhikode. The airline also said three relief flights had been arranged to assist passengers and their family members affected in the accident that also brought back memories of the crash of Air India Express flight IX 812 on May 22, 2010 at Mangaluru International Airport. The flight from Dubai had overshot the runway and plunged down the cliff into a wooded valley, killing 158 people.Glare on airport safety As top officials rushed here for investigations, it emerged the aviation regulator had issued a show-cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found "various critical safety lapses". The DCGA had pointed to cracks on the runway, water stagnation and excessive rubber deposits among other lapses in its show-cause notice, an official said. It had conducted the inspection after an Air India Express flight coming from Dammam in Saudi Arabia had a "tail strike" while landing at the airport here on July 2 last year, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Tabletop runways: the threat it poses||Constructed on elevated terrains and mostly having little space for last minute maneuver, tabletop runways at times pose challenges for pilots while landing their aircraft. Air India Express planes have crashed at least twice on such runways in little over a decade. At least five airports, including the one at Kozhikode where an Air India Express aircraft crashed on Friday, have tabletop runways. Tabletop runways are constructed on hilly or elevated terrains. Also, there could be low lying areas adjacent to such runways and there could be gorges at the end of such runways. Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh said tabletop runways are there at four airports operated by it. They are at Kozhikode, Mangalore (Karnakata), Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) and Pakyong (Sikkim). The Lengpui airport in Mizoram, which is with the state government, also has a tabletop runway. State-owned AAI operates 137 aerodromes, including the ones through joint ventures. A senior Air India pilot said that automation might not help in the case of tabletop runways. There is also the issue of optical illusion, where the runway might seem to be nearer whereas it would actually be further away, he added. The pilot also stressed that there is not much buffer zone unlike normal runways. There are tabletop runways in different parts of the world and only when the runway length is less, there could be issues with landing of aircraft. In the case of Kozhikode airport, the runway is about 9,000 feet which is quite long, according to a senior regulatory official. Tabletop runways are there at some airports, both in north and south India, he added. According to the official, pilots are generally told about such runways and various restrictions. In the Court of Inquiry report about the plane crash at Mangalore airport in May 2010, it was mentioned that there were three tabletop airports in the country from where scheduled flights operate at Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. "Because of the undulating terrain and constraints of space, these airfields require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. "The hazard of undershooting and overshooting, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in this accident," the report had said. It had also said that tabletop runways have a problem of access roads around the airfield, which may need to be used in case of aircraft accidents. Citing ICAO data, the report had also said that most of the accidents occur during landing and take-off phases, with a large number of runway excursions and aircraft overrunning into the overshoot area. "Considering the large momentum of these aircraft, a downward slope in the overrun area can worsen the outcome. It is therefore recommended that such downward slopes as obtaining in Mangalore be brought to the same level of the runway surface. "This also needs to be ensured at all tabletop airports in the country," the report had said. Regarding the Air India Express plane that crashed on Friday, AAI said it had touched down around 1,000 metres from the beginning of the runway at the Kozhikode airport before breaking up into two pieces. The Boeing 737-800 aircraft while landing overshot the runway and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces. The pilot of the flight -- IX-1344 -- could not sight the runway in the first landing attempt due to heavy rains. An AAI spokesperson said that runway 28 was in use and in the first landing attempt the pilot could not sight the runway and requested for runway 10. The pilot then steered the plane to runway 10 and came from the other side, according to the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Kerala landslides: Toll rises to 24||The toll in the massive landslide that flattened a row of 20 houses of tea estate workers in the high range Idukki district of Kerala climbed to 24, as efforts were underway amid continuing rains to locate those missing. The Police, Fire service personnel and the locals have teamed with two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and are searching for missing persons feared to be trapped in the debris that has been spread over in the area. As per the records available with the district administration, 46 people are still missing. "The death toll has gone up to 24. The search operations are still going on. However, rains have started. Despite that, our officials, and the NDRF are engaged in search and rescue operations," Idukki District Collector H Dineshan said. Twelve people were rescued on Friday and are receiving treatment, he said. The weatherman has issued a red alert for the district on Saturday and Sunday. The picturesque landscape of Pettimudi was flattened into a rough patch of boulders and mud with parts of asbestos and tin sheets seen scattered around. The incident is said to have occurred in the wee hours of Friday when a huge mound of earth fell on the "row houses" and two children and five women were among the deceased, most of whom were plantation workers from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. NDRF chief in charge of south Indian state, Rekha Nambiar told the media that a 55-member team is entrusted with the searchand rescue mission and hopes to rescue everyone. "Two of our teams are engaged in the search operations and there is a river nearby, the bodies are likely to be stuck in the slush. Search will be carried out on the banks of the river too," Nambiar said. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has revised the red alert warnings and said Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur will receiveextreme heavy rainfall above 20 cms on Saturday. The IMD has also said the alert will be there for Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts on Sunday as well. According to the State Disaster Management Authority, Kerala received an average rainfall of 95 mm in the last 24 hours while Vadakara in Kozhikode recorded 32.7 cms of rain, the heaviest in the state. Vaythiri in Wayanad received 19.3 cms of rain while Peerumedu in Idukki district 18.5 cms. In the four-month-long Southwest monsoon season, which began in June first week, Kerala has reported a total of 51 deaths till Thursday night due to various incidents of drowning, landslides, and tree fall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Shaken and stunned, Kozhikode crash survivors recall the horror that was||It all happened in a flash. Or so it seemed. Just when they thought they had reached home, their plane skidded off the runway at the airport here, breaking into two as it fell into a 35-feet gorge in pelting rain, survivors of the crash said on Saturday.  It was a black Friday for all the 184 passengers who after a long wait managed to get tickets in the repatriation flight from Dubai as part of the Centre's Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus pandemic.  For some, the homecoming never happened. Eighteen people were killed, including the two pilots. For others, the screams of their fellow passengers trapped in the twisted metal, the injuries, the close brush with death and the interminable wait to be rescued are part of a nightmare they may take a long time to wake up from.  The four cabin crew were among the 172 people who escaped with injuries. Officials said 149 people were admitted to various hospitals and that 16 are in a serious condition.  As they recovered from their injuries, some shaken and traumatised, others still coming to terms with what had happened, there were those who said there was much to be thankful for.  Like Ramshad. He is injured but his wife Sufaira and four-year-old daughter Saidasherin escaped without any serious wounds.  "We did not realise what really happened other than the fact that the flight was shaking," said Ramshad, from Vatakara near Kozhikode, grateful that his family was spared.  Ashraf, who belongs to east Kozhikode, now under treatment at the Medical College Hospital here, said he is yet to recover from the shock.  Recalling the frantic moments, another survivor said people jumped out into the wooded darkness in the rain from the emergency door.  "As soon the flight crashed, the emergency door was opened and people jumped out to safety, the survivor said.  Vijaymohan, who escaped with minor injuries and is recovering in a private hospital, said he thought it was a nightmare, unsure whether he was dreaming it all or living through it.  "I thought it was a nightmare. I could see heaps of twisted metal spread around when I opened my eyes after the initial shock of the impact," said Vijayamohan, a resident of nearby Malaparamba.  His wife Jameema is admitted in the ICU. The couple had gone to Dubai in December to join their son but got held up due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown.  Describing the horrific minutes that stretched into what seemed like hours, Riyas said the flight went around the airport twice before attempting to land.  "I was in the back seat. There was a big noise and I don't know what happened after that," he told a media channel after he was rescued.  Fathima, another passenger, said the flight landed with heavy force and moved forward.  Ashik, undergoing treatment at a hospital here, was thankful to the fire personnel who reached immediately and moved the injured to safety.  Unmindful of the rain and the risk of contracting the coronavirus infection, locals joined police, fire and other forces in the heroic rescue effort.  Shimna Azeer, a doctor at a private hospital, who attended to some of the injured, said she was astonished at the willingness of the volunteers who helped in taking the injured to hospitals.  In spite of the Covid-19 restrictions and the heavy downpour, the volunteers did a fantastic job, forgetting about the safety to their own lives as they selflessly got into the rescue operations, wearing masks that got wet, Azeer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Kerala govt, Aviation minister announces compensation||The Kerala government on Saturday announced Rs 10 lakh compensation to the families of those who died when an Air India Express flight veered off the runway while attempting to land at the Karipur international airport in Kozhikode. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday reached Kozhikode to take stock of the status and implementation of relief measures. He also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for each of the deceased, Rs 2 lakh for the seriously injured and Rs 50,000 for those who suffered minor injuries. At least 18 people have lost their lives and 149 are under treatment at various hospitals of Malappuram and Kozhikode districts, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media after a high-level meeting held at the district in which state Governor Arif Mohammed Khan also participated. "The state government has decided to provide a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the families of those who have lost their lives. The medical expenses of those under treatment will be taken over by the state government," Vijayan told the reporters. The CM also said out of the 18 who died, 14 are adults and four are children. Currently,149 people are admitted to various hospitals of Malappuram and Kozhikode, out of which 23 are in critical condition. Another 23 have been discharged after receiving initial medical assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Seven family members on board, all survive||Dubai-based Indian expatriate Shemir Vadakkan Pathappiriyam is exhausted but overjoyed as all the seven members of his and his brother's family survived the Air India Express plane crash in Kerala that claimed the lives of at least 18 co-passengers on Friday. Since Friday evening, 41-year-old Shemir, who works as a logistics manager in Dubai Silicon Oasis, has been making frantic phone calls to different trauma centres in Kerala near the Kozhikode airport to get information of his family members on board the flight. The Air India Express flight IX-1344 from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night while landing in heavy rain and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing at least 18 people, including pilot-in-command Captain Deepak Sathe and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar . "The news came as a real shock and we couldn't contact them for a long time," Shemir told PTI. "When I finally managed to speak to my wife, she told me that she and the other family members were rescued by the local people," he said and thanked the authorities and the local people who rushed to his family's rescue at the site of the crash. Shemir's wife was travelling with their two daughters and a son. His brother Safvan's wife and their daughter and a son were also on board the Vande Bharat flight from Dubai to Kozhikode. Shemir said the family members were wounded in the crash but their injuries are not life threatening. However, they are admitted in trauma centres of three different hospitals in Calicut and Malappuram in Kerala. "My brother's visa had expired, so we decided to send both the families together," Shemir said. His brother 35-year-old Safvan, who works as an accountant, was not on the flight. According to the Civil Aviation Ministry, the Boeing 737 aircraft was carrying 184 people, including 10 infants, 2 pilots and 4 cabin crew. The Indian consulates in Dubai and Sharjah have activated five helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the deceased and the injured passengers. Abdul Manaf, another Dubai expat said he was relieved to finally get in touch with his wife Hadiya, and child, who are currently in a hospital in Kozhikode. "Such a relief after speaking to her. You can imagine what I went through after hearing the news," Manaf told Khaleej Times. They were in Dubai for four months on a visit visa. According to India's newly appointed Consul General to Dubai Dr Aman Puri, there were all kinds of Indians on-board the flight. "Some were visa cancellation and expiry cases, some were travelling to meet their family members, some having lost their jobs, and some were travelling on medical emergencies," Puri told the local media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||DGCA found various safety lapses at Calicut airport||Aviation regulator DGCA had issued a show-cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found "various critical safety lapses", officials said on Saturday. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation pointed to cracks on the runway, water stagnation and excessive rubber deposits among other lapses in its show-cause notice. The DGCA conducted the inspection after an Air India Express flight coming from Dammam in Saudi Arabia had a "tail strike" while landing at the Calicut (Kozhikode) airport on July 2 last year, an official said. Friday’s crash of an Air Indian Express flight from Dubai occurred a little over a year later. Th plane, with 190 people on board overshot "runway 10" at the Calicut airport in heavy rain and went down 35 feet into a gorge before breaking into two pieces, killing at least 18 people. Among the dead were the Vande Bharat flight’s captain-in-command, Deepak Vasanth Sathe, his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar and an 18-month-old child, officials said in Kerala. Rescue operations were completed around midnight and airport operations resumed at 3 am on Saturday morning. The digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder have been recovered from the crash site, a DGCA official told PTI. "After the July 2 incident last year, the DGCA inspected the airport on July 4 and July 5 and found various critical safety lapses," said a senior DGCA official. On July 11, Kozhikode airport director K Srinivasa Rao was issued a show cause notice, added another DGCA official. However, it is not clear if any action was taken against Rao after the show-cause was issued. The show-cause notice said, "Cracks are observed at runway 28 TDZ (touchdown zone) and along runway C/L (center/left) marking at runway 10 TDZ". The touchdown zone (TDZ) is the part where the aircraft first contacts the surface while landing. The touchdown zone is ahead of the threshold area of the runway. The notice also said "excessive rubber deposit" was observed in the area from runway C/L marking to three metres on both the sides of touchdown zone of runway 28. Similar excessive rubber deposits were found by the DGCA along runway C/L marking of touchdown zone of runway 10, according to the notice. "Water stagnation of about 1.5 metre length was observed on the area between runway edge and intermediate turn pad on runway 28," it said. Besides, the DGCA found several cracks in aircraft stand number 5. It also observed that a "portion of Apron surface" of about 111 metres was damaged, it said. Apron is the area of the airport where aircraft are parked, refuelled and where passengers board. "A steep downward slope of approximately five feet depth is observed immediately after the apron behind aircraft number 1, which needs to be levelled and graded," the notice said. The DGCA observed a shortage of reserve stock of 6,630 litres of Aqueous Film Forming Foam concentrate (AFFF) and 140 kg of "DCP complementary agent" - both are used to put out fires - at the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) station of the airport. Scheduled international passenger flights remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Indian Consulate in Dubai to remain open on Saturday||The Indian Consulate in Dubai will remain open on Saturday to help those who need assistance to travel to Kerala and provide information about the crash of the Air India Express flight that skidded off a hilltop runway and split in two while landing in heavy rain at an airport in Kozhikode, killing at least 18 people. According to the Civil Aviation Ministry, the Boeing 737 aircraft on a flight from Dubai to Kozhikode overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport at 7.41 PM on Friday. There were 184 passengers including 10 infants, 2 pilots and 4 cabin crew on board the aircraft, the ministry added. Captain Deepak Sathe, the pilot-in-command, and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died, police and airline officials said on Friday. Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force's flight testing establishment. "We are with all the families of injured and deceased and will do our best to assist them," the consulate tweeted on Friday evening. It said the consulate will remain open on Saturday to share any information related to the crash. India's newly appointed Consul General to Dubai Dr Aman Puri said that there were all kinds of Indians on-board the IX 1344 flight, which took off from Dubai and fell into a valley 35 feet below before broking into two portions. "Some were visa cancellation and expiry cases, some were travelling to meet their family members, some having lost their jobs, and some were travelling on medical emergencies," Puri told the local media. The Indian consulates in Dubai and Sharjah have activated five helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the deceased and the injured passengers. We pray for the wellbeing of passengers and crew and will keep you updated as and when we receive further updates. Our helplines +97156 5463903, +971543090572, +971543090571, +971543090575, Puri told PTI on Friday. The helpline number to call in Sharjah for updates is +97165970303, the Gulf News reported. Air India Express has also established a helpline number in Sharjah at +971 6 5970303. The Air India Express is a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India and it has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. TV footage from the accident site showed the aircraft split into two pieces and the debris lay scattered on the ground. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among several leaders who expressed shock at the accident. Modi also spoke to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. "Pained by the plane accident in Kozhikode. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. May the injured recover at the earliest," the prime minister tweeted. The mishap brought back memories of the crash of Air India Express flight IX 812 on May 22, 2010 at Mangaluru International Airport. The flight from Dubai had overshot the runway and plunged down the cliff into a wooded valley, killing 158 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Three rescue flights reach Kozhikode to aid passengers||Air India Express said on Saturday that three relief flights had been arranged to Kozhikode in Kerala to assist passengers and their family members affected by the plane crash a day ago. It stated that Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal, and Air India Express Chief Executive Officer K Shyam Sundar had already reached Kozhikode. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport on Friday night while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing at least 18 people. Two special relief flights have been arranged from Delhi and one from Mumbai for rendering humanitarian assistance to all the passengers and the family members, the airline, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, said. "The Emergency Response Director is coordinating with all the agencies in Calicut (Kozhikode), Mumbai as well as Delhi, Dubai for effective emergency response," it said in a statement. "The AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau), DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) & Flight Safety Departments have reached for investigating the accident," it added. Officials said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri would go to Kozhikode on Saturday. The airline said its chief of operations and the chief of flight safety had already reached Kozhikode. Eighteen people, including two pilots, have died in the incident, it said. "The four cabin crew members are confirmed safe." The aircraft was a Boeing 737. "We are aware of media reports from Kozhikode International Airport (Karipur Airport) in Calicut, India," aircraft manufacturer Boeing said in a statement. "We are gathering more information, and closely monitoring the situation. We have reached out to our customer to offer our assistance," it said. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Delhi drive for job portal||Delhi’s employment minister Gopal Rai has announced a campaign to increase enrolments with the state government’s job portal, launched to beat back job loss caused by the lockdown. “Nearly 9 lakh job vacancies are still open and the employers are looking for people…. Till today, 8.64 lakh job seekers have enrolled with the portal. This shows that the number of job seekers is less than the number of jobs available,” Rai said in a webcast on Friday. Since its launch on July 27, the Delhi government’s Rozgar Bazar job portal, which allows job seekers and private employers to seek each other out, has received advertisements for 22 lakh jobs in 6,271 firms. Around 3.5 lakh ads have been weeded out on grounds of duplication and fake posts. Rai said 10 lakh vacancies had been filled up. He added: “We are aware of the fact that many construction workers will not have access to the Internet. I will request all the youths of Delhi that if you know any such person then please come forward and help them. There are various private websites for jobs but this website is completely free. “Many vacancies are still there, so more and more people should apply. From next week, the Delhi government will launch a poster campaign to reach out to more people,” Rai said. Jasmine Shah, the vice-chairman of the government think tank Dialogue and Development Commission, told The Telegraph: “We’re allowing applicants and companies from not just Delhi but all over the National Capital Region. In reality, we are getting applicants from all over India.” He said the publicity campaign would focus on middle class and working class neighbourhoods, which have been hit hardest by the job losses during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Unesco recognises two Odisha villages as Tsunami Ready ||Two coastal villages of Odisha, the first in the country, were on Friday declared “Tsunami Ready” by Unesco. With this India has become the first country in the Indian Ocean region to achieve this honour, the Odisha government. Unesco also handed over the ‘Certificate of Recognition’ to the state government on Friday. Additional chief secretary and managing director, Odisha State Disaster Management Authority (OSDMA), P.K. Jena said: “The Venkatraipur (Boxipalli) village of Rangeilunda block in Ganjam district and Noliasahi village in Ersama block of Jagatsinghpur district have been recognised by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of Unesco for their high degree of preparedness to face a natural disaster like tsunami. The two villages are completely ready to face any kind of tsunami and certificates were handed over to the communities of Venkatraipur and Noliasahi as Tsunami Ready villages in a virtual event.” Indian Ocean had first witnessed an earthquake-triggered tsunami on December 26, 2004. It killed more than 2.3 lakh people in 14 countries of the Indian Ocean region. The Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready Programme of IOC-Unesco is a community performance-based programme that facilitates tsunami preparedness as an active collaboration of the community, community leaders, and national and local emergency management agencies. The main objective of this programme is to improve coastal community preparedness for tsunami emergencies, to minimise the loss of life and property and to ensure structural and systematic approach in building community preparedness. OSDMA has implemented the Tsunami Ready programme in the state. The ministry of earth sciences had established a national board that visited different places and selected six villages in Odisha for this purpose. Jena said: “Disaster Management Plans at different levels have been prepared to address Tsunami disasters. Regular tsunami mock drills are being conducted at the tsunami prone villages as a part of International Tsunami Drills (IOWaves) and National Tsunami drills. The Early Warning Dissemination System (EWDS) for Last Mile Connectivity has been set up in the tsunami prone villages. This system addresses the existing gap for disseminating tsunami warning up to the community level. Regular awareness campaigns are being carried out in the tsunami prone area.” Odisha which witnessed a Super Cyclone in 1999 that left more than 10,000 people dead has been able to reduce the vulnerability of its people to natural disasters by building up resilience of communities over the years. “We as a state have learnt to live with disasters by strengthening our disaster preparedness from the community to the highest levels of administration. The state set up the first Disaster Management Authority of the nation in the aftermath of the Super Cyclone of 1999. Since then, Odisha has been marching ahead in the field of disaster management with the core principles set by the chief minister Naveen Patnaik,” said Jena. Jena said: “The state achieved this through intuitive planning and creating infrastructure in advance, empowering the communities to take charge of the situation through community-led efforts, decentralised governance through empowerment of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), use of technology in planning, monitoring and management. The officer said that with the award from the top world body Odisha has turned a role model in tsunami preparedness. “Now we plan to make the balance 326 villages and urban local bodies tsunami ready in one year’s time,” Jena added. The virtual event was organised by the Intergovernmental Coordination Group for the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System (ICG/IOTWMS) Secretariat in Perth, Australia and Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC) in Jakarta, Indonesia. Dr M. Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences (MoES) and G.V.V. Sharma, member secretary, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Govt. of India graced the event. International delegates, including Dr Srinivasa Kumar Tummala, Head-ICG/IOTWMS, Ardito M. Kodijat, Head, Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC), Prof. Dwikorita Karnawati DG, BMKG (Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysical Agency of Indonesia) & Chair, ICG/IOTWMS of Unesco-IOC participated in the programme. At the national level, Dr S.S.C. Shenoi, vice-chairperson, Unesco-IOC, former director, INCOIS & Former Chairman of the National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready; Dr. T.M. Balakrishnan Nair, Director (I/C) Indian National Centre for Information Services (INCOIS) and E. Pattabhi Rama Rao, Head-TWG, INCOIS & member-secretary, National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready were present at the virtual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Document debacle stirs ‘China mole’ question ||Congress veteran and former Union minister P. Chidambaram suspects the presence of “a Chinese mole” in the defence ministry and has hinted at a conspiracy to oust Rajnath Singh from the sensitive department. “Someone is out to get Rajnath Singh out of the Defence Ministry! Otherwise, why would the Defence Ministry website put out the truth about the Chinese aggression and occupation of Indian territory?” Chidambaram tweeted on Friday. “That single statement damaged Rajnath Singh (people ask, did the Ministry and the Army fail to act on the intelligence inputs and allowed the Chinese to bring troops and equipment and cross the LAC?) That statement also exposed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s famous declaration that ‘no one intruded into Indian territory and no one is occupying Indian territory’. I suspect there is a Chinese mole in the Defence Ministry!” Chidambaram’s comments came in the context of a report on the defence ministry website acknowledging that the Chinese had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh. It was removed within hours after Opposition politicians portrayed it as government confirmation that Modi’s no-intrusion stand was false. Chidambaram, a former finance and home minister who knows the system inside out and tends to weigh his words, tagged the tweets to the Prime Minister, indicating his remarks were more than a political jibe by an Opposition leader. It’s no secret that Rajnath, like Nitin Gadkari, is not a member of Modi’s inner circle. Rajnath, home minister in Modi’s first term, was shifted to defence during the second so that Amit Shah could be home minister. Modi and Shah have consolidated their grip on the BJP since then, leaving no one in the party in any position to even offer resistance, let alone mount a challenge, to them. Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken was asked on Thursday whether the party suspected any conflict between the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the defence ministry that may have resulted in the report being uploaded and later removed. Maken said: “I will only say there could be a lack of coordination.” Chidambaram has now upped the ante by suggesting a conspiracy. From the outset, several statements from the defence ministry and the PMO had seemed to be at odds on the question of Chinese intrusion. Rajnath had said on June 2 that the Chinese troops had come in “significant” numbers, only for the Press Information Bureau, the government’s publicity arm, to clarify the next day that the defence minister hadn’t meant that the Chinese had crossed the Line of Actual Control. It’s unusual for the PIB to all but contradict a senior minister. On June 17, Rajnath had referred to negotiations to solve the standoff. Two days later, on June 19, the Prime Minister said that nobody had entered Indian territory. Modi and Rajnath appeared to be on different pages even during their visits to Ladakh in July. While the Prime Minister avoided any mention of intrusion and desisted from naming China while criticising “expansionism”, Rajnath said he was hopeful about the progress of the negotiations but could give no “guarantee”. Then, on Wednesday, popped up the report on the defence ministry website confirming the intrusion before being hastily pulled out on Thursday. “It was taken down this morning following instructions from the top brass as it could have triggered a political controversy,” a defence ministry official had told The Telegraph on Thursday. “Somehow, it had escaped us that its content did not match the Prime Minister’s earlier statement,” he had added. However, the external affairs ministry has been far more candid about the Chinese intrusion, citing Chinese efforts to erect structures “on our side of the LAC” and speaking of disengagement even after Modi’s no-intrusion claim. The Congress on Friday accused the BJP of hiring controversial Chinese companies to bolster its 2019 election campaign. “UCWeb Mobile got banned in July this year (when the government banned 59 Chinese apps amid the border standoff). In 2019, according to the expenditure report submitted by the BJP to the Election Commission, they hired this company to run their campaign,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a news conference. “It is the same Alibaba-owned company — UCWeb Browser — which was also red-flagged by the Modi government in 2017 for sending crucial data of Indians to China.” Mobile Internet company UCWeb is a subsidiary of the Alibaba Group and has developed the UC Browser. “What was the compulsion of involving the same company for elections which you had red-flagged two years ago?” Khera said. “There is another company called Gamma Gaana Limited. Po Shu Yeung, one of the directors of this company, is also the director in 10c India Pvt Ltd. Gamma Gaana Ltd is funded by (Chinese company) Tencent. Last month, the government banned it saying the company was directly connected with the PLA (China’s People’s Liberation Army, now locked in a standoff with India’s army). This company too was used by the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.” Khera added: “The third company, called SHAREit Technology, has an App called SHAREit which was banned by the government last month for being a threat to the ‘sovereignty and integrity of India’. It was also hired by the BJP in our elections last year. “We have seen evidence of the excellent relations between China and the RSS, the Prime Minister and several outfits and foundations with the BJP. But to involve companies closely linked to the PLA in our elections comes as a shock to every single Indian.” Khera had a few questions for the Prime Minister: “What exactly is your relationship with China? Why do you come across as submissive in the relationship with China? What influence does China wield on our establishment?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Delayed Covid data drive ||India’s health research agency has launched a project to create a database of coronavirus disease patients and their clinical records, four months after conceiving the idea and amid concerns in medical circles about a dearth of Covid-19 research in the country. The Indian Council of Medical Research on Thursday announced the project to establish a National Clinical Registry of Covid-19, containing details of the clinical course of the disease in the patients, their lab investigations and treatment protocols, and the outcomes. The council has named 15 medical colleges, including AIIMS, New Delhi, and the Institute for Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Calcutta, which will “mentor” hospitals across the country that have been invited to contribute to the registry. Data from the registry are expected to serve as a tool to help improve treatment strategies and predict the disease severity and outcomes, the ICMR said. The project had first been proposed in early April by the ICMR’s Covid-19 clinical research group. The council has issued a “letter of intent” inviting hospitals from across India to join the registry, which will require them to upload their patients’ clinical records in a standard format onto an electronic platform. The ICMR said the data would be used to generate weekly epidemiological and clinical reports, formulate treatment protocol, develop policy guidelines for decision-making, understand the predictors of disease severity, and examine India-specific issues such as Covid-19 among tuberculosis patients and malnourished populations. The data will also be used to probe the variations, if any, in the clinical features of the disease in India compared with other countries. Hospitals that receive at least 100 Covid-19 patients a month will be eligible, the council said. The data in the registry will be analysed by the council’s own researchers as well as other health researchers, who would need to send in their proposals. “The proposals for accessing the database for research will go through an established system of a screening committee,” Samiran Panda, a senior scientist and head of the council’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division, told The Telegraph. The project comes against the backdrop of concern among some health experts that India has not generated enough original clinical research on Covid-19 although its coronavirus count has crossed two million, with over 1.3 million patients recovered and over 41,500 deaths. India on Friday recorded 62,538 new Covid-19 cases, a fresh single-day high, raising the total number of lab-confirmed cases to 2,027,074, of whom 607,384 patients are under medical supervision, 1,378,105 have recovered and 41,585 have died. “Our numbers are our great advantage — the longer we delay such initiatives, the longer we’re missing opportunities to generate information that could guide policy or treatment,” said Oomen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. When the number of patients is large, he said, it is easier to pick up “signals” that might not be detectable among smaller groups of patients. “Suppose, there is an association that occurs once in 10,000 patients. It’s easier to pick the 10 signals from 100,000 patients,” John said. Detailed analyses of disease severity and mortality, for instance, among hospitalised patients could help yield insights into which subsets of patients within specific age groups or specific categories might be at high risk of severe disease or death, John said. A registry that consolidates clinical records of patients from around the country is a “good step in the right direction”, said Anant Mohan, a senior critical-care specialist at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Mohan and his colleagues at AIIMS had last month generated one of the few papers from India on Covid-19 patients. Their study had found that an overemphasis on fever as a symptom might lead to missing cases or delayed diagnosis. But this isn’t India’s first proposal to build a database of Covid-19 patients. Earlier this year, a private health research organisation and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, a unit of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, had proposed a 100,000-patient database. However, for multiple reasons, that proposal has not evoked the level of response that its proponents had hoped to receive. “In many hospitals, doctors are overwhelmed by patient care. Besides, much of the clinical records are on paper, and under a lockdown we couldn’t even send people to access patients’ records,” said a senior clinician-researcher associated with the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Saviour airplane breaks into two in Kerala||An Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai skidded off a wet tabletop runway, dropped 40 feet, smashed into a wall and broke into two after landing during heavy rain at the Calicut International Airport in north Kerala on Friday, killing at least 18 people. Among the dead were the Vande Bharat flight’s captain-in-command, Deepak Vasanth Sathe, his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar and an 18-month-old child, officials said in Kerala. The impact of the crash completely destroyed the cockpit and ripped the fuselage until the front door, the officials said. Most of the dead were in the front seats. Out of the 190 people on board, all survivors have been admitted to two hospitals. It was not clear if each suffered injuries or whether some have been hospitalised as a precautionary measure.  The Boeing 737 was carrying 184 passengers, two pilots and four cabin crew members. The flight was carrying several people who had lost their jobs, suggested a purported Vande Bharat passenger list which mentions the “compelling” reason for travel during the pandemic outbreak. Based on preliminary accounts, aviation veterans suggested the first attempt to land amid heavy rain was aborted and the accident took place during the second attempt. The veterans added that landing requires more runway length if rain has made the surface slippery. Tabletop runways — called so because one or both of their ends could be adjacent to a steep precipice — are usually shorter than the others. In May 2010, an Air India Express from Dubai had overshot a similar tabletop runway in Mangalore, Karnataka, fallen into a deep valley and burst into flames, killing all but 8 of the 166 on board. Many among the 190 people on board suffered limb fractures; some had head and neck injuries. As many as 10 infants were on the plane, and a mother and her child were critical. It was a "miracle" that so many had survived, Riaz, who is from the neighbourhood, told reporters, adding that heavy rain had left the runway slippery when the 7.41pm accident happened. Passengers with minor injuries told reporters from various hospitals that the flight had hovered over the airport once before landing. "I felt the wheels touching down before realising that the aircraft was going down. Luckily, I was seated at the emergency exit. I opened the door and jumped out of the aircraft and ran until some local people took me to hospital," said a young passenger named Riyaz. The aircraft stopped after slamming into the boundary wall of the airport compound, located in a valley, about 40 feet below the runway. The cabin crew members were identified as Shilpa Katare, Akshay Pal Singh, Lalit Kumar and Abhik Biswas. Some of them are injured, the officials said. The airport is called Calicut International Airport after the old name of Kozhikode, the most important city in north Kerala. But the airport is actually located at Karippur in the neighbouring Malappuram district. "We rescued everyone (injured) in an hour and 15 minutes, except two people who got stuck at the tail section of the aircraft," Malappuram collector K. Gopalakrishnan told reporters at the accident site. He later said the two had been rescued too. He said that fire and rescue teams had averted a worse disaster by dousing the aircraft and the whole area with water. A statement from the directorate-general of civil aviation said the Boeing 737 had skidded all the way to the perimeter of the airport after touchdown and dropped into a valley. People from nearby towns rushed to the spot with whatever vehicles they could marshal and helped the emergency services extricate passengers caught in the mangled fuselage. Riaz, the resident from the neighbourhood who was among those who carried the injured to hospital, said: "It's a miracle how so many passengers and crew were swiftly evacuated." Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has assigned the minister for local bodies, A.C. Moideen, to coordinate the rescue operations. "All hospitals have been instructed to provide the best medical care," health minister Shailaja told a television channel. Television footage showed rescue workers moving around the wreckage in pouring rain, Reuters reported. Some of the passengers lay motionless on stretchers, brought into a hospital surrounded by health workers wearing masks because of the Covid-19 protocol. Air India Express AXB1344 was bringing back Indians stranded abroad because of the pandemic-induced restrictions on international travel. "Pained by the plane accident in Kozhikode," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Help centres were being set up in Sharjah and Dubai, PTI reported quoting the civil aviation ministry. All flights to Kozhikode will be diverted to Kannur until further notice. The probe into the 2010 Mangalore crash had found that the captain had misjudged the height while landing, resulting in the flight overshooting the runway located on a plateau. Additional reporting by PTI and Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Valley dad begs for body, if not son ||A man’s desperate pleas to militants to release his abducted soldier son but acceptance at the same time that he would bear no grudge if they consented only to send back the body has brought to the fore a dilemma that many Kashmiri fathers face when their children join the security forces. The father, Shopian resident Manzoor Ahmad, in the video appeal on Friday urges the militants to forgive and release his son, Territorial Army soldier Shakir Manzoor, but concedes that the insurgents are well within their rights to kill the army man. “My son was in the army, was an armyman. It is your job to fight the army, I have no complaints against you if you have killed him,” Ahmad says in Urdu. “I will have no complaints if the Mujahideen has abducted and killed him, but I will have a complaint if his body is not returned to me.” Many locals in Kashmir address militants as Mujahideen, a term of reverence that roughly translates to holy warrior. It is understandable for a father whose son could be in militants’ custody to use the word. “Don’t give me my son back (alive),” Ahmad says in the video before adding in the same breath: “If you don’t want to forgive (him), then return his body. I won’t reproach you.” Shakir, a resident of Reshipora village in Shopian, was reportedly abducted by militants on August 2. He had been dragged out of his car, which was torched, and taken away. The security forces are yet to trace the soldier. Police sources said locals found clothes purportedly of the soldier at three places in nearby Landoora village on Friday morning. The video of Ahmad’s appeal was shot when he had accompanied security forces to identify the clothes. Army men and sniffer dogs can also be seen in the video. The soldier’s abduction has triggered panic among families whose members are in the security forces or the police. Ahmad’s appeal is a reflection of the conflict that many fathers have to go through in Kashmir, a place so mired in complexities and a sufferer of repression and reprisal for so long that simple binaries of right or wrong dissolve into a gray area. Kashmiri fathers need their sons to land decent jobs, for which they apparently approve of their wards’ decision to join the security forces or the police. Thousands are inducted into the forces every year. On the other side, dozens of Kashmiri youths join militancy every year, many against the wishes of their parents. Joining militancy, at whose heart lies a struggle for “azadi (freedom)” for Kashmir, is fraught with risks and often ends in premature death. Thousands of Kashmiris traditionally join the funerals of militants but only a handful, relatives and acquaintances, are part of the last journeys of police and security force personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Long service in Indian Air Force||Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, who died in the crash in Kerala on Friday, had joined Air India after leaving the Indian Air Force in 2003, his former colleagues said. Sathe then shifted to Air India Express where he became a captain, they added. Captain Sathe was commissioned into the IAF in 1981 and retired in 2003, said Air India officials. “Captain Sathe was from the 58th course of the National Defence Academy, Pune,” PTI quoted Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) as saying in Pune. “Sathe passed out from the Air Force Academy with a Sword of Honour in June 1981.” “After retiring from the IAF and joining a commercial airline, he was keen to become a commanding pilot. He would ask a lot of questions during training sessions,” said a former pilot of Air India. “He had joined Air India in 2003-04 and was operating the Airbus A310,” said an official. The A310 is a wide-bodied aircraft. Later he shifted to Air India Express, a subsidiary of Air India, where he was operating the Boeing 737, a narrow-bodied plane, the officials said. The Dubai-Kozhikode flight Captain Sathe was commanding on Friday was a Boeing 737. Civil aviation ministry sources said Captain Sathe had made a first attempt to land amid heavy rain, which he had to abort. He made a second attempt, during which the plane crashed. “The instrument landing system guides a pilot till a certain height and then it is up to the pilot to see the runway touch point and decide on landing. The pilot has to assess whether he or she can complete the aircraft landing process after the touchdown,” said an air traffic control official. “When it rains heavily, as was the case in Kozhikode, the aircraft needs more runway length to finish the landing process because of the slippery surface.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Boards that gave artisans a voice scrapped||The Union textiles ministry has wound up two advisory panels that were the main forums where artisans could influence central policies but which had fallen into inertia for more than a decade. The All India Handloom Board and the All India Handicrafts Board were dissolved by the development commissioners for these sectors on July 27 and August 3, respectively. Both gazette notifications cited the same reason: “...In consonance with the Government of India vision of ‘Minimum Government and Maximum Governance’, a leaner government machinery and the need for systematic rationalisation of government bodies….” In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Laila Tyabji, chairperson of Dastkar, a handicrafts consultancy and marketing NGO, said: “All these years on, it remained the one official forum, however watered down, where the voices and views of weavers and craftspeople could be expressed directly. One place where representatives of the sector were present in considerable numbers, and were actually empowered to advise the government in policy and sectorial (sic) spending….” She added: “The spaces where people themselves can interact directly with government, or be part of their own governance, are certainly becoming leaner and increasingly few in number. It is worrying…. We will miss that wealth of collective wisdom at a time when craftspeople and the sector are struggling for survival and imaginative solutions.” A Handloom Board had first been set up in 1945 and functioned until 1947. The Handicrafts Board was set up in 1952 by freedom fighter Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Separate boards for handicrafts and handloom, and the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (started in 1957 and now under the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises) emerged from this body. The latest avatar of the handloom board came up in 1992. In a Mann Ki Baat episode in 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had claimed that the boards for handloom, handicrafts, khadi and village industries were set up during Jana Sangh leader Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s tenure as industries minister. However, Mookerjee was in office only until 1950. During his tenure a Handloom Standing Committee with a handloom development fund of Rs 10 lakh was set up. Besides official members including the textiles minister, bureaucrats from the ministry and state government nominees, the boards include artisans and entrepreneurs from the sector. These boards’ goal was to provide policy inputs for promoting, developing and marketing these crafts and for coordinating the efforts of the various government agencies. Development commissioners were appointed for these tasks since the 1980s. The last notifications put up on the textiles ministry website relating to the two dissolved boards show that the term of the 121-member handloom board expired in 2018 and that of the 65-member handicrafts board in 2015. They had since then been vacant. The ministry’s annual reports over the last decade do not mention any significant work done by these boards. The ministry did not respond to queries on whether other boards, such as those for khadi and powerlooms, may also be scrapped. Jaya Jaitly, politician and veteran handicrafts activist, was a member of these boards several times and was most recently part of the Working Group on Handicrafts for the 12th Plan. She told this newspaper that after Chattopadhyay and her successor Pupul Jayakar, ministers became ex-officio chairpersons of these boards, which became avenues for accommodating people of influence. “They became utterly useless. Senior craftspeople demanded Padma awards during meetings. That was not the purpose of the boards,” Jaitly, founder president of the NGO Dastakari Haat Samiti, said. “Well-meaning members of cooperatives, designers and so on would give very divergent viewpoints. Nothing concrete came out if it. Bureaucrats did the policy-making and the boards were considered a nuisance.” The need, Jaitly said, was for an industry body for artisans. “We need to have artisans, federations, panchayats, movements, trade unions and NGOs to form such a body for artisans. Craftspeople have been voiceless but there are now representatives of the community who can speak for their betterment.… That did not happen in the boards for 30 years, so there is no point trying to beat them into shape now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||China arrest for Ladakh fatality ‘rumour’||China has arrested an Internet user on the charge of spreading rumours on Chinese fatalities in the June 15 clash with India in Ladakh by claiming that the deaths were the fallout of poor quality military vehicles supplied by a wholly state-owned automobile company. The arrest was reported in China Military Online, the English language news website of the People’s Liberation Army, on Thursday. The Net user has been identified only by the surname Zhou. He is reported to have spread rumours online that “the poor quality of military vehicles supplied by the Dongfeng Off-road Vehicle Co. Ltd. (hereafter referred to as Dongfeng) has caused the death of Chinese soldiers during the China-India border clash”. Zhou was arrested on August 4, a day after he claimed on WeChat Moments that corruption within Dongfeng had resulted in the substandard military vehicles. According to the website, Zhou had confessed to “his crime of rumour-mongering, showed remorse and written a sincere apology letter”. A copy of the apology letter in Chinese has been posted on the portal. China has till date only confirmed that there have been casualties in the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley, that too about 10 days later in a briefing on the situation for foreign diplomats based in Beijing. The deputy director-general of the Boundary and Ocean Affairs department, He Xiangqi, had been quoted by Beijing-based media as stating that “casualties on the Chinese side were not very heavy”. Last month, the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, had said, when asked why China was not giving details about the casualties, that Beijing had not gone into that detail as a goodwill gesture not to escalate tensions on the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Rahul flags RBI mood report||Rahul Gandhi on Friday predicted “more bad news” on the economy and job fronts while commenting on Thursday’s Reserve Bank of India report that described consumer confidence as being at an “all-time low”. “RBI reveals the real ‘Mood of the Nation’: People’s confidence at all-time low. Fear and insecurity at all-time high. Expect more bad news on the economy and jobs front,” Rahul tweeted. In another tweet, he accused the government of going missing in action in the battle against Covid-19. The Congress released a video of Rahul’s interaction with party leaders in Bihar on Thursday, where he blamed the Narendra Modi government’s politics for India facing problems on so many fronts. “What I said about corona in February has come true. I’m not happy to be proven right but it happened. Today I say what is being witnessed on the economic front is nothing; far more dreadful things are going to happen. You will see in six months,” Rahul told the meeting, held online. He said the job situation would turn grim as the Prime Minister had not accepted the Congress proposals to help the micro, small and medium enterprises and to transfer cash directly into the accounts of the poor. “India won’t be able to give jobs to crores of people. That means India’s resources being wasted. Millions lost their jobs during the lockdown but the government didn’t intervene. Not one rupee was given. Unemployment is going to play havoc,” Rahul said. Rather than blaming the failures of policy, Rahul pointed a finger at the BJP ideology. “What the RSS-BJP did is that they destroyed the structures built by the Congress over the past decades. These structures were the backbone of India and sustained the country for so long,” he said. “The coronavirus inflicted such damage because those structures were not there to help. Even the Chinese encroached upon our land only because they saw structural weaknesses.” Rahul recalled how the country was given barely four hours to prepare for the lockdown in March. “All industrialists were aware in advance that a lockdown was coming. But the poor migrant labours got stuck because only four hours were given,” he said. “I want to ask the people of Bihar — those who returned home from big cities — did your government stand by you in the hour of crisis? Did the government help you?” The Congress is likely to base its Bihar campaign on the plank of mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis by the Modi and Nitish Kumar governments. The party had sought a cash transfer into the bank accounts of the entire bottom half of the population during the lockdown, which snuffed out the earnings of the poor. Bihar was one of the worst hit, being home to the largest number of migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Italy case closure: SC sets terms||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to permit the Centre to withdraw all prosecution and proceedings against the Italian marines who shot dead two Kerala fishermen in 2012, saying the government of the European country must pay compensation to the victims even if the international tribunal had ruled that India had no jurisdiction to deal with the case. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde made it clear that unless it hears the views of the families of the two fishermen, it would not allow the Centre’s plea, no matter the ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague. “First, let Italy pay them compensation, only then we will allow withdrawal of prosecution. Bring the cheques and the kin of the victims here,” CJI Bobde told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. On July 2 this year, the Permanent Court of Arbitration at Hague under the United Nations Convention on the Law of Sea ruled that India was entitled to claim compensation but could not prosecute the marines as it had no jurisdiction over them. Subsequently, the Centre had submitted before the Supreme Court that it would abide by the tribunal’s ruling and wanted to withdraw the cases relating to the marines. During Friday’s hearing, solicitor-general Mehta, appearing for the Centre, pleaded that the matter be disposed of. CJI Bobde turned down the request, saying: “We will not pass any orders until the victims’ families are heard. You have not challenged the international tribunal’s award. Now you are saying that the case be taken over by their country.” “This does not take care of the fixed compensation. There are some legal difficulties involved here. Neither does this take care of the trial,” the bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubrmanian, told Mehta. “There is a criminal charge before a special court (in Kerala) where the victims’ families are also appearing. Now without applying for withdrawal of prosecution there, how can you come here?” Justice Bobde remarked, while pointing out that the Centre had not bothered to implead the families in the apex court while seeking withdrawal of all prosecution against the Italian marines. “If you had done so, the victims’ families could have opposed that here…. We will not pass an order without the victims’ families being heard,” the CJI said. “You have accepted the award and you have not questioned it anywhere,” the CJI told Mehta, adding: “Now you are saying the Italian marines should be given their way to go to their country.” Justice Bobde said that although the international tribunal had ruled that India had no jurisdiction to prosecute the marines, Indian courts could not overlook the fact of the pending criminal trial in Kerala since the victims’ families were yet to get any compensation. “You (Italy) must pay adequate compensation to the victims,” CJI Bobde observed. The court will again hear the matter after four weeks. The two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, were on board an Italian vessel called Enrica Lexie when they had shot dead the two Indian fishermen off the Kerala coast on February 15, 2012, triggering a diplomatic row. India and Italy had at that time engaged in a legal battle over whether India had the jurisdiction to try the marines. While India had insisted that it had the jurisdiction, Italy had disputed it saying the incident had taken place in international waters, hence only the international tribunal on sea waters alone had the authority to try the dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Delhi High Court: List all expenses in matrimony dispute||Brand of mobile, wristwatch, pen, wages of maid, expenditure incurred on functions and festivals are among a long list of details which a husband and wife, embroiled in matrimonial dispute, will now have to disclose in the affidavits to be placed before the courts to determine their true income. This directive came from Delhi High Court which said on Thursday that a detailed affidavit of assets, income and expenditure of both the spouses is necessary to determine their true income and to fix maintenance, permanent alimony and right in the joint properties. Justice J.R. Midha, who was of the view that matrimonial jurisdiction deserves special attention and maintenance applications should be decided expeditiously, asked the subordinate courts to expedite the maintenance proceedings and make an endeavour to decide them within the prescribed time. “It is the duty of the court to ascertain the true income of the parties and then pass the appropriate order relating to maintenance. Truth is the foundation of justice. Dispensation of justice, based on truth, is an essential feature in the justice delivery system. People would have faith in courts when truth alone triumphs. Justice based on truth would establish peace in the society,” the high court said in its 79-page judgment. The court said it was of the view that the mandatory filing of the affidavit of assets, income and expenditure by the parties in a detailed prescribed form should be incorporated in the statutes, as in the developed countries and asked the Centre to consider the suggestion. It appreciated the assistance rendered by senior advocate Sunil Mittal, amicus curiae Anu Narula and law researcher Akshay Chowdhary for extensive research on corresponding law in other countries. The court said it has examined the formats of the affidavits of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the parties in matrimonial litigation in the UK, the USA, Canada, Ireland, Australia, Singapore and South Africa and has incorporated some important questions and documents in the format. The high court had in 2015 issued directions and formulated an affidavit of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the husband and wife at the very threshold of matrimonial litigation. Later the directions and format was modified by the court in May and December 2017. It again modified the directions and format of the affidavit in its Thursday’s verdict to make them more comprehensive and useful. According to the modified affidavit, a salaried person is required to disclose the particulars of his employment, including salary, dearness allowance, commissions, bonus, perks and income tax. The verdict said that a self-employed person has to disclose the nature of business/profession, share, net worth, number of employees, annual turnover, gross profit, income tax and monthly withdrawal. The parties are also required to disclose income from other sources like agriculture, rent, interest on bank deposits, investments, profits on sale of assets, particulars of immovable properties, financial assets including bank and demat accounts and foreign investments. In movable assets, they have to disclose motor vehicles, mobiles, computer, laptop, electronic gadgets, gold, silver and diamond jewellery, intangible assets and properties acquired by the family members or inheritance. The affidavit also requires them to disclose their standard of living, credit/debit cards, membership of clubs, social media accounts, domestic helps and their wages, mode of travel in city and outside, category of hotels, hospitals for medical treatment, frequency of foreign travel, brand of mobile, wristwatch, pen, expenditure ordinarily incurred on functions, festivals and marriage of family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Court relief for senior film and TV artistes||The Bombay High Court on Friday quashed the provisions of the two circulars issued by the Maharashtra government that barred TV and film artistes above 65 years of age from resuming shooting and related work during the coronavirus lockdown, terming them “discriminatory”. A bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla, while setting aside the government resolutions issued, held that such restriction was “discriminatory”, and breached the fundamental rights of the artistes to practise their trade and earn a livelihood with dignity. The court was hearing two petitions — one filed by 70- year-old actor Pramod Pandey and another by the Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association. The petitioners had challenged the resolutions issued on May 30 and June 23 explaining what was permitted and what wasn’t as the government relaxed some lockdown norms under its “Mission Begin Again” initiative. The government resolutions said that while the state was permitting a gradual resumption of some activities, including shooting and pre- and post-production work of films, television and OTT (over the top) programmes, those cast and crew members who were above 65 years of age would not be permitted to report to work at sets or studios. The government counsel, Purnima Kantharia, told the court that the prohibition had been imposed since those above 65 were at a higher risk of contracting the virus. The petitioners’ counsel, Ashok Saorogi, however, argued that such prohibition had been imposed only on the film and television industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||‘Middle path’ on education autonomy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has defined autonomy for academic institutions as a middle path between full government control and a sense of entitlement, while linking freedom to quality. At the Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under the National Education Policy (NEP), held through videoconference, the Prime Minister pitched for empowering higher educational institutions. “And I know that when the question of empowering the institutions arises, the word autonomy follows. We know that autonomy bears several views. One believes that everything must be run under the control of the government with strictness. However, the other believes that institutions by default must get autonomy,” Modi said. “In the first approach, it shows a mistrust towards the non-government organisations; and on the other hand, the second approach treats autonomy as an entitlement. The path to good quality education lies in the midway of both the opinions. The institutions that strive for quality education must be rewarded with freedom. It helps in encouragement of building of quality and gives everyone an incentive to grow,” the Prime Minister said. The academic autonomy of institutions has come under scrutiny in recent years as the government, through higher education regulator University Grants Commission (UGC), has been issuing instructions on various issues, including topics for research. Modi said the NEP would accelerate the process of granting autonomy to educational institutions. The Prime Minister said that for years the education system had remained unchanged, leading to lopsided priorities where people had been focussing on either becoming a doctor, an engineer or a lawyer. He said there had been no mapping of interests, abilities and demands. According to Modi, the NEP is oriented to enable the education system to motivate youths for a creative, curiosity-filled and commitment-driven life. He said the emphasis of the NEP was on education based on enquiry, discovery and discussion. The NEP focuses more on an inter-disciplinary approach where a student of science can also study subjects from the humanities stream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Plea on Congress-China MoU absurd: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday dubbed “absurd” and dismissed a petition seeking an NIA or CBI probe under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act into an allegation that the Congress and its leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Communist Party of China in 2008. “How absurd it is! You are saying a political party has entered into an agreement with China?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani as soon as the matter came up for hearing. “How can a political party enter into an agreement with China? It is unheard of in law,” the bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, observed while dealing with a joint petition filed by advocate Shashank Shekar Jha and Goa journalist Savio Rodrigues. Jethmalani was appearing for the petitioners. The BJP and sections of the media had run a campaign recently accusing the Congress of striking deals with China and receiving donations, but the voices soon subsided in the face of a counter that pointed out that there was nothing illegal in such donations and that sections of the BJP and the Right-wing ecosystem have had similar dealings with China. According to the petition, the Congress and the ruling Communist Party of China had entered into an MoU in 2008 that had not been made public. The petitioners had alleged that the Congress, then running the government, and Sonia-Rahul had signed the MoU despite the multiple Chinese incursions between 2008 and 2013. The petitioners had claimed that the MoU dealt with various bilateral, regional and international issues, but the details were not available. “The agreement needs to be brought into the public domain. There are sinister motives… it is a very serious issue involving criminality,” Jethmalani submitted before the court. However, the CJI directed the petitioners to forthwith withdraw the petition or the court would dismiss it. CJI Bobde said the petitioners could file a better petition but if the court found that the allegations were false, “we will prosecute you”. “We will allow you to withdraw this. However, we must tell you that what you have averred is unheard of,” CJI Bobde said. The bench also said that the petitioners were free to approach Bombay High Court. Jethmalani then sought permission to withdraw the petition. The court treated the petition as “dismissed as withdrawn”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Landslide near Munnar wipes out colony||At least 15 persons were killed when a rain-triggered massive landslide swept down a small residential colony at Pettimudi near the picturesque hill station of Munnar in Kerala late on Thursday night, trapping under debris around 78 residents most of whom are tea garden workers. Fifteen persons have been rescued while around 50 people were still trapped under piles of stones and loose mud over 19 hours after the landslide. Mainly plantation workers from Tamil Nadu, the victims had no time to react when the massive landslip from the Rajamala hills crashed onto their row houses and church at Pettimudi around 10.30pm on Thursday. Located 19km from Munnar, Pettimudi is one of the divisions of the Kannan Devan Hills Plantations. According to emergency services, the Pettimudi colony had 40 houses in four rows, all of which have been wiped out. Southern India’s highest peak, the Anamudi that stands at 8,841ft above sea level, is located at Rajamala, 5km from Pettimudi. Even those in neighbouring villages who heard the thundering sound of the landslide could not inform the authorities due to poor mobile connectivity in the area, which has been witnessing heavy rain for the past 10 days that has also disrupted power supply. The incident came to light early on Friday when a watchman informed the authorities. A youngster who has been rescued and taken to Tata Hospital in Munnar told reporters in Tamil that he had lost his entire family. “Everything was over by the time some of us heard a sound like a thunder roll. I don’t know how many will survive,” he said, crying uncontrollably. An aged man told reporters that Pettimudi was not habitable anymore. “My family is under mud. No one can stay in this place anymore,” he said in between sobs. Rescue workers comprising the fire and emergency services, police and volunteers had to surmount a major impediment in reaching the accident site since the only bridge that connected the two banks of a river had been washed away in the 2018 floods that had wreaked havoc in Kerala. Although the state government had started building another bridge, work had to be stopped just before completion when the pandemic-induced lockdown began. The emergency services brought an excavator that worked non-stop until about 3pm to put up a girder and make a temporary pathway for vehicles with stones and mud. Before the bridge patchwork was done and emergency vehicles could move, the rescue workers had to take a detour of about 60km on foot through forests and tea plantations to reach Pettimudi as the Kanniyar river was in spate and could not be crossed. Sources said the vehicles were taking at least two hours to reach the accident spot after crossing the Periyavara bridge. Rescue workers from the National Disaster Response Force could move their heavy equipment only after the bridge opened. The inclement weather did not allow the government to deploy helicopters to airlift the injured to better-equipped hospitals in nearby towns and cities. Revenue minister E. Chandrashekaran told reporters that the government had contacted the air force for helicopters. “But air force officials said it would be extremely dangerous to operate in such weather,” he said. That left only ambulances to ferry the rescued to Tata Hospital at Munnar town in Idukki district. The government said several other hospitals had also geared up to treat the injured. The health department has dispatched 15 ambulances and a special medical team. Power minister M.M. Mani, who hails from Idukki district, said there would be no shortage of resources to treat the injured. “Our priority at the moment is to rescue as many people as possible. The weather has been hampering the rescue operations. But I am going there anyway,” he told reporters. The India Meteorological Department sounded a red alert for Idukki on Friday, warning of extremely heavy rain. Munnar MLA S. Rajendran said: “At least 200-300 people live there (Pettimudi). There are many lanes and a canteen at the location.” Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said: “The National Disaster Response Force has been deployed for the rescue operations in Idukki. The team was already stationed in the district. Another NDRF team is also being moved to Idukki.” Vijayan announced an ex gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and said all the injured would be treated for free. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish at the loss of lives. The Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet that an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund would be given to the next of kin of those killed in the landslide. Those injured will get Rs 50,000 each. The landslide has come at a time Kerala is bracing for another year of floods. Water levels have started rising in several dams that draw water from the Western Ghats. One of the worst affected district in the last two years of flooding, Pathanamthitta, is posed for another deluge as overflowing rivers have submerged roads and public places. Water levels have been rising even in remote areas of Kozhikode district. Nilambur in Malappuram district has witnessed flooding in the past few days as adjoining areas of Tamil Nadu have been lashed by heavy rain. The Kerala government has directed the districts’ administration to identify buildings that can be converted into relief camps, should there be a flood like in 2018 and 2019. Close to 500 people had died in the 2018 floods while about 120 perished the following year. Authorities in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta have sounded alerts with excess water being released from dams built across the rivers in these districts. Incessant rain in the hilly areas has caused a sudden rise in the water levels of the Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers flowing through Ernakulam district. Taking precautionary measures, the Ernakulam administration has opened camps at Aluva and Muvattupuzha. Several families have been shifted to the camps after floodwaters entered residential areas in Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Kochi and Parvur of Ernakulam district. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Webinar with education minister Partha Chatterjee||Does Bengal offer enough options to get you ready for the national and global job market? Is the state’s education infrastructure developed enough to impart training on the careers of the future? Find the answers as the heads of some of Bengal’s leading institutions discuss the prospects of higher education in the state with education minister Partha Chatterjee at a webinar. The Bengal Education Leaders’ Summit is the opening session of CampusToCareer 2020, where Chatterjee is the keynote speaker, on August 12, 11am to 1pm. CampusToCareer is a webinar series geared towards emerging careers, presented by ABP Education. The Bengal Leaders’ Summit webinar will be moderated by Anjan Bandyopadhyay, the editor of Anandabazar Patrika Digital. Meet some of the speakers on the panel: Prof. Suranjan Das, Jadavpur University vice-chancellor: Having completed DPhil from  Oxford University, Das had joined the history department of Calcutta University and went on to serve as pro-vice- chancellor of the university for six years and vice-chancellor for seven years before joining JU as vice- chancellor. Prof. Anupam Basu, director of National Institute of Technology, Durgapur: A professor-on-lien in the computer science and engineering department , IIT Kharagpur, he is an active researcher in cognitive and intelligent systems, embedded systems and language processing. Father (Dr.) John Felix Raj, SJ Vice-Chancellor St.Xavier's University, Kolkata Prof. Samit Ray, Chancellor, Adamas University;  Chairman, RICE Education Mr. Taranjit Singh, Chancellor, JIS University Managing Director, JIS Group. Mr. Satyam Roychowdhury, Chancellor, Sister Nivedita University Founder Managing Director, Techno India Group Prof. (Dr.) Saikat Maitra, Vice-Chancellor MAKAUT Sign up for the webinar for free here. You will also receive a Certificate from ABP Education after participating in these webinars on Zoom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||TMC-BJP clash at Bhatpara, bombs hurled, bullets fired||At least 10 persons were injured in a clash between the supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP at Ramnagar here on Thursday night. Local sources said several bombs had been hurled and bullets fired by supporters of both the parties. No casualty was reported. A large police team brought the situation under control. The police have detained 10 persons in connection with the violence. The area remained tense even on Friday, particularly after the visit of BJP MP Arjun Singh in the morning. He had gone to meet the injured BJP supporters. Police sources said the clash had taken place over the control of a party office that a section of the BJP leadership had allegedly occupied a few months ago forcefully. Local sources said the trouble began about 9.30pm on Thursday when a group of Trinamul-backed goons allegedly hurled bombs at a BJP office at Ramnagar when a feast was being held there. “Goons with Trinamul connection came on four bikes and started hurling bombs at the party office. They also fired indiscriminately. Our party workers tried to escape but got injured while coming out of the office. The goons had tried to paint the party office green, but they failed as our supporters from the nearby area rushed to the spot,” said a BJP leader. A group of BJP activists attacked Trinamul supporters in retaliation and hurled bombs. This led to a clash turning the area into a battlefield. Local BJP MLA Pawan Singh alleged that top Trinamul leaders had unleashed terror in the area out of vengeance as it failed to bring the area under their control ever since their defeat in the last Lok Sabha election. However, Trinamul leader from Bhatpara Dharampal Gupta refuted the allegation. “Goons having proximity to BJP had occupied our party office and our workers were attacked when they had gone to take control of it on Thursday night.” DC Zone 1, Barrackpore, Ajay Thakur, said: “Three persons have been arrested for their involvement in the clash. We are probing the incident.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court order to DGP on journalist ||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked director general of police to furnish with it in three months a report detailing the reason for the arrest of a journalist who had “exposed” alleged corruption by Trinamul Congress leaders and supporters at Arambagh in Hooghly. Justice Jaymalya Bagchi expressed surprise and concern over the arrest of Safiqul Islam, a journalist and the owner of web channel Arambagh TV, his wife and a cameraman. The trio were arrested soon after a realtor had lodged a complaint at Arambagh police station, alleging that the journalist had demanded money. According to the FIR, Safiqul and his cameraman had threatened the realtor that the channel would telecast news items to malign him. Safiqul’s wife is the co-owner of the channel. Justice Bagchi directed the DG to assign a senior police officer for the inquiry in detail, prepare a report and then place it before the court in three months. “This is a serious issue. How can police harass and arrest a person in such a way?” Justice Bagchi asked the state government’s lawyer, B. Chowdhury, before passing his order. Safiqul moved the court seeking bail and an order asking the police to quash the proceedings drawn against him. The court on Friday first heard the plea for quashing the case against the journalist. Moving the petition, senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya claimed the police had framed false charges against his client as he had been regularly publishing news exposing corruption of ruling party leaders and supporters. “My client was being threatened for a long time both by the police and ruling party for telecasting news items on misdeeds and corruption. So, they framed a false case, raided his house on the same night and took him and other members of his family to the police station,” Bhattacharyya said. The court will hear Safiqul’s bail application on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Villagers block NH 12 to protest at Covid victim cremation||Around 300 villagers in Arambagh’s Brindabanpur blocked a state highway for over 12 hours in phases on Friday to protest against cremation of Covid-19 patients near their area as they feared it would spread the infection. Police and administrative officials tried to convince the villagers that there was no chance of infection spread as the cremation site was 2km away from residential areas.  However, the villagers refused to budge and blocked the highway. “The police are coming at midnight and cremating Covid bodies at our village. The villagers who go to feed their cattle found several leftovers of the bodies, including clothes. We are not ready to allow such cremation in our area,” said Mangal Hansda, a villager. Sources said the villagers had started blocking the Arambagh-Khanakul state highway from Thursday night. After a blockade for five hours, the villagers resumed the agitation early on Friday morning and it continued till 3pm. On Friday afternoon, a police team and local block officials went and spoke to the villagers. Heeding to the demand of the villagers, fire brigade was called to sanitise the village. “The villagers are rigid and we suspect that they are doing it over panic and instigation by a group of outsiders. The land where the new cremation ground has been set up is far away from habitats as it is located on the bank of the river Dwarakeswar,” said a police officer in Hooghly’s Arambagh. “However, the villagers are very rigid and we will change the place if they stick to their stance. We have already cremated three bodies there,” he said. Sub-divisional officer in Arambagh Nripendra Singh said: “The villagers were instigated by some outsiders. Our staff and officers are trying to convince them that there was no fear of infection spreading to the village.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengali rider for forest jobs binned||The Bengal forest department has come up with a corrigendum in the notification for recruitment of “bana sahayaks”, saying job applicants can select any of the official languages in the state for evaluation purpose. On July 30, the department had announced recruitment of 2,000 bana sahayaks (forest assistants) on a contractual basis with a monthly salary of Rs 10,000 each. The recruitment drive, however, sparked a controversy in north Bengal because it was mentioned that 60 out of 100 marks would be to evaluate a candidate’s reading and writing skills in Bengali. A number of political parties, community-based organisations and the MP and MLA of Darjeeling, wrote to state forest minister Rajib Banerjee, mentioning that such a clause (ability to read and write in Bengali) would deny the jobs to youths who had not studied at Bengali medium schools. The issue was flagged by parties like the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction), an ally of the Trinamul Congress, BJP, Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association and the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad, which all said there should be option for other languages like Hindi, Nepali, Rajbangshi and Santhali. The forest department on Friday uploaded on its website “Corrigendum to Engagement of Bana Sahayaks”, mentioning that ability of a candidate to read and write in any of the languages recognised by the Language Act of the state would be considered. “Ability to read Bengali or any officially recognized language of the state as applicable in the district under the West Bengal Official Language Act of 1961 as amended from time to time,” reads the corrigendum. Sources have said the Language Act of 1961 that was amended in 2018 mentions that languages like Kamtapuri, Rajbangshi, Kurmali, Bengali, Nepali, Urdu, Hindi, Santhali, Oriya and Punjabi can be used for official work and communication in such areas of the state where at least 10 per cent of the people speak in those languages. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has welcomed the corrigendum. “It would provide a huge relief to youths of north Bengal, one of the linguistically diverse areas of the state. I thank the state forest minister for acting on the issue and giving significance to other state languages in the selection process,” said Bista. A senior officer of the state forest department said: “We believe the issue has been resolved. Thousands of candidates have already applied for the job and we expect some more applications to pour in.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 2,912 Covid cases and 52 deaths in a day||Bengal on Friday logged 2,912 Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths from the disease as the total number of patients reached 89,666, of whom 63,060 had recovered. The tally of active patients is 24,652, while the total death toll is 1,954. With 2,037 cured cases being reported in 24 hours till 9am, the recovery rate was 70.33 per cent, still ahead of the national rate of 68.36. With 25,258 tests, the state logged the maximum tests in a day, bettering Thursday’s high of 25,224. The total test count is now over 10.54 lakh and the 11 lakh mark is likely to be surpassed on Sunday. “We are at 11,717 tests per million people as on Friday, nearly twice the 6,361 reported a month ago, when the daily testing was around 10,000,” said a minister. “We are looking to double our tests per million in the next couple of weeks, now that we have ramped up testing by over 2.5 times,” added the minister. However, owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.5 per cent, which was 4.34 per cent a month ago. The state had on Thursday surpassed the 25,000 target for daily testing, set for August 15, by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “While this is something to be pleased with, there is no room for complacence. As the chief minister said yesterday, we will have to keep at it, increasing our tests, tracing and tracking, relentlessly,” said the minister. Of the 2,912 new cases, Calcutta accounted for 675 and North 24-Parganas, 573. The two districts, which have contributed 45 per cent of all Covid-19 cases in Bengal, now have 51 per cent of the active positive cases. On the plus side, the two districts have added nearly 32,000 recoveries as well. Of the total 1,954 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 907, with 20 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 444 deaths, 14 of them on Friday. The state government reported 1,719, or 88 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In the past month, there were 1,127 deaths, of which 1,061 were reported as comorbid by the state. The mortality rate of infected males has improved from 3.35 to 2.33 in a month. The infected females’ mortality rate dropped from 3.29 to 1.88 per cent. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.17, from 3.33 per cent in a month. The national rate is now 2.04. “Now, one of our foremost priorities is to get the mortality rate to fall further, to below 2, within the next couple of weeks,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid-hit Trinamul leader dies||Senior Trinamul leader and administrator of Panihati municipality Swapan Ghosh, 75, died at the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences on Friday morning. He had tested positive for Covid-19. Swapan, who was the chairman of the outgoing civic board, fell ill in June but was detected with the infection later. His brother and Trinamul’s chief whip in the Assembly Nirmal Ghosh had also tested positive for the novel coronavirus in June but recovered. Family sources of Swapan said Swapan had been undergoing treatment at home since June. “Last week, he was admitted to Medica Super-specialty Hospital after his condition deteriorated. On Wednesday, his condition turned critical and he was shifted to Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, where he died around 3.45am on Friday,” said a family source. “Three years ago, Swapan had undergone a bypass surgery. But he later developed kidney problems and had been under medication since then. Doctors had advised him to be careful in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. But he never preferred to remain at home,” said a bereaved family member. Trinamul’s North 24-Parganas district president Jyotipriya Mullick said: “We have lost a leader who was close to common people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Villagers attack cops on mission to rescue alleged ‘child lifter’||At least 10 civic volunteers and three policemen were allegedly attacked and their vehicle was ransacked by a group of locals as they tried to rescue a woman who was assaulted by the mob on suspicion of being a child lifter in the Mothabari area here on Thursday. Later, additional police forces went to the spot and managed to rescue the injured volunteers, cops and the woman. The police said 14 persons had been arrested so far. Sources said some people spotted the woman carrying a child and moving through a mango orchard in Chak-Pratappur. The child was sleeping in her lap that triggered a suspicion among the onlookers that she has stolen the child, a girl. They intercepted her and some took the child to a nearby health centre while others started beating her, accusing her for stealing the child. Soon a police team along with civic volunteers went to the spot. As they tried to dissuade the crowd to rescue the woman, the mob attacked them with bricks and stones and even manhandled them. “We are probing the incident. Raids have been conducted and 14 persons have been arrested so far,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Production halted at tea factory, INTTUC blamed||Work came to a halt at a bought-leaf factory (BLF) that processes tea in the Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district since Thursday evening. Ruchi Agro Products Pvt Ltd which runs the standalone BLF filed complaints with police and the block administration, alleging that local INTTUC leaders had prevented workers from joining duties without any reason. Leaders of the trade union affiliated to the Trinamul Congress denied the charges and said the management had closed down the unit on its own. “When the second shift was about to start on Thursday evening, some people stopped workers from joining duties. This morning, we found a flag of the INTTUC planted at the entrance to the factory. Some workers who arrived to join duties were not allowed to enter. This has affected our production,” said Nabajit Dey, the manager of Ruchi Agro Products Pvt Ltd. The factory was opened at Schoolpara in Fatapukur in October last year. These days, 10,000 to 12,000 kilos of green tea leaves are processed at the unit a day. The BLF employees over 25 contractual workers and more than 10 other staff members also. Tapan Dey, a joint general secretary of the Terai Dooars Plantation Workers’ Union that is backed by the INTTUC, said the management had halted the work at the BLF. “The management makes workers serve for 12 hours a days but pays less wages. A labourer had suffered injuries during work three months ago, but he was not given compensation. The workers wanted to form a union and so they were at a meeting with us yesterday. We didn’t stop anyone from working. It was the management that stopped the production. We want the factory to function again,” said Dey. Surajit Paul, the general secretary of the North Bengal Industries’ Association, said workers could form a trade union and submit a charter of demands to the management. “This is a common process in any industry and none has an issue with that. But stopping workers from joining their duties is undesirable and affects the work environment. INTTUC leaders should realise that tealeaf is a perishable item and needs to be processed in due time or else, the management would suffer losses.” Rajganj Trinamul MLA  Khageswar Roy said: “I am looking into the issue. We will see that the impasse is resolved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
08-08-2020||West Bengal||UAE tourney plan lifts Richa Ghosh’s spirits||Richa Ghosh, a member of the Indian women cricket team who hails from Siliguri, is eagerly waiting to hit the ground, particularly after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has said it plans to host a women’s challenger cricket tourney in the United Arab Emirates in November. The tournament that would be conducted in IPL format is likely to be played in the UAE from November 1 to November 10. “I am excited after the announcement of the BCCI. Since March this year, we have been out of ground and have not played any match or attended proper practice sessions. The planned women challenger tournament will definitely provide a platform to return to serious cricket,” said Ghosh, who has been staying at her home here since Covid-19 broke out in the country. It was in March that the Indian women’s cricket team played for the last time. The team could make it to the finals of the ICC Women T20 cricket tournament that was held in Melbourne. Richa was one of the youngest players of the team with ace opener Shafali Verma and had played in the finals as a concussion substitute for wicketkeeper T. Bhatia. “I have not been able to practise in the field as everything is closed now because of the pandemic. But I try to maintain my fitness with free hands and practice at home,” she said. Manabendra, her father and a common face in the cricket arena of Siliguri, has set up a temporary facility at their house at Subhashpally here. It is there that Richa has been practising every day to hone her batting skills, along with physical exercises, to beat the Covid 19 blues for the past four months. “We have also watched the recently concluded England and West Indies test series played in England last month,” the young cricketer’s father, who also played cricket at local clubs, said. Richa pointed out that along with the proposed challenger tourney, there were some other reasons which had left her optimistic to return to the 22 yards. The BCCI, she said, is also planning to host two more T20 series against South Africa and West Indies before and after the challenger tourney. The performance of players at these events will be considered during selection of the Indian women’s cricket team that will play in the next T20 world cup that is likely to be held in New Zealand in March next year. “I am waiting for the day when guidelines would be issued for crickets like us so that we can go out and practise in the field,” Richa said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Weeklong lockdown in Nadia called off||Nadia district administration on Friday revoked its decision for a weeklong comprehensive lockdown from August 8 and instead opted to impose shutdowns on August 13 and 14 in some specific areas. The decision for the weeklong lockdown has been modified apparently after chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday spoke against such a long spell of shutdown. She had advised the district administration not to announce a lockdown that extends beyond “two days in a row”. Sources in the district administration said after the chief minister’s statement, several people, including politicians, had called up senior officials to modify the lockdown. The district administration eventually modified the order on Friday in line with what Mamata had wished. However, justifying the climbdown, district magistrate Vibhu Goel said the initial order was modified following “several requests and appeals received from different quarters to relax the lockdown”. The Nadia district administration had on Wednesday announced a weeklong comprehensive lockdown from August 8 to 14 in eight municipality towns and 25 gram panchayat areas to arrest the spread of Covid-19. On Friday, the district recorded 53 fresh positive cases, taking the number of total patients to 1,147. A senior official of the district administration said: “We had planned a strict weeklong lockdown since a section of the people in the district was blatantly violating safety norms. But we were compelled to change the decision since the weeklong lockdown did not go down well with Nabanna.” The authorities of two municipalities — Rampurhat and Sainthia — have closed their offices for at least four days after an employee from each of the offices was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday night. Chairman of Rampurhat municipality Aswini Tiwari said though the office would remain closed, emergency services would continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
08-08-2020||West Bengal||One more arrested in BJP MLA death case||One more person who had been named in the suicide note purportedly found on the body of Hemtabad MLA Debendra Nath Roy was arrested from Kashimbazar near Mothabari in Malda district on Friday afternoon. Mabud Ali was arrested by police who handed him over to the CID which has been probing the MLA’s death. Niloy Singha and Mabud Ali were named in the “suicide note” as well as an FIR filed by Roy’s wife Chadima Roy. The CID had already arrested Singha from Malda. Recently, CID sleuths had come to know that Ali had taken shelter at his relative’s place somewhere in Kaliachak and passed on the information to three police stations of the area. “Soon after receiving the note from the CID, we explored all our sources. Thus, we came to know that Ali was being sheltered by one of his relatives at Babla village. He was changing his hideout every night to evade the arrest. We arrested him on Friday afternoon when he reached Kashimbazar on a two-wheeler,” said Bitul Pal, the officer-in-charge of Mothabari police station. The MLA had defected from the CPM to the BJP last year. The resident of Baliadighi village in Hemtabad block of North Dinajpur was found hanging in front of a shop on July 13 morning. After the death, the investigators said Singha and Ali had borrowed Rs 1 crore from Debendra Nath Roy. The BJP is still not ready to buy the suicide theory and alleged that the legislator had been murdered. “We have doubts about the suicide note and suspect it is a ploy by the police to shield those who killed the MLA. We are not satisfied with the probe by the CID and will stick to our demand for a CBI investigation,” North Dinajpur district BJP president Biswajit Lahiri said. Sandip Biswas, the spokesperson for the district Trinamul, said the CID had proved its competence by arresting both the accused men. “The BJP had tried to politicise the MLA’s death and the true nature of the party will be exposed soon,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
08-08-2020||North East||Infant kidnapped, murdered in Assam’s Cachar district||Three persons, including the main accused, have been arrested on charges of kidnap and murder of an infant in Assam’s Cachar district. Police said five-month-old Dhrubajyoti, son of small trader Debojyoti Nath, was kidnapped by unidentified persons who had broken into their house at Kazidahar Part 11 on Tuesday night. The kidnappers later contacted the parents and demanded Rs 10 lakh in ransom but subsequently reduced the amount to Rs 1.5 lakh. They (kidnappers) agreed to return the infant at Kabuganj, around 12km from Nath’s residence, after receiving the ransom at Didarkhush, around 20km from Kazidahar. But, the arrest of a suspect in Didarkhush on Wednesday and his interrogation revealed that the infant had been murdered and buried at Amjurghat, about 7km from Kazidahar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
08-08-2020||North East||IIT Guwahati hand in new grid to boost LEDs||Light-emitting diodes or LEDs are set to become brighter, energy-efficient and durable, a development that could significantly reduce energy needs on a large scale and contribute towards curbing global warming and climate change, IIT Guwahati said on Friday. Researchers from IIT Guwahati and Imperial College, London have joined hands to develop a tailored ‘meta-grid’ of nanoparticles that could make LEDs more efficient. The development is significant because LEDs are deployed almost everywhere — from traffic lights to backlighting for electronic displays, smart phones, large billboards, decorative lightings, water purification and decontamination of infected surfaces. An increase in LED light output would significantly reduce energy needs on a large scale. The findings have been recently published in Light: Science & Applications journal of the Nature Publishing Group. While prescribing minimal changes to the manufacturing process, the research team has developed this novel scheme of boosting transmission of light generated inside an LED chip across the LED-chip/encapsulant interface. Debabrata Sikdar, assistant professor at IIT Guwahati, Prof. Sir John B. Pendry and Prof. Alexei A. Kornyshev from Imperial College London, have developed the nanoparticle ‘meta-grid’ or ‘metamaterial grid’ (a specifically patterned array of nanoparticles acting as metamaterials), capable of exhibiting extraordinary optical properties, the IIT statement said. The research team plans to fabricate a prototype device within a year and corroborate their theoretical predictions with experiments. Sikdar said the team had collaborated for more than a year on the project. He also said mass production of the new chip will bring down cost and its durability is expected to be 4-5 times more. Prof. Pendry, from the department of physics, said, “The simplicity of the proposed scheme and the clear physics underpinning it should make it robust and, hopefully, easily adaptable to the existing LED manufacturing process.” “It is obvious that with larger light extraction efficiency, LEDs will provide greater energy savings as well as longer lifetimes of the devices”. His colleague, Prof. Kornyshev, is from the department of chemistry. The research team believes that the work will definitely have a global impact on the versatile LED-based applications and their multi-billion-dollar market worldwide, IIT-G said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
08-08-2020||Opinion||Bad sign: Ram temple on Times Square billboard||Sir — It is deeply disheartening that a 3D portrait of a model of the Ram temple slated to be built in Ayodhya was beamed in New York’s iconic Times Square on the day of the bhoomi pujan. It is bad enough that such blatant signs of majoritarianism and the spread of regressive Hindutva ideals are being celebrated on our own soil; it is worse that the same is being shamelessly propagated overseas, in a city known for its diversity and cosmopolitanism. One wonders whether citizens of the United States of America — of Indian origin or otherwise — know about or remember the demolition of the Babri Masjid, and the plight of minority communities in India ever since.Raya Sinha,New Delhi New normal Sir — It has been reported that Facebook will now be allowing its employees to work from home till July next year, on account of the Covid-19 pandemic and the risks it poses to people if they gather in office spaces. This steadily seems to be becoming the new normal; earlier, the multinational giant, Google, had also announced that its employees would be working from home till July 2021. From this growing stream of decisions, it is evident that even big corporations are acknowledging that the coronavirus outbreak is set to last for a while. The next step now is to ensure that employees who are working from home are given the assistance they require to prevent their mental health from deteriorating. Working from home often lacks the sense of structure and balance that working in an office space affords; essentially, the home becomes one’s place of work, and the boundary between the professional space and the personal one gets blurred. While it is praiseworthy that companies are giving some thought to their employees’ safety by allowing them to work from home, have they considered devising ways to make the experience a healthy one?Ronita Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — After Google, Facebook, too, has announced that its employees will be working from their homes till the middle of next year. It has also announced that each employee will be given $1,000 for their home office needs. This is an admirable move; while there is no doubt that working from home protects people from having to make the work commute and coming into contact with others, it also means that the allied costs of working for a company which were, till now, covered by their workplaces, would have to be borne by the employees themselves. As such, if work-from-home is to be the model that is followed by big corporations for the foreseeable future, they must ensure that their employees are equipped to thrive in this new environment instead of feeling bogged down by it.Aditya Suri,Mumbai Sir — As the coronavirus threat seems set to stay for a while, it was the right decision on the part of Facebook and, earlier, Google, to allow their employees to work from home till July next year. One hopes that by then, the rapid spread of the disease will have dissipated, as many people are finding it difficult to cope with the work-from-home structure and are eager to get back to their familiar office spaces. Working with colleagues in a common space holds out hope of professional growth, team spirit building and camaraderie that isolated working does not. Hopefully we can eventually all go back to working normally.Ruth Menezes,Mumbai Sir — Like millions of other Indians, milk farmers are also suffering greatly on account of the coronavirus pandemic. After shops were shut down, the demand for milk became low. The government will have to take the necessary steps to support dairy farmers by incentivizing co-operatives to export more skimmed milk powder, the supply for which has exceeded the demand. Perhaps the ‘Anand’ model of dairy development in India, pioneered by Verghese Kurien and replicated all over the country, needs to be rejuvenated in all pockets so that milk farmers do not have to go without incomes and are able to sustain themselves again in these trying times.Bal Govind,Noida||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
08-08-2020||Opinion||Great walls: Closing down Confucius Institutes||Some cycles are hard to break. Mistrust shuts down friendly exchange, and the lack of communication feeds further mistrust. India is not the first country to consider closing down Confucius Institutes, arranged and partially funded by Hanban, an agency of the Chinese education ministry, and housed in higher educational institutions. The institutes teach Mandarin and acquaint students with Chinese culture and are, in declared intent, similar to various other overseas institutes offering lessons in language, culture and history of their respective countries. Learning about the cultural assets of different regions is an enriching part of education in the host country, especially the acquisition of a new language, which, as Charlemagne had said, creates a supplementary personality. Acquiring a foreign language extends horizons. An introduction to the culture and history of any country is part of that extension, opening up new routes to explore and offering, as it were, citizenship of the world. In contemporary times, though, such activities cannot but be mediated through the prism of diplomacy or, indirectly, political relations, and seen as a form of soft power. Before India considered reviewing the function of Confucius Institutes and Chinese language classes, other countries, such as Sweden, Australia and the United States of America, had already started closing down the institutes. The broad complaint against them is that they are being used as vehicles for Chinese propaganda, while specific complaints relate to distortions of and omissions in history, hiring on the basis of loyalty and so on. In short, Hanban is turning a means of cultural exchange and education into a political tool. The allegations are unfortunate; once political mistrust and hostility poison ostensibly non-political possibilities of mutual understanding, the resultant hardening of attitudes is not good for any side. More, it forcibly limits the imagination and curiosity of young people about different ways of life and speech in the world. India’s mistrust is not difficult to understand after its continuing disagreement with China at the Line of Actual Control. The review of Confucius Institutes accompanies the bans on certain Chinese apps because they threaten privacy. Both acts are frankly political. What seems petulant, however, is the dropping of Mandarin from the list of foreign languages that the new education policy offers secondary level students. India’s connections with many countries, not just China, are old, rich and deep. To shut down avenues of educational and cultural exchange with any of them is to deprive young people of their own histories, as well as a country for them to study or work in. Besides, if strategy alone is to dictate policy, language learning, even Mandarin, has practical advantages — from decoding messages now to pushing business interests, maybe in the future. Doors once shut may not be easy to open. It is important to tread the thin line between political mistrust and cultural open-mindedness. Not easy, perhaps, but it can be done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
08-08-2020||Opinion||Open air views: RA displays Impressionists||Camille Pissarro’s Plum Trees in Blossom, painted by the artist in 1894 towards the end of his life at Éragny, his house outside Paris, is just about my favourite painting in a new exhibition focusing on the French Impressionists at the Royal Academy which has reopened — with strict restrictions — after four months of lockdown. “Our belief in the power of art for all is still as strong as ever and we can’t wait for the RA to gradually be filled once more with people and creativity,” said Rebecca Salter, the RA’s first woman president in over 250 years. The exhibition of 60 works, Gauguin and the Impressionists: Masterpieces from the Ordrupgaard Collection, includes masterpieces by Pissarro, Edgar Degas, Édouard Manet, Claude Monet, Berthe Morisot, Auguste Renoir and Alfred Sisley. It also features precursors of Impressionism such as Camille Corot, Gustave Courbet, Jules Dupré and Charles-François Daubigny, and a number of Post-Impressionist works including “an exceptional group of eight paintings” by Paul Gauguin. Ordrupgaard, now a museum, is a house just outside Copenhagen where a wealthy Danish couple, Wilhelm and Henny Hansen, built one of the finest collections of Impressionist paintings between 1916 and the late 1920s. The exhibition’s curator, Anna Ferrari, said it was “a great privilege to be able to hang such a wonderful collection of paintings”. About Pissarro’s Plum Trees, she explained the artist had “done a series of works of the four seasons”, as reflected in his garden. She also spoke about the Impressionists’ en plein air movement: “One of the key ideas... was to paint in the open air — they were breaking from the academic tradition of painting indoors.” This has contemporary relevance. Recognizing people lucky enough to have gardens have found it psychologically easier to get through lockdown, the British government never denied people access to parks and open spaces even at the height of the pandemic. Home is where the heart is After 20 years of scholarly research, Dr Gëzim Alpion, from the department of social policy, sociology and criminology at the University of Birmingham, has just published his much praised Mother Teresa: The Saint and Her Nation, which seeks to unravel the mystery behind the woman. He has described his book as “a labour of love”. But why did she pick Calcutta? “Mother Teresa chose Calcutta as she had heard about the city from Balkan priests in the talks they gave in her parish church and in articles published in the Catholic magazines about their experience as missionaries in India,” the author, who, like his subject, is of Albanian origin, told me. “She applied to the Loreto order in Dublin with the intention of being sent to Calcutta where this order had its headquarters. She always felt safe, welcome and at home in Calcutta. She once said, ‘I will be buried in India — my country.’” Alpion explained: “The important thing is that while Mother Teresa was proud of her Albanian origin, she was also proud to consider herself an Indian and see Calcutta and India as her home. She loved India. I believe she genuinely felt an attachment with Calcutta.”Great loss Amar Singh seemed remarkably well-informed when I first met him in July 2006 when he had come to Leicester as Amitabh Bachchan’s “younger brother” when the Bollywood legend was being given an honorary Doctor of Arts by De Montfort University as “quite simply India’s greatest film actor”. “He is friendly with Ramola Bachchan,” said the Samajwadi Party leader in a disapproving way, when we were introduced by Keith Vaz, the then Labour MP for Leicester East, who had nominated Bachchan for the honorary degree. It is true that I attended Ramola’s parties at her home in Hampstead — in fact, I was asked to do so to write a colour piece by Charles Moore, my editor at The Sunday Telegraph (Charles was last week given a peerage by another of his rather more influential journalists, Boris Johnson). After the graduation ceremony, Vaz escorted his two guests on a tour of Leicester and the city’s football club and also hosted a dinner for them at the House of Commons. To his credit, Vaz did not abandon the Samajwadi leader but paid generous tribute to him after he passed away in Singapore, aged 64. “Amar Singh was a one off — I liked him,” Vaz told me. “Few of us politicians get to be called a legend in their lifetime but he certainly was. Privately he was a Netflix series on his own with intimate knowledge of so many politicians and business figures. We will miss his incredible political skills, his biting wit and his charisma.”Golden age Another word on the broadcaster, Kailash Budhwar, whose moving and dignified funeral was live streamed from the Chiltern Hills Crematorium in Buckinghamshire for relatives and friends who could not attend because of Covid restrictions. Since Kailash was “spiritual” but not formally religious, there were no priests but the service began with “Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram”, while a former colleague described his period at the BBC as “the golden age of the Hindi service”. There was also a reading of Harivansh Rai Bachchan’s poem, “Jo beet gayi so baat gayi”. Footnote In the six-part BBC dramatization of A Suitable Boy, it’s worth keeping an eye on Lata Mehra’s Calcutta suitor, Amit Chatterji (Mikhail Sen), who made his debut in the very engaging second episode. Vikram Seth put a bit of himself into the character. Vikram’s late mother, the judge Leila Seth, who had been reading Tagore’s Shesher Kobita, had wanted to call her son “Amit”, but her husband decided the name should begin with “V” after consulting astrologers. So it became “Vikram”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
08-08-2020||Opinion||Primeval darkness||Indian reality came into its own as Narendra Modi threw himself on the ground in one sashtanga pranam after another. Over a billion Hindus could have preened themselves on an epic victory but did Wednesday’s elaborate rejection of secularism and exaltation of a mythic Ram rajya also jettison the Republic? The live television coverage recalled David’s painting of Napoleon’s coronation, which someone called a “transparently masterminded piece of modern propaganda” with a major difference. Napoleon took the crown from Pope Pius and crowned himself. Brahmin priests anointed Modi’s head with a contraption adorned by an ornate coronet. Whether or not the Ram mandir bhoomi pujan “not only laid the foundation of a mandir but also the foundation of a Hindu Rashtra”, as the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s Asaduddin Owaisi claimed, it both heralded and officially sanctified a significant shift that will affect every aspect of life. There has always been a certain dissonance between the native and what was acquired during what Modi calls “bara sau saal ki ghulami (twelve hundred years of slavery)”. Rajiv Gandhi noted one aspect of this confusion when he told a small group of editors that he had problems explaining in Hindi to Zail Singh that ministers could not be sacked at whim just because the Constitution said they held office at the “pleasure” of the president. Asian authoritarianism does not tolerate European protocols and precedents. Jawaharlal Nehru was probably the last Indian readily to acquiesce in conventions like the British monarch voluntarily never using her enormous theoretical powers. West Bengal’s Jagdeep Dhankhar may see no reason why any form of propriety ordained by Westminster should prevent him from furthering the interests of the party to which he belongs and which appointed him. His predecessor, Keshari Nath Tripathi, felt “like a toothless tiger”. Similarly, the Supreme Court judge who lauded the prime minister as an “internationally acclaimed visionary” with the “versatile genius to think globally and act locally”, the supposedly radical corporate honcho who flopped down to touch a chief minister’s feet, or the vice-chancellor who doubled up in obeisance before another chief minister were only being true to instinct and their inherited traditions. The vice-chancellor, a molecular parasitologist working in infectious diseases, candidly acknowledged her “culture” being “Marwari”, “any older person or anyone of status” had to be greeted by bending low. A dignified bow or brisk Western handshake that places both parties on the same level would be too egalitarian. It may seem a short step from self-abasement to the debasement that inspired the tale of a Bengali writer who wore a dhoti over his pants during the uprising of 1857 so that he was on the winning side, whatever the outcome. The elevation of Hindu nationalism must by definition reject many customs and practices Indians accept as normal. One of the prime minister’s Mann ki Baat programmes specifically hit out at modernity when, espousing the case for listing yoga and adopting Ayush guidelines to boost immunity, it contended that Indians often don’t accept such traditions from the past without “evidence-based research” in other countries. “Possibly this is largely due to our hundreds of years of ghulami” was his not implausible explanation. The impugned period covers not only the decades when Britain ruled the entire Indian subcontinent but also the centuries when Muslim dynasties from abroad controlled chunks of South Asia. Modi obviously regards this as the equivalent of the 900 years of European history — between the fall of the Roman Empire and the Renaissance — labelled the Dark Ages. No historical label is beyond contention. Europe’s Renaissance and Reformation also had their contemporary critics. Quibblers against Marxist-Leninist orthodoxy were dubbed revisionist. If Boris Johnson were so lacking in self-confidence as to follow Modi’s example and treat alien rule as unrelieved disaster, he would ban William the Conqueror’s Domesday Book, the earliest public record and foundation document of Britain’s national archives and the source of still valid legal title to land. Any such purge in India would risk demolishing just about every familiar institution that testifies to modern nationhood. It had to be pointed out to a high-ranking bureaucrat that if Delhi’s Lutyens bungalows were bulldozed because they were colonial, so are Rashtrapati Bhavan and North and South Block. The abolition of universities, judiciary, administration, media, the armed forces or the smart private hospitals preferred by politicians (no clanging thaalis or cow dung for them) would plunge the country into primeval darkness. Not that such drastic measures are contemplated, but it is not beyond political cunning to erode the Constitution from within while paying lip-service to it. Ironically, no extravagant symbol of outward modernity is spurned as India flaunts ancient roots to the sound of cymbal and shloka. The president and prime minister will whiz around the globe in custom-built fighters equipped with advanced missile defence measures that rival the American president’s Air Force One. New Delhi’s proposed central plaza will dazzle the world and impress on everyone what puny folk the British and their immediate successors were. The world’s tallest statue will be matched by even more gigantic figures, lest other countries also buy Chinese technology and catch up. Ayodhya’s grandiose temple will oblige an embarrassed Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli to regret his effrontery in trying to drag Modi’s Ram down to his level. But even while harnessing the power of technology in their public outreach and preaching from the most sophisticated digital platforms, today’s rulers reject the enlightenment that inspired Nehru’s conclusion that “politics and religion are obsolete” and that “the time has come for science and spirituality”. Nehru did not endear himself to the mainstream media either by urging it (in vain) to build up the nation’s scientific temper by not publishing astrological predictions. The stars are omnipresent. Hundreds of Amitabh Bachchan’s fans gathered during his recent illness at the temple to him with a life-size statue of the actor that has apparently existed in Calcutta since 2001. I don’t know what they did; Bachchan himself seems to have indulged in some of the superstitious ritual earlier. He may even have heeded Suman Haripriya, the Assam Bharatiya Janata Party legislator, who says cow dung cures Covid-19 while cow urine is the antidote for cancer. According to another saffron worthy, Arjun Ram Meghwal, whose impressive clutch of ministerial portfolios includes water resources, river development, Ganga rejuvenation and parliamentary affairs, the papads he promotes create antibodies that combat the coronavirus. Pragya Singh Thakur and Ramesh Saxena are as divided on the medicinal virtues of chanting Tulsidas’s Hanuman Chalisa as by their politics. Thakur holds that reciting the hymn five times a day will “definitely work and we will be free from coronavirus”. Not enough, says the Congress’s sceptical Saxena: only 11 daily recitations can banish the coronavirus. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk was hailed as Asia’s liberator. He was Turkey’s Nehru. He banned the fez. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the new liberator. He encouraged the return of the hijab. He has also converted the church of Hagia Sophia into a mosque. Modi might be credited for initiating a similar process here. The official liturgy need not insist that Ram flew the first aeroplane, Karna was “born outside his mother’s womb” because “stem cell technology was known in ancient India” or that “the practice of plastic surgery” began with a Hindu scientist attaching an elephant’s head on a human body. These being the prime minister’s views, the Hindu rank and file will no longer feel inhibited about asserting the absurd with all the dogmatic conviction of the uninformed. Twelve hundred years of slavery makes for imitativeness. Far from being resolved, the mismatch between East and West that accounts for so much of India’s confusion will get worse as our reinvigorated rulers preach one thing and practise another.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Seven arrested in Garhwa minors' gangrape case; plasma therapy in Dhanbad within a month||Garhwa Police on Saturday arrested seven persons in connection with the gang rape of two minor scheduled tribe girls of Uttar Pradesh under Banshidhar Nagar police station around 40 km from the district headquarter. The incident occurred on July 29 at Baraitand forest near Banshidhar Nagar Sub-divisional headquarter. On the statement of the victims, a case was registered with the police station against 12 unknown men. “The girls, aged around 17, were returning to their village Kone of bordering Uttar Pradesh with two friends after updating their Aadhaar card during the evening and stopped near the spot to attend the call of nature, when they were intercepted by the men, who took them towards the forest. They later took turns to rape both the girls," said SP K S S Rao. A task force was immediately constituted under the leadership of the Banshidhar Nagar SDPO  Ajit Kumar. After conducting several raids, police arrested some of the accused men. The accused have been booked under IPC Section 376 (D) (rape), 341, 323, 506, 34 and Section 4 of POCSO Act for the aggravated offence of gang rape,” the SP added. Arrested accused identified as Saddam Khand alias Saddam Saudagar alias Mukhtar Alam ( 28), Vicky Khan (20), Javed Khan alias Bhola Khan (20), Ali Raja (21), Sufrail Khan (18), Syed Khan (19) and Neyamat Khan (20), all natives of Checharia and Bisunpur under Banshidhar Nagar police station. Plasma therapy in coal capital within a month Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Saturday held a meeting with the doctors and medical officers to explore the possibility of launching plasma therapy for Covid treatment in Dhanbad and fixed a deadline of one month for it. He instructed the persons concerned to procure information with regard to equipment, cost involved and manpower needed from ICMR and RIMS for this purpose. The blood bank in-charge of PMCH Dr AK Singh told DC Singh that they would require plasmapheresis, a refrigerator to maintain minus 40 degree centigrade temperature to keep plasma and ph meter in order to start plasma therapy. He also said that they have a trained technician at their blood bank, who can help in plasma component separation. Illicit liquor den busted in Dhanbad A joint team of Dhanbad police and excise department on Saturday conducted a raid at Bhalwa Pahari area of Tundi block and busted a liquor den operating from the house of a villager Shidho Hembrom. Hembrom, however, fled away from the site before the arrival of the cops. Police have lodged a case against him and launched a manhunt to arrest him. The team led by DSP of Tundi,  Himanshu Manjhi also seized 27 liters of locally made liquor packed in bottles bearing fake foreign liquor stickers and also 5O liters of spirit, besides empty bottles of Royal Stag RC etc. One dies of drowning in Gomoh Dularchand Ram alias Gariba Ram, a resident of Laludih village of Hariharharpur Police station area of Dhanbad, died due to drowning in a pond of his village on Saturday morning. The incident took place when Ram went out of his house in search of his missing buffalo and found it in a pond but slipped in the deep water. Some local women bathing in the pond started shouting after which local youths arrived and brought him out but he was dead by then. Mine pite cage wall collapses The dilapidated wall of an abandoned mine pite cage wall collapsed on Saturday morning in Bhuli Colliery area of Dhanbad due to minor subsidence that took place and led to crack in the walls of some adjoining houses. Notably this place falls in the subsidence-prone area of the underground fire affected zone and risk of subsidence increases in the monsoon due to seepage of water through cracks. Raid on illegal sand miners Bokaro district administration cracked the whip on sand miners and transporters who are carrying sand business unlawfully from rivers despite a ban imposed by National Green Tribunal (NGT) during monsoon. NGT has banned sand mining from June 10 to October 15. Massive raids were conducted by two separate teams headed by sub-divisional officer, Bermo, Nitish Kumar Singh in Bermo and Gomia areas. Two tractors loaded with illegal sands were handed over in Bermo police station, while three in Lalpania police station and one in Gomia. However 11 tractors caught in interior Chatro-Chatti areas were released giving last warning. Sand mining was done from Damodar River. SDO said, "Two stone crushers were also sealed by the team in Lapania under Gomia Block. FIR was lodged against crusher owners for illegally operating crushers in the area. One JCB machine, six tractors and two compressor machines were seized from the crushers.” Mining officer appealed to the people to follow the directions of NGT and not get involved in mining activities at riverbeds in the rainy season. Three SBI branches sealed in Bokaro after staff test positive Three branches of State Bank of India (SBI) were sealed for next 72 hours after eight employees were tested Covid-19 positive. This is the third banking company after Bank of India (BOI) and HDFC where positive cases surfaced in the past 15 days. SBI has been asked to ensure complete sanitisation after immediately closing these branches.  Contact tracing in the branches is being done and sampling of those who come under risk will be done. A Press release of the administration stated that “the employees of SBI Main Branch of City Centre, Chas branch and Court Area branch have been found infected with Coronavirus. To prevent the spread of coronavirus infection, Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh issued an order directing to seal the three branches”. Covid-affected women give birth to healthy babies in Sadar hospital Doctors of Sadar Hospital, who a few days ago fled leaving a pregnant woman after she tested positive, have come up claiming that two pregnant Covid positive women delivered babies in their institution in the last 24 hours. While caesarean surgery was performed on Friday, on Saturday a woman gave normal birth to a baby. Both mother and child are healthy. The woman belongs to Chandankiyari. The entire team of doctors followed SOP in completing the delivery process, said civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Fifty five discharged across Dhanbad Covid centres||Fifty five persons including four women and a prisoner were discharged on Saturday from different Covid treatment facilities across Dhanbad, including 23 from Tata Central Hospital, 20 from PMCH Cath lab based Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC), eight from Dedicated Covid Hospital, Jagjivan Nagar and four from sadar Hospital-based DCHC, after their sample test reports came negative.  Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the release of such a large number of people  is a good development and added that the discharged persons will have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days.  Hundred-bed DCHC inaugurated  A 100-bed DCHC meant for the treatment of asymptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms was inaugurated on Saturday at Nirsa Polytechnic in Gopalpur area of Nirsa block in the presence of Singh and Nirsa MLA Aparna Sen Gupta.  Singh, who facilitated the inauguration with the hands of a nurse, said that the centre will be used for treatment of patients of Nirsa, Egyarkund, Kaliasol and Govindpur on priority basis and gradually the number of beds in the Centre will be increased from 100 to 300.  Allocation of Covid centres  In a bid to ensure better management of all Covid treatment centres of the district, Singh on Saturday made block-wise allocation of all centres as per which the Dedicated Covid Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar will be used for treatment of serious Covid patients of all 10 blocks, while  SSLNT Hospital, Dhanbad will be used for treatment of pregnant Covid-affected women.  This apart, in the DCHC at PMCH, priority would be given to patients of Dhanbad followed by patients of  Topchanchi. In Zonal Training institute, priority would be given to  Dhanbad followed by Baghmara and then Jharia. In Regional Hospital Bhuli of BCCL, priority to Baghmara followed by Jharia will be given. In Nirsa Polytechnic priority wise patients of Nirsa, Kakiasol, Egyarkund, Govindpur would be admitted followed by patients of Baliapur, Jharia, Tundi and Purbi Tundi.  Similarly in Tata Central Hospital, patients of Jharia would be given priority.  Singh said that though block-wise allocation of hospital would be made, if a patient comes to any centre he would be duly admitted in that centre irrespective of him belonging to any block.  Singh instructed health officials to make deputation of required medical staff at DCHCs of Nirsa Polytechnic and Zonal training institute Bhuli, including 12 lab technicians, 30 ANMs, six male and female ward boys each besides 20 sanitation workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand State Karate Do Association gets national recognition||Karate enthusiats seeking to compete in national championships will have to come under the umbrella of Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA), which has been recognised by Karate Association of India (KAI) as the only bonafide outfit of the state, ending the row over martial art practice in Jharkhand.  Karate Association of Jharkhand (KAJ) and Sports Karate Association of Jharkhand  (SKAJ) have been claiming to be bonafide karate associations in Jharkhand.  KAI president Likha Tara has also informed the state sports director Anil Kumar Singh about granting recognition to JSKA. A copy has been marked to the president and secretary of Jharkhand Olympic Association.  The KAI president has requested the sports director to lend necessary support to JSKA in developing the game in the state. The letter also says karatekas will represent JSKA in national competitions organised by KAI.  Expressing happiness, JSKA general secretary L. Nageshwar Rao said they were the bonafide karate association now, and confusion among players about whom to represent in national championships has come to an end. "We will shortly convene a meeting to constitute a fresh committee,” he added.  Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Rao, a Karate black belt holder, said JSKA has been working hard to channelise the sport by honing the skills of budding karatekas in schools and colleges in the districts. “We have helped medal-winning tribal players get scholarships from the state government. We intend to promote karatekas and also prepare them for winning medals in national and international competitions,” Rao, who is an employee of Tata Steel sports wing, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||73 more inmates test Covid positive in Birsa jail||The count of coronavirus infected prisoners at Birsa Munda Jail reached triple digits on Saturday as at least 73 more jail inmates were found to be Covid positive, prison officials told The Telegraph Online. “As many as 105 prisoners at Birsa Munda Jail have been infected by the virus. All of them are in isolation within the jail premises,” said IG, Prison, Birendra Bhushan. On August 4, as many as 40 prisoners and 14 staff at Jharkhand's largest jail tested positive for Covid-19. At least 200 more jail inmates were tested on the basis of contact tracing after that, officials said. “All the 73 found infected on Saturday were tested on the basis of contact tracing of prisoners who were found infected earlier,” said Bhushan. Prison authorities have supplied prophylaxis, zinc, vitamin C and vitamin D tablets in sufficient quantity to the jail for treatment of infected patients. At least five doctors, including two MDs, are treating patients at the jail, which can accommodate around 2,000 inmates. Bhushan said the situation was particularly alarming in Birsa Munda Jail, while there were negligible cases of Covid infection in other jails of Jharkhand. Besides Ranchi, Jharkhand has four other central jails in Palamau, Hazaribagh, Dumka and East Singbhum. Additionally, there are over two dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails. Many high-profile political prisoners, including RJD chief Lalu Prasad, have been kept in Birsa Munda Jail in the past. While Lalu has been shifted to the director's bungalow at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), at least two MLAs serving their terms at the jail have tested positive. In a bid to prevent further spread of the virus among jail inmates and staff, the jail administration has prohibited unauthorised entry and exit in Birsa Munda Jail, officials said. Prison authorities have also clamped a restriction on meetings of prisoners and visitors, sources said. Jail authorities have begun to spread awareness about the coronavirus and its impact among prisoners. Prisoners are also being counselled in order to help them cope with the fear of Covid-19, jail officials said. “We are providing healthy food and immunity boosters to prisoners during this period,” said Bhushan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Not JAP-1, but Morabadi ground to host I-Day celebrations||In a U-turn, top officials of Ranchi district administration on Saturday announced that the iconic Morabadi ground will host Independence Day programme this year, too, merely four days after finalising Jharkhand Armed Police-1 (JAP-1) ground as the venue in the wake of the ongoing Covid outbreak and lockdown curbs that mandate minimum gathering.  On Saturday afternoon, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan with his team of officials and top brass of police inspected Morabadi ground to initiate preliminary works for the state-sponsored I-day programme.  Ranjan said that that the move to revisit Morabadi as I-day venue was taken by the state government even though the district administration had announced to hold the same in JAP-1 ground this year and began preparations.  He said, “Last night, we got a directive from state government about I-day programme at Morabadi ground itself. I am not aware what transpired but the state ceremony will now be held here. Today’s visit was a preparatory one to be ready for the programme.”  He conceded that hosting the ceremony here could be a challenge for crowd control but said they will be prepared to handle it. “We will be ready with a fool-proof plan to ensure social distancing at the venue and no entry without masks,” he said, adding that they are awaiting further directives from the state home department to know about the number of people to be invited for the programme.  The administration has planned to invite Covid warriors and those who defeated the virus as special guests for the occasion as a symbolic gesture to express gratitude towards such people to discourage any kind of stigma attached with the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Learn how to strike balance between chess and studies ||All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) is organising a discussion on how to maintain balance between chess and academics for young students and aspirants of the game on Sunday. The panel includes Deep Sengupta, the 22nd Grandmaster of India, Shalini Srivastava, business strategy consultant at Accenture Strategy, Nishant Kumar from BIT-Mesra and Satyam Kumar from AIIMS, Patna. The discussion will take place on Jiomeet from 6.30 pm to 8 pm. A Q&A session will also be part of the proceedings. “A commonly faced problem by students playing chess, is how they can balance their academics while being actively involved in the game,” said Basant Khandelwal, the host and joint secretary of AJCA. “Usually, kids lose way when they reach higher classes, unaware of how to rank and achieve success,” he said, adding that the game of chess is all about patience and wit. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Chaibasa, Khandelwal said their panel includes chess players who have achieved significant success in their respective careers. “Deep is Jharkhand’s best player while Shalini was once an active player who has done well in state-level competitions. Nishant was once an active chess player who has won state events and is now a fourth year student at BIT-Mesra. However, none of them have achieved better academic success than Satyam, who is currently a fourth year student at AIIMS Patna,” Khandelwal said. Students are also ready to ask the panel questions about what problems they faced while balancing chess and academics and when they decided to choose between the two. They also want to know their take on the present situation where many students are playing various online tournaments, mostly blitz, and how would that effect their game. Comments on the game making one’s brain sharp and thus inviting the desire of parents to teach their kids chess, will be sought. The discussion will be conducted under the supervision of Jamshedpur-based International Master NK Mishra, general secretary of AJCA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Why state electricity board cannot crack down on power thefts||Power theft is rampant in the Mango division of Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam but the electricity distribution company doesn’t have the wherewithal to prevent it even if instances of illegal connections are brought to its notice light by a vigilant citizenry. On Saturday, a senior JBVNL officer admitted how he could not organise a surprise raid against a construction company that had been drawing power illegally at a building site at Dimna Chowk even after a local resident had alerted him to it by providing pictorial evidence. The general manager-cum-chief engineer of Singhbhum electricity area board, Arvind Kumar, said the only trustworthy and honest officer who could be entrusted with the job was away in Ranchi on official work. Hence, he could take necessary action. In the meantime, word had spread that JBVNL had been informed about the illegal “hooking”, a procedure by which cables are connected to a transformer to tap electricity, that had been going on at the construction site. A group of JBVNL field workers apparently came and disconnected the wires and left. "It is a matter of grave concern that a very few officials are dependable. I had planned to get a raid conducted at Dimna Chowk, but before it could be materialised, the unauthorised connection was snapped,” said Kumar. It all started on Tuesday, when a resident of Dimna, also a JBVNL consumer, lodged a complaint with Kumar, telling him about the multi-storeyed residential complex that was being built using electricity tapped illegally from a nearby transformer. The resident also provided photographs of the transformer and the illegally connected cables. Kumar took all the details and told the resident that they would conduct a raid on Thursday when his only trusted official would be available. But JBVNL could not conduct a raid on Thursday or on Friday. Eventually on Saturday morning, some field workers of JBVNL appeared and removed the cables that had been hooked on to the transformer and left. Kumar admitted to The Telegraph Online that he failed to conduct a raid as there were very few trusted officials in his department. "The only trusted official who used to carry out such raids was on leave. The official joined work at the Jamshedpur Circle on Thursday but left for Ranchi on official work. When he turned up on Friday, I met him and informed the superintending engineer, Jamshedpur Circle, Sudhanshu Kumar in the evening,” Kumar said. But someone must have informed those in the construction company, he added, because of which the cables were removed from the transformer. “Someone from the department must have tipped then off about our plan," he rued. The superintending engineer Sudhanshu Kumar could not be contacted for a comment. An insider in JBVNL's Jamshedpur Circle pointed out that corruption was rampant in every section of the discom. “Any kind of illegal work can be done by influencing the concerned officials monetarily,” he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||Air Aisa flight suffers bird-hit, grounded after snag||A total of 147 passengers and crew members onboard an Air Asia Ranchi-Mumbai flight had a narrow escape after the aircraft was hit by a bird just before take off on Saturday morning, a day after a major aircraft mishap took place in Kerela. But the flight had to be grounded eventually, as it developed a snag while taking off around 4.15pm. Airport director Vinod Kumar told The Telegraph Online in the evening that another flight was expected to come from Calcutta and fly the stranded passengers to Mumbai. "While taking off, the pilot sensed a spark in one of the engines, forcing him to abort take off," Kumar said. Earlier, explaining the bird-hit, Kumar said the bird-hit occurred when the aircraft was cruising on the runway before finally taking off.  He said, “At about 11.45am, a bird hit an Air Asia flight while it was rolling on for take off. Luckily, no untoward incident occurred and all 147 passengers who were on board are safe. Soon after the incident, the flight was manoeuvred towards the apron. After undergoing customary technical inspection, the flight will take off in an hour. Prima-facie, the aircraft is fit to take off.” The airport director added that unlike the earlier problem of bird hit due the menace of hordes of road side fish and meat sellers in Hinoo and airport road periphery, the situation around the airport has improved in the years after sustained drive by the district administration has minimised the risk. “Still, since birds can’t be bound by any geography, consider it as one of the stray incidents,” he noted, assuring that all passengers are safe and that the airport management is always on high alert to avert such situations. In September last year, a Delhi-bound Indigo flight carrying over 100 passengers had a narrow escape when a bird hit the aircraft at runaway in Ranchi. Again in April 2018, another Indio flight suffered bird hit, but no injuries were reported to any passengers. In July 2017 too, an Air Asia flight with 174 passengers on board for Delhi had to be aborted after bird hit damaged the plane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
08-08-2020||Jharkhand||BJP at governor door over Babulal Marandi||A three-member BJP delegation led by its Jharkhand unit president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash met governor Draupadi Murmu on Friday and submitted a memorandum seeking her intervention in appointing Babulal Marandi as leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. “In disregard for democratic norms, chief minister Hemant Soren wants that the House runs without a leader of the Opposition,” Prakash said after meeting the governor. He said they “met the state’s constitutional head after being fed up with the lackadaisical attitude of the ruling combine”. Prakash alleged that the Speaker had been dilly-dallying in appointing Marandi as leader of the Opposition though the BJP, with 26 MLAs, is the largest Opposition party in the Assembly. Before joining the BJP, Marandi was the supremo of Jharkhand Vikash Morcha (Prajatantrik) that won three seats in the Assembly elections in December 2019. Subsequently, Marandi merged his party with the BJP on February 11 this year and the BJP immediately declared him as the leader of its legislature party. While Marandi chose the BJP, the two other JVM (P) legislators, Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey, went to the Congress. The Election Commission accepted the merger of the Marandi party with the BJP on March 6 but it did not recognise its two MLAs as belonging to the Congress during the Rajya Sabha election in June and they voted as Independents. Prakash said “there was absolutely no problem in doing it”, and they urged the governor to intervene so that Marandi was declared as leader of the Opposition without further delay and given his constitutional rights. Meanwhile, the BJP continued its criticism of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD dispensation. State BJP secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Samir Oraon alleged that the state government had sent Prakash to quarantine when he returned to Ranchi after taking oath in the upper House of Parliament last month as well as Marandi but Umang Singhar, joint in-charge of the Jharkhand unit of the Congress had been allowed to attend party programmes in the state without following the quarantine protocol. When contacted, Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said: “Singharji came to the state on Wednesday after obtaining proper permission from the state government and was supposed to stay till August 9 (Sunday).” He said Singhar returned on Thursday evening after the permission was withdrawn. BJP spokesperson Saroj Singh, in a statement issued on Thursday evening, alleged the state government was treating former Bihar chief minister and RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav as a state guest and not as a convicted prisoner. He alleged that Lalu Prasad, unlike a prisoner, was shifted to a posh bungalow from the hospital to protect him from coronavirus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
