09-08-2020||Calcutta||Private healthcare units can during admission demand up to Rs 50,000||Bengal’s regulatory commission has said private healthcare units in the state could during admission demand up to Rs 50,000 — or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost — whichever was less. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issued the related advisory on Saturday. The private hospitals cannot refuse admission if the patient cannot pay the sum immediately, but the money has to be paid within 12 hours, the advisory said.  If a patient fails to pay up within that time, the hospital can ask that the bed be vacated within the hour, it added. Patients’ rights groups said the decision gave private hospitals the “licence to fleece patients” and refuse treatment to those unable to pay. Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairperson of the commission, said the amount had been fixed for the benefit of both the patients and the hospitals. “I have proof that one hospital had sought a deposit of Rs 3 lakh. This had to stop. At the same time, hospitals need to stay viable,” he said. But Peerless Hospital chief executive Sudipta Mitra said the hospital was asking for Rs 5,000 as deposit from Covid-19 patients during admission. “Now we can ask for Rs 50,000,” he said. Although the advisory did not mention Covid-19, most people seeking admission at hospitals now are either coronavirus-positive or have Covid-like symptoms. “After due deliberations and careful consideration, it is decided that clinical establishments would not be entitled to demand more than 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum amount of Rs 50,000, whichever is less, at the time of admission,” the advisory issued by Arshad Hasan Warsi, secretary to the regulatory commission, said. The advisory said: “In case the patient party is not in a position to deposit the required amount at the time of admission, the hospital would admit the patient as and by way of provisional admission and give adequate necessary treatment required right at that moment. However, the admission would be regularised upon deposit of the amount within a period of 12 hours.” The advisory adds: “In case the deposit is not made within the time stipulated above, the hospital would be at liberty to cancel the provisional admission and ask the patient party to take back the patient within one hour thereafter.” According to the advisory, it had come to the notice of the commission that patient parties “face hardship in fulfilling requirement of advance payment” at the time of admission. Some of the private hospitals said it had become a headache to secure payment in the case of patients who had died or whose discharge date had arrived without anyone coming to accompany them home. In a second advisory issued on Saturday, the regulatory commission said: “All investigations amounting above Rs 2,000 should be done on a prior documented intimation to the patient party.” If an investigation is regularly repeated, it said, the patient's family must be informed and the reason explained. This advisory was issued because the commission had noticed that costly investigations were being repeated regularly, the commission said. Patients and organisations campaigning for their rights criticised the decision to allow the hospitals to seek up to Rs 50,000 as deposit. “The new advisory gives private hospitals the licence to fleece patients and refuse treatment,” said Kunal Saha, president, People for Better Treatment. “Most Covid-19 patients need (only) monitoring and basic support because they have moderate to mild symptoms. This (advisory) will also make people with critical patients reluctant to go to a (private) hospital.” Hospitals welcomed the advisory. “Different hospitals were demanding different amounts as deposit. Now there will be a uniform rate. This will prevent misunderstandings,” said Rupak Barua, president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, an organisation of private hospitals in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Phones are buzzing with cheat calls||More than 1,700 complaints have piled up in Lalbazar in the past two months. They are related to cheating or cheating attempts on the phone where callers posed as bank officials or restaurant managers. Close to 1,600 of these calls originated from Jamtara in Jharkhand with SIM cards from Malda, Nadia and pockets of South 24-Parganas, not far from Calcutta, police said. This is the first time cops have found a Bengal link with the Jamtara gang, which has been operating for years now, the police said. The total phone fraud amount in Calcutta in the past two months with a Jamtara connection is more than Rs 3 crore, an officer in Lalbazar said. The list of people cheated in June and July includes police officers and some of their elderly family members apart from lawyers, bank officials, IT personnel, teachers, homemakers, and retired people, the officer said. Youths, aged between 16 and 35 run the racket by calling up people at random and trying to persuade them into sharing bank details, the police said. Phone calls as well as WhatsApp calls are used in the fraud. The Jamtara gang has been trying everything, from offering bank loans to luring people with prize money from Kaun Banega Crorepati, to cheat people, the police said. “At times they pose as bank officials and tell people their debits cards are about to be blocked because they haven’t updated their KYCs… at time they offer bank loans or discounts on food items for home delivery,” an officer said. During lockdown, several people got into the business of home delivery of food. Many of them were cheated by members of the Jamtara gang who posed as customers and sought their bank details on the pretext of transferring money for food. “June recorded the highest number of complaints. The number was lower in July but it recorded the second-highest number of complaints related to Jamtara so far this year,” the officer said. Two men were arrested in Jamtara in July on the charge of cheating a north Calcutta resident of Rs 4.63 lakh. Investigations showed the SIM cards they used in their phones to make calls were from Bengal. It is not clear, though, how the cards reached Jamtara, the police said. “They transferred money through multiple accounts to sellers in Bengal for SIM cards. So many accounts make it difficult to track the money trail,” an officer said. Cops have been continuously trying to create awareness among people as well as take legal action against such frauds, Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma told Metro. “We request people not to share their bank or personal details with anyone over phone without properly confirming the caller’s identity.” The city police have arrested several youths from Jamtara in the past in connection with call centre rackets running in Calcutta. People of other states were cheated through these centres. Calling up people and cheating them is like a “full-time job” for many youths in Jamtara, a detective department officer who has visited Jamtara said. They usually use Truecaller before making calls to know the name of the person they are calling, an officer said. The modus operandi involves distributing the money from a fraud’s e-wallet to multiple e-wallets, the officer said. After several rounds, the money is transferred to bank accounts, which are opened with fake identity documents. The frauds withdraw the money from these accounts using ATM cards, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Season tips for parents of teens||Treat your teenagers as grown-ups; do not react differently to situations if you are in a foul mood and do not make excuses for the child if he/she cannot attend online classes. These are some of the advice schools and psychiatrists have for parents during the pandemic. Students are well-informed and parents should not give them “hollow reassurances” that the uncertain situation will soon be over but instead talk to them, according to psychiatrists. Parents are always the first teacher and now they need to be counsellors as well to tide over these unusual circumstances, several school heads have said. Children are upset to be at home and not being able to meet their friends and parents need to understand their situation and communicate with them. “The parent has to tell them that these are difficult times and one has to make use of whatever is available and feel grateful. Don’t say this pandemic will be fine and everything will be hunky dory. We don’t know that…. Don’t give hollow reassurances…. By doing so parents tend to underestimate the child’s ability to be discerning and they disconnect and feel they are not being understood,” psychiatrist Rima Mukherji told parents of students of Classes IX to XII at South Point High School on Friday. She was speaking at a session on Parents as Counsellors: Special Guidelines during the Pandemic. In several other schools, either counsellors or teachers are speaking to parents so that they can handle the situation more effectively at a time when they lose their patience easily because of stress. The heads of The Heritage School, Apeejay Schools and South Point High School feel children have to be treated as grown-ups who have a mind of their own and involve them in family decisions. “Parents treat children as they want to and according to their convenience. Instead they have to give children the confidence that their decision is valued. If they are given responsibilities they will never fail their parents,” Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School, said. The pandemic has thrown open many new challenges for parents. “Many parents make the mistake of brushing aside their children but these teens have a voice and if there is a crisis they can help out and give suggestions, which are pertinent,” Rupa Sanyal Bhattacharjee, principal, South Point, said. This is a time for parents to tell their children that they “are resilient, developing patience and coping skills” despite so many challenges, psychiatrist Mukherji said. “Don’t make excuses for the child that there was no Net connectivity or he/she was sick if he/she is not attending classes,” she said. Sri Sri Academy has been advising parents to use the time to “bond with children” and not to “over monitor” them as it can leave them frustrated. “Parents need to balance out the time they are spending with children… though they need to be watched and communication channels have to be kept open but parents should not over monitor,” principal Suvina Shunglu said. Parents are on the “front line”, spending time with them at a time when teachers are not present face to face, Mukherji said. “They have to attend online classes; they are anxious about their careers and how long this would continue… parents have a role to play and for that there has to be better self-awareness.” The role of the parent has expanded during the pandemic. “Parents are the first counsellors for their children but there are occasions when they might go wrong and hence they need the help of counsellors to guide them,” Reeta Chatterjee, administrator of the Apeejay Schools, said. Counsellors have to help parents with certain skills, the counsellor at Calcutta International School, Farishta Dastur Mukerji, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid test lab in Barasat hospital||The health department has decided to set up a laboratory at the district hospital in Barasat to increase the number of Covid tests in North 24-Parganas. The district, which has reported the most number of cases after Calcutta, has been carrying out around 750 tests a day, the bulk of it being in three Calcutta hospitals — RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, School of Tropical Medicine and NRS Medical College and Hospital. Once the new laboratory is ready, health department officials said the aim would be to test at least 1,300 samples every day. “With a population of around 1.1 crore, North 24-Parganas has only one dedicated testing centre at the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati,” said a senior health department official. “Once we have a dedicated testing centre, samples won’t have to be sent to Calcutta.” North 24-Parganas, with several thickly populated pockets spread around parts of Barasat, Barrackpore, Titagarh, Naihati, Bongaon and Ashoknagar, has emerged as one of most critical districts skirting Calcutta. The number of Covid patients has steadily grown despite complete lockdown measures by the board of administrators of the Barasat and Madhyamgram municipalities. On Friday, North 24-Parganas added 89 cases taking the total count of “active cases” in the district to 5,611. The health department has already begun procuring RT-PCR machines so that laboratories in the districts, including one each at Suri, Tamluk and Jhargram, can carry out tests. Interviews for laboratory technicians are being carried out. “We have decided to take the total number of tests in the state to 25,000 every day in the next few days,” the health department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Langar on Wheels save the day||The city was totally shut on Saturday and only a handful of vehicles were on the roads. Among them were two Boleros that criss-crossed the roads for most part of the day. The vehicles were stacked with cooked food for rickshaw-pullers, mutiyas (people who ferry load on vans or on their backs), workers at closed stalls and others whose livelihood has been hit by the pandemic. On Saturday, one of the car’s first stop was Howrah station. The driver parked it near the prepaid taxi bay in the old complex. The station was deserted. But scores of people soon flocked to the car. Volunteers of the IHA Foundation distributed the food — hot khichdi and a mishmash of vegetables — to the people who had gathered. One of them was Shyam Behari, a mutiya from Bihar’s Vaishali district. Behari had gone home in April. “But I don’t have land where I can work. Working at the station is better than working on someone else’s land. So, I came back in July,” he said. On other days, many of these people get some work. But on days of total shutdown, like Saturday, their earning is zero. Gurdwara Behala, IHA Foundation and Kolkata Response Group organised the drive, Langar on Wheels. “Lockdown restrictions are being relaxed but sources of income are still unreliable as of now, especially for daily-wage earners. On days of complete lockdown, they don’t have any source of food or water,” Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairperson of the IHA Foundation and general secretary of Gurdwara Behala, said. What had started as a drive to feed the poor at gurdwaras during the lockdown gradually shifted to food being carried on wheels and distributed to the needy across the city and suburbs. After completing over 100 days of food delivery on the trot till July, the drive is back again to feed people on the days of complete lockdown in the state. The association has provided more than a million meals, according to the organisers. “We could cater to hundreds of people when we served food at gurdwaras. But the mobile food service reaches many more. The scale of the drive has gone up manyfold,” an organiser said. The poor and destitute could not always reach a gurdwara. So, the organisers engaged a task force and mobile units to deliver food to the needy. The food is cooked at a couple of kitchens in south Calcutta in the morning. The distribution starts from noon. On Saturday, one vehicle stopped in Howrah, Posta, the MG Road and Central Avenue areas and Shyambazar. Another vehicle headed stopped at Park Circus, Gariahat and Taratala among other places. The civic body and police are lending support to the drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Target 10,000: New Town residents to adopt trees||Residents of New Town will be able to adopt trees and nurture them with help from Hidco and the forest department as part of a drive to replant trees by the township’s authorities. The spots chosen for this are near housing complexes, a Hidco official said. The decision was taken after Hidco conducted a survey among residents to find out what they wanted to do as a community-driven activity with distancing norms. Planting trees and gardening topped the list. Hidco and the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) have requested residents’ associations in all three action areas to plant more trees inside housing complexes as well. The target is to plant 10,000 trees in New Town by the end of the year, Debashis Sen, the chairman-cum-managing director of Hidco, said. The trees that will be planted will be at least three years old and of varieties that are resilient to storms. More than 4,600 trees in the township were uprooted or damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May. New Town has palm, coconut, cherry blossom, pine and casuarina — all trees with supple trunks and branches — planted along its dividers. Hidco plans to plant more of these varieties among others. “Planting trees and gardening is therapeutic. All of us are cooped up in our homes because of the pandemic… planting trees and nurturing them will come as a welcome break. We will ensure distancing norms during the plantation and the trees adopted by residents will have a small name tag to help them identify the trees easily,” Sen said. To encourage residents to take part, Hidco will run a Facebook page chronicling the re-greening drive. Residents can post photographs of their trees on https://www.facebook.com/GreeningNewTown, Sen said. E-certificates will be given to those adopting trees. Hidco has requested government agencies, corporates and banks to replant trees in New Town. The state pollution control board will give 4,000 trees to the NKDA to be planted along roads in action areas I, II and III. An NGO has promised to plant 2,000 trees, the CRPF that has a camp in New Town and a private bank will undertake greening drives as well. The NKDA will plant trees on vacant plots in New Town and turn them into tree banks to prevent the growth of weeds and the spots from turning into garbage dumps. “There are a lot of plots where construction activities are still to start. We will plant trees that are more than two years old and can be replanted easily. Once construction starts, the trees will be replanted elsewhere,” an NKDA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Diamonds on FB needn’t be best friend||A woman whose diamond-encrusted mangalsutra went missing from her home around two years ago spotted it on the Facebook profile of a former help whom she had suspected of having stolen it. Based on her family’s complaint on Friday, police have arrested the help and seized the mangalsutra and some other ornaments that had been missing from the woman’s home in Beleghata. Siddhartha Churiwal, who owns two flats on the third and fourth floors of a building on Dr Ashutosh Shastri Road in Beleghata, reported the matter to Beleghata police station on Friday. “The complainant had brought two photographs. One was an old family photograph, which had his wife wearing the diamond-studded mangalsutra,” an officer of Beleghata police station said. “The other was a recent photograph of their former help Durga Hela who was wearing a similar-looking mangalsutra.” Churiwal told cops that some ornaments and Rs 50,000 went missing from their fourth-floor flat between December 2018 and July 2019. They had terminated Durga, 30, because they suspected her of theft but they did not file any complaint for want of evidence, the officer said. Durga’s husband Kamalesh, who, too, worked as the family’s help continued with his services as there was nothing to prove his complicity, the police quoted the family as saying in the complaint. A diamond-encrusted mangalsutra, three pairs of diamond earrings, some expensive saris, some silver plates, silver accessories and Rs 50,000 had gone missing from the Churiwal residence between December 2018 and July 2019, Churiwal has said in his complaint. Earlier this week, Churiwal’s wife spotted her help’s photograph on Facebook wearing a mangalsutra similar to her’s. The profile was in the name of “Anjali Hela”, the police said. Cops gathered the suspect’s address from her husband Kamalesh and raided their home at Lattupara on BB Ganguly Street later on Friday in the presence of a woman constable. Durga has apparently admitted to the crime. Cops have seized the mangalsutra and a pair of diamond earrings, an officer said. The case became easy to crack because the help’s address was available, another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Many Covid zones in 2 boroughs||Twenty-eight of the 39 containment zones in Calcutta are from two boroughs that cover parts of Kasba, Tiljala, Patuli, Mukundapur in the south and Ultadanga, Beleghata, Kankurgachhi and Phoolbagan in the northeast. In the latest list of containment zones published on Friday, boroughs  III and XII of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) each have 14 containment zones. A containment zone is created if at least four Covid-19 cases are reported from a small area in 14 days. In Borough XII, 13 of the 14 containment zones are from Ward 101 that covers parts of Baishnabghata-Patuli and Baghajatin. It alone has 163 active cases of the 231 active cases till Saturday. The other containment zone is a slum in Mukundapur’s Dinesh Nagar. In Borough III, five containment zones are from Ward 33 in Beleghata. Four of these containment zones are on Suren Sarkar Road and one, a housing complex near Kadapara market. The other zones include an apartment near Pantaloons store in Kankurgachhi, an apartment in Kankurgachhi Second Lane, a stretch near Miabagan slum on Beleghata Main Road and a stretch of Motilal Basak Lane in Phoolbagan. The list of containment zones is updated every three or four days. A Covid-19 patient, 54, tried to jump out of a third floor window of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. A health worker spotted and rescued him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Business||Abbott India reports 54% rise in net profit||Drug firm Abbott India has reported a 54.22 per cent rise in its net profit at Rs 180.35 crore for the June quarter of 2020. It had posted a net profit of Rs 116.94 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 1,064.27 crore for the quarter under consideration. It was Rs 998.89 crore for the same period a year ago. Meanwhile, Drug firm Divi’s Laboratories has reported an 80.61 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 492.06 crore for the June quarter of 2020 mainly on account of robust sales. The company had logged a profit of Rs 272.44 crore in the year-ago period, Divi’s Laboratories said in a filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||SpiceJet flies to Toronto from New Delhi||Budget carrier SpiceJet has made its maiden long-haul charter flight to Toronto, Canada, from New Delhi, carrying 352 stranded nationals and permanent residents of that country. The airline used a wide-bodied A330 Neo aircraft procured from Hi Fly, a Portuguese charter airline, on wet lease. The carrier is the first Indian budget airline to operate a long-haul flight to North America. Chairman and MD Ajay Singh said the airline has operated flights across the globe repatriating close to 85,000 people and transporting over 28,000 tons of medical and essential supplies in these troubled times. Being the first Indian budget airline to operate a non-stop long-haul flight to North America is a proud moment for the SpiceJet family.” The budget carrier has got a slot at London’s Heathrow Airport to operate daily flights from India to London from September 1. However, details have not been made available so far. It has also been allowed to fly on India-US routes by the Centre under the bilateral air bubble. The flight schedules on this route have not yet been worked out, so far. All international commercial air passenger services in India are suspended since March 22, in the wake of travel restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, various evacuation and charter flights are being currently operated to fly back stranded Indians in various countries and also transport foreign nationals, who are stuck in India, to their countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||Duty shield for MSMEs||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday  said the government would consider increasing duties on sectors that are heavily dependent on imports to encourage domestic industry, especially MSMEs. “India needs to manufacture more (to increase volume) and this will result in lower prices. An increase in import duty will encourage Indian manufacturers. When the production is in bulk, the cost will be competitive,” Gadkari said at a virtual summit organised by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The minister did not specify the type of products. Gadkari said industries must identify the imported products and the obstacles in their domestic production to improve the ease of doing business. He asked the CII to identify the issues faced by MSMEs in the country. “The CII should identify where our MSMEs and small scale industries can create a market in India and what are the sectors where we can increase exports,” the minister said. In the last few months, the government hiked the import duty on items such as bamboo, used in making agarbatti, to 25 per cent from 10 per cent to encourage the use of local bamboo. The minister said the move will give jobs to 25-30 lakh people. Gadkari urged industry to identify the sectors heavily reliant on imports, particularly from China. Asserting that a case study is in the offing based on three years of imports and exports, Gadkari said China’s 70 per cent exports pertained to 10 sectors. “MSMEs need to get a market here in India. Dependence on imports (from China) has to be reduced… We also need to upgrade technology, make our ports, rail and roads more efficient,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||Bengal eyes $20 billion investment for logistics||Bengal could attract investment worth $20 billion in the logistics sector by using the state’s unique locational advantage and harnessing its vast network of rail, road and river. The state government has sought feedback from industry to formulate a policy to support the growth of the multimodal logistic sector and realise the investment potential, state finance and industry minister Amit Mitra said. “Bengal is a very attractive proposition in logistics. Several companies have come in and set up logistic parks. The state has abundant land to offer to potential investors,” Mitra said in a colloquium organised by trade body CII. Flipkart, owned by US retail giant Walmart, has taken a 100-acre plot at Haringhata in Nadia to build a logistic park. Hong Kong-based ESR, one of Asia Pacific’s leading logistic firms, is also setting up a park in Uluberia. While the locational advantage — Bengal being the gateway to the Northeast and also a large consumption centre in itself — has always been there, introduction of GST has given a fillip to the logistic sector as companies are now setting up warehouses based on nearness to market rather than for tax benefit. The Centre is also pushing to develop inland waterways to connect north India, Northeast and Bangladesh with Calcutta and Haldia port. Terminals are being built along the river Hooghly up to Benaras to allow loading and unloading of cargo. The new policy plans to harness the inherent advantages and upcoming facilities. It will focus on integrating fragmented logistic sectors, driving efficiency in storage infrastructure, optimising land cost, fostering technology adoption and last mile connectivity and multimodal network. The minister said 16 industrial parks have land to offer to investors, including 300 acres at Haldia and 500 acres each at Kharagpur and Panagarh, adding that are some of the fast developing locations are Durgapur, Siliguri, Malda, Dankuni and Tajpur. Speaking later at the webinar, Vinit Kumar, chairman of Calcutta Port Trust, said ease of doing business, transparency and reliability are key to successful multi-modality models and building up a conducive ecosystem. Kumar also spoke about an upcoming terminal in Balagarh which will be made operational in the next 2-3 months and a terminal in Sahebgunj. "The Indo-Bangla coastal route including Myanmar holds a big potential for the Bengal logistics sector once the Sittwe port in Myanmar becomes operational,” the chairman informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||Coal auction bids deferred||The due date to express interest to participate in the auction for coal blocks as part of commercial coal mining has been pushed back by over a month. This comes at a time when several objections on ecological grounds have been raised at the Centre’s selection of certain blocks in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, resulting in the need to review the initially selected list of 41 coal blocks. In a revised schedule of auction issued on Saturday, the due date for submission of technical bids is now set for September 29, 2020 with the actual auction being planned in the later part of October. The approval of successful bidders is expected by November. The earlier due date for submission of technical bids was August 18, 2020. A technically qualified bidder will subsequently participate in the financial bidding. The government had initially selected 41 coal blocks with a total geological reserve of 16979 million tonnes under the first phase of commercial coal mine auction. The blocks spread across five states — Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha — included a mix of both large and small mines with peak rated capacities (PRC) ranging from 0.5 to to 40 million tonnes per annum. The cumulative PRC for all mines is 225 million tonnes per annum, which is almost equivalent to the annual coal import in the country by volume. The auction was formally announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 18, 2020. But following objections from the Maharashtra government for including the Bander coal mine and a part of the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve, an ecologically sensitive zone, the block was withdrawn from the auction process on July 17, 2020. The Centre is also considering the Chhattisgarh government’s request for replacing five coal mines in the state with three other mines. This was after a meeting between Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi and state government officials last month. Some of the blocks were part of biodiversity-rich forest area. Industry analysts are, however, concerned that if the bigger blocks in Chhattisgarh are replaced, it could affect bidder interest. In Odisha, bigger blocks such as Chendipada I and II (40mtpa) Machhakata (30mtpa) Brahmanbil and Kardabahal (25mtpa) are likely to attract bids. Coal India expects to end 2020-21 with an overall production of around 650-660 million tonnes in the wake of the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The miner had earlier set a production target of 710 mt for the fiscal. “Demand has started to pick up now as the industries have commenced operations,” chairman Pramod Agrawal said at a webinar organised by Bharat Chamber of Commerce. Given the situation, we are hopeful to end the year with 650-660 million tonne of production Coal India had produced 602 million tonne of coal last year as against a target of 630 million tonne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||India||Note ban, faulty implementation of GST, lockdown destroyed India’s economic structure: Rahul||The Congress youth wing launched a campaign on Sunday to “raise the voice” against unemployment, with Rahul Gandhi alleging that the Narendra Modi government’s decision of demonetisation, its “faulty” implementation of GST and lockdown have “destroyed” the country’s economic structure. The Opposition party said it launched the Rozgar Do campaign as never before have “we seen the figures, the scope, the degree of unemployment, which this country is suffering” now. “When Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister, he promised the youth of the country that he will give jobs to two crore youths every year. He sold a dream, but the reality is that 14 crore people have become unemployed due to the policies of Narendra Modi,” Rahul alleged. “Why did this happen? Because of wrong policies. Demonetisation, faulty implementation of GST and then lockdown -- these three steps have destroyed the economic structure of the country and the truth now is that India cannot give employment to its youth,” the former Congress chief said in a video message on Twitter. Therefore, the Youth Congress has hit the street to raise these issues in all towns, he said. The Youth Congress said the campaign will help raise the voice of the unemployed youth. “Anti-youth policies of the central government will be highlighted among the youth of the country through social and other media,” it said in a statement. “Please join the Rozgar Do programme and along with Youth Congress, get jobs for the youth of this nation,” Gandhi said and congratulated the Youth Congress on its foundation day. Expressing solidarity with the campaign, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said “youth power” is India’s strength. “As opposed to the BJP government’s job-destroying policies, there is a need to create more and more employment opportunities for the youth of India,” she said on Twitter. “Rozgar Do is the demand of young India. Employment is the need of young India,” she added. Other Congress leaders posted videos on social media voicing their concern over unemployment in the country. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the demand of every youth is “rozgar do (give employment)”. “We all demand, it is our right that the youth of the country should get employment on the basis of qualifications and get ahead in the progress of the country,” he said. Digvijaya Singh, Depender Hooda, Gaurav Gogoi, Rajeev Satav, Gaurav Vallabh and Ragini Nayak also called for increasing employment opportunities for the youth. Emphasising the need for the campaign, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said when Prime Minister Modi assumed office, the unemployment rate was 4.9 per cent, but in May 2020, it reached 29 per cent. Singhvi said there is also a negative GDP growth projection ranging from -4 to -7.5 per cent. Tax collections are down by 46 per cent and at least 12 crore people are supposed to have lost their jobs, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||SIT formed by Kerala police to probe air crash||Kerala police on Sunday constituted a special investigation team to probe the Air India Express crash at nearby Karipur international airport on August 7, which killed 18 passengers, including the pilot and co-pilot. The 30-member team will be headed by Malappuram additional superintendent of police G. Sabu, a government release said. The police said a case has been registered under various provisions of the Aircraft Act and Indian Penal Code Sections 337, 338 and 304 A, based on the statement by one of the CISF personnel who was on duty near the site that day. Section 337 of the IPC deals with causing hurt to a person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others. Section 338 deals with causing grievous hurt by an act endangering the life or personal safety of others, while 304 A deals with causing death by negligence. Eighteen people were killed and scores injured when the flight from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the table-top runway while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night. At least 14 passengers of the ill-fated Air India Express remain critical at various hospitals, Malappuram district collector K. Gopalakrishnan said. Till now, 49 passengers have been discharged from hospitals. Air India Express on Sunday said that the mortal remains of the 16 passengers who lost their lives in the crash had been handed over to their families. The body of pilot-in command Deepak Vasanth was flown from Cochin to Mumbai and his funeral will take place on Tuesday, an Air India official said. Co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar was cremated on Sunday at his home town in Mathura. Meanwhile, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) has initiated a probe into the accident with the support of flight safety officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Agonising wait for the remains of loved ones||"My people are buried under the soil. Can you give them back, Sir?" asked a wailing 70-year-old woman,looking at rescue workers in the hope of getting some information about the members of her family who went missing after Friday's devastating landslide. With each passing day, Karupayi's hopes of seeing her dear ones have given way to despair. As rescue officials pull out bodies, she rushes to see if it is that of her near and dear ones. Ten members of her family were buried under the massive mound of earth and slush that flattened a row of 20 one room row houses made of tin and asbestos sheets,housing at least 82 workers and their families, at Pettimudi in Rajamala. Karupayi's husband Shanmugham, three daughters, their husbands and three grandchildren are all buried under the soil. As rescue workers of NDRF, police and fire force personnel dug out bodies, Karupayi rushed to them asking "Have you got them?" Shanmugham, their daughters and sons in law were all workers at the tea plantation and living in the quarters along with children. On the fateful night, Karupayi was woken up by a huge sound and she came out of the house to see the horrifying sight of the landslide and immediately tried to alert her dear ones. However, everything was over in a flash and there was nothing remaining except massive boulders strewn around,she said. The toll in the landslide rose to 42 as 16 more bodies were recovered by Sunday evening. Ramar, another elderly person, is inconsolable as he had lost his son, daughter and 13 family members. "They have all gone. I will not go back without seeing them," he said. Sniffer dogs have been pressed into service to enable the retrieval of bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India|| 7 lakh samples tested for Covid in a day||Scaling up testing capacity, over seven lakh samples have been examined for COVID-19 in a day, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far to 2,41,06,535, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.  The number of recoveries too has surged to 14,80,884 with 53,879 coronavirus patients having recuperated and discharged in 24-hours, the highest in a day so far, pushing the recovery rate to 68.78 per cent. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.01 per cent.  The ministry said the number of single-day tests has been growing exponentially and India has been testing over six lakh samples daily for several days.  "A record 7,19,364 samples have been tested on Saturday, the highest in a day so far. India is conducting around 500 tests for detection of COVID-19 per minute and the per-day testing capacity has increased over five lakhs," scientist and media coordinator at ICMR, Dr Lokesh Sharma said.  Such elevated level of testing will also lead to high number of daily positive cases, the health ministry said, adding states have been advised to firmly focus on comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation and effective treatment, following the Centre-led strategy of  “test, track and treat”.  The number of recoveries has surged to 14,80,884 with 53,879 coronavirus patients having recuperated and discharged in 24-hours, the highest in a day so far, pushing the recovery rate to 68.78 per cent. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.01 per cent, the ministry said.  Recoveries are over twice the number of active cases (6,28,747) of coronavirus infection at present.  "The number of recovered cases has touched another high of 2.36 times the active cases. All patients are all under medical attention either in home isolation or in hospitals," the ministry said.  From 7.69 per cent on April 5, the recovery rate improved to 26.59 per cent on May 3, 48.37 per cent on June 7 and to 68.78 per cent as on date, it said.  "The widening gap between recovered and active cases, indicative of the higher number of recoveries as compared to those either in hospitals or in home isolation, is 8,52,137 at present," the ministry said.  It said the high number of recoveries is a result of focused implementation of various actions taken by the Centre, state and Union Territories towards ramping up hospital and clinical management infrastructure for providing quality clinical care based on the standard of care, as advised by the Union government in its Clinical Treatment Protocol.  "Due to these efforts, the case fatality rate has further slumped, touching an improved rate of 2.01 per cent today," the ministry said.  With a record single-day increase of 64,399 cases, India's COVID-19 tally mounted to 21.53 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 43,379 with 861 new fatalities being reported in a day, the health ministry's data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||ED grills Rhea's brother for 18 hours||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned Showik Chakraborty, brother of actor Rhea Chakraborty, for about 18 hours in connection with a money laundering case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said on Sunday. Showik left the central investigative agency's office here in the Ballard Estate area around 6:30 AM after an overnight questioning session that began around noon on Saturday. Officials said Showik's statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and he was asked about his personal businesses, income, investments and financial dealings with his sister and Rajput. He was grilled by the agency for a few hours on August 7 as well. On the same day, his sister and prime accused in the case Rhea (28) was questioned by the agency for the first time for about eight hours. Rhea and her father Indrajit Chakraborty have been summoned to appear before the agency again on Monday. On Friday, the ED had questioned Indrajit, Rhea's chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah and business manager Shruti Modi, who also worked for Rajput. The agency is understood to have questioned Rhea, who stated in her petition to the court that she was in a live-in relationship with Rajput, about her friendship with the late actor, business dealings and the developments that took place over the last few years between them. The ED's line of questioning, officials said, is revolving around Rhea's income, investments, business and professional deals, and links. Also under the ED's scanner is a property located in the city's Khar area and another in Navi Mumbai, both linked to Rhea, for the source of purchase and ownership. Agency sources have said they "want more answers" from Rhea over the alleged mismatch between her income, expenditure and investments. They said while Chakraborty has filed Income Tax Returns stating an income of about Rs 14 lakh, the value of her investments is reportedly higher. Her father, they said, is a retired defence personnel who gets a pension of about Rs 1 lakh per month. The sources said Rhea told the agency that she had made the property investments from her income, savings and has taken bank loans. Rhea has been accused by Rajput's father of abetting his son's suicide and she had initially refused to appear before the agency citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court that is slated to be heard on August 11. Her lawyer Satish Maneshinde had said Rhea is a law-abiding citizen and would cooperate with the probe. She has filed a petition in the apex court requesting that the case lodged by the Bihar police against her be transferred to the Mumbai police. She, through her lawyer, also shared a picture of a note on Saturday which she claimed was written by Rajput to express his gratitude for her and her family. Rhea also shared a photograph of a water sipper, which is a piece of movie merchandise from Rajput's 2019 film "Chhichhore". "The only property of Sushant that I possess," she said in a message sent along with the photo to the media. The ED, during the questioning sessions, is learnt to have confronted Rhea, Showik and Modi with certain bank statements that purportedly show transfer of small amounts into Showik's accounts from those of Rajput and Chakraborty. The agency had also summoned Rajput's friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani to appear before it on Saturday in connection with the money laundering case that stems from the complaint filed by the actor's father with the Bihar Police in connection with his death. Pithani, an IT professional, is stated to be out of Mumbai at present and may appear before the agency on Monday. He has said in various news channel interviews that he was present in the Bandra flat on June 14 when the 34-year-old actor hanged himself. Pithani, stated to be living with Rajput for about a year, had earlier recorded his statement with the Mumbai Police as part of their accidental death report (ADR) probe in the case. Rajput's 74-year-old father K K Singh, who resides in Patna, had on July 25 filed a complaint with the Patna police against Rhea, her parents (including mother Sandhya Chakraborty), Showik, Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda, Modi and unknown persons accusing them of cheating and abetting his son's suicide. The CBI had re-registered this FIR as a fresh case on Thursday and named as accused the same people. Singh also alleged financial irregularities in bank accounts of his son. In the complaint, Singh alleged that Rs 15 crore was siphoned off from Rajput's bank account in one year to accounts of persons not known or connected to the late actor. Under the ED's scanner are at least two companies linked to Rajput and some financial deals involving Rhea, her father and Showik, who are stated to be directors in these companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Death toll in Kerala landslide rises to 28||The death toll in the massive landslide that destroyed a row of 20 houses of tea estate workers in the high range Idukki district of Kerala rose to 28 on Sunday with two more bodies being retrieved from the debris. "Three days after the settlements were swept away by devastating landslides at Pettimudi near Rajamala, authorities have now decided to take help of sniffer dogs to trace the persons buried under the debris," officials said. According to the government, 78 people were staying at the spot where the tragedy occurred. While 12 were rescued, 28 bodies were found. Officials said efforts were on to find the rest. The picturesque landscape of Pettimudi was flattened into a rough patch of boulders and mud with parts of asbestos and tin sheets seen scattered around. The incident is said to have occurred in the wee hours of Friday when a huge mound of earth fell on the "row houses" and two children and five women were among the deceased, most of whom were plantation workers from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. NDRF chief in charge of south Indian state, Rekha Nambiar is leading the 55-member team which is entrusted with the search and rescue mission. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts on Sunday. Incessant rains, landslides and opening of shutters of dams across rivers have caused rise in water level in rivers and streams in central Kerala. Normal life of people living in low lying areas of Kottayam and Alappuzha has been affected with flood waters entering their homes. Low-lying areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts are heavily impacted due to flooding. Hundreds of families have been shifted to relief camps from-low lying areas including Kumarakom and Kuttanad regions of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts, they said. A car with a man was washed away in flood waters at Manarcad area in Kottayam district in the wee hours of Sunday. The NDRF team has launched a rescue operation for the missing person identified as Justin,an airport taxi driver and a native of Angamaly. Considering the spread of novel coronavirus, the authorities have opened separate camps for different categories of the flood affected people. In Ernakulam district, 1,203 flood affected people have been shifted to relief camps. While 1,118 persons have been lodged in general relief camps, 67 senior citizens are staying in camps for persons above 60 years of age. Eighteen persons are staying in the camps set for quarantined people, district administration officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Airlines staff gather at Delhi airport to pay respect to deceased co-pilot||Around 200 pilots and ground staff of various airlines gathered at the airport and paid their respects when the mortal remains of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, who died in the Kozhikode flight crash, reached Delhi in the early hours of Sunday, officials said.  Pilot-in-command Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, 58, and co-pilot Captain Akhilesh Kumar, 32, were the ones operating the Air India Express flight that crashed at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night. Both pilots, along with 16 other people onboard, have died in the accident.  "Kumar's mortal remains was brought to Delhi airport from Kochi on an IndiGo flight 6E2135 at around 2 am on Sunday," an aviation industry official said.  "Around 200 pilots and ground staff members of various airlines like IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air India and Air India Express gathered at the airport and paid their respects," the official said.  Kumar's mortal remains were then taken by road to Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, where his family resides, another industry official said.  The mortal remains of Sathe are likely to be taken to his family members in Mumbai on Sunday, according to the official.  The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway while landing in heavy rain, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two.  A total of 149 people have been admitted to various hospitals. Twenty-three have been discharged, while three are critically injured, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday after his visit to the Kozhikode Medical College, where many of the affected passengers have been admitted.  Puri had told reporters that Sathe, a former wing commander of the Air Force, was one of the most-experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Kozhikode airport. Kumar had a total flying experience of 1,723 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||10 patients killed in fire at Covid care facility in Vijaywada||As many as ten coronavirus patients were killed in a huge fire that broke out at a hotel which was being used as a Covid-19 facility in Andhra Pradesh's Vijaywada early this morning. There were 30 Covid patients and 10 staff members at the hotel at the time of the accident. The fire broke out at 5:15 am, officials said, adding that it was brought under control within 30 minutes. Twenty people have been rescued from the hotel so far, police said. Efforts are on to rescue others traped inside the building, they said. "The incident took place around 5 am. Around 22 patients are being treated in hospital. We are evacuating the entire building. The reason of fire appears to be a short circuit, as per the preliminary report, but we will have to ascertain," Krishna District Collector Mohammad Imtiaz said. Hotel Swarna Palace was being used by Ramesh hospitals on lease to treat Covid patients. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock and grief over the incident. He has instructed officials to conduct enquiry over the matter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah condoled the deaths in the fire incident and has assured all possible support to the chief minister. "Anguished by the fire at a Covid Centre in Vijayawada. My thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover as soon as possible. Discussed the prevailing situation with AP CM @ysjagan  Ji and assured all possible support," PM Modi tweeted. "Deeply anguished by the news of tragic fire accident at a COVID-19 facility in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. Centre assures all possible support to the state govt. "My condolences are with the affected families in this time of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured," Shah tweeted. This the second fire incident at a Covid-19 facility in the country this month. On Thursday, eight coronavirus patients died in a huge fire that broke out in the intensive care ward of a private hospital in Gujarat's Ahmedabad. About 45 patients were admitted to the 50-bed hospital at the time of accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||A topper and helpful: Mom||Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, the veteran pilot of the Air India Express flight who died along with 17 others in the crash at Calicut International Airport in Kerala, had survived another crash in the early 90s when he was in the air force and had been in hospital for six months, his cousin said on Saturday. Captain Sathe had suffered multiple injuries in his skull but had returned to the skies by clearing tests due to his strong will power, cousin Nilesh Sathe said. Captain Sathe, 58, had been a wing commander in the IAF and had served at the force’s flight-testing establishment. Nilesh, adviser (finance) at the National Highways Authority of India, said in a Facebook post: “It’s hard to believe that Deepak Sathe, my friend more than my cousin, is no more…. Deepak was an experienced aerial operator with 36 years of flying experience. A passout of the NDA (National Defence Academy), topper in the 58th course and an awardee of the ‘Sword of Honour’, Deepak served the Indian Air Force for 21 years before joining as a commercial pilot with Air India in 2005.He had called me just a week ago and was jovial, as always.” “When I asked him about the ‘Vande Bharat’ Mission, he was proud of bringing back our countrymen from Arab countries. I asked him, ‘Deepak, do you carry empty aircraft since those countries are not allowing entry of passengers?’ He had replied, ‘Oh, no. We carry fruits, vegetables, medicines etc to these countries and never does the aircraft fly to these countries empty.’ That was my last conversation with him,” Nilesh wrote.“He survived an air crash in the early nineties when he was in the air force. He was hospitalised for six months with multiple skull injuries and nobody thought he would fly again. But his strong will power and love for flying made him clear the test again. It was a miracle,” Nilesh added. Captain Sathe is survived by his wife and two sons, both IIT Bombay graduates. Captain Sathe was the son of Brigadier Vasant Sathe, who lives in Nagpur with his wife Neela Sathe. Captain Sathe’s elder brother, Captain Vikas Sathe, was in the army and had died in a road accident while serving in Jammu, Nilesh said. A neighbour of Captain Sathe remembered him as a jovial and friendly man. The pilot had been living in the Nahar Amrit Shakti housing complex at Chandivali in Mumbai with his wife Sushma for nearly 15 years. “Everyone in the housing society knew Sathe sir and his wife. When he wasn’t flying, the couple would go on morning and evening walks,” said neighbour Pankaj Nagpal. “Sathe sir was jovial and friendly and exuded positivity,” he said. “Sathe sir used to have one or two flights every week. When we heard about the plane crash, we knew it was him,” Nagpal said. Captain Sathe’s elder son Dhananjaya lives in Bangalore. His younger son Shantanu lives in the US. Air India sources said the airline was making arrangements to bring Shantanu back to the country. Captain Sathe’s nephew said the pilot had planned to pay a surprise visit to Nagpur for his mother’s 84th birthday on Saturday. “Today is the birthday of Captain Sathe’s mother. He had last met his parents in March and had been constantly in touch with them over phone since then. They had last spoken a day before yesterday,” Dr Yashodhan Sathe, the pilot’s nephew, said on Saturday. “Captain Sathe had told some of our relatives that if flights are available, he would pay a surprise visit to his mother on her birthday,” he added. Neela said, tears in her eyes: “He used to tell me not to go out due to the pandemic. He would tell me that if something happens to me, he would feel bad. And suddenly this tragedy struck.… What can we do before the will of God.” She remembered him as being “top” in everything — be it studies or sports. “He was brilliant in table tennis, squash. He was also very good at horse riding,” Neela said. “Our son had also received the rare Sword of Honour. However, he would never boast about his achievements,” she said, adding that Captain Sathe was the first Maharashtrian to get all the eight IAF prizes. “He was very helpful and would do anything for others. During the Gujarat floods, he had saved the children of servicemen by carrying them on his shoulders,” Neela remembered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Rajasthan floor test looms, BJP MLAs on ‘excursion’ to Gujarat||The BJP is believed to have shifted some two-dozen of its Rajasthan MLAs to Gujarat, unsure of their loyalty in the run-up to the Assembly session where chief minister Ashok Gehlot of the Congress is likely to mount a bid to prove his majority. Officially, however, the BJP denied they doubted the intentions of the MLAs and said they had gone to Gujarat, a state it rules, on an “excursion” and to offer prayers at the Somnath temple. More than a dozen BJP legislators are said to be already in various places in Gujarat. On Saturday, another six were flown in a chartered flight from Jaipur to Porbandar. The Rajasthan Assembly session is scheduled to commence on August 14 and chief minister Gehlot, battling a rebellion by 19 Congress MLAs led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, could use it to prove his majority. Gehlot has lodged the remaining MLAs of the Congress at a hotel in Jaisalmer, fearing poaching by the BJP. “I’m very much aware of 12 MLAs of the party going for an excursion. Whenever the BJP legislature party meeting is held, the MLAs will be there,” Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia told news agency ANI on Saturday. “The BJP is intact. The Congress is spreading rumours,” he added. Although Poonia claimed that only a dozen MLAs of the BJP had embarked on the “excursion”, sources said a dozen more were already in Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Against this backdrop, former chief minister and the BJP’s tallest leader in Rajasthan, Vasundhara Raje Scindia, was in Delhi on Friday. She met party chief J.P. Nadda and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. BJP sources said Vasundhara had been called to Delhi for her views on the political crisis in Rajasthan and also to formulate the party’s strategy in the Assembly.  Vasundhara, the party insiders said, was not keen to pull down the Gehlot government, a view that is against the line pursued by the central leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Air India Express crash: focus on plane touchdown spot||The Air India Express Boeing 737-800 that overshot the tabletop runway at Calicut International Airport on Friday had already passed the first 1,000 metres of the runway when it touched down, sources in the directorate-general of civil aviation said. Such a landing spot would have shortened the available stretch of runway by more than a third for the flight from Dubai, which dropped around 60 feet after skidding off the wet strip, killing 18 people including both the pilots. Aviation authorities are now looking into whether the remaining length of the runway was sufficient for the aircraft, which landed in windy and rainy conditions, to have stopped safely. What is clear is that the runway was wet, which would have affected the efficacy of the aircraft’s braking system, officials said. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the reasons for the accident were being investigated and that it would be premature to speculate on the precise cause. “The media is full of speculation — that he made two attempts to land... or if it was wind or rain (that caused the accident). First, let us try to get the facts correct. Let the facts come out,” he said. An Airport Authority of India (AAI) source said the length of Runway 10 — on which the plane landed — was “more than sufficient” despite being shortened two years go. “We shortened the runway from 2,860 metres to 2,700 metres (about 8,860 feet) two years ago. This has made the Runway End Safety Areas 240 metres long on either end of the runway. It is more than sufficient according to the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s norm.” An AAI spokesperson said the plane was scheduled to land on Runway 28 but the pilot could not sight it because of the rain in the first landing attempt and requested the use of Runway 10. Citing information from the air traffic controller, the spokesperson said the plane touched down near Taxiway C, which is approximately 1,000 metres from the beginning of Runway 10. He added that the visibility at the time of landing was 2,000 metres. The New York Times reported that “with the crash investigation just starting, Indian aviation officials are already beginning to pin the blame on the pilot, not the runway”. “The basic problem, as we understand it in this incident, is that on a runway of 8,500 feet, the plane landed after crossing one-third of the strip, beyond 3,000 feet,” the newspaper quoted director-general of civil aviation Arun Kumar as saying. “What normally happens under such conditions is that the pilot does a go-round and either tries to land again or not land at all, given the weather conditions. Touchdown must happen within the first 500 feet of the strip. The rules of aviation are too well laid out. Either the pilot goes around or should not have landed at all.” Puri said the aircraft’s black box and cockpit voice recorder had been found. A black box or flight data recorder logs the various parameters of the entire flight while the cockpit voice recorder can reveal the conversations between the pilots. “I’m confident that before long we’ll find out what happened in the last few minutes of the flight,” Puri told reporters in Karipur, where the airport is located. He tried to assuage fears about tabletop airports, one of which — in Mangalore, Karnataka — had in May 2010 seen a plane skid off it and kill 158 of the 166 people on board. “Tabletop airports are there in many places in the world... (including) our neighbouring countries. The flights operate with pilots who have the necessary experience,” Puri said. He said the captain of Friday’s flight, Deepak Vasant Sathe, had landed at Calicut International Airport 27 times. “He was a very experienced and highly decorated pilot,” Puri said. Sathe had retired as an air force wing commander before joining Air India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Nitish Kumar in talks with all parties on Covid||The Bihar government, reeling under the coronavirus disease, is consulting MPs, MLAs and MLCs from all parties through video conferencing to improve the pandemic’s management. The process has not only started highlighting the ground reality, but is also attracting noteworthy suggestions from the public representatives. The district magistrates of all 40 districts in the state are holding these virtual meetings in a phased manner since Thursday, and around a dozen of them have already gone through it. These meetings were started on the directions of chief minister Nitish Kumar, who yielded to the long pending demand of public representatives cutting across party lines that the government should confabulate with them in this crisis. The demand was raised during the daylong monsoon session also on Monday. Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA Suday Yadav from Jehanabad constituency pointed towards the weakness and lethargy being seen in the people who have defeated the virus and said at the meeting: “The state government and the district administration should provide a ‘nutrition kit’ to those who have recovered from corona so that they could bounce back to normal life quickly.” Suday said at the meeting that people in the rural areas of Jehanabad, who turned positive, have to struggle for days to get themselves tested again to find out whether they were still infected or have become negative. “Once a person living in any village here tests positive and is isolated at home, he has to wait endlessly to be tested again. The health department officials take him for granted and leave him to suffer instead of testing him again after 10 or 12 days to find out whether he is still positive or has turned negative. I suggested at the meeting that the government should envisage a plan to test such people again,” Suday told The Telegraph. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh, who happens to be an MLA from Kahalgaon constituency in Bhagalpur district, pointed out that things have improved over the last couple of weeks with more ventilators, PPE kits and other facilities, and expressed satisfaction about Covid situation in his area. However, he said that the Bihar government started preparing to deal with Covid-19 very late despite the fact that the Congress had been alerting both the central and the state governments. “The state government became alert very late and the virus had spread all over during this time. Besides, very few tests were conducted, so fewer cases were detected and the virus kept spreading silently. There was a scarcity of proper masks, PPE kits and other medical facilities and it worsened the situation,” Sadanand said. “The people also are not maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, and are roaming around in the markets. There is a need to make them aware about the crisis we are facing and enforce the lockdown more strictly,” the senior Congress leader added. Many legislators like Darauli MLA Mohammad Nemtullah in Gopalganj district could not attend the virtual meeting due to technical glitches in linking to it. On the other hand, ruling party parliamentarians and legislators were all praise for the efforts by the state government in tackling the pandemic. Ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) MP from Sitamarhi, Sunil Kumar Pintu, expressed satisfaction with arrangements in his area and said that the Covid centre functioning in his district was providing medical advice to quarantined or isolated people in a speedy and satisfactory manner. “The state government’s efforts to involve public representatives are commendable. There is a need to talk nicely and patiently to the infected people. It boosts their confidence and makes them feel happy and cared,” Sunil said. Asked about the virtual meetings with legislators and parliamentarians, a top government official told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity that the effort was “yielding good, workable suggestions and also revealing the things that need to be improved. It would have been better if we would have done this exercise earlier in April or May when the number of Covid-19 cases were less in the state.” Bihar has witnessed 71,794 coronavirus cases so far and 400 persons have succumbed to the disease. The last 24 hours saw 3,646 persons being found infected in around 71,500 tests done across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Covid: test-and-treat prod to Calcutta||The Union health ministry on Saturday asked authorities in 13 districts in eight states, including five in Bengal, to ramp up testing and improve monitoring and treatment of coronavirus disease patients after a similar exercise with 16 districts in four states on Friday. The 13 districts, including Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah and Malda, collectively account for 9 per cent of India’s Covid-19 cases and 14 per cent of virus deaths and report low tests per million population, the health ministry said. Health authorities have also observed a surge in daily new Covid-19 cases in four of the 13 districts — Kamrup (metro) in Assam, Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha in Kerala. The other districts are Patna (Bihar), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Delhi and Ganjam (Odisha). The health ministry, citing anecdotal reports of patients dying within 48 hours of admission into hospitals in some districts, has directed the district and state authorities to ensure availability of ambulances and “zero tolerance” for refusal of admission. The online meeting, chaired by the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, also underscored the need for states to monitor asymptomatic Covid-19 patients under home isolation through physical visits or telephone consultations daily to detect signs of the need for hospital care early. The health ministry on Saturday recorded 61,537 new Covid-19 cases, raising the country’s total cases to 2,088,611 of whom 619,088 patients are under medical supervision in hospitals or homes, 1,427,005 have recovered, and 42,518 have died. India’s case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed infected cases — in Covid-19 patients has fallen to 2.04 per cent from around 3.36 per cent in mid-June. But Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Bengal have CFRs higher than the national average. The health ministry had called a similar meeting on Friday with authorities in Ahmedabad and Surat (Gujarat), four districts in Karnataka, eight districts in Tamil Nadu and two districts in Telangana that also have relatively high CFRs, high daily new cases and low testing rates. Ahmedabad, for instance, has recorded 1,625 deaths among 27,587 cases, a CFR of 5.8 per cent, while Calcutta with 907 deaths among 26,557 cases till Friday has a CFR of 3.4 per cent, and Delhi has a CFR of 2.9 per cent. The states have been asked to anticipate demand for hospital beds based on prevailing case loads and make advance preparations for oxygen supply and intensive care unit beds. The health ministry has also asked states to ensure that local hospitals join online video conferences organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, to provide guidance on effective clinical management of Covid-19 patients in state hospitals. Doctors estimate that around 85 per cent of Covid-19 patients do not require hospital care. Around 12 per cent will recover through oxygen therapy alone and only three to five per cent need ICU care, a critical care specialist at AIIMS, New Delhi, told The Telegraph. “But the clinical management of patients with severe disease is tricky — over the weeks, we have learnt how to manage patients better. We’re still learning,” said the AIIMS doctor. “We have to start the right medications and the right interventions in a timely manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Doctor toll at 196, plea to widen Covid cover ||At least 196 doctors across India have died from the new coronavirus disease, the country’s largest body of medics has said, urging the Centre to extend to the private sector the Rs 50-lakh special Covid-19 insurance available to government healthcare staff. The Indian Medical Association said on Saturday that 78 (around 40 per cent) of the 196 were general practitioners, who represent the first port of call for a significant proportion of patients with symptoms of fever, upper respiratory tract infections or influenza-like symptoms. The IMA’s list includes a 59-year-old ophthalmologist in Howrah, a 52-year-old paediatrician in Chandigarh, a 55-year-old radiotherapist in Patna, a 55-year-old neurosurgeon in Chennai and a 56-year-old ear-nose-throat surgeon in Bangalore, among others. General practitioners have died from Covid-19 in Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, the IMA said. Covid-19 “does not differentiate between the government and private sectors”, the IMA has said in a letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The letter also underscores that general practitioners “spend quality time in consultation” with their patients. The list of 196 doctors includes 43 in Tamil Nadu, 23 each in Maharashtra and Gujarat, 19 in Bihar and 16 in Bengal. It suggests that the Covid-19 death toll among healthcare workers in India is higher than the number of insurance claims the government has received. The Union health ministry had on July 31 said it had received 131 claims from the families of healthcare workers who had died on Covid-19 duty, releasing for the first time a number about casualties among healthcare staff. The Rs 50-lakh insurance scheme introduced earlier this year currently covers around 22 lakh healthcare workers from all categories, such as hospital ward staff, nurses, paramedics, technicians, doctors and specialists. The IMA has also expressed concern about what it says are anecdotal reports of doctors or their family members not getting beds for admission with Covid-19 symptoms, and reports of drug shortages at some facilities. Its letter to Modi urges the government to ensure adequate care for doctors, who are a special risk group. It says that every doctor’s life saved can potentially benefit thousands of patients, whom he or she might treat in future. “We’re asking the government to provide adequate attention to the safety and welfare of doctors during the pandemic,” Rajan Sharma, IMA national president and a signatory to the letter, said. The other signatory is IMA general secretary R.V. Asokan. Physicians tracking Covid-19 infections among healthcare workers in India have said the accounts of infections among doctors without known contact with coronavirus-positive cases point to community transmission of the virus, where the source of infection is difficult to trace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Maligned Malappuram responds with mercy||The denizens of Malappuram have responded with action that spoke louder than the slander of detractors. To sections of the Sangh parivar, the residents of Kerala’s lone Muslim-majority district have always been “cruel”, “extremist” and everything in between. Earlier this year, BJP leader Maneka Gandhi accused them wholesale of a tendency towards “criminal activity” after a trap set with explosives killed a pregnant elephant — except that it had happened in another district (Palakkad). Yet what Indians countrywide and abroad saw on Friday night was hundreds of Malappuram residents, such as Junaid Mukkood and Fazal Puthiyakath, rushing on their own to help victims of an airliner accident in their backyard. They risked harm to themselves from a possible fire or the coronavirus and spent their own money to arrange transport to hospital. The swiftness with which the first volunteers arrived at the site of the 7.41pm tragedy and the efficient way they mobilised reinforcements and vehicles seemed to corroborate the reputation for hospitality that the district enjoys among some who know it well. Less than five minutes after an Air India Express plane from Dubai had overshot the tabletop runway at the Calicut International Airport, fallen and broken into two, a group of 15 young men from the neighbourhood had arrived, leaving the comfort of their homes and braving the rain. Responding to their messages, or learning about the tragedy from social media or television, nearly 100 people from Kondotti — the town abutting the crash site — arrived, many with vehicles. People from across Malappuram and neighbouring Kozhikode continued to turn up till 2am, many hours after the last injured traveller had been taken to hospital in a rescue operation speeded up by all the public help. By early Saturday morning, people had begun lining up at the 16 hospitals across Malappuram and Kozhikode districts where the victims had been taken, responding to messages to donate blood. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and health minister K.K. Shailaja have thanked the public for their help, which they said had possibly averted a bigger tragedy. On Saturday evening, the death toll stood at 18 among the 190 on board. About 120 people were in hospital, 23 of them seriously injured, while 23 had been discharged. Junaid was sipping tea and luxuriating in the heavy rain from his home, just 20 metres from the western end of the airport, when he heard the deafening noise. “I ran out on the road and could sense something was amiss. I slipped on a shirt over my lungi and called friends who live nearby. We ran in the direction of the aircraft tail that we could see,” Junaid told The Telegraph on Saturday. “The gate on the airport’s boundary was locked and a lone armed guard was manning it. We were pleading with him to let us in when five men from the airport rescue team arrived. When we asked whether they needed extra hands, they allowed us in.” He added: “We could hear the passengers crying for help from the broken fuselage, and saw the two pilots slumped on their seats. The nose of the aircraft was smashed. Since we didn’t know how to extricate the pilots, we focused on rescuing the passengers.” The 15 did not stop to find out whether there was a fuel leak, and the possible danger of a fire. “Our priority was to save people. During the time we spent helping the rescue efforts, we forgot we were in a (Covid-19) containment zone,” he said. But fearless did not mean careless. Another member of the group of 15, Fazal, recalled how they got the entire neighbourhood to turn off gas cylinders and electricity. “We are no rescue experts, but we realised the need to avoid even the smallest of sparks anywhere in the area since we didn’t know whether the aircraft was leaking fuel,” Fazal said. Junaid received his first shock when he saw a small head protruding out of a pile of debris and luggage. It belonged to an injured one-year-old child. “Several passengers had been flung out of the plane when the fuselage broke. In the darkness we could glimpse a few people lying in the bushes. We later found that some of them had bones jutting out of gashed limbs,” he said. Since there weren’t enough ambulances around, the group sent out WhatsApp messages asking people from the neighbourhood to come with vehicles. “Within minutes, we saw vehicles from trucks to motorbikes rushing towards the spot. I took the child to a private hospital in Kondotti,” Junaid said. The aircraft’s nose had rammed against the boundary wall of the airport. “When the ambulances started moving through the service road next to the tarmac, we took it upon ourselves to get an excavator to demolish the portion of the wall on which the badly mangled nose was resting. This opened up a new rescue route,” Fazal said. He thanked the hundreds of Malappuram residents who had ferried the injured to hospital. “Passengers who had no major injuries were transported to hospital on motorbikes. This was before a large number of ambulances arrived,” he said. By 9.30pm, the disaster relief teams had rescued all but two of the survivors who had been caught in the tail portion. Extricating the duo took another 45 minutes. The rescuers prised open what remained of the cockpit to bring out pilot Deepak Vasant Sathe, who was already dead, and the severely injured co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, who died later. “Our society played a massive role in the rescue operations. Those related to this sector say the rescue mission was exceptional. The local people and the rescue agencies did a great job,” chief minister Vijayan told reporters on Saturday. Minister Shailaja wrote on Facebook that the “depth of the disaster could be reduced only because of the good people from the neighbourhood”. “They engaged in the rescue mission ignoring even the Covid protocol,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Lockdown: Jobless dad kills self, 3 girls||A 42-year-old labourer, who had lost his job after the lockdown, killed himself and his three daughters by jumping into a well in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind district, police said on Saturday. Rajesh Rajak used to work in Mumbai but had returned to his village Andhiyari, 40km from here, after losing his job. He and his wife frequently fought over their financial situation, said a local police official. They reportedly had one such quarrel on Friday night, after which Rajesh tied his daughters Anushka (10), China (8) and Sandhya (5) to his waist with a rope and jumped into a well near his house, he said. After the incident came to light in the morning, the police were alerted by villagers and the four bodies were fished out. The couple has another two-and-half-year-old daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Rahul flags vanishing files as an 'anti-democratic experiment' by Modi govt||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the trend of files relating to sensitive matters vanishing was an “anti-democratic experiment” by the Narendra Modi government, not merely a coincidence. Amid a controversy over a document on Chinese transgressions in Ladakh being pulled down from the defence ministry website, Rahul tweeted in Hindi: “As and when the country turns emotional, files go missing. Be it (Vijay) Mallya or Rafale, (Nirav) Modi or (Mehul) Choksi… the latest in the list of missing files is the documents relating to Chinese intrusion. This is not a coincidence (sanyog), this is an anti-democracy experiment (prayog) by the Modi government.” The Congress leader was playing on the Prime Minister’s use of the words “sanyog” and “prayog” in the context of the anti-CAA protests earlier this year. Addressing a public rally during the Delhi elections, Modi had said referring to the countrywide protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, from Seelampur to Shaheen Bagh: “Is this a mere sanyog? No, it is a prayog, motivated by a design to destroy the communal amity within the country.” What has lent credibility to Rahul’s allegation is the manner in which files relating to issues that could tarnish the image of the Prime Minister and the government have disappeared. The document that was withdrawn from the defence ministry website had contradicted the Prime Minister’s claim that none had forcibly entered Indian territory, nor had any Indian post been captured. Other documents that could damage the Modi dispensation have disappeared in the past. On the Rafale fighter jets, the Centre had told the Supreme Court in March 2019 that the documents relating to the French deal had been stolen from the defence ministry. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had told a three-judge bench that the highly sensitive and classified documents had been stolen and that reports based on them were appearing in newspapers. As a controversy erupted after Rahul attacked the government for not keeping the files safely, Venugopal later denied they had been stolen. In the case related to fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya earlier this week, the Supreme Court had to adjourn the hearing till August 20 after the judges found that some replies to the application filed in the matter were not available in the case records. The government officials concerned have been directed to furnish all the required details, including the names of the people who had dealt with the files concerning review petitions in the past three years. Earlier in June 2018, files pertaining to several economic offenders, including fugitive diamantaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, were said to have been destroyed in a fire at the income tax building in Mumbai. The Congress had then repeatedly accused the Modi government of protecting the fugitives.The BJP was in power in Maharashtra when the fire gutted the files. On Saturday, the 78th anniversary of the Quit India Movement, Rahul called upon people to take a vow to fight for justice. He said in a tweet: “New meaning will have to be given on the 78th anniversary of Quit India to the ‘Karo ya Maro’ (Do or Die) slogan given by Mahatma Gandhi: Fight against injustice, don’t be frightened.” On the anniversary of the Quit India Movement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a week-long drive till Independence Day to rid India of garbage, describing it as the “Gandagi, Bharat Chhoro Saptah” (Filth, Quit India Week). If this sounded like a parody of the “Angrezon, Bharat Chhoro” call of August 8, 1942, that had inspired India in the final push for freedom, Rahul Gandhi had a prompt reply: “Why not! We have to go a step further and clean the constantly increasing ‘filth of untruth’. Will the Prime Minister initiate this satyagraha by telling the nation the truth of Chinese aggression?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Soil balls stuffed with bamboo seeds to grow a forest for elephants ||Forest officials in Odisha’s Cuttack are hurling soil balls stuffed with bamboo seeds into vacant areas inside a forest so that elephants can have their favourite food when they grow into plants and not raid nearby villages and agricultural fields. The divisional forest officer (DFO) of Athagarh, Sasmita Lenka, told The Telegraph: “Elephants often enter human habitations for want of adequate food in their natural habitats. If we can solve the problem by creating a solid food base for them, they will stop raiding human settlements. So, we decided to launch a drive to create more bamboo forests. But shortage of labourers (to sow so many seeds) and funds amid the coronavirus pandemic was a major constraint.” The Athagarh forest division then came up with the idea to create bamboo clusters without needing too many hands or much investment. “We decided to throw balls embedded with bamboo seeds into vacant plots inside the forest. Each orb, of the shape and size of a cricket ball, is made of 50 to 100 grams of good muddy soil and stuffed with 10 to 15 bamboo seeds,” Lenka said. “We also mix pesticides so that the seeds are not destroyed by insects. The balls are dried for up to 24 to 48 hours before being thrown into the barren forest patches,” she added. According to Lenka, there is no need to water the balls for the seeds to germinate as it is the rainy season. “We hope that of the 10-15 seeds in each ball, at least five will germinate. Then shoots will come out within a month and bamboo bushes will grow within a year. Once they are fully grown, they will remain there for a long time. We have already thrown 5,000 to 10,000 balls into the forest. At many places the seeds have germinated. We plan to thrown 50,000 to 70,000 bamboo balls,” she said. The immediate trigger for the plan was the havoc caused by a herd of 21 elephants from the Chandaka-Dampada forest division, close to Bhubaneswar, that had come to the Athagarh division in search of food. They ate and damaged paddy of local farmers. Incidents of man-animal conflict are reported almost daily in the area. The habitat of elephants has been disturbed by the expansion of Bhubaneswar city, officials said. “After a lot of deliberation we have come up with the plan of creating bamboo clusters. Once the plan is successful, we will submit a proposal to the forest department to create more bamboo forests using this method,” said Lenka, adding that the forest department had bought one quintal of seeds from a government firm at Jashipur in Mayurbhanj district. “Local people have also come forward to work as volunteers along with forest officials to prepare the bamboo balls and throw them into the forest. There is no need to look after the balls. The seeds will germinate automatically. We will also throw the balls into elephant corridors through which the animals move from one forest division to another,” Lenka said. An elephant requires up to 150kg of food a day. Biswajit Mohanty, the secretary of the NGO Wildlife Odisha, said: “Odisha elephants live a life fraught with danger all the time due to poaching, poisoning, electrocution, train accidents and being chased by forest squads. Although Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam have much larger populations of elephants, the elephant mortality rate is the highest in Odisha.” Mohanty added: “As many as 1,497 deaths have been recorded in the state since 1990.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||India, China equilibrium on Jaishankar's mind||The world has a lot riding on India and China given their size and impact, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar said on Saturday, suggesting that the future of the ties between the two countries would depend on reaching “some kind of equilibrium or understanding”. During an online CII summit, Jaishankar was asked whether India and China would be able to become friends in the next 1020 years just like France and Germany had overcome their past to forge a new relationship. “We are neighbours of China. China is already the second largest economy in the world. We will be one day third. You can argue when. We are demographically two very unique countries. We are the only two countries in the billionplus (population) category,” he repled. “We are seeing a sort of parallel but differential rise of the two countries. But all of this is also happening when we are neighbours. To my mind what it does is, it puts a huge premium on reaching some kind of equilibrium or understanding between the two.” “Because not just in my interest, equally in their interests, and how to do that, I think is, one of the big challenges that we face. In their own way, somebody at their end would be saying something,” Jaishankar added. “And I would argue that the world actually has a lot riding on us given our size and given our impact…. There are problems; problems are well laid out. But certainly I feel, you know, (it) is very central to our foreign policy calculations,” Jaishankar added. Divisional commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on Saturday held a meeting at Daulat Beg Oldie, located at an altitude of 16,000ft, to discuss disengagement and deescalation at the Depsang Plains, adds our special correspondent in New Delhi. The fresh talks took place after five rounds of meetings at the corps commanderlevel (lieutenant generals) — the highest military dialogue — since June 6 failed to break the logjam. “The majorgenerallevel meeting started at 11am and ended at 7.30pm. The talks were positive but inconclusive,” said a government source. Asked about the rationale behind the majorgenerallevel talks when the highest military talks have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough, the government source said: “The issue of Depsang Plains was not discussed during the earlier corps commanderlevel talks. So, we decided to carry forward the dialogue process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
09-08-2020||India||Bande mataram! The Song||The story goes that sick and tired of hearing God Save the Queen at all official events and functions, 19th century writer Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay decided to pen the lyrics of Bande Mataram. Those days Bankim was serving as the deputy collector of Howrah. After attending one such ceremony in his homestead, Kanthalpara, 40 kilometres north of Calcutta, the rationalist and patriot hurried home and composed 12 lines at one go. (The part of the story that concerns the 12 lines is endorsed by Sabyasachi Bhattacharya’s research in his book, Vande Mataram: The Biography of a Song.) They begin — “Sujalam suphalam/Malayaja-sitalam/Sasya-syamala /Mataram/ Bande Mataram...” Bankim had used highly Sanskritised Bengali to describe his mother country in all her splendour. The English translation by Aurobindo Ghose goes, “I bow to thee, Mother,/Richly-watered, richly-fruited,/Cool with the winds of the south,/Dark with the crops of the harvests.” “That was probably in early 1874,” says Devajit Bandyopadhyay, singer, archivist and music scholar. In his soon-to-be-published book in Bengali, Bande Mataram — Rup Rupantar, he traces the socio-cultural and political underpinnings of the song that became a battle cry in the freedom struggle and, thereafter, part of life in pre-Independence India. At some point, the verses were turned into a slogan for nationalists and much later, a lethal weapon to destroy communal harmony in the subcontinent, making it a bone of contention between religious conservatives and secularists. According to Bandyopadhyay, after Bankim’s daughter and some close acquaintances bitterly criticised the heavily Sanskritised verses, Bankim hid the verses in the drawer of his writing table for the next seven years. They were published in 1881 in Bangadarshan, a literary journal founded and edited by Bankim. The lines sitting in an obscure corner of the page served as a space filler and were barely noticed. But it seems Bankim told a friend who criticised the poem, “You can’t possibly guess now if this is good or bad. But there will be a day when this song will be on the lips of the masses. I shall be dead by then.” In 1882, Bankim decided to include the verses in Ananda Math with 16 additional lines to suit the tenor of the novel inspired by the Sanyasi Uprising of the late 18th and early 19th centuries. In the foreword to the book The Fakir and Sannyasi Uprisings by Atis K. Dasgupta, historian Barun De writes, “Ananda Math was written about sanyasis leading a photo-jacquerie against arrogant and brutal British subaltern officers.” Sung by Santan Dal, a band of rebellious Hindu monks in a temple, the new stanzas allude to idol worship. Bankim writes, “Bahute tumi Ma sakti/Hridaye tumi Ma bhakti/ Tomari pratima gai/mandire mandire/ Twam hi Durga dasapraharana-dharini/Kamala kamala dala viharini... In the arm thou art might, O Mother,/ In the heart, O Mother, thou art love and faith,/ It is thy image we raise in every temple./For thou art Durga holding her ten weapons of war,/Kamal at play in the lotuses.” Says historian Chittabrata Palit, “As sanyasis were the central figures of Ananda Math, it is not surprising that they should sing religious hymns seeking freedom at a temple (Bhavani Mandir). According to Bandyopadhyay, the hymns were first set to tune in Raga Malhar (Qawwali beat) by the legendary musician Pandit Jadunath Bhattacharya of the Bishnupur Gharana. Jadu Bhatta, as he is referred to even now, happened to be Bankim’s music teacher. The song was performed at private recitals in the presence of Bankim quite a few times, notes contemporary scholar Haraprasad Sastri in his diary. A few years later, Rabindranath Tagore set to music the verses based on Desh ragini. The score was written by Tagore’s niece Pratibha Sundari in the family magazine Balak. A decade later, Tagore sang the whole song at the Calcutta session of the Indian National Congress with his elder brother Jyotirindranath at the piano. By that time, however, Bankim had passed away. Bankim died in 1894; in 1883 Ananda Math was staged at the National Theatre, later renamed Minerva Theatre, in Calcutta. The popularity of the song soared thereafter and Bankim was around to witness that. After Tagore’s recital, it became a tradition to inaugurate Congress sessions with Bande Mataram. In fact, it is still sung at the closing of every session of Parliament. The popularity of the song, however, reached its pinnacle in 1905. When the British Viceroy Lord Curzon decided to divide Bengal, thousands of people gathered at the Town Hall in Calcutta to protest the resolution; the gathered crowd sang Bande Mataram. It also came to be the chant for those who participated in the Swadeshi movement that was launched in reaction to the partition of Bengal. That year, Tamil poet laureate Subramania Bharati translated it; translations in Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati, Hindi, Telugu and Malayalam were also soon done. Companies such as H. Bose Cylinder Records, Nicole Records, Pathe and Gramophone Concerto Records brought out records of it sung by various artistes — from Tagore to Satya Bhushan Gupta, from Bhabani Charan Das to Pandit Omkarnath Thakur, from Kesarbai Kerkar to Hirabai Barodekar. Sushil Kumar Chatterjee, better known as Nakubabu, a 96-year old sound designer and record collector, recalls about 80 different records. “Unquestionably this song ranks among the most popular songs in the history of recording,” he says. Bandyopadhyay has come across 86 recordings and 144 compositions of the song. There is one Ananda Bazaar & Hindustan Standard (publishers of The Telegraph) record, marked as AHR 1 in 1939. “It was a chorus in Raga Durga composed by Timir Baran. On the other side, the tune was played by an orchestra,” says Nakubabu, who has a copy. Set in the style of a march song, the record, featuring all five stanzas, was played during parades of the Indian National Army or Azad Hind Fauj in Singapore, some claim. There were other compositions that were never recorded, such as the one composed and sung by Vishnu Digambar Paluskar in Raga Kafi. It was heard only at a few Congress conventions. After his death in 1931, his disciple Omkarnath Thakur carried on the tradition. In fact, it was Omkarnath who sang Bande Mataram in Parliament in 1947. The immense popularity of the song had irked the British authorities. Indians were banned from singing or chanting Bande Mataram. Those who disobeyed faced police action, record shops were raided routinely and, if discovered, Bande Mataram records were destroyed. The song that united many Indians during the Swadeshi movement, however, led to divisions along communal lines in later years. When some political leaders and biplabis  (militant nationalists) suggested the song be made India’s national anthem, some found its imagery and rhetoric unacceptable. They found some verses “idolatrous”. Not just Muslims and Christians, some secularists, communists and atheists also raised objections. When many Congress leaders, including Subhas Chandra Bose, took the initiative to make Bande Mataram the national anthem, Nehru decided to consult Tagore. Tagore was of the opinion that the last three stanzas had got “accidentally associated” with Ananda Math and were likely to “offend some sects or communities”. Based on this, the Congress Working Committee accepted the first two stanzas of the song as “fit to be sung in national gatherings” but not formally adopted as the national anthem. That was in 1937. “This decision to compromise was bitterly criticised by many intellectuals, including scientist Jagadish Chandra Bose, Sister Nivedita and Subhas Chandra Bose,” says Bandyopadhyay. “Muslim intellectuals such as Rezaul Karim opposed the move,” he adds. And Gandhi wrote in the weekly newspaper, Harijan, “I would not risk a single quarrel over singing Bande Mataram at a mixed gathering. It will never suffer from disuse. It is enthroned in the hearts of millions.” Gandhi’s prophecy has been proven correct again and again in independent India. In 1997, when India celebrated her 50th year of Independence, film producer G. Bharat Bala revived the song in Hindi; Maa Tujhe Salaam was composed and sung by A.R. Rahman — Raga Desh Malhar with a strong Western influence. The most well-known version, however, is the one sung by Lata Mangeshkar in the 1952 film Ananda Math. It was set to tune by Hemant Kumar. It was re-recorded by Mangeshkar in 1996 to modern musical accompaniment. In the later years, other films also used the song. In Shyam Benegal’s Making of the Mahatma, Usha Uthup sings the song in a pop style; it is picturised on Gandhi doing a long march in South Africa. The All India Radio still opens its broadcast every morning with the vocal recital of the song in chorus. In the meantime, the bickering over its interpretations persist. “The fight over Bande Mataram is a result of a lopsided history projected by fundamentalists of all hues along with secular (mostly Marxist) historians,” says Palit. According to Marxist historians, Bande Mataram was a war cry of Muslim and Hindu ascetics alike fighting imperialists and feudal forces in 18th century Bengal portrayed in the novel Ananda Math. In 2006, Arjun Singh, the then HRD minister of the Congress-led UPA government, passed a directive asking all schools to ensure students sing the first two stanzas of the song. But after some Muslim clerics objected, the decision was rolled back. In 2018, Bande Mataram made headlines yet again when the then BJP president Amit Shah accused the Congress of initiating the division of the country by dropping the last two stanzas in 1937. This year, in early July, the Surat Municipal Corporation asked textile workers to sing the song while opening shop. The reason proffered — to foreground their solidarity with the rest of the nation and fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre plea for those stranded in Bangladesh||The Centre has repeated its request to the Bengal government to let in 2,680 people from the state, who are stranded in Bangladesh since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, through two of the six land borders between the two countries. “Our Mission in Dhaka has once again reported that 2,399 people are seeking to return to Bengal from Bangladesh through the Petrapole-Benapole integrated checkpost and a further 281 citizens are seeking to do so through the Phulbari-Banglabandha land border,” reads a letter by Vikram Doraiswami, additional secretary of ministry of external affairs to the Bengal chief secretary, Rajiva Sinha. Sources in Nabanna said that the Centre had sent similar letters in the past few weeks requesting it to allow the citizens to enter the state through land borders as they cannot afford to fly under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission. A senior state government official said the (Bengal) government was considering the request. “...A mechanism could be worked out soon to bring the stranded people back,” the official said. The letter from Doraiswami, who is likely to take charge of the Indian High Commission in Dhaka later this year, says that most of the stranded people are unskilled or semi-skilled labourers or poor people who had gone to visit relatives in rural Bangladesh. “Many are living in extreme distress, including sheltering in school verandah or public parks...,” reads the letter. “We are trying to solve problems one by one. We resolved the issue of trade through land borders with a mechanism to ensure that Covid does not spread in the bordering areas. We will take up this (repatriation) issue soon,” said a bureaucrat. The MEA wrote that railways could arrange special trains to bring back stranded people once the Bengal government approved it. Sources in the state government said it could be the best possible solution but the Centre had to ensure health screening of the stranded people before they board the trains. “We had proposed it during an informal conversation with the centre. Now it has to be seen what steps the Centre is taking to ensure that the passengers are screened properly and they are sent to institutional quarantine facilities after returning to India,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Politics’ whiff in Delhi audit in Bengal||Bengal’s ruling establishment is livid at the Centre’s decision to send a team to audit the state’s expenditure under the 100 days job scheme, with insiders saying it looked like Delhi was trying to discredit the state government’s claim of creating 16.62 crore mandays between April and early August. Sources said Bengal had “routinely” created more than 22 crore mandays a year over the past few years but no central audit team had ever been sent to the state before. A senior official commented that with Assembly elections nearing, Bengal’s rural job mandays would become a political issue. A minister in the Bengal government said: “This is a political move to harass the state government that worked hard during the pandemic to secure jobs for rural populace... The Centre should release Rs 53,000 crore first, which is due under various schemes, and then they should send teams to find out if we have done any wrong.” The minister said that they would cooperate with the teams, but the Centre must clear all dues so that the state can carry on with its development activities. Last week, the panchayat and rural development department was informed that central teams would conduct an audit of expenditure incurred under the 100 days job scheme — officially known as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act —  since 2017-18. The panchayat department was told that the team would visit Bengal between August 10 and 14 and tour multiple districts. The team, sources said, would visit multiple districts with a primary focus to scan the books of accounts related to expenditure under the scheme between April and first week of August 2020. “The trigger behind the audit team’s proposed visit is Bengal’s creation of 16.62 crore mandays under the scheme during this period which is more than 75 per cent of its annual target of creating 22 crore mandays,” said a source. “It has spent Rs 4,865 crore under the scheme during the period which is over 76 per cent of proposed annual expenditure,” the source added. The Bengal government has asked district authorities to cooperate with the team. On why the audit, Trinamul insider said: “The BJP was finding it hard to stomach the state government’s success in creation of jobs in the rural areas during the lockdown when people were in dire need of income opportunities.” A source in the administration said the move to send central teams was initiated after the state uploaded figures that it created 1.25 crore mandays in April and 4.47 crore mandays in May amid a nationwide lockdown in the major part of the time. “No other state created such a huge number of mandays during that period. We explained that as there was no curb on agriculture and its allied sectors, we focused on these areas to create rural jobs. It appears that our explanations did not satisfy Delhi,” said a senior official. The BJP welcomed the Centre’s move while alleging gross irregularities under the scheme in the past four months. State BJP president and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh said: “The central team should examine ground realities for themselves. The Union government allocates the highest funds for Bengal. However, the money never fully reaches beneficiaries of MGNREGA fully. The state government juggles with figures. They cannot be trusted. Where is all the money going? What is wrong if the team wants an audit?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP leaders voice  conflict of interest concern over Agnimitra's sari||The BJP does not have any dearth of national issues to tie itself up in knots. Yet, it has fallen upon the sari to land an associate organisation in a tangle. Some leaders are discussing threadbare whether an audio message by Bengal BJP Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul passes the conflict of interest test. Paul’s message entreats  members of the women’s wing to buy a sari featuring the lotus, the BJP’s symbol. Such symbol-laced merchandise is fairly common in the country now. But here’s  the catch: Paul, who is also a fashion designer, designed the sari. Besides, the appeal was uploaded on the 39 official WhatsApp groups of the Mahila Morcha. The sari is priced Rs 280 apiece and the sale proceeds will not go to the party fund. All of which appear to have stitched together a perfect ensemble for a whisper campaign. “How can anyone be allowed to sell any item through an official platform of the party if the proceeds do not go to the party fund?” asked a senior BJP member who did not want to be named. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said in response to a question: “I’m aware of the initiative and have approved it. The proceeds from these sales will not come to the party.” Some members of the Mahila Morcha said the message from Paul, who had joined the BJP in March 2019 and became the president of the women’s morcha in June 2020, shocked them. The BJP Bengal headquarters on 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta has a party-run store which sells books, masks and caps with the party symbol. Sources in the party said income from the Vastu Bhandar went to the party fund. Paul expressed surprise at the controversy. “I believe that in any programme, if all of us wear similar dresses, it will look good. The money from the sale will go directly to the vendors who are making this sari. I’ve designed it but without any remuneration,” Paul told this paper. She added that her studio had been closed for four months because of the lockdown and the saris would not be made by her company. “The saris I make are quite expensive. (For the lotus saris) vendors, out of their love for the party, are charging only the cost of the raw materials,” Paul added. So far, 13 saris have been sold, she said, out of the 40 initial orders. The prospects are brighter if the audio message connects with all the members, totalling over 800, of the 39 WhatsApp groups. Evidently, the statistical twists and turns of the sari are tracked closely. A member said: “In May 2019, during the rally led by Amit Shah in Calcutta, she designed 1,170 saris and sold them for Rs 750 each.” Paul said she was asked to design the saris for Shah’s show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Cabin crew member from Hooghly did his job: Dad||Crew member Abhik Biswas, 24, who was in the Air India Express repatriation flight that skidded off the tabletop runway at the Calicut International Airport and split into two in a valley, called up his family in Hooghly’s Konnagar on Friday night to say he was safe and had saved lives of at least 30 fliers. Abhik’s elderly parents said they were shocked after they switched on the television on getting Abhik’s phone call around 8.30pm on Friday. Only then did they realise the gravity of the accident, which till Saturday, had left 18 dead including flight’s captain-in-command, Deepak Vasant Sathe and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar. Abhik was one of the four crew members who survived. His father Ajay Biswas, a trader in Konnagar, said he and his wife Bharati were in shock. “My son called last evening around 8.30pm (Friday) to say his plane had met with an accident less than an hour ago. He assured me he was safe and could save some 30-40 passengers by getting them out of the wreckage through an emergency exit,” said Biswas on Saturday. “I am relieved my son survived but when I learnt many people had died, I was deeply pained,” the trader added. On their son saving some fliers, Biswas said: “It was his duty as a crew member to save passengers.” The parents did not share Abhik’s phone number. “He asked us not to disturb him as he is in trauma. He is in Kerala, we don’t know when he will come home,” said his mother. Abhik had joined Air India as a crew member around three years ago after quitting his previous company IndiGo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Traders use Tagore as eviction shield||Rabindranath Tagore could not have imagined that people someday could hope that his bust would protect them from possible eviction by Visva-Bharati authorities. Traders and artisans of Kabiguru Handicraft Market, along the road leading to the Visva-Bharati campus on Friday, inaugurated Tagore’s bust, which they hoped would make the Visva-Bharati authorities think twice before evicting them. The dispute over the market erupted after Visva-Bharati claimed ownership of the land while traders said their shops were located on land owned by the public works department (PWD). On Friday, Tagore’s 79th death anniversary, a member of the board of administrator in Bolpur Municipality, Sukanta Hazra, unveiled the bust and said it would save the traders from eviction. The traders had raised Rs 12,000 for Tagore’s concrete bust sculpted by artisan Dipak Das, who also owns a shop. There are some 140 shops, mostly owned by artisans selling leather and kantha-stitch items for past 40 years. Varsity officials said they were trying to evict the market for a cleaner look to the campus. An official added that Tagore’s bust was no protection. “Tagore never believed in idol culture. So a bust is immaterial,” he said. “The present administration tried to recover the encroached land. On August 5 last year, the varsity officials, headed by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, sat on a 12-hour hunger strike demanding removal of the shops,”the varsity official said. “We offered them another stretch for rehabilitation. But traders say the present location is good for business.” On charges that the land was not the varsity’s but PWD’s, the official said: “If the land was not ours, why did we offer them land for rehabilitation?” Traders think otherwise. “Visva-Bharati has been trying to evict us since last year though the land belongs to the PWD. We installed a bust of Tagore as we think it will protect us from eviction,” said Aminul Huda, Kabiguru Handicrafts Unnayan Samiti secretary. Another trader added: “We hope Visva-Bharati does not demolish Tagore’s bust to evict us.” Hazra said many shops on the campus had been demolished. “Now Visva-Bharati is trying to evict artisans too. Tagore’s bust will be a safeguard against eviction.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||51 fresh deaths take total toll past 2,000||Bengal on Saturday reported 2,949 new Covid-19 cases and 51 more deaths, on one hand, and 2,064 recoveries and 25,148 tests, on the other. The total infection tally is now nearly 93,000, including the 65,000-odd recoveries. In eight days in August, Bengal logged 22,427 new cases and 424 deaths, 16,750 recoveries and over 1.86 lakh tests. The state on Saturday crossed 25,000 in total active Covid-19 cases and 2,000 in deaths. Of the 51 deaths reported on Saturday, 20 were from Calcutta and 19 from North 24-Parganas. Of the 2,005 deaths reported so far, Calcutta accounted for 927 and North 24-Parganas 463. “August seems to have begun dramatically, but the rise is both in good and not-so-good parameters,” said a minister. “But we are also just a day from crossing 11 lakh tests and our recovery rate remains firm at 70.32 per cent,” said the minister. Bengal’s total test count now is 10.79 lakh, at 11,996 tests per million people. The minister pointed out that Bengal was able to ramp up testing exponentially, from around 10,000 daily to 25,000 over the past couple of weeks. “We are looking to take our tests per million to beyond 25,000 in the next few weeks,” he added. Of the 2,949 new cases, Calcutta accounted for 670 and North 24-Parganas, 644. The two districts, which have contributed 51 per cent of all Covid-19 cases recorded in Bengal since the onset of the pandemic, now have 50 per cent of active positive cases. But the two added over 33,000 recoveries as well. “In eight days, these two districts alone reported over 10,000 new cases and 289 deaths. These two districts are being handled by most senior and able administrators, who are determined to rein in the outbreak,” said the minister. The state government reported 1,769, or 88.2 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Of the 424 deaths in these eight days, 401 were reported as co-morbid by the state. “Hypertension remains the most lethal co-morbidity, followed by diabetes and cardiac ailments…. The 61-75 age group continues to be the most vulnerable to death in case of infection, in absolute numbers,” said the minister. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.16, from 2.25 over the eight days. The national rate is now 2.02 per cent. The mortality rate in infected males is now down to 2.32, while that in infected females improved to 1.86 per cent. Bengal reported 38.09 per cent occupancy in the 11,560 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 83 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) that had clamped a two-week long lockdown across the hills has decided not extend it from Sunday. Sources said the decision was taken after a slight drop in cases in the urban areas under the GTA, but the administration said it was keeping a close watch on the situation and would act accordingly. Anit Thapa, chairperson of the board of administrators of the GTA, said: “We thank people of the GTA region who followed the lockdown strictly for two weeks. We are monitoring the situation. If required, there will be a lockdown in containment zones. However, there will be no further extension of the lockdown.” In a similar manner, the subdivisional administration of Dinhata in Cooch Behar district decided to de-notify the entire Dinhata civic area that had been declared a containment zone on July 16. “We will, however, keep marking areas as containment zones in the town if fresh Covid-19 cases are reported,” an official said. These decisions have come as a big relief for hill residents and those in Dinhata. However, the number of Covid-19 cases keeps rising in north Bengal, particularly in Malda and Darjeeling districts. In each of the districts, the number of infections have inched closer to 3,000. In Darjeeling, 35 people have died so far of Covid. Among other districts, more than 1,200 people in each district —  North and South Dinajpurs, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri — have been infected by the novel coronavirus. “The number of cases is comparatively less in Kalimpong and Alipurduar districts. However, in the recent weeks, cases of Covid infections have been reported even from the smaller hamlets and remote areas in the hills. We are keeping a close watch over the situation,” said a source in the state health department. Ajit Mahato, 43, a contract worker who was tested Covid positive in South Dinajpur district, leapt to his death on Saturday morning from the roof of an Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Bansihari. The building is being used as a safe home. Mahato, who came from Bhaior village of Bansihari block, had been staying at the safe home for the past few days. Police said a probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Consumer officer thrashed for e-buy gripe||A state consumer affairs officer was “slapped, kicked and punched” at home by youths who claimed to be representatives of a private courier firm on Friday after he filed a complaint with an e-commerce company over delivery of a wrong item. Uttam Paul, the consumer welfare officer of Jalpaiguri, filed complaints with Kotwali police and cyber crime police for the attack and online fraud, respectively. According to Paul, on July 17 he had booked a mattress worth Rs 6,849 from a prominent e-commerce website and paid in full. “On August 6, the order was delivered. But on opening it, I found it was a thin blanket. I felt there was some mistake on the part of the company and filed a complaint with the company’s customer care,” said Paul. “I told them when I had booked the mattress, the product was on offer and it was stated (on the company’s website) that once the order is placed, it could not be cancelled. There was an option to change the ordered item and with other items of the same value.” On Friday, a group of four youths, who claimed to be representatives of the private courier company that delivered the product, turned up at his residence. “They barged in my home and asked me why I had opened the packet. I tried to clarify but they started shouting and assaulted me in front of my wife and daughter. I was kicked, slapped and punched. I fell on the ground. My shouts alerted neighbours and the youths left,” said Paul. The officer added that he had suffered a cardiac arrest last month. “I fell ill after the assault and was hospitalised. I was released on Saturday. But my family members and I are feeling insecure. I don’t even know if I can continue working in Jalpaiguri,” Paul said. Prabhakar Gayen, a deputy assistant director of state consumer affairs department, said it was “disappointing that the police have not arrested any of the attackers till Saturday evening”. “We have learnt that the police were reluctant to receive his complaint,” Gayen added. “We have been working for over five years in Jalpaiguri and have never come across such a situation.” The police said they were looking into both the complaints. Representatives of the courier agency could not be contacted by this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Lab in Siliguri tops Bengal in Covid test tally||The Viral Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Siliguri outskirts holds the top slot in Bengal for Covid-19 tests — with close to one lakh tests — and the third in India. At four months, it is one of the youngest laboratories in Bengal. However, it is working steadily since March 29. According to the state health department bulletin on Friday, 96,202 samples has been tested at the lab so far in rRT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method. Arunava Sarkar, the principal investigator of the lab at the NBMCH, said: “Unlike many other labs of the state, ours is just over four months old. With the help of our team, we have reached the first position in the state and third in the country,” Sarkar said. As of now, he said, there are enough of doctors, technologists, molecular microbiology scientists, data entry operators and other staff at the lab who work in three shifts a day, testing swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. “The chief medical officer of health, district magistrate of Darjeeling and state tourism minister Gautam Deb have put in a lot of effort to develop the infrastructure of the lab. We made additions to manpower, got new machines and extra financial allocations which largely contributed to our position in the state and in the country,” added Sarkar. Every day, around 1,200 samples are tested at the lab. “Officially, we are yet to cross the one lakh mark as it takes time to update the data. But otherwise, we have conducted over one lakh tests at the lab,” said a doctor posted in the VRDL. Sources in the NBMCH said that according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines, if five per cent of the total samples tested in a lab are found Covid positive, it confirms that the lab is working in its best capacity and testing enough samples. “Our data shows that out of the samples tested here so far, 5.08 per cent have been tested positive. This reconfirms that we could meet the expectations of the state and Centre,” the doctor said. This apart, the Malda Medical College & Hospital lab has also tested close to 52,000 samples. “That’s almost half the number of samples tested at the NBMCH,” said a virologist at the NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
09-08-2020||North East||NSCN-IM team in Delhi for peace talks||The Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) are taking steps to resolve issues delaying a final solution to decades-old Naga political issue. An NSCN (I-M) delegation has reached Delhi for talks with home ministry officials next week, while the PMO, on its part, invited the Naga Hoho, an influential organisation facilitating the peace process, after it sought the Prime Minister’s intervention to resolve unexpected developments which could adversely impact the peace process. While nine NSCN (I-M) members left on a chartered flight from Dimapur, five others took a Dimapur-Imphal-Delhi flight on Friday. Though October 31, 2019 was set wrap up negotiations for a final solution, the NSCN (I-M) had sought an extension. However, a series of developments since June involving the outfit, the state government and Nagaland governor and interlocutor R.N. Ravi have all but “pushed” the peace process to the brink. Against this backdrop, Friday’s developments are being seen as an attempt by both the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) to put the talks back on track after the outfit had skipped a meeting convened by Ravi in Kohima on July 16. On July 20, NSCN (I-M) general secretary, an “unwell” Thuingaleng Muivah, flew to Delhi on a chartered flight with eight other members to get himself treated and also resume the talks. The outfit had entered into a ceasefire with the Centre in 1997 to amicably resolve the “oldest” insurgency in India, Sources said presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah would indicate a “big” announcement. “Otherwise, home ministry personnel will be trying to resolve all issues, including those involving Ravi, and put the process firmly back on track for an early solution. The talks are likely to be held next week,” one of them said. That the Centre was “keen” on reviving the process was also evident from the PMO’s invite to the Naga Hoho, the apex body of Naga tribes. Naga Hoho president H.K. Zhimomi told The Telegraph, “Yes, we got an invite on Wednesday but we don’t know what is on the agenda or whom we will be meeting. They wanted us to leave on Thursday but we cannot leave anytime because of the Covid SOP and other engagements. We are in touch with state home department.” Zhimomi also clarified he is not part of the NSCN (I-M)-Centre talks. “We are only facilitators. We are for a lasting, amicable and inclusive solution for all Naga people. Everything remaining equal, we will be in Delhi next week,” he said. The National Naga Political Groups, comprising seven outfits, said their talks with Ravi had concluded on October 31 and they sought an early solution. Organisations in Manipur representing the Nagas, the United Naga Council, All Naga Students’ Association, Manipur, Naga Women Union and Naga People Movement for Human Rights-South, had on July 25 sought Modi’s intervention to resolve the Naga issue at the earliest. The peace talks, sources said, had got stuck because the NSCN (I-M) were firm on a separate flag and a constitution, something the Centre could not agree to because it had only last year withdrawn Article 370 that gave Jammu & Kashmir special powers. Moreover, ties between the NSCN (I-M), which had signed the Framework Agreement with the Centre on August 3, 2015 to resolve the Naga political problem, and governor Ravi nosedived since June, so much so that calls for the latter’s replacement have increased. But the stand of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), comprising seven outfits that are also in talks with the Centre, is different. A senior NNPG member said replacing Ravi would not resolve the deadlock. “In fact, it will be back to square one,” he said. Backing Ravi, the NNPGs had said the governor has “exhibited serious concern and commitment with a practical touch” to the Naga political issue. The Naga Students’ Federation, in a statement on Friday, said there could be “no” compromise on the unique history, identity, legitimate political rights and aspirations of the Nagas. The NSF urged the Centre to resolve the “oldest political issue in the world” and appealed to Ravi to take the peace talks ahead with all “seriousness, sincerity and empathy based on Nagas’ unique history”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
09-08-2020||North East||Assam flood waters recede ||The flood in Assam maintained a  falling trend on Saturday with the waters ebbing from two districts and remaining in only four affecting 6,435 persons, an Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) bulletin said. No death because of the  natural calamity was reported from any where in the state during the day. The flood waters receded from Chirang and Kamrup Metropolitan districts and remained in Dhemaji, Baksa, Kokrajhar and Morigaon districts, according to the daily flood report of ASDMA. The deluge had impacted 12528 people in six districts on Friday. Baksa is the worst affected district followed by Dhemaji and Morigaon. In Baksa 98 villages have been inundated by the flood waters affecting 2000 people. In Dhemaji 1958 people are in the grip of the flood, while in Morigaon the figure is 1718, the report said. With the flood situation improving, only one relief camp and distribution centre is being operated by Dhemaji district administration providing shelter to 73 people. Brahmaputra river is, however, flowing above the danger mark at Neamatighat in Jorhat district, the ASDMA bulletin said. In Kaziranga National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage site, and Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park none of the forest camps are submerged. One hundred thirty six people have lost their lives in Assam in this year's flood and landslide. Of them 110 were killed by flood related incidents and 26 in landslides. The current wave of floods has so far claimed the lives of 157 animals and another 174 others were rescued in Kaziranga National Park, the ASDMA bulletin said quoting the divisional forest officer of the Eastern Assam Wildlife Division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
09-08-2020||North East||Mizoram governor goes by the book||Mizoram governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai has urged politicians, irrespective of party affiliation, to enlighten the masses on social and political issues by penning down their experiences. Pillai preaches what he has been practising for years: he has written 123 books, three of which he released at a simple function at the Raj Bhavan in Aizawl on Saturday afternoon. He completed 13 of these during the Corona-induced lockdown and restrictions. A Raj Bhavan staffer said, “Sir has been spending at least five hours everyday in his study during the lockdown.” Talking to The Telegraph after Saturday’s book release function attended by chief minister Zoramthanga and former chief minister Lal Thanhawla, Pillai, 65, said, reading and writing is a must for people in public life. “We had some great public figures who used to read and write a lot. The trend has been decreasing over the past three decades. All politicians, public figures, irrespective of their political affiliations, should read and write. It is our duty to educate and enlighten the masses on social and political issues,” he said. Pillai said he was influenced by several writers while growing up. “(Mahatma) Gandhiji, (Jawaharlal) Nehruji, Syama Prasad (Mookerjee)ji, Deendayal (Upadhyaya)ji used to write a lot as their commitment to the people. There were great writers from my own state. Their writing helped the common man. But in the last three decades, writing by politicians has shown a decreasing trend. Therefore, I appeal to all to read and write,” Pillai, hailing from Kerala, said. Pillai is a former two-time Kerala state BJP president and a practising lawyer at High Court of Kerala. He assumed charge as Mizoram governor on November 5 last year. Two of his books — Republic Day 2020 and Thus Speaks the Governor, were released by Ajai Lamba, Chief Justice of Gauhati High Court, through video-conference, while a book on poems, Corona Kavithakal, in Malayalam, was released by Zoramthanga, who handed over a copy of the book to Brig. Vinod S, Commander of 23 Sector Assam Riffles. The governor said the Covid-19 pandemic had been huge lessons, “exposing our vulnerabilities as well as showcasing our strength”. Zoramthanga praised the extraordinary achievement of the Governor in his creative ventures by making full use of the lockdown period. Lal Thanhawla expressed admiration for the governor’s literary prowess and sheer hard work but lamented that there are very few books on Mizoram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
09-08-2020||Opinion||Enduring echoes: the universal truth of Art||Mortality is humanity’s Achilles’ heel. But the ingenuity of civilization is such that it has found a way around the problem. The body as a form may decay and die. But what is created through the mind’s eye can achieve immortality. This is because Art — that incandescent universe made up of enduring image, text and every other conceivable form of creativity — has, quite often, succeeded in defying the ravages of time. Poetry, verse or other manifestations of Art has the ability to speak across the frontiers of time and space. The truths they uphold are universal. The endurance of human creativity was brought to light, once again, by the deliberations on a poem that Rabindranath Tagore — his 79th death anniversary fell on Friday — had written 120 years ago. “Deeno Daan”, part of an anthology of poetry titled Kahini, chronicles a sage telling a monarch that the shrine that he has built by spending a small fortune cannot, unfortunately, be christened as a house of god. This is because the temple, the sage says, was built in a year of great hardship during which the king — the sovereign of the people — had turned his gaze away from the welfare of his subjects. Deeno Daan is a remarkable testament to the prescience of Tagore’s poetic vision. The public reminiscence of this particular verse is also understandable. In a year of unprecedented hardship — a raging pandemic, economic downturn, communal conflagration, the march of migrant labourers, among other misfortunes, may have made the year, 2020, annus horribilis for India — the country has also witnessed, indeed celebrated, the inauguration of a grand shrine dedicated to one of its principal deities. The politics of modern monuments in India and the world would reveal a curious contradiction. Some of the most imposing architectural projects have been undertaken in societies experiencing significant duress. The foundation stone of the imposing Victoria Memorial in Calcutta had been laid months after the controversial announcement of the partition of Bengal. The architectural transformation of Berlin in the 1930s, marked by the construction of imposing edifices, took place even as pluralist Germany hurtled towards embracing the spectre of Nazism. History, surely, is replete with many other instances of apathetic administrations and people gazing up at impressive monuments in a bid to avert their eyes from the proverbial burning ground. It can be argued with reason, as the Poet did in that memorable passage, that divinity cannot reside in such edifices, be they shrines or regal palaces. This is because god is best served by man by honouring the principles of service and compassion. Any structure, even an embodiment of the article of faith, that is created ignoring the plight of the weak, the defenceless and the marginalized — M.K. Gandhi’s metaphorical last man standing in a queue — runs the risk of undermining the philosophy of commiseration. Tagore, given his noble vision, had spotted the transgression. It remains to be seen whether the nation can emulate the revered Poet in this respect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Against forgetting||The bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya with the prime minister of India presiding was an important moment in the political evolution of the Republic. Narendra Modi had a double role. He was both jajman and karta: the Hindu client who had commissioned the ceremony on behalf of the Hindu Undivided Family, now known as India, of which he was the regnant patriarch. The most stringent critic of nationalism will concede that nations frame our lives. A sense of national belonging shapes our leisure (watching Test cricket), our collective sense of the past (Gandhi and Ambedkar as fictive ancestors), our literary output (Ghare Baire and The Shadow Lines) and our mental maps of the world. We have learnt from historians of nationalism such as Benedict Anderson and Eric Hobsbawm that nations aren’t given, they are imagined. The ritual at Ayodhya, carried live by every television news channel in India, marked the enthronement of the idea of India as a Hindu Nation, governed by an ideologically Hindu prime minister, on behalf of its mainly Hindu People. The construction of the Ram Mandir where the sangh parivar wants it built won’t lead to apocalypse. The world will look the same the morning after, but the common sense of the Republic will have shifted. It will begin to seem reasonable to us and our children that those counted in the majority have a right to have their sensibilities respected, to have their beliefs deferred to by others. Invisibly we shall have become some other country. I wrote the previous paragraph twenty years ago as the conclusion of a short book called Secular Common Sense. To quote yourself is a gruesome thing to do; my excuse is that now that the ground has been consecrated, judicially and ritually, those of us who opposed the violent campaign for a temple in Ayodhya must reckon with the reality of the new country that it has ushered into being. The gravitational pull of the new political reality that the temple symbolizes is apparent. Kamal Nath and Priyanka Vadra, leaders of India’s principal Opposition party, the Indian National Congress, have publicly signaled their support for the Ram Mandir. A mandir for Ram Lalla used to be the sangh parivar’s pet project; now it’s every neta’s baby. It isn’t just professional politicians who have been converted to the temple’s cause. Pavan Varma, writer, diplomat and erstwhile spokesperson of the Janata Dal (United), has written recently of his exasperation with the carping of liberals about building the Ram temple at Ayodhya after the dispute had been definitively resolved by the Supreme Court. Another progressive notable likes to tell of the time a plain-spoken citizen from Haryana set him right on the Ram Mandir when he asked, rhetorically, that if a Ram temple wasn’t to be built in Ayodhya, where was it to be built, in London? This simple question from this sturdy citizen is intended as a reproach to deracinated progressives cut off from the strength of popular feeling. The history of administrative deceit, political complicity and organized violence that led to the razing of the Babri Masjid and then roiled its aftermath is erased and replaced by an alternative narrative: the long-suffering Hindu majority’s spontaneous, reasonable and just demand for a temple to its god in Ayodhya, his birthplace. This is a sleight of hand that progressives should refuse. The movement to raze the Babri Masjid wasn’t a stand-alone project. It was one trunk in a grove of bigotry, inseparable from the other branches and roots of that toxic tree. The political project that trivialized pogrom, normalized lynching, criminalized dissent, physically attacked universities, and introduced a religious test for citizenship also gave us the Ayodhya movement. To make out that the building of the Ram temple is a necessary concession to a deep well of religious feeling is disingenuous. Once the bhavya mandir is built, it will be less a religious shrine than a symbol of the Hindu ownership of the Indian nation. The more sophisticated case for embracing the mandir and moving on is made up of two related arguments. The first one is simple: political defeat in a democratic republic has consequences and liberals shouldn’t be sore losers. This is bad advice: no political project worth the name should be abandoned after a couple of electoral routs. Had the sangh parivar taken this advice to heart after the drafting of a liberal and secular Constitution and the subsequent decades of Congress dominance, there would be no Ram Mandir in the offing. The related argument takes its cue from Ernest Renan’s proposition that all nations are based on selective amnesia. In his influential lecture, “What is a Nation?”, Renan argued that the political unification of France involved so much war and bloodshed that the French needed to forget their past to forge a national present. Transposing Renan to contemporary India, the move-on and live-to-fight-another-day realists argue that instead of picking at the Ayodhya scab, progressives should let it be. This would help national healing and create a less communally charged political arena in which to practise progressive politics. By drawing a line under the razing of the mosque, via a kind of willed forgetfulness, liberals would sidestep the communal argument that in a Hindu-majority India, only one party can win. It’s not unreasonable to argue that in a hundred years the Ayodhya confrontation might be reduced to a footnote in some unread political history of the early 21st century. This sounds plausible because we know that it is hard for us to be proportionate about the present, to see it in perspective. But the question to ask ourselves is this: will the razing of the Babri Masjid and the building of the Ram Mandir be forgotten because these events became politically irrelevant, or will they be taken for granted because they were foundational to everything that followed? If the Axis powers had won World War Two, Kristallnacht would be footnoted in today’s textbooks as a passage of cathartic violence that reinvigorated Aryan nationalism. It is inevitable that some politicians and intellectuals will tack right towards India’s shifting centre. They aren’t necessarily acting in bad faith. The holding actions and compromises that parties and individuals resort to as they fight for their lives against the sangh parivar’s juggernaut need understanding, not denunciation. But to accept the ideological premises of the sangh parivar is the opposite of living to fight another day. If a willed amnesia about the vandalism and violence of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement is the necessary preliminary to practical politics, the battle is lost already. The razing of the Babri Masjid and the raising of the Ram Temple are two sides of the same coin. That coin is the currency of Hindu nationalism. Liberals, socialists, progressives and decent constitutionalists of any stripe can’t deal in it. Milan Kundera is a better guide to political action in the present moment than Renan. The business of progressive politics in this precarious time is to remember, not forget, the instrumental and ideological violence of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. “The struggle of man against power,” writes Kundera, “is the struggle of memory against forgetting.” mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||When no comment leads to murmurs in corridors of power||The “bhoomi pujan” or site-worship performed by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, this week that laid the ground for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has gripped the imagination of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party like no other event. Party leaders and cadres believe that with the bhoomi pujan the foundation of a ‘New India’ or ‘Bharat’ has been laid by the prime minister. The party was so intoxicated by the celebrations for the upcoming temple that it seemed to have completely forgotten to tom-tom the first anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, that fell on the same day. It was, however, taken up by the party the day after, on Thursday. The interesting part was that the two top leaders of the BJP maintained absolute silence, making no reference at all to this massive achievement in their tweets. The abrogation of Article 370 was one of the core ideological commitments of the BJP, much older than the promise to retrieve the Ram Janmabhoomi. The silence of Amit Shah, who piloted the proposal in Parliament and earned the sobriquet of the new ‘Iron Man of India’ in the party circles, was more confounding. Shah is currently in hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, but his Twitter handle is active. But while he tweeted on the Ram temple and other issues, when it came to Article 370, he made no comment. This silence has led to all kinds of murmurs in the corridors of power. The Amul girl, who survived by taking a dig at successive governments, seems to have decided that discretion is the better part of valour. Or so it would seem from some of the recent advertisements where she appears not just mellowed but also in sync with the BJP government. The latest example is the advertisement that coincided with the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. Over the past few years, the young lady has come out in support of the Modi government’s moves in Kashmir as well as on ‘surgical strikes’, leaving the jibes for individuals in the ruling regime rather than the dispensation as a whole. Yet another storm has begun to brew in the teacup of Indian politics. At a meeting between Rahul Gandhi and Congress leaders from Bihar on Thursday, the Rajya Sabha parliamentarian, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, was said to have praised the good work of Yogi Adityanath and Arvind Kejriwal in controlling the coronavirus situation while criticizing the pathetic performance of Nitish Kumar. Although Singh has commended the work of governments in Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh too, many leaders present in the meeting — it was held via video-conference — had a tough time digesting the good words that the party MP used for Adityanath and Kejriwal. While some were of the opinion that praising bitter rivals could have been avoided, others argued that the assessment itself was flawed because both Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have failed in the management of the pandemic. Nobody countered Singh’s claims at the meeting, but some leaders took them so seriously that they complained against them to the central leadership. They said that in the light of the UP chief minister ruthlessly targeting the Congress and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra being locked in a bitter fight with him, a Congress MP praising his work is naïve and politically problematic. With respect to Kejriwal, one Congress leader said that “his crime is the worst as people were left to fend for themselves despite Delhi having the best healthcare infrastructure in the country”. Several Congress leaders said Kejriwal was primarily responsible for thousands of people from Bihar having to walk back home following the lockdown. What is interesting is that many of these leaders are upset with Singh for his pro-Bhumihar politics in Bihar. That he has come from the Rashtriya Janata Dal and acquired a dominant role in the Congress is another grudge prompting these belligerent responses. Never have Cauvery and Krishna, the official residence and home office of the chief minister of Karnataka, looked so deserted. Ever since BS Yediyurappa and six of his personal staff tested positive for Covid-19, these two iconic buildings have remained closed. The outbreak of Covid-19 had already reduced the number of visitors when Yediyurappa landed in hospital. With some in the BJP taking this as a bad omen, it is being speculated that it would not be a surprise if the highly superstitious chief minister decides to spend most of his days now on at his private home in the city. Supporting the Ram temple construction has put the Congress on the defensive in Kerala. With some  senior leaders like Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Digvijay Singh and Kamal Nath lauding the move, Kerala’s highly vocal Congress leaders, Ramesh Chennithala and Mullappally Ramachandran, among others, reportedly had to dodge journalists’ questions on the issue continuously. This gave the ruling Left Front a means to checkmate the Congress and its allies. Some Congress leaders privately admit that they should not have stuck their necks out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Surface sheen: celebrating National Handloom Day||Sir — On National Handloom Day, the Union minister of textiles, Smriti Irani, asked people to promote the cause of India’s rich and diverse handloom sector and acknowledge contribution of weavers in conserving our heritage. Bollywood stars obliged by posting pictures of themselves in fancy sarees. But what about those who made those sarees? People buying more handloom does not necessarily translate into profits for those on the ground who put in hard work to create these beautiful fabrics. They are often cheated out of money by middle-men who buy cheap and make huge profits.  Rima Roy Calcutta Sir — It would not be completely off the mark to say that the victims of the Air India Express flight crash lost their lives to a man-made disaster. The flight was on a Vande Bharat mission and was returning from Dubai to Kozhikode, Kerala. It skidded off a rain-soaked runway to claim the lives of 20 people, and injured around 150 passengers. The runway at this airport — known as a table-top runway by pilots — led to a 40-feet deep valley, where the plane fell and split into two. Interestingly, this airport receives a lot of international flights; every year not only do a large number of flights to Saudi Arabia for the hajj pilgrimage leave from here but it also supports a considerable number of international flights particularly to Gulf countries. Thankfully there was no fire, otherwise the loss of life would have been far worse. In 2010, in a similar tragic accident at another hill top airport in Mangalore, an Air India Express flight from Dubai carrying 166 people had skidded off the runway, tumbled into a valley and burst into flames, killing 158 people. What one fails to understand is that why did air traffic control not direct the flight to a safer airport even after the India Meteorological Department had declared a red alert in three of Kerala’s districts, including the said airspace. One hopes there is an honest investigation into this incident and systemic changes are put in place to prevent them in the future. Any solution will require both money and manpower. The Central government should come forward to help the state make the said airport safer.Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee Faridabad Sir — The flight accident at Kozhikode is unfortunate. It is not clear why warnings about the lack of safety of the airstrip were ignored even after a similar accident took place in Mangalore in 2010. The least that could have been done was to reschedule the flight given the heavy rains. The flight could also have been diverted by ATC once the pilot found landing difficult owing to waterlogging and poor visibility. One hopes that just because the State carrier is involved, enquiries will not put the blame on rain but actually get to the bottom of the matter so that such a tragedy does not recur. The government has announced monetary compensation for victims, but this will not bring back those who lost their lives.M. Raghuraman Mumbai Sir — The gruesome incident at the Kozhikode airport has left citizens shaken. The Kozhikode airport has a table-top runway, just like the one at Mangalore which had witnessed a more horrific crash in 2010 that killed about 160 people. This incident is a reminder to the authorities that they should turn their focus on the safety audit of such table-top airports, which can be unsafe during the rainy season. Either table-top airports should be shut down during the monsoons, especially in the southern states that experience torrential rainfall or they should consider building extra facilities that will make such runways safer. The pilot and the co-pilot who lost their lives in the line of duty showed exemplary courage and true grit under a trying situation. Their presence of mind helped save over 100 lives. Mention must also be made of the cooperation of local people who immediately swung into action and participated in rescue operations along with the authorities. Their bravery saved lives and deserves applause. Our hearts go out to the family members of those who lost their lives.Ramesh G. Jethwani Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Knock. Knock. Who’s there?||The Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan done, the wait for the very tall temple --- 161-feet --- begins. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, “A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying in a tent for decades.” Which brings us to the question, where do gods live? Not in heaven it seems, at least not for a long, long time. One of the earliest beliefs across geographies is that they lived in mountains or that was the closest one could come to them. Mountains and trees Mount Olympus, believed the ancient Greeks, was the address of 12 senior gods --- Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Demeter, Athena, Apollo, Artemis, Ares, Hephaestus, Aphrodite, Hermes and Dionysus. Researchers claim ancient ritual sites have been found on Andean mountain summits up to 6,700 metres. Mount Kailash in Tibet is considered to be the abode of Shiva by Hindus. Vajrayana Buddhists associate it with the Buddha. And the followers of Bon, an ancient Tibetan religion, believe it is the seat of the sky-goddess Sipaimen. Japan’s Mount Fuji is held sacred and Fuji-san is supposed the incarnation of the earth spirit. Certain sects regard the mountain as home to the goddess Sengen-sama. In China, the sacred Daoist mountains are Tai Shan, Hua Shan, Heng Shan Bei, Heng Shan Nan and Son Shan. In many civilisations trees are also considered sacred. The grove located just outside the city of Osogbo in Nigeria is dedicated to a fertility goddess. Sacred groves are common in Lithuania. The Celts hold the mistletoe sacred and the tree on which it grows; they revere the oak too. Temple Run The most popular pilgrimages are but a long trek to keep a tryst with the divine. Bethlehem, Lumbini, Mecca, Amarnath, Golden Temple and others are believed to be repositories of the divine by direct or indirect association. The architectural quirks of these holy sites are but a reflection of community beliefs, community wealth, even community expectations of its gods. In Mesopotamia, the temples were constructed in the form of ziggurats reaching skywards in a series of stairs as if to help the gods straddle the two worlds. Closer home a poet once sang, “Kaaj ki amar mondire te aana gonay/Patbo aashon, apon moner ekti konay)… What need for me to frequent the temple at all/When all I need is a little space in my own heart.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Is All Well In Lalla Land?||All of this is happening in His absence. He is not here, but who or what is to stop this happening? They go on happening, yeh zindagi ke melay. We do not know where He is, or what He might be up to. We do not know whether he intends returning. At all. Ever. Such a toxic mess we have made of this place, who in their right senses would want to return? And He is the possessor of right senses, that is what we want to believe and have faith in. That is why He is He. We do not know a lot of things. Including whether this is where He wants to be. Where He once belonged. You are. Everywhere. Where are you not. Tell me. To locate you is to commit the sin of denying your omnipresence. What’s happening? This blasphemy of playing Him to Him, to be aspiring to provide Him what we are, or should be, grateful that He provided us. That is what we understand. He provided. We are the beneficiaries of His provisions. But we want to return the favour, is that it? We want to turn imposters, become Him. Let’s give Him. This, that and the other. Let’s fight to give Him his due, He has deserved it. Aham Brahmaasmi, I am the Lord. Not yet. Don’t get carried away. Khuda ban baithe? And now you will do for Khuda what you think Khuda has deserved and been deprived of? You will build Him a house and instal Him there? And then tell Him you have made Him this and that, stay here and I shall come once every while to pay you a visit? Like they do with old folks when they go drop them at old people’s homes? And then stride out in society and collect brownie points, or points of whatever is your chosen colour because colour carries such depth of meaning, for what a lovely abode you appointed? I am looking for Him. I have been looking a long while. And now I have arrived here, having escaped all of that. All of that noise. All of that quarrelling. All of that sound and the fury, and the curses and the name-calling, and all the babble over this Book and not that Book, and the bloodletting and bombing, all that battling that is being done out there in His name, all those unholy rites being conducted in the services of Him, the Holy One, the one and only, who, I am told is not one but many, and many contrary ones. There is my Him. There is his Him. There is their Him. All those Hims may only be one Him but they have been turned into many Hims and each Him has been pulled into battle with this Him and that Him by those that believe in this Him and not that Him. (Would it have been better if we had a Her for a Him? #JustSaying. But probably no. No, positively no. Think why I say that, ponder on it. Her? Several Hers? Imagine the battles multiplied manifold.) Besides, building a home for Her. It would be complicated. It always is, it is one of the things that defines the human condition, the degree of difficulty of building a home for Her. Any Her. But I am here, in my escape, amid fresh air and freshly sprung roots, looking around. Maybe this is the right place. Maybe He has escaped here too and sought refuge from all that is being gnashed and pillaged and won and lost and being cast anew in His name over the piles of what gnashing and pillaging leaves behind? I am looking for Him. Lying in wait, in a moment of respite. Are you here? Please find me. Because I lost you. My heart’s your home, no other So why would they seek another I made you not, you made me me Conceit it is, to build for you, Praise be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Police nab five extremists in Hazaribagh; protest for jobs in Dhanbad fertilizer factory||Police on Saturday arrested five dreaded extremists of Jharkhand Prastuti Committee (JPC) from the forests of Jamuari under Katkamdag block in Hazaribagh district. Announcing this success, Vishnugarh sub divisional police officer Om Prakash on Sunday said information came to them that notorious extremists and former JPC commander Basant Ganjhu alias Purushottam Ganjhu was present in Jamuari with one of his associates. He said Basant was planning to commit some big crime in this area. Om Prakash said he led a team raiding that area and arrested Basant with Baijnath Rajwar from the spot. "Basant was wanted in around 22 different cases lodged in police stations of Hazaribagh, Giridih and Chatra. On their information, we arrested their other associates RajeshKumar Yadav, Mohammad Waris and Sanjay Kumar Pandey from different places of Hazaribagh and Chatra. We have recovered pistols from each of the five," he said, adding that other than five country-made pistols, they have recovered 23-live bullets and five smartphones from their possession. He said Chatra police also co-operated in this operation with Tandwa sub divisional police officer Ashutosh Satyam and his team, who was also part of this operation. Bandh observed in Huntergunj against erratic electricity All shops and other business establishments remained closed and vehicles remained off the road to protest against the erratic power supply in Huntergunj block of Chatra district on Sunday. The bandh was called by residents, who were angry with the negligent attitude of the electricity department officials. They said that since the last few days they were facing regular power cuts and the area gets power only for one or two hours a day. “We don’t want electricity, better take away your poles, wires and meters. We don’t need it now,” residents shouted in anger. On Saturday evening, residents took out a rally raising slogans against the officials and said if the situation does not improve then they will launch phase-wise agitation. Residents said they want permanent posting of assistant engineer and junior engineer rank officials at Huntergunj so that they can approach them easily followed by action. Protest for jobs in Dhanbad fertilizer factory Members of a local organisation, Vam Janwadi Sangharsh Morcha on Sunday staged a demonstration in front of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited's (HURL) upcoming fertilizer factory at Sindri demanding Jobs for the local residents in the factory. The protestors also burnt the effigy of HURL administration. President of Vam Janwadi Sangharsh Morcha, Nripendra Jha said, "When the government is laying stress on providing jobs to local people, the HURL management is neglecting local residents and instead providing jobs to outsiders through different contractors." Four bike-lifters arrested in Dhanbad Dhanbad police on Sunday arrested four bike-lifters including Prince Kumar and Md Saif of Hariharpur police station area, and Md Salman and Sunil Kumar of Chandrapura police station area, and seized five bikes from their possession. Bagmara DSP Nitin Khandelwal said, "We arrested two persons Prince and Saif first in connection with a bike theft case from Hariharpur police station, and later on their identification arrested two more persons Sunil  and Salman from Chandrapura police station area."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
09-08-2020||Jharkhand|| Bhuiyandih-Telco Road, a nightmare for commuters||Potholes and craters on the Bhuiyandih-Telco Road, with an estimated daily traffic load of over 50,000 vehicles, after the current spell of monsoon rains have literally turned the thoroughfare unmotorable in some of its stretches, and making matters worse, the defunct street lamps in some of the stretches pose mishap threat after sunset.  The Bhuiyandih-Telco Road, which also connects the Jai Prakash Narayan Setu or the Mango bridge, is considered to be a lifeline for this industrial city as truck, trailers and other heavy vehicles use this road for carrying raw-materials for local  industries and also transporting finished products.  Apart from heavy vehicles, the road witnesses heavy rush of private vehicles including cars, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers. A rough estimate suggests that the daily traffic load on that busy road is over 50,000 vehicles (of all categories).  The road is about 10 kms long. It starts from Bhuiyandih and passes through Bhalubasa, Sitaramdera, Agrico, Golmuri, Tinplate and ends in Telco. Of late, because of the monsoon showers craters and potholes have developed on the four-km stretch of the road between Bhuiyandih and Agrico.  The defunct street lamps in some stretches between Bhuiyandih and Sitaramdera pose a threat of mishaps, especially during night.  "The stretch of the road has simply turned unmotorable near the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus. The rainwater accumulates in the potholes and craters, inviting road mishaps," pointed out Ajay Sharma, a teacher by profession and a resident of Sitaramdera.  Mohan Rao, a resident of Agrico who daily commutes on that road, said the unlit road stretches added to his woes.  "We have found that in certain stretches of the road between Bhuiyandih and Agrico, the street lamps remain unlit after dusk. A couple of minor mishaps had taken place on that stretch of the road during the past one week," he said, adding that the damaged stretches of the road is a nightmare, especially for senior citizens and patients.  Local residents are demanding necessary repairs of the damaged portion of the road, for the safety of commuters.  Officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local civic body, have assured that necessary action will be taken soon.  "Certain stretches of the road got damaged due to the recent spell of heavy showers. We are aware of this. We have taken up the issue with Jamshedpur Utilities and Services Company (Jusco). The damaged portion of the road would be repaired soon," said Ravi Bharti, city manager, JNAC, adding that they will get the street lights checked and sort out the problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Former Bihar Ranji player Jodh Singh no more||A pall of gloom descended on the city’s cricket fraternity as the news of former Bihar medium-pacer Jodh Singh’s passing poured in on Sunday morning. The 66-year-old breathed his last at his Telco residence in the wee hours of Sunday. He was unwell for some time but his condition worsened in the last two days. Singh is survived by his son and two daughters. He was cremated at the Subarnarekha ghat in the afternoon. Son-in-law Ishank Jaggi, a Jharkhand Ranji batsman, said Singh was a diabetic who was suffering from high blood pressure. “He was unwell and died of cardiac arrest at about 2 am. We are very sad over his demise,” he added. Former Bihar Ranji Skipper Avinash Kumar said, “I feel sad over the demise of Jodh Singh. He was a very good seamer and a gentleman.” Harbhajan Singh, an Olympian, said he knew Singh from his youth days. “We both used to play volleyball for Tata Club. I got the news about his death in the morning. My deep condolences,” he said. West Singhbhum District Cricket Association secretary and former JSCA office bearer Ashim Kumar Singh said he was shocked to hear about Singh’s passing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Protests in Dhanbad against privatisation of mines and railways||Different organisations on Sunday, including railway employees and the Left parties, separately carried out protests at various parts of the district against the central government's privatisation policies, especially against commercial mining. The railway employees carried out demonstrations under the banner of East Central Railway Karmchari Union (ECRKU) at Dhanbad railway station, while the left parties carried out protests on the occasion of August revolution against the commercial mining at Randhir Verma Chowk near district headquarters. The railway programme began during morning at around 10 am in front of Dhanbad railway station, during which the protestors also visited the closed coach depot of the station and held gate meetings. Talking to the media, PK Mishra, Central organising secretary, ECRKU, said, “We are protesting against handing over of the railways to private operators, surrender of 50 per cent of posts and demanding resumption of Ladli Yojna and old pension etc.” The regional joint secretary of ECRKU, Ak Dan said, “We held the protest on the occasion of August Revolution and also expressed our dissent against the government's reluctance to re-launch the Liberalized Active Retirement Scheme for Guaranteed Employment for Safety Staff.” Left parties accused the central government of helping foreign capitalists. Talking to The Telegraph Online,  district president of Marxist Coordination Committee, Hari Prasad Pappu, said, "On one hand Prime Minister Narendra Modi is claiming about Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-dependent India, while on the other hand all the steps taken by the central government are aimed at helping the foreign capitalists." Pappu, who is also the district general secretary of Central Industrial Trade Union, further said, “All trade unions have also decided to carry out a strike on August 18 in the coal sector for repealing of the decision of allowing commercial mining, and the decision to sell Singreni Collieries Company Limited, and a few other issues."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant celebrates Tribal Day, announces annual holiday||Donning the traditional Panchi, a tribal attire worn by men and women of Santhal Pargana, chief minister Hemant Soren indulged in true-blue tribal festivities by beating the mandar and shaking a leg to the beats of music after planting sal and karam saplings at a park here on the occasion of International Day of the World’s Indigenous People on Sunday. Before letting the festive mood soak in, Hemant announced that International Day of the World’s Indigenous People will be a government holiday in Jharkhand next year onwards. “This year, the festive fervour got marred by Covid-19 pandemic, but the day will be celebrated every year with great enthusiasm and extravagance in Jharkhand,” he said. The karam and sal saplings, which the chief minister planted at Nilamber Pitamber Park on Sunday, are symbolic too. While the karam tree is considered sacred and worshipped by the tribal community in Jharkhand,  the sal often finds presence in Sarna Sthal, the tribal place of worship. Sal is also considered to be the custodian of forest dwellers in Jharkhand, which has South East Asia’s largest sal forestd in West Singhbhum’s Saranda. “Although the tribal people have been given special powers by the Constitution, it is our duty to ponder upon the development that the community has seen over the past decades. On this day, we all must vow to preserve tribal culture and work for holistic development of tribal people,” said Hemant. The chief minister also raised concerns over unemployment caused by the lockdown and said that it was the government’s responsibility to come up with ideas to overcome the slump in the job market and other economic activities of Jharkhand. “We have maintained a close watch on Covid-19 since its entry in our state. These are tough times, but we have to fight this pandemic and emerge victorious,” he said. Hemant also extended his wishes to members of the tribal community living across the globe. “Johar,” he said, using the word that’s used in almost all tribal languages and dialects in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Four state athletes shortlisted for Mission Olympics Cell ||Four junior athletes from Jharkhand have found slots in the Sports Authority of India’s Mission Olympic Cell (MOC) for the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), in a bid on part of the Union government aimed at grooming young talents for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics. Archers Gora Ho, Shrey Bhardwaj and Komalika Bari along with pugilist Selay Soy will train at the SAI’s National Centre of Excellence (NCOS). Training is expected to begin in October in a phased manner. The shortlisting has been done to bring athletes back to on-field training as the country ‘unlocks’ after the coronavirus-induced lockdown. As many as 258 athletes in 12 sporting disciplines have been shortlisted under the scheme. The athletes  will receive a monthly allowance  of Rs 25,000. Ho, a tribal who hails from Seraikela- Kharsawan trains at Army Sports Institute (ASI) in Pune along with Jamshedpur’s Soy. Bhardwaj and Komalika are cadets of the Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur. Both Ho and Komalika are from poor economic backgrounds, and have earned their place with talent and sheer dedication. Ho has received an award from the President for his extraordinary performances in national competitions. Komalika, whose father sells snacks in a push-cart, has claimed gold in the World Archery Youth Championship held in Madrid last year. Shrey is the son of a policeman and has won medals at national competitions, including school events. Soy, also a tribal, has already represented the country and won medals at international events. His father is a daily wager. “I am very glad to get shortlisted for the Olympics preparations. I have always dreamed of winning medals in the Olympics. I am raring to join the camp,” said Ho, who is presently honing his skills at the government-run archery cradle in Dugni, near Seraikela. The pandemic has forced him to remain anchored in the state since March. Ho picked archery lessons at the Dugni cradle in his formative years. Soy, who is currently living in the city’s Mango locality with his family, said he was keeping himself in tune with shadow practice. “This is a big opportunity for me. I will work hard at the camp and realise my dreams of bagging a medal for my country in the Olympics,” the boxer said. Soy is an ex-cadet of Tata Boxing Centre who has a penchant for flooring his rivals inside the ring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand|| Friendly neighbourhood studios hike charges||Facing financial constraints due to increase in cost of raw materials, photo studio owners of Dhanbad on Sunday during a meeting with Dhanbad District Photographers Trade Association (DDPTA) decided to carry hike service charges, the first one in 17 years.  Talking to the media after the meeting, president of the association, Sunil Kumar Singh said that though prices of almost every service such as camera, printer, photo paper and ink has increased over the years but the prices of studio photography service had not increased.  “The quality of photographs has also improved indicating the quality of service and use of latest technology,” said Singh.  Secretary of Dhanbad District Photographers Trade Association (DDPTA) Manish Shah said, “The increase in studio rent, electricity charges, salaries of staff, increased transportation charges and increased equipment charges have compelled us to increase in service charges as we were facing difficulty in sustaining life with the old charges.”  Adding to it, media in-charge of DDPTA, Ripudaman Jha said, “We earlier used to provide passport photographs at Rs 50 when only three photographs were given by the photographers but even after the gradual increase of passport photographs to four, five and finally eight they are still taking Rs 50 only.”  Treasurer of the association, Prakash Kumar said, “With the minimal increase in service charges we will take Rs 60 for eight copies of passport photographs instead of the earlier charge of Rs 50.”  Kumar added that they would request customers to take into the consideration the financial constraints of the studio owners and cooperate with them.  At the meeting held under the Chairmanship of the Singh at Saraidhela, it was also decided that the annual competition of the association on the occasion of World Photography Day on August 19 will be organised in different categories including Wedding, Journalism, Nature and Mobile Click for which the last date of sending photographs is August 17 on the e-mail ddpta2012@gmail.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Students prepare for delayed college admissions this year||Students who passed out class XII this year are finding themselves stranded when it comes to higher education, as many have no idea as to when the new sessions will begin. A majority of English-medium school students aspire to seek admission in some of the top universities of the country, and many aim to appear for competitive examinations, all of which has been stagnated by the coronavirus induced pandemic. Sheeba Grace, a bioscience student from Sacred Heart Convent School wanted to apply for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), but as the dates are yet to be announced, she has no clue as to what she should do. “As a bioscience student, I wanted to go into the medical field, but we have no idea as to when and how the competitive exams will be conducted. Now it is up to my parents to decide what route we should take,” said Sheeba. Ayati Mishra, a student of Hill Top School is spending her days watching YouTube lectures on economics and indulging in her singing hobby. Ayati has applied for a number of colleges in the University of Delhi, including Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Shri Ram College of Commerce, Hindu College, Miranda House, and Kirori Mal College. She has also applied to Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics in Pune and has also appeared for an online test. “My preference will be the University of Delhi but I have also applied elsewhere. Classes should have started already, but Covid is delaying the process. DU has been extending the dates for admissions application, which is now slated for August 31,” said Ayati, adding that previously the last date was July 31. Students say that universities like the University of Delhi have not even announced their cut off marks. ISC students expect that the cut-off marks for admission are expected to be lower as the evaluation process this year has been tough, with students procuring relatively lesser marks in English, the main paper. Even if the colleges successfully organize admissions, classes will be held online. This year, XLRI’s Jamshedpur and Jhajjar campuses have also decided to start online classes. Shravya Singh from Loreto Convent, Ranchi wanted to apply for the Media and Communications course in Fergusson College, Pune but didn’t find herself on the merit list, following which she sought admission in Visual Media and Film Making at St. Joseph’s College in Bengaluru. “Delhi is yet to announce its cut off but Pune colleges already have. This year many students were confused regarding admission. I personally browsed many websites, which was tedious as many college websites declared that admissions were over,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Doorstep vegetable delivery gets boost amid Covid||Even though the rising number of  Covid cases has drastically cut down human interactions, basic necessities like buying vegetables has got an image makeover, with the age-old handcarts replaced by swanky microvans, the shabbily-dressed vegetable seller has transformed to an educated delivery person and the rustic hawking has been upgraded to customers giving orders using tech and social media apps.  With the Covid outbreak in the district forcing people to avoid venturing out of the house let alone procure vegetables from the nearby shops, door-step delivery of vegetables through vehicles by taking orders from the customers on phone, WhatsApp, Facebook has got a boost.  Meet Vishal Singh (28), a resident of Polytechnic road in Dhanbad, who is engaged in door-step delivery of vegetables during the lockdown under the banner of Jharkhand Sabzi Express. His solution cuts the risk of contracting Covid infection compared to customers buying directly from the market.  This apart, another group led by a B Tech degree holder, Umesh Kumar Kushwaha (30), are also engaged in door-step delivery of vegetables since the last two years under the banner of sabzibazar.com offering a tech-powered solution to an age-old problem. They have also joined hands with Zomato and Swiggy, the online food suppliers, for door-step supply of vegetables during the lockdown period.  Talking to The Telegraph online on Sunday, Singh said, "We started our business in the month of February and purchased a microvan for transporting vegetables. Since then we got engaged in  door-step vegetable delivery by taking orders on phone or  social media (whatsapp number 6206382239)."  When lockdown was announced in March end, Singh had only one month of business and was apprehensive that this business opportunity may vanish in thin air. "But as the government allowed the sale of vegetables, our business slightly picked up  in the initial phase. After a month during April end, a large number of new vegetable sellers emerged at every nook and corner owing to unemployment caused by non-functional industry and commerce," says Singh.  “Our business has again come back on track after the rise of Covid Cases in the district since the last fortnight,” said Singh who was sitting idle at home after completing his plus two. He was planning to start door-step vegetable delivery along with a few friends, who joined work with him but due to covid threat, left him midway.  Echoing similar sentiments, Ajay Kumar (22) another partner of Umesh Kushwaha said, “Our business which witnessed a slight downturn in the middle phase of lockdown has again witnessed a surge with the more people preferring to avoid markets, and we are basically concentrating online business (whatsapp number-9334257272) although we have an outlet near Carmel School Dhanbad, where some people also come.”  “Majority of the people give orders to us on the phone. We also supply uncommon items such as mushrooms, broccoli etc,” said Singh, adding that he supplies fresh vegetables at cheaper rates as he buys them in bulk.  “My business is like a start-up, so a little support from the government can help us to pay the EMIs of the vehicle which is around Rs 9,600 per month,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Buried in mud, newborn survives ants, monsoon rains in Lohardaga village||In a shocking incident, a newborn baby boy was found almost buried near a graveyard in Lohardaga’s Kuru block, surviving ants, insects and monsoon rains for several hours before villagers came to his rescue, police said on Sunday.  “It is indeed miraculous how the baby survived. Although he has sustained injuries due to ant bites and moisture in the soil, he is healthy now,” said Anil Oraon, the officer in-charge of Kuru Police Station, under which the graveyard falls.  Some villagers heard the baby cry while they were passing by the locality in Chandlaso village, around 80 kilometers from capital Ranchi, at about 7.30 pm on Saturday and decided to check on him, police said. “Villagers found that the baby was semi-buried but still alive. They rescued him and subsequently informed us,” Oraon said.  The baby, police said, was born on Saturday itself, and even his umbilical cord had not been removed. He has been handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), which admitted him at Rani Children's Hospital in Ranchi for treatment on Sunday.  “Prima facie, it seems that the baby was abandoned because he was illegitimate. Also, killing the baby was not the intention. His parents might have abandoned him and mud accumulated over his body,” said Rajkumar Verma, former chairperson of CWC Lohardaga.  The CWC has also written to Kuru police station asking them to lodge an FIR against the parents of the abandoned baby. Verma said the baby will be in custody of the CWC for the time being, and eventually will be handed over to eligible parents for adoption.  Incidents of babies being abandoned have been a concern for the CWC not only in Lohardaga but across Jharkhand. “Several babies are abandoned every year in our state. They are mostly abandoned to hide premarital pregnancy and illegitimate relationships,” said Tanushree Sarkar, member of CWC Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Tricolour themed masks banned in Ranchi||The district administration on Sunday issued a ban on the sale of masks themed on the Indian tricolour, asking all police stations to ensure no such trade takes place under their jurisdiction and warning violators of stringent action. Ahead of Independence Day, roadside vendors have put up shops with locally made masks designed with Indian flag themes at different market places in the capital. Ranchi’s additional district magistrate (law and order) Akhilesh Singh said that prohibitory orders were issued in harmony with the national flag code. “Use of masks has been made mandatory due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. We have recently come across instances where many are selling tricolour themed masks rampantly to encash on the Independence Day sale. However, after celebrations are over, there is every chance that such masks will be carelessly discarded by people, which will lead to disrespecting the national flag and violation of code,” he said. He added that all concerned officials and police stations have been asked to keep a tab on market places in their areas by conducting surprise inspections to seize such masks if found anywhere. “The administration shall take action on both the sellers and buyers of such masks,” he said. Meanwhile, after the district administration announced to hold the state I-day ceremony at Morabadi ground, Ranchi Municipal Corporation on Sunday sent over a dozen cleanliness staff members to deck up the area. Workers were found sanitising the main stage and cleaning the vicinity, besides filling the existing potholes with sand. A supervisor at the venue said that in the next couple of days, they will begin laying bamboo and iron barricades to set up hangers and create a seating arena once they are informed of the number of expected visitors. Coronavirus warriors and those who have defeated the virus will form part of the invitee list for this year’s I-day, the district administration had announced earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Cases cross 3000 mark in Ranchi as 926 test positive in state||Ranchi's Covid tally crossed the 3000 mark on Saturday as 308 of state's 926 cases of infection reported on the day were from the capital, health officials said. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported only 24 cases of infection on Saturday, and the tally in the district jumped to 2724, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Giridih reported 286 fresh cases on the day. As per government figures, Ranchi and East Singhbhum are two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand. These two districts account for a third of state's Covid-19 cases, government data reveals. The Covid tally in state reached 17468 on Saturday and the number of active cases drew close to 9000 as 822 patients recovered from the viral infection, the NHM bulletin, released on Saturday late evening, stated. Jharkhand has reported an unprecedented increase in Covid cases since June this year. On June 30, there were around 2500 cases in State, which means that Covid cases have increased almost seven times in a month. However, officials attribute the increase to intensified testings. The Covid toll also reached 160 on Saturday as six more patients died during treatment in 24 hours, health officials said. The government has so far collected samples of 3.8 lakh people for tests and tested around 3.5 lakh of them. The recovery rate in State stood at 47.65 per cent on Saturday, while the Covid mortality rate was 0.91 per cent. Dhanbad has seen the highest number of Covid cases after Ranchi and Jamshedpur. At least 53 cases surfaced in the district on Saturday, taking the tally to 942 there. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continue to be the only two districts where over 1000 cases have been reported so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-340
09-08-2020||Jharkhand||Bird hits flight before takeoff at Ranchi ||Passengers on an AirAsia flight had a narrow escape after it was bird-hit just before takeoff from Birsa Munda Airport here around noon on Saturday. The Ranchi-Mumbai AirAsia flight was taxiing on the runway for takeoff when it was suddenly hit by a bird at around 11.45am. But the pilots were able to stop the aircraft and they returned to the apron area for a check-up. “There were 176 passengers and seven crew members aboard the Mumbai-bound AirAsia flight,” airport director Vinod Sharma said, adding the aircraft was brought back for another round of check-up. After it was attended by the technical team and found to be airworthy, the pilots attempted another takeoff around 4.15pm but they returned the second time as well. “The pilots reported some sparks while applying the throttle for accelerating the aircraft before taking off,” Sharma said. He said the technical department would check the aircraft again to find out if there was any fault. It could not be immediately ascertained if the aircraft flew again.“Another aircraft is coming from Calcutta for flying the passengers to Mumbai,” the airport director told this newspaper around 5.15pm. Incidents of bird-hit are not frequent in Ranchi, an airport official said. The official said the Ranchi Municipal Corporation and the district administration had earlier undertaken a drive for removing meat and fish stalls in the vicinity of the airport so that leftovers from those stalls did not attract crows and other birds. The incident occurred just a day after at least 17 people died when an Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai skidded off a wet tabletop runway, dropped 40 feet, smashed into a wall and broke into two after landing during heavy rain at the Calicut International Airport in north Kerala on Friday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-341
