10-08-2020||Calcutta||Massive fire at Pollock Street multistory building ||A massive fire broke out in a multi-storeyed building at Pollock Street in the central part of the city on Monday and firemen have so far rescued one person from inside it, fire brigade officials said. At least 10 fire engines have been pressed into service to douse the blaze which broke out in the evening in the G+5 building housing several offices, they said. "The fire is not yet not under control but the fire officers have managed to reach near the source of the fire. The cause of the fire is yet not known" Firhad Hakim, the West Bengal Urban Development Minister and chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation caretaker body said. The rescued man is fine now, he said. According to a fire brigade official, most of the offices were vacant with only a few employees attending duty because of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Our officers are fighting tooth and nail to douse the fire. We are trying hard so that the blaze does not spread to the nearby structures," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Cashless insurance trap over hospital deposit||Many private hospitals in Calcutta on Sunday said they would seek a Rs 50,000 deposit even from patients with cashless insurance policies, highlighting that the state regulatory commission’s day-old advisory allowing deposits stipulated no exceptions. Saturday’s advisory from the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has capped the deposits at Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated bill, whichever was less. On Sunday, commission chairperson and retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee told The Telegraph that the exception for holders of cashless policies was implied. “The private hospitals cannot demand deposits during admission from patients with cashless insurance policies. Otherwise what’s the point of someone having such coverage?” he said. But officials with several hospitals and insurance companies contended that since the advisory contained no clause saying deposits could not be demanded from beneficiaries of cashless insurance policies, the hospitals would be justified in seeking deposits from such policy holders. Asked, Banerjee said such policy holders can lodge a complaint with the commission through email if a hospital demands a deposit. Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said: “There is no separate mention of insurance patients in the advisory. So, it is clear that there is no bar on seeking deposits from patients under cashless insurance coverage.” A clause in the agreement between a particular private hospital in Calcutta and the preferred provider network —a consortium of four insurance companies — states the hospital should admit insured patients without seeking any deposit or advance payment. “Now the state government's new advisory will override this clause, like it happened with the personal protective equipment rates the patients are charged for,” an official of the hospital said. When the Covid-19 epidemic broke out, the private hospitals began charging varying amounts for the PPE kits their healthcare workers had to wear to treat the patients. This prompted chief minister Mamata Banerjee to cap the PPE charges at Rs 1,000 per patient per day, and the hospitals and insurance companies abided by it. Several hospitals, including Peerless, said their agreements with insurance companies had no clause about not seeking deposits from cashless policy holders, anyway. “We have been seeking deposits from patients within the limit of Rs 50,000 from the start of the Covid-19 outbreak to keep the hospital viable,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. “Patients with cashless insurance benefits are also being asked to pay the deposit during admission. This is because disputes often break out over payment of the amount not approved by the insurance company.” Tondon said that when a hospital sends a patient’s bill to the TPA or third-party administrator, the insurance company usually refuses to pay a portion of it --  particularly the charges relating to bed occupancy, certain investigations and the use of equipment such as gloves. “Usually, the amount not paid by the insurance companies even in the case of cashless policies varies between Rs 25,000 and Rs 1.25 lakh,” Tondon said. The CEO of another private hospital said that many patients, especially Covid-19 patients, were now refusing to pay the amount not approved by the insurer because the bills often ran into several lakhs — far beyond the sum they were insured for. “It has been an understanding of many years that hospitals would not ask for deposits from patients under insurance coverage,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical) with the National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. “They often asked for small (deposit) amounts that we ignored. Now we fear that the deposits will become the norm.” THE CLAUSE An agreement between a private hospital in Calcutta and the preferred provider network (PPN), a consortium of four insurance companies, states: Deposit And Advance Payments — In all fit cases meeting with the prescribed parameters for cashless admission, the Network Provider (hospital) shall admit, on priority and expeditiously, a Beneficiary to the Hospital for the purpose of Treatment without seeking any deposit or advance payment from the beneficiary or the TPA (third party administrator). (An official of the hospital said the agreement was in force till July this year and should have been renewed with the same clause by now. But because of the Covid-19 situation, the renewal has got delayed.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Teacher award to focus on relief, online classes||Contribution of schoolteachers to online or other mode of teaching, distribution of mid-day meal and relief work during the Covid pandemic and after Cyclone Amphan, among others, will be taken into account while selecting Shiksha Ratna awardees this year. The state government presents the award to school teachers, for their “outstanding” contribution to teaching and education, on Teachers’ Day (September 5) every year. “… Due consideration has to be given on the role played by the applicant during COVID-19 pandemic & Amphan super cyclone relating to relief works and academic support extended to the students, MDM (mid-day meal) distribution works, teaching through online and other mode, participation in social campaign and his/her role for achievement of the students in Kala Utsav, INSPIRE award, School Games Competition etc…” according to a notification issued by the school education department. Until last year, teachers applying for the award were assessed on the basis of certain criteria such as their educational qualifications, teaching experience, involvement in promoting education outside school, participation in social outreach programmes and role in helping poor but meritorious students. According to a senior official of the school education department, never before had students been out of regular school teaching for so long and taught by teachers through online classes. “Teachers had to adapt to this change. The new criteria for selecting teachers for the award were included to ascertain how effectively teachers are reaching out to the students, who are now confined in homes,” the official said. A teacher of a state-aided secondary school who is an applicant for the award this year said he had to mention in the application the number of relief missions he had joined during the pandemic and after Amphan, the total number of online classes he had taken between March and July 31, the number of students he had taught and whether he had offered to visit a student’s home to provide him or her extra help in understanding lessons. This year the Shiksha Ratna award will be presented to 40 primary and secondary teachers from state-aided schools. Teachers with at least 20 years’ experience are eligible to apply. A senior official of the school education department said around 310 teachers had applied for the award till Saturday. The government had started receiving applications on August 1 and the last date is August 10. The government is yet to announce how the awards will be presented this year. Teachers can apply through the portal www.wbdse.com, www.wbsed.gov.in or www.banglarshiksha.gov.in. Teachers can also submit hardcopies of the applications in the offices of the local district inspector of schools by August 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||JEE board to hold two-phase counselling ||The Bengal joint entrance examination board will hold a separate round of counselling this year for students who will crack the JEE Main exams, which are set to be held in September, an official of the board said. The board this year will hold counselling in two phases, unlike previous years when it used to be held in one phase. The decision to postpone the JEE Main exams, usually held in April, to the first week of September because of the Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the board to stagger the counselling schedule.The NITs and the IIEST, Shibpur, among other institutes, admit students through the JEE Main. Ten per cent of the seats in Bengal’s private engineering colleges are set aside for those who crack the JEE Main so that vacancies could be minimised. The 86 private engineering colleges in Bengal can admit 28,493 students to their undergraduate courses. A notice uploaded on the Bengal JEE board’s website says: “There will be two separate counselling: 1) for those WBJEE-rank holders for all those seats except those reserved for JEE-main candidates and 2) for JEE-Main rank holders and for those seats (in architecture) that require National Aptitude Test in Architecture score.” The rescheduled JEE Main exams are to be held from September 1 to 6. “This year, the counselling for students whose names figure on the state JEE merit list is likely to start on August 12. The counselling for the JEE Main students and those aspiring to pursue BTech in architecture would be held later,” said Dibyendu Kar, the JEE board registrar. The counselling for the state JEE-rank holders will be held in at least three rounds. A board official said that according to rules of the Architecture Council of India, an architecture aspirant has to crack the Bengal JEE and the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) or the paper-II of the JEE Main. The first test of NATA has been scheduled for August 28. The date of the second test is yet to be decided. “Until these tests are over, the counselling for admission to the architecture course cannot be held. The engineering colleges in the state together have 141 seats in architecture,” said Dilip Mitra, the vice-chairman of the JEE board. What if the JEE Main cannot be held because of the raging pandemic? “If such a situation arises, the state higher education department is authorised to decide that the 2,849 seats — the ones in the state’s private engineering colleges that are reserved for students cracking the JEE Main — be filled with students from the Bengal JEE merit list. “Seats cannot be allowed to remain vacant. However, we are not sure how the seats in the architecture could be filled in case the required tests cannot be held,” an official in the higher education department said. The JEE board will announce the counselling schedule for each round on Monday. The board will post updates on its Facebook page and YouTube about how to take part in the online counselling, which has several new features designed in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Mini-LPG cylinders  for Sunderbans fishermen||One hundred mini-LPG cylinders will be distributed to fishermen in the Sunderbans so that they don’t have to venture into the forests for firewood to cook on the boat during their fishing trips, said foresters. Fishermen, five or more in one boat, set out to catch fish from the rivers surrounding the mangrove delta. The journeys typically last over a week. The daily catch is stored in ice boxes on the boats. Every now and then, the boats are anchored and the men enter the forests to collect firewood for cooking on the boat. Tigers cannot attack a boat on the river but inside the forests, the men are vulnerable to attacks, said forest officials. In the first lot, 25 mini-LPG cylinders with stoves fitted atop were provided to as many licensed fishing boats in the Basirhat division of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve on Friday. “For now, the pilot project will cover 100 boat license certificate (BLC)-holders in the tiger reserve,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. “The traditional earthen stoves run on dry firewood. In the wet conditions in the Sunderbans, it is difficult to find dry firewood unless one ventures deep into the forest. Whenever they run out of firewood, fishermen are forced to anchor the boat and enter deep into the forest with sharp tools. That increases the risk of conflict, making both the tigers and the men vulnerable. This project aims to enable the fishermen to cook on their boats without having to enter the forests,” said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict. The cylinders are being supplied by the organisation. The forest department has prepared the list of recipients and is coordinating the distribution. Each cylinder comes with a stove and a metal case for support to provide stability in choppy waters. “A boat usually stays on the river for a week to 10 days. Each cylinder would last a fortnight. After that, it has to be refuelled,” said Kundu. Sources in the forest department said over 10 persons have died in tiger attacks in the Sunderbans this year. Though no official record is available, researchers working on tiger attacks feel there have been about 3,000 such deaths since the 1980s. A man was killed in a tiger attack on August 2. Another was killed in the second week of June. “If the project is successful, it can be a model for the entire Sunderbans. But it has to be implemented efficiently,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. The onus would be on ensuring that the fishermen use these cylinders on the boat and don’t keep them at home, he said. The Sunderbans is spread across 10,000sq km, a little above 4,000sq km of which is in India. The rest is in Bangladesh. The Indian Sunderbans is split between the tiger reserve and the South 24-Parganas division. There are around 3,000 BLC holders in the Indian Sunderbans, the tiger reserve and the South 24-Parganas division combined, a forest department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University entry based on board marks||Presidency University will admit students to its undergraduate courses this year on the basis of board marks as admission tests cannot be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official of the university said. The university decided on the admission model after going through the feedback teachers submitted to their departmental heads. Vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia had asked the teachers to share their feedback after being told by the JEE board that it could not hold the admission test on behalf of Presidency this year. “The tests cannot be held online because of connectivity issues. So, they have suggested admissions through board marks,” said an official. Sources on the campus said the teachers of the physics and chemistry departments had proposed that apart from factoring in plus-II board marks, the scores in physical science and math in Madhyamik be considered, given that the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education could not hold tests in the papers because of the pandemic. The students had the best marks in the papers they had written awarded to the ones they could not. “If we admit students based on the marks in physics so obtained, we will have no idea how proficient a student is in the subject. So we have suggested that marks in physical science and math in Madhyamik be also considered,” said a physics teacher. A chemistry teacher said the same concern had prompted them to propose that the marks in the science papers in Madhyamik be considered. “We need to have as many screening layers as possible, considering that the candidates across boards have notched up high marks at the plus-II level. The physical science paper in Madhyamik has chapters on chemistry. So the marks in the paper should also be considered,” said a teacher. The biological science department has proposed that the merit list be only based on the plus-II board marks. The marks in life science or related papers in Madhyamik or equivalent board exams would be considered only to break ties. “The chances of the scores getting tied are higher this time. Therefore, we have proposed that the scores from the secondary board marks be taken into account to break ties,” said a teacher. At Presidency, the political science department has proposed that they will admit students on the basis of the board marks at the secondary and the higher secondary levels. The sociology and the economics departments want to prepare the merit list based only on plus-II board marks. A clear picture on whether board-specific rules have to be made will emerge after the admission committee meets this week, said an official. VC Lohia said in a text message to The Telegraph that decisions about the mode of admissions would be announced this week. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, in Belur, which too has been forced to scrap admissions tests, will give additional weightage to participants in math Olympiads and national talent search exams for admission to undergraduate math and physics courses. The college may consider the secondary board exam marks to break ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Extortion cuffs on civic volunteer||A 22-year-old youth who worked as a civic volunteer in the Calcutta police has been arrested for allegedly trying to extort money posing as a guard of a deputy commissioner in the city police. Police said Santu Sarkar, a resident of Jodhpur Gardens, and his uncle Shyamal Biswas were arrested for allegedly running an extortion racket and trying to extort money from a resident of Rahim Ostagar Lane, in the Jodhpur Park area. The police said they were alerted about Sarkar after a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation received a call on Friday night. The caller, who claimed that he was the guard of a deputy commissioner, complained that the staff of an agency hired by the parking wing of the civic body was harassing him for illegal parking fees though he was driving a “police vehicle”. “When I asked him to report the matter to the police, he said he was not sure whether the cops would act. That made me feel suspicious. If he were a policeman, why would he say such a thing?” said Ratan De, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. “When I questioned him, he became furious and threatened me by dropping the names of senior police officers. I disconnected the phone and reported the matter to the local police station.” The second complaint against Sarkar was lodged with Lake police station by a resident of Rahim Ostagar Lane. The complainant alleged that Sarkar had tried to extort Rs 2,000 from him by threatening him with dire consequences impersonating as a police officer. Officers learnt during investigation that Sarkar was neither the guard of any IPS officer nor attached to the division where he said he had been posted. “He was attached to a police station in the south-east division as a civic volunteer,” said an officer. Sarkar and his uncle were arrested on charges of extortion, cheating, common intention and wrongful restraint on Saturday. Officers said Sarkar would be suspended because of the criminal case against him. There have been several cases where civic volunteers have tried to extort money from people citing their connections in the police department. “It is advisable to verify the identity of the person if someone claims to be a police officer or attached to a senior officer as guard,” a senior officer in the city police said. The police said they were checking if there were any other complaints or cases against Sarkar or his uncle in the crime records section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Pandemic triggers blood crisis||A sharp drop in the number of blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a crisis in availability of blood in Calcutta and the rest of Bengal, family members of patients, doctors and blood bank officials have said. On Sunday, Metro found long queues in front of counters of several blood banks in the city. Most people in the queues were told by blood bank officials that there was no guarantee they would get blood even after waiting for hours. Many of them said they were running from one blood bank to another for a few units of blood. Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic hit India, the number of blood donation camps has kept decreasing. As time passed, the situation worsened, said officials of multiple blood banks. Almost all banks are supplying blood only if those in need are able to bring donors, said family members of patients as well as blood bank officials. Gairik Chakraborty, a resident of Patipukur, needed three units of blood for his mother, who was admitted to a hospital on Saturday. Chakraborty reached the Central Blood Bank in Maniktala on Sunday morning with two donors. He had hoped that he would get two units in return. “The officials at the counter told me there was no guarantee that I would get blood even after I took along two donors. I did not wait any longer and went to another blood bank. They agreed to give me two units in return of the blood the donors would give,” he said. Suman Pal, a thalassemia patient, was waiting outside a blood bank in Hazra. The 22-year-old, who needs one unit of blood three to four times a month, said he was having a donor accompany him every time he underwent transfusion over the past four months. He said he had been collecting blood from the Hazra blood bank ever since he was six months old and all employees there knew him well. “Despite knowing me so well they are unable to give me blood if I fail to bring along a donor. Such is the crisis,” he said. The shortage of blood is also being felt at hospitals. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, the daily requirement of blood during the pre-Covid times was 10 to 15 units. The hospital’s blood bank would always store another 10 to 15 units to meet emergency requirements. Over the past four months, the requirement has remained the same but the emergency stock has gone down to four or five units. “We have only four or five units of blood at any given point in time after meeting the daily requirement of patients in our hospital. We are being able to maintain this minimum stock because some patients’ families are bringing donors. It has become difficult to procure blood from outside, too, because most blood banks in the city have gone dry,” said Biju Pillai, who is in charge of the blood bank at the hospital. Pillai’s exasperation was echoed by officials of other blood banks, too. Anu Ganguly, one of the directors of Life Care, said the blood bank used to have a daily stock of about 500 units in the first half of August till last year. “Usually, there is no shortage of blood around this time of the year. The stock would go up post-Independence Day because many blood donation camps would be organised that day. But this year the blood bank has about 10 to 15 units in stock in the first half of August,” Ganguly said. “We are asking people to bring replacement donors… otherwise our stock would become zero. If someone needs blood from a group that the blood bank does not possess, we are asking the family to bring a donor of that group.” While the demand for blood has remained steady, the supply has gone down manifold. Doctors said patients suffering from thalassemia, haemophilia, cell disorders or blood cancer routinely need blood transfusion. They are among the worst-hit. Even Covid-19 patients who have other illnesses such as chronic kidney disease or are anaemic need a few units of blood at times. Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a critical care expert who is treating Covid-19 patients, said: “Suppose there is a Covid-19 patient whose haemoglobin count is 6. Sometimes, they need a few units of blood.” Social activists who organise blood donation camps, doctors as well blood bank officials attributed the crisis to the fact that no blood donation camp was being held in the city. Political parties, clubs and social welfare organisations used to take the lead in organising such camps. But most people are staying away from organising camps because of the pandemic. “The few camps that have been held did not get the expected response. If the organisers thought there would be 50 donors, only 15 turned up. Besides, getting permission to organise camps is becoming difficult because the authorities fear people would violate the precautionary measures,” said D. Ashis, who organises blood donation camps every year. Ten people travelling in a Tata Ace were injured after the vehicle collided with a truck on Kidderpore Road, off the Maidan, early on Sunday. The injured were treated at SSKM Hospital. Drivers of both vehicles have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Online acts & safety measures||MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, Behala, started conducting online classes immediately after the lockdown had begun. “Apart from the regular lessons, our focus is on the music, dance, art and craft classes to keep the students occupied during their home-bound stay,” said principal Herbert George. The institute is sanitising the school compound every day as some staff members and the principal are visiting it. “The security personnel are doing thermal screening and hand sanitisation of everyone entering the school premises. Putting on face mask and sanitising one’s hands are compulsory on the premises,” he said. The management of Hindmotor High School and HM Education Centre has adopted a sympathetic approach towards the schools’ parents amidst the pandemic. They have reduced the fee structure and also waived off the tuition fee for a month. “We gave special concessions to a few parents, who couldn’t afford to pay the fees. We also allowed a few students, whose parents haven’t yet been able to pay the fees, to attend online classes regularly,” said Sudipta Bose, rector-cum-manager of HM schools. The schools have also implemented measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 on the school premises. “Since some maintenance work is going on, we have been carrying out the sanitisation process in the compound regularly. We have also distributed masks to the community at large,” said Bose. The schools have been conducting online classes for all the students from nursery to Class XII. “Our teachers are working full time and conducting regular classes online,” said Bose. St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, recently organised its first online annual prize day celebrations. Students of classes VI to XII, along with their parents, were part of the event that started with a welcome song and prayer. The participants performed from their homes. The event was divided into two sessions, involving the middle and senior schools. MP Birla Planetarium director (research and academic) Debiprasad Duari was the chief guest for the middle school, while surgeon Kunal Sarkar presided over the senior school’s celebrations. Principal Jhuma Biswas said online classes had started since April. “Parents and students are quite used to the set-up by now, and most of them log in for all online events. We had invited even those parents whose kids did not win any prize,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Business||Stick to the target||In the highly commoditised realm of investments, the “right product for the right investor” is a custom that is more honoured in the breach than in the observance. Acquisition of the wrong kind of saving and investment products— clearly, a result of mis-buying — is fairly common. Indeed, this has been a matter of grave concern through the ages and is likely to remain so unless the investment fraternity becomes sufficiently aware of its consequences. In a panic-stricken world ruled by the relentless march of a deadly virus, product suitability has morphed into a true hot button. Its significance is acutely felt in the myriad instances of needless buys we see all around us. An elderly investor buys a risky sector fund, a fresh college graduate holds an endowment insurance policy he will not need anytime soon, while a young professional loses money in agri-commodities he does not understand. Even as you read this article, large quantities of resources are locked into sub-optimal investment products that are actually quite redundant. And while portfolio performance suffers, dense layers of intermediation keep forming. A thousand commissions, brokerages, loads and sundry other charges for such intermediation eat into the average investor’s returns. At the same time, a farrago of myths and untruths accumulates in the market. While many stories on the subject have been written in the past, this may just be the time to revisit it. That is because of Covid-19 and its consequences, which have together wrecked many personal investment plans. This is also the time to look at your own portfolio and ascertain whether you hold unsuitable investment products that discourage efficient performance. You are the final arbiter, remember. In other words, when your personal banker brings up the subject of an NFO (new fund offer), or when your wealth manager discusses a PMS (portfolio management scheme), or when your insurance adviser refers to a pension plan, find out whether you will really gain from it. Does the product truly fill a gap in my portfolio? You need to find the answer to this question, and it needs to be a convincing one. In this context, the following are important considerations: If you are not convinced with the sales spiel, you need to “ditch the pitch” — deliver a firm “No” in turn. Yes, the absence of an affirmative action will rob the insurance executive or the mutual fund distributor of his earnings, but that is not your primary concern. You have to realise that you alone are responsible for your portfolio. Don’t make the latter someone else’s happy hunting grounds — not at the cost of efficient performance. While most ordinary sales propositions are fairly cut-and-dry, some are apparently cobbled together with what can be loosely termed as “freebies”. That moniker typically derives strength from the FMCG industry. Purchase a large bottle of a popular health drink and you will get a small stainless steel cup with it. The latter, as the accompanying product label advertises, works as a gift for the buyer. For the ordinary consumer, it portrays a generous offer; in reality, it is an enticement. FMCG-style freebies mostly come at a cost that is borne by customers themselves. The critical poser here is simple: who pays? The question assumes primacy in the investment space too when, for instance, a mutual fund comes up with an insurance add-on. Such a deal may at first require you to set up an SIP in an equity fund for the long term. It may encompass an insurance value-addition, subject to terms and conditions. Well, we will deliver a caveat here — there must be someone who has to pay the premium for such bundled insurance. As the buyer, you need to find out whether it is you who is merrily paying for it. The well-known story of the curious case of the dog that did not bark in the night has a lesson for investors too. When a pitch for an investment product is made, there will certainly be questions in your mind; you have to ask them before cheques are signed. Only a cautious canine will identify a random burglar before a theft is perpetrated. In recent years, investors who have asked the right questions have been able to avoid irrelevant purchases. Few choices demonstrate this better than mutual funds. There are plenty of me-too funds in the market. If your portfolio has, for example, three large-cap funds, do you really need a fourth one? My point is simple; an additional purchase is justified only if it makes sense. Remember, there is a glaring commonality of objectives — fund managers often tend to chase the same securities in a confined universe. So professionally run portfolios too end up with serious overlaps. The scenario holds true for debt securities as well. The answer does not really lie in product differentiation, contrary to what some investment circles preach. At the end of the day, it makes sense to buy hand-picked and straight-laced products representing various categories of asset classes. An intelligent investor will try to avoid me-too items disguised as nuanced versions from within the same asset class. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
10-08-2020||Business||Recovery signs in housing, fastest in Bangalore||Enquiries on residential housing that had sagged during the early period of the lockdown have now improved and reached 50 per cent of the pre Covid-19 levels. According to a report from Anarock Consultants, the recovery has been the fastest in Bangalore, where current enquiries have reached 70 per cent of the January-February period, followed by Gurgaon at nearly 65 per cent. Employees from IT/ITeS, pharma, manufacturing industries and the government sector are driving the demand. The real estate consultancy firm said that in terms of the preferred budget range, homes priced between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 1.25 crore are attracting a major chunk of the enquiries. Bangalore, Chennai, Ghaziabad and Noida are seeing maximum demand for homes below Rs 1 crore. Anarock said buyers in Calcutta, Bangalore, Gurgaon, Hyderabad and Noida are more inclined towards 3BHKs and upwards, while the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has seen a higher preference for 2BHKs over the previous 1BHK. “Though site visits are far from the previous levels, the site-visit-to-closure conversion rate has increased considerably as only serious buyers are venturing out, with casual window shoppers fairly dormant currently,” Prashant Thakur, director & head-research, Anarock Property Consultants said. Hyderabad is seeing an average of 15 per cent site visits converting to sales against 8 per cent in the pre-Covid period. Gurgaon, with just 4-5 per cent conversions earlier, is clocking 8-10 per cent. Other cities report similar trends, Anarock said. MMR is witnessing enquiries for homes priced within Rs 60 lakh to Rs 1.2 crore, for property sizes between 400 square feet and 800 square feet carpet area. Addressing shareholders recently at its annual general meeting, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh had disclosed unsold housing units were already higher prior to the lockdown in the major cities. He said despite the adverse impact of the pandemic, the inherent demand for home  loans continues to remain strong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
10-08-2020||Business||Car makers optimistic of SUV sales ||Car makers are going ahead with their SUV plans despite a surge in interest in small cars. Maruti Suzuki India (MSIL) rolled out its BS-VI S-Cross, while Kia unveiled the Sonet and Toyota its Urban Cruiser as the car makers are optimistic that SUVs will continue to have a good spell. The launches come at a time hatchbacks Alto and Wagon R topped the July sales charts. Commenting on the renewed interest in hatchbacks post lockdown, MSIL chairman R. C. Bhargava said, “The market, at present, seems to favour smaller hatchbacks and petrol and CNG cars. Fortunately, we are well placed for such products.” Maruti’s “refined SUV” S-Cross will have the 1.5-litre K series BS-VI petrol engine and will retail at a price range of Rs 8.39 lakh to Rs 12.39 lakh. South Korean manufacturer Kia will start retail sales of the Sonet during the festive season in India. The Anantapur plant in Andhra Pradesh set up by Kia Motors India will be the company’s global export base for markets in West Asia, Africa, Latin America and Asia, according to Ho Sung Song, president and CEO, Kia Motors Corporation,-. “We have set up a manufacturing facility in Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh, with an investment of $2 billion. Our ambitions in India are not just to satisfy the local market. Our plant will be the global export base to 70 countries. In India, we started our journey with the online booking of our mid-SUV Seltos exactly a year ago. We had a six per cent market share in the first half of this year,” said Song. Toyota is all set to launch the Urban Cruiser, its youngest SUV, which is a crossbadge of Maruti’s Vitara Brezza. The company showcased the car and will launch it in the festive season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||RIL poised to take big leap in petrochemicals||Analysts are betting big on Reliance Industries’ core oil-to-chemical (O2C) business even as its consumer facing business may be making all the headlines. The O2C business was the worst hit in the first quarter of the current financial year as a slump in the global economy hit crude oil prices and its revenues from the refining segment fell more than half to Rs 46,642 crore. The turnover from the petrochemical business fell 33 per cent to Rs 25,192 crore. Analysts at BofA Securities said in a note that RIL’s O2C business is well placed to generate sustained free cash flow because of inherent advantages and a massive expansion. “Until demand normalises, RIL is looking to maximise throughput, focus on cost by leveraging deep petrochemical integration and continue to focus on domestic fuel marketing,” it said In November last year, RIL confirmed plans to invest Rs 70,000 crore to establish a crude oil-to-chemicals (COTC) complex at the company’s Jamnagar facility. The plan is also to convert the Jamnagar site’s existing fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit to a high severity FCC or petro FCC unit, to maximise ethylene and propylene yields “RIL’s strategy is to transform the Jamnagar refinery from a producer of transportation fuels to chemicals. The company wants to achieve a rate of more than 70 per cent in the conversion of crude to olefins and aromatics,” it said. Moreover, the company also commissioned a refinery off-gas cracker in January 2019 at the same site with 1.5-million-tonnes ethylene capacity. The brokerage feels when commodity prices recover, the returns in this segment should improve. The brokerage added that a key focus for RIL is renewable energy, and for that it intends to build an optimal mix of clean and affordable energy with hydrogen, wind, solar, fuel cells and battery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||Centre's push to promote local production of solar energy faces hurdles||The Centre’s plans to impose a basic customs duty on the import of solar cells and modules to promote domestic manufacturing could turn out to be counter productive for local manufacturers as more than 50 per cent of the installed capacity is located in special economic zones (SEZs). According to manufacturers, a customs duty in the range of 10-20 per cent is being considered with the country importing 90 per cent of the solar equipment, mostly from China. This will be in addition to the safeguard duty of around 15 per cent on the import of cells and modules that has been extended till July 2021. “BCD is a good barrier for blocking unfair trade practices where goods are just dumped into the country. But, unfortunately in the solar sector, manufactures in SEZ are close to 50 per cent of the total capacity. If we do not treat the units in SEZs equivalent to domestic tariff areas, it will be counter-productive to Atmanirbhar Bharat,” said Saibaba Vutukuri, CEO of Vikram Solar. “If BCD comes, it will be in addition to the safeguard duty. A manufacturer would be liable to pay BCD on value addition whenever modules are cleared from SEZs to the DTA (domestic tariff area), irrespective of the fact that the cells or modules are being made in SEZs,” said Avinash Hiranandani, global CEO and MD, RenewSys. Manufacturers with units located in SEZs are instead in favour of an equalisation levy in the range of 0.9-1.5 per cent in lieu of BCD, adjusting for the taxation benefits enjoyed by SEZs compared with the units located outside. The industry is apprehensive that the units located in SEZs have availed tax benefits in the past and BCD imposed would put manufacturing units located outside at a cost disadvantage. “Equalisation levy will set off the benefits availed by the units in SEZs and ensure that units in both SEZs and DTAs are placed on a similar footing,” Vutukuri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||Khaitan holding in freefall after IndusInd Bank invokes pledged shares||The Khaitan family’s ownership grip over the top group companies withered further after lender IndusInd Bank invoked its pledged shares in Eveready Industries India Ltd and McLeod Russel India Ltd. The promoter holding of the family now stands below 10 per cent in dry cell battery maker Eveready, while it slipped below 20 per cent in bulk tea producer McLeod. IndusInd Bank cornered a 7.82 per cent stake in Eveready and a 7.5 per cent stake in McLeod, respectively, on account of the loan taken by their parent company Williamson Magor & Co Ltd. Following the invocation, Khaitans’ stake will come down to a meagre 7.25 per cent in Eveready, further widening the gap with the Burman family, the promoters of Dabur, who now holds 19.84 per cent in the company. In McLeod Russel, the Khaitan family will be left with an 18.32 per cent share. However, they continue to remain in the management in both the  entities — Aditya Khaitan is at the helm of McLeod and his nephew Amritanshu Khaitan is in charge of Eveready. The Khaitans held 44.11 per cent in Eveready and 42.71 per cent in McLeod as on March 31, 2019 before relentless invocation of pledged shares brought down their holding. Unlike many other shareholders, who invoked their pledged shares and offloaded them in the market — IL&FS sold 7.09 per cent in the market allowing the Burmans to scoop up a large chunk — IndusInd decided to carry the shares on its books, indicating it is possibly expecting further appreciation in the stock prices . Regulatory filings by Williamson Magor & Co suggest that it had extended a corporate guarantee worth Rs 200 crore to IndusInd Bank on behalf of troubled group firm McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd during financial year 2015-16. From the next fiscal, the corporate guarantee appeared to have routed through Seajuli Developers & Finance Ltd, an unlisted firm of the group. The amount of corporate guarantee, however, has come down since and it stood at Rs 104.25 crore as on March 31, 2019, according to the latest data available. On Saturday, IndusInd informed the stock exchanges that the equity shares of Eveready and McLeod Russel held by Williamson Magor and Co were pledged with the bank for securing the outstanding dues of Seajuli Developers & Finance Limited (Seajuli), the borrower company. “The bank has invoked the pledge held on the aforesaid shares for the recovery of its dues from Seajuli,” it noted. Going by the closing prices on Friday, IndusInd Bank’s combined holding in the two entities would stand a shade above Rs 93 crore. The control of the family is apparently slipping away at a time the Williamson Magor Group — founded by late Brij Mohan Khaitan — is seeing some good tidings in the business, which in turn is having a galvanising effect on their stock performances. The Eveready stock has risen 80.45 per cent from July 13, a day before the Burman family announced increasing their holding by 8.48 per cent. Since then, the company also received a credit rating upgrade from India Ratings & Research, the first in three years. Ind-Ra had cited improved liquidity position aided by deleveraging, sustained profitability, an expectation of further improvement in business profile and its liquidity position this fiscal, a possible resolution of the contingent liability issue and the possibility of a managerial/board representation by the Burman family. McLeod, too, is inching towards a resolution of its debt problem as two of the top lenders agreed to a comprehensive recast, buoyed by soaring prices of tea this season. The possibility of a resolution and a spike in tea prices propelled the stock to Rs 13.30 on Friday, multiplying from the low of Rs 1.84 seen on March 25, 2000. “The soaring stock prices appear to be providing the shareholders an opportunity to invoke their pledged shares and make good of the outstanding loan,” a market participant noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||BPCL selloff doubt this fiscal||The strategic sale of the  government’s 53 per cent stake in state-owned refiner BPCL is unlikely this fiscal, which can impact the Modi-government’s disinvestment targets. Senior government officials were not hopeful of the deal going through in the current fiscal. They said one has to see how the situation develops after September, the new deadline to submit the expressions of interest (EoI). The officials pointed out it takes around 9 months to 12 months for a selloff exercise. If bidders submit EoIs by September, they will get access to the data room to study the financials of the BPCL. Given the restrictions on international travel, it would be naive to expect the global bidders to travel immediately, the officials said. The government has for the third time extended the deadline for the submission of EOIs for BPCL to the end of September, which has put a question mark on the Centre’s ability to achieve the ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 2.10 lakh crore set for the current fiscal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget had stated that the government plans to garner Rs 1,20,000 crore from the selloff in PSUs and another Rs 90,000 crore from the sale of the government’s stake in banks and financial institutions. The ambitious divestment target depends heavily on the proceeds from the strategic divestment of public sector companies such as BPCL, Container Corp and Shipping Corp, along with the listing of insurance behemoth LIC. Analysts said the lower than expected disinvestment collection would have an impact on the fiscal deficit. The fiscal deficit has zoomed to 83.2 per cent, or Rs 6.62 lakh crore, of the full year’s budget estimates by the end of June, hit by poor tax revenues and rising expenditures because of the lockdown. Analysts estimated the stake sale would garner Rs 70,000-80,000 crore to the government. However, with the global oil giants reportedly showing interest, the stake sale could fetch Rs 1.2 lakh crore. Sources have said Saudi Aramco, Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (Adnoc), Rosneft of Russia, Exxon Mobil and Reliance are likely to participate in the bidding. According to the offer for sale, the government is proposing the strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, which constitute 52.98 per cent of equity, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. The sale excludes  BPCL’s shareholding of 61.65 per cent in Numaligarh Refinery Ltd. The bidding will be a two-stage affair, with qualified bidders in the first EoI phase being asked to make a financial bid in the second round.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||India||Pilot-Congress rapprochement 4 days before Rajasthan Assembly||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will "work in the interest" of the Congress party and its government in the state, the Congress said on Monday after a meeting between the rebel leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi. The two leaders had a "frank, open and conclusive discussion", AICC general secretary (Organisation) K.C. Venugopal said in a statement. "Following this meeting, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will constitute a three member committee to address the issues raised by Shri Sachin Pilot and the aggrieved MLA and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof," the statement said. Congress's Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and senior leaders Ahmed Patel and KC Venugopal will be on the promised three-member panel, NDTV reported. "Shri Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan," it added. "I had maintained from Day One that I would never join the BJP. I stand vindicated today," Pilot told NDTV.  He also told reporters that his rebellion was meant to flag "ideological issues". He also thanked Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for "taking the time to hear us out". Pilot also said, "There were some issues which we wanted to highlight. I did that", adding "I had been saying since beginning that all these things were based on principle. I always thought it was essential to raise these things in the party's interest." "I had been saying since beginning that all these things were based on principle. I always thought it was essential to raise these things in the party's interest," he added. The Rajasthan assembly session is scheduled to be held from August 14. Top Congress sources said Monday’s meeting with Pilot took place a little after noon at Rahul Gandhi's residence and a "positive outcome" was expected. Sources also confirmed that Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. According to sources close to Pilot, the meeting lasted for about two hours and the Pilot camp was assured that all issues raised by them will be resolved. Meanwhile, party sources said Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. They said among the options, one possible agreement discussed during the meeting was favourable voting by Pilot and MLAs loyal to him in case of a trust vote during the upcoming Rajasthan assembly session. Pilot and 18 other MLAs have rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, leading to Pilot's sacking as deputy chief minister and state party chief. Party sources add that some of the rebel MLAs have also been in touch with the Congress leadership in the last few days. Sources also claimed that one of the MLAs was back to the Congress fold after being in touch with the party leaders. Other MLAs are likely to meet top party leadership soon and discuss their issues, they added. The Congress had a total of 107 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly. This includes 6 MLAs who were previously with the BSP. Pilot and other rebel MLAs would face disqualification in case they defied the Congress whip on the floor of the house. With Ashok Gehlot firmly holding on to the remaining MLAs, top leadership are positive of resolving the rebellion raised against the state chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Air India Express plane crash: 8 injured passengers critical||The condition of eight, out of the 101 passengers, who were injured in the Air India Express plane crash at Karipur airport here and under treatment in various hospitals, remains critical, officials said. A total of 71 have been discharged till now, after being treated at various hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode. "A total of 71 persons have been discharged till now...101 are in various hospitals, out of whichthe condition of eight are critical," a senior official of the Malappuram district administration told PTI. Meanwhile, Malappuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan said the district administration was planning to initiate the process to release the baggage of the passengers. "We want to release the baggage to the relatives and the passengers.It's more important. It normallystarts after three-four weeks but here we are trying to finish the process within two weeks," Gopalakrishnan said. The district administration had collected the baggage of the passengers soon after the rescue operations were over. Eighteen people, including the pilot and co-pilot of the AIE flight from Dubai lost their lives, when it overshot the tabletop runway at the airport here while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night. Air India Express on Sunday said the bodies of 16 passengers, who lost their lives in the crash, have been handed over to their families. The bodies of the pilot and co-pilot of the AIE flight, were handed over to their families on Saturday. The body of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar was cremated on Sunday in the presence of family members and officials of Air India and Air India Express at Mathura, his hometown, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Yediyurappa recovers from Covid-19, discharged from hospital||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has recovered 'completely' from Covid-19 and was on Monday discharged from a private hospital here nine days after being admitted, the state government said.  The 77-year old leader was admitted to the Manipal Hospital on August 2 after he tested positive for coronavirus.  "After recovering from Covid-19 completely, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has been discharged from the Manipal Hospital," an official statement said here.  Later, the chief minister himself tweeted about his discharge.  "Thank you everyone for your wishes and prayers. I have been discharged from the hospital and will be in self- quarantine. Deeply grateful for your affection and support. I look forward to getting back to the routine very soon," he said.  Pictures released by the Information Department showed a team of doctors giving a bouquet and along with paramedics greeting the chief minister.  Yediyurappa, in his trademark all-white attire and wearing a face mask, was seen in another picture walking out of the hospital, acknowledging the staff's wishes with folded hands.  During his hospitalisation, officials had said the Chief Minister was engaged in work like signing files and holding review meetings.  On August 2, Yediyurappa had tweeted that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and was being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors though he was fine.  The veteran BJP leader was in home quarantine last month after some staff members in his office-cum-residence were found infected with the virus. Though subsequent Covid-19 test results then were negative, later he had tested positive leading to his hospitalisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Don’t make me a scapegoat of political agendas, Rhea tells SC||Actress Rhea Chakraborty has told the Supreme Court that she should not be made a "scapegoat of political agendas" in the actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, alleging that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was allegedly behind the "registration of an FIR in Patna" against her. In an affidavit filed before the apex court on Monday, she claimed the "sad incident" of Rajput's death unfortunately occurred in the wake of elections in Bihar and this led to the issue of suicide being isolated and "blown out of proportion in the media”. The apex court is scheduled to hear Chakraborty's plea tomorrow (Tuesday). The actress said she had already been "convicted" by the media in the matter even before any foul play had been established. In an additional affidavit filed in the apex court, Chakraborty said that she had "no objection" if the top court referred the case to CBI by its order and "even if the CBI investigates the matter the jurisdiction will still be with the courts at Mumbai and not at Patna". Chakraborty filed the affidavit in the top court which is seized of her plea seeking transfer of an FIR, lodged against her by Bihar Police in Patna on a complaint by Rajput's father Krishna Kishore Singh, to Mumbai. In her additional affidavit, she said that two actors --- Ashutosh Bhakre and Sameer Sharma -- were reported to have committed suicide in the last one month and "yet no whisper about the same in power corridors." "In case of death of Sushant Singh Rajput, Chief Minister of Bihar is reported to be responsible for registration of FIR in Patna," the affidavit claimed, adding, "The sad incident of the death of Sushant Singh Rajput who hailed from Bihar unfortunately occurred just in wake of elections in Bihar. This has led to the issue of suicide of deceased being isolated and blown out of proportion." "The issue is blown out of proportion in media. Media channels are examining and cross-examining all the witnesses in the case. Petitioner (Chakraborty) is already convicted by media even before a foul play in the death of Sushant Singh Rajput is established," it alleged, adding, "Petitioner urges before this court that she should be protected and not be made scapegoat of political agendas". Referring to a provision of the CrPC, which deals with offence triable where the act is done or consequence ensues, the affidavit said it appeared to have been "misconstrued to usurp jurisdiction in Bihar under political pressure".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Second attempt to cap OIL gas well fails||The second attempt to shut Oil India's damaged well at Baghjan in Assam, which has been spewing gas uncontrollably for 76 days, failed on Monday when the iron cable to lift the lid snapped, the PSU said.  This was the second attempt in ten days.  The company said in a statement that when the blow out preventer (BOP) stack alignment was underway to insert the studs one of the two bull lines connected with the Athey Wagon, the equipment for fighting oil field fire which was lifting it, came out from the socket due to excessive heat.  "From the safety point of view and stability required for alignment of the BOP stack on the well head, experts decided to safely remove the BOP stack from the well head.  Operations will resume after carrying out necessary rectification jobs," it added.  The BOP is a very heavy metal cover weighing several tonnes that is placed at the mouth of any gas or oil well to stop leakage of the fuel from under the ground.  Oil India Ltd (OIL) spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika told PTI that experts were trying to put the blow out preventer (BOP) at the mouth of the well, which is on fire since June 9, but the wire snapped due to excessive heat.  "After placing the BOP at the well mouth, experts tried to fit the spools. But as there was constant fire, the cable broke.  "Our experts are working on to repair the cable. As soon as it is ready, we will try again," he added.  The first attempt to shut the damaged gas well had faced a setback when the wagon or hydraulic lift used to put a lid on the mouth gave in and toppled over on July 31.  Well number 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district has been spewing gas uncontrollably since May 27 and it caught fire on June 9, killing two of OIL's firefighters at the site.  On July 22 three foreign experts of a Singapore company invited to assist OIL and ONGC experts for putting out the inferno, received burn injuries while they were removing a spool from the well head.  Hazarika said that the injured experts have left the country and two others from the company are working at the site".  OIL said it continues to face protests and blockades across few of its wells and field locations leading to heavy loss in production in the last few months.  "OIL's cumulative loss of crude oil and natural gas has been 24,968 MT and 60.2 MMSCM respectively," the release said.  The PSU said that various assessments and impact studies of the blowout as well as the blaze is on in villages and nearby forest areas by multiple agencies such as ERM India, TERI, CSIR-NEIST and IIT-Guwahati.  OIL said that surveys for assessment of damage for compensation by the district administration are in progress in both Tinsukia and Doomdooma circles.  The total number of families surveyed for assessment of damage for compensation till August 9 in Doomdooma and Tinsukia circles is 2,739.  Over 9,000 people were initially shifted to 13 relief camps after the well suffered a blowout in May and subsequently caught fire last month, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Sachin Pilot meets Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Ahead of the crucial Rajasthan assembly session from August 14, rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Monday met party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra here, amidst indications of a possible breakthrough. Top Congress sources said the meeting took place a little after noon at Rahul Gandhi's residence and a "positive outcome" was expected. Sources also confirmed that Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. According to sources close to Pilot, the meeting lasted for about two hours and the Pilot camp was assured that all issues raised by them will be resolved. Meanwhile, party sources said Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. They said among the options, one possible agreement discussed during the meeting was favourable voting by Pilot and MLAs loyal to him in case of a trust vote during the upcoming Rajasthan assembly session. Pilot and 18 other MLAs have rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, leading to Pilot's sacking as deputy chief minister and state party chief. Party sources add that some of the rebel MLAs have also been in touch with the Congress leadership in the last few days. Sources also claimed that one of the MLAs was back to the Congress fold after being in touch with the party leaders. Other MLAs are likely to meet top party leadership soon and discuss their issues, they added. The Congress had a total of 107 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly. This includes 6 MLAs who were previously with the BSP. Pilot and other rebel MLAs would face disqualification in case they defied the Congress whip on the floor of the house. With Ashok Gehlot firmly holding on to the remaining MLAs, top leadership are positive of resolving the rebellion raised against the state chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Plane crash: 56 injured passengers discharged from hospitals||The Air India Express said on Monday that 56 passengers, who were injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode, have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining complete fitness. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday that 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 have been discharged, while three are critically injured in the B737 plane crash. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including the pilots. "The Chief Executive Officer, Air India Express Ltd as well as Regional Head-Southern Region continue to remain in Calicut (Kozhikode) to render continuous support to the family members," the airline said in a statement on Monday. "As on date, 56 injured passengers have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining their complete fitness," it added. Air India Express, a wholly owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. The airline said on Sunday that the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee tests positive for Covid-19||Former president and senior leader of the Indian National Congress Pranab Mukherjee said on Monday he has tested positive for Covid-19. Mukherjee, in a tweet from his official twitter handle, said he got himself tested while visiting a hospital on a seperate purpose. The reason for his visit to the hospital is unknown yet. He has further urged all people who came in contact with him throughout last week to self-isolate themselves and get themselves tested for the virus. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala along with several other party leaders wished a speedy recovery to Mukherjee. "We wish former President Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery from Covid," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. Abhijeet Mukherjee, the son of the former president, also tweeted, "I wish my father a speedy recovery ! I appeal to all my countrymen to pray for his speedy recovery & good health." Several leaders from across the political spectrum also wished him a speedy recovery. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, "I have come to know former President of India Sh. Pranab Mukherjee has tested positive for Covid-19...concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery." "Wishing Sri Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery. I am sure he will be out of this sooner than later," said Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge. Union minister Piyush Goyal also wished good health for Mukherjee, and said he is confident that the former president will quickly recover from the virus. Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, "Astonishing and matter of concern that former President Pranab Mukherjee tested positive for COVID per press reports. Very active, regular walker, wish him quick recovery and restful convalescence." The news comes a week after BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah tested positive for the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||SC to hear 2009 contempt case against Bhushan, Tejpal||The Supreme Court on Monday said further hearing was required in the 2009 criminal contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal to examine whether comments on corruption against judges per se amounted to contempt or not. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra and comprising justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari posted the matter for hearing on August 17. The top court had in November 2009 issued contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was then editor of the magazine. On August 4, the apex court had made clear to Bhushan and Tejpal that it would hear the case against them, if it does not accept their explanation" or "apology in the matter. The apex court had on August 4 said that the court has not received the explanation/apology submitted by Bhushan and Tejpal so far and would pronounce its order on whether to accept them or not. Explanation/apology submitted by Prashant Bhushan/Respondent No.1 and Tarun Tejpal/Respondent No.2, have not been received so far. In case we do not accept the explanation/apology, we will hear the matter. We reserve the order, the bench had said in its last week order. During the brief hearing conducted through video-conferencing last week, the bench had said it does not want to curtail the freedom of speech and expression but for the contempt there is a thin line. On July 22, the top court had issued notice to Bhushan in a separate suo motu contempt proceedings initiated against him for his alleged derogatory tweets against the judiciary, saying his statements prima facie "brought the administration of justice in disrepute". The apex court had on August 5 reserved its verdict on the contempt case against Bhushan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Rhea, family at ED office for 2nd round of questioning||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, her father and her brother appeared before the Enforcement Directorate today for questioning in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case. This is the second time that the probe agency will question Ms Chakraborty. In addition to Ms Chakraborty, her brother, Showik Chakraborty, and father, Inderjit Chakraborty, the Enforcement Directorate has also summoned Siddharth Pithani (a friend of Sushant Singh Rajput), who had ignored a summons to appear on Saturday. Post 2 PM, Rajput's friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani also arrived at the ED office and his statement is expected to be recorded too. On Friday, Rhea was questioned for more than 9 hours. She, her brother, and former manager Shruti Modi were questioned in separate rooms at the agency's office in Mumbai, sources said. The Enforcement Directorate has filed a money laundering case against Rhea and five others over "suspicious transactions" worth ₹ 15 crore. The case was filed after the agency acted on a FIR filed by Mr Rajput's father with Bihar police, accusing Ms Chakraborty of illegally transferring that amount from his son's bank account. Sources in the agency said money from Mr Rajput's bank accounts had been transferred to Ms Chakraborty but it was nowhere near the alleged one. Agency sources, however, said that they "want more answers" over alleged mismatch in income, expenditure, and investments. They said while Rhea has filed Income Tax Returns stating an income of about Rs 14-18 lakh, the value of her investments is reportedly higher. Her father, they said, is a retired defence personnel who gets a pension of about Rs 1 lakh per month. The sources said Rhea told the agency that she had made the property investments from her income, savings and has taken bank loans. Rhea has been accused by Rajput's father of abetting his son's suicide and she had initially refused to appear before the agency citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court that is slated to be heard on August 11. Her lawyer Satish Maneshinde had said Rhea is a law-abiding citizen and would cooperate with the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Bihar doctor deaths blamed on inferior PPE||Bihar’s government doctors have pinpointed the “substandard” and “porous” personal protection equipment kits supplied to them as a key reason for the large number of medics dying or getting infected with Covid-19 in the state. “Most of the 19 doctors who have died of the coronavirus disease and the 400-plus others infected in the state are government doctors,” said Dr Sunil Kumar, private practitioner and honorary secretary of the Bihar branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), India’s largest association of doctors. State health department sources said the PPE kits had been provided by the Centre, which had obtained them from a PSU and other agencies. “Just compare the quality of the PPE kits given to government doctors with those worn by ministers and IAS officers on the rare occasions when they visit hospitals, and you will understand,” Dr Kumar told The Telegraph. He said the poor quality of the PPE kits was a key reason behind the “high infection rate among doctors in Bihar”, and that the IMA’s repeated appeals to health minister Mangal Pandey and his bureaucrats had “gone unnoticed”. Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary to the state health department, accepted that the quality of the PPE kits “was very bad”. An official said the state government was now planning to buy the protective kits from the market, where they cost between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,500. A government doctor said on the condition of anonymity that the PPE kits were “flimsy, badly stitched and felt more like raincoats than protective gear”. Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the IMA’s Bihar branch, said the situation was scary for everyone given the shortage of doctors in the state. Bihar has just 4,500 doctors working in the district, sub-divisional, referral and block-level hospitals against 12,000 sanctioned posts. Almost half the 4,000 sanctioned posts of doctors at the state’s 12 medical college hospitals are vacant. On Friday, the IMA had revealed that 196 doctors had died of Covid-19 across the country, with Bihar accounting for 19 of the deaths. “Of the 400-plus others infected, 45 are battling for their lives at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna,” Dr Ajay Kumar, who had retired as joint secretary, state health services, and is now a private practitioner, said. It’s not just the quality – “there’s an acute scarcity of PPE kits and N-95 masks in the remote areas of the state”, Dr Sunil Kumar said. A government doctor posted in Kaimur district, around 190km southwest of Patna, agreed: “The supply has been erratic and the material seems porous. We got some supplies this week but can’t say anything about the future.” Dr Amitabh, general secretary of the Bihar State Health Services Association, a body of government doctors, dismissed this newspaper’s question about the quality of the PPE kits. “The doctors have not been asked to conduct tests to find out whether they are of good or bad quality,” he said. Amrit, appointed principal secretary to the state health department on July 27, said: “We are going to look into the issue. I went to Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur recently for an inspection and found the quality of PPE kits was very bad. We are going to take steps.” A senior official with Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited, said that with PPE kits now available in the market, the state would buy them directly. “We have received 6 lakh PPE kits from the Centre, of which 4 lakh have been distributed. Yes, we have received complaints about them. In any case, we’ll start procuring them on our own very soon and make sure they are of standard quality,” he said, asking not to be identified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Defence ministry to stop importing 101 items to boost domestic production||The defence ministry on Sunday announced it would stop importing 101 items, including weaponry, in a phased manner from December to try and strengthen the country’s fledging defence production industry under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next 6 to 7 years.” Although the proposed amount need not be distributed equally, the annual break-up ranges from Rs 57,000 crore to Rs 66,600 crore. This is higher than the Rs 45,700 crore India spent on importing defence equipment in 2018-19. The domestic defence players in India now include Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, the Adanis, Anil Ambani, the Tatas, the Hindujas, L&T, Kalyani Group and Mahindra Aerospace. The government did not reveal the share of the 101 items in India’s current import bill. India is now among the top three arms importers in the world. Among the embargoed items are high-technology weapon systems like “artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, radars”. Announcing the list, Rajnath tweeted: “The ministry of defence is now ready for a big push to Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. MoD (ministry of defence) will introduce import embargo on 101 items beyond given timeline to boost indigenisation of defence production.” He called the decision a “big step towards self-reliance in defence”. Responding to Rajnath’s tweet that the decision will offer a great opportunity to the Indian defence industry, Vipin Narang, MIT professor, tweeted: “Because DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) has an… excellent track record of doing this, having ‘not produced a single weapons system that could alter the country’s strategic situation’ (Cohen and Dasgupta, Arming without Aiming, p.26).” Narang, an expert on nuclear security and terrorism, was referring to the book Arming Without Aiming (Stephen Cohen and Sunil Dasgupta), which deals with India’s dependence on foreign suppliers for weapons. Defence ministry sources said Rajnath’s announcement had been expected following the Centre’s May declaration that it would draw up a negative import list for defence. Rajnath said his ministry had prepared the list after consulting all the stakeholders, including the military and public and private-sector companies, to assess the Indian defence industry’s current and future capability to manufacture ammunition and equipment. A military veteran said later: “The big question is, do we have enough indigenous capability? The embargoed items like artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars are still at various stages of development by the DRDO.” What is needed is a policy intent to reduce the import of critical components, he said. “If material components are imported and assembled in India, what is the purpose behind such an embargo? India cannot be atmanirbhar (self-reliant) by being hostage to import procurements.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||PM Modi launches farm fund with a riddle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday officially launched a Rs 1-lakh-crore agriculture infrastructure fund but failed to mention in his Hindi address that only Rs 10,000 crore would be released this year — and that won’t come out of the government’s coffers. The funds will be used to provide loans to create community farming assets and post-harvest farm infrastructure, including cold-storage chains, in the villages. The creation of the fund was first announced as part of the Rs 20-lakh-crore Atmanirbhar Bharat package unveiled in May. It has taken close to three months to wrap up the funding details. “The duration of the scheme shall be from (financial year) FY2020 to FY2029 (10 years),” the English translation said. The corresponding sentence in the Hindi version did not mention the duration. The break-up provided by officials later did not square with the 10-year schedule, underscoring the lack of clarity that has dogged the scheme from its inception. Officials said the loans would be disbursed for four years starting with a sanction of Rs 10,000 crore in the current year and Rs 30,000 crore each in the next three financial years. The end of the fourth financial year from now will coincide with the next general election in 2024. The loans will be provided to primary agri-credit societies, farmer groups, farmer producer organisations, agri-entrepreneurs, start-ups and agri-tech players — a broad mix of beneficiaries — at a time the government has already articulated its resolve to open up the farming sector to commercial interests. The funds will be provided as loans by banks and financial institutions. The government will provide budgetary support in the form of an interest subvention of 3 per cent on the loans and a credit guarantee fee. “All loans under this financing facility will carry an interest subvention of 3 per cent per annum up to a limit of Rs 2 crore. This subvention will be available for a maximum period of seven years. In the case of loans beyond Rs 2 crore, the interest subvention will be limited up to Rs 2 crore,” an official said. There will be no financial outgo in the current fiscal as the moratorium for repayment under this financing facility may vary subject to a minimum of six months and a maximum of two years. The credit guarantee will be provided under the Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE), which was recently launched by the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises along with the Small Industries Development Bank of India. Under the scheme, loans of up to Rs 2 crore are covered by the credit guarantee. In the case of farmer producer organisations, the credit guarantee may be availed from a special facility created within the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DACFW). The government is looking to leverage the strength of the entire banking sector to backstop the facility. Officials said all scheduled commercial banks, scheduled cooperative banks, regional rural banks (RRBs), small finance banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) may provide the financing facility after signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) or the DACFW. The trade-off is that these institutions will get refinance support from Nabard -- perpetuating a circularity of funding at a time when excess liquidity is sloshing around in the financial system, with the banks preferring to park money in low-yielding government bonds rather than lend it out and risk inflating their stock of bad loans. The credit guarantee is just the sort of support the banks have been insisting on before they work up their confidence to lend at all. Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said: “The government needs to put money in the pockets of farmers, especially at a time when economic growth is critically dependent on expansion of agricultural output. Though there is a lack of farm infrastructure in the country, the fund is unlikely to spur agri-growth or meet the immediate needs of the farm sector.” The Prime Minister transferred Rs 17,000 crore directly into the bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers under the PM Kisan scheme. With the latest transfer, the scheme has provided over Rs 90,000 crore to more than 10 crore farmers since its launch in December 2018, an official statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Nepal objects to Jaishankar’s Buddha statement ||Nepal on Sunday objected to foreign minister S. Jaishankar’s statement that the Buddha was one of the “two greatest Indians ever”, forcing India to move swiftly to smother a possible new irritant in the already strained relations. That the Buddha’s birthplace of Lumbini is located in Nepal “remains beyond doubt and controversy and thus cannot be a subject of debate”, Nepal’s foreign office said. Its statement cited how Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in 2014 said that “Nepal is the country where the apostle of peace in the world, Buddha, was born”. India’s external affairs ministry responded quickly, saying: “EAM’s (external affairs minister’s) remarks yesterday at the CII event referred to our shared Buddhist heritage. There is no doubt that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, which is in Nepal.” Jaishankar’s comment had come at an interactive session organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry on Saturday. Naushad Forbes, co-chairman of Forbes Marshall, had asked him whether there was “a place for moral leadership in India’s foreign policy or is that being Jimmy Carter in 2020 (being impractical and putting principle ahead of interest)?” Jaishankar began his reply saying: “Who are the two greatest Indians ever you can remember? I would say one is Gautam Buddha and the other is Mahatma Gandhi — the greatest Indians that the world remembers.” Through the day, Jaishankar took a drubbing from Nepali social media handles for what they saw as an affront. Raising the matter at a government level, Nepal’s foreign office spokesperson said: “It is a well-established and undeniable fact proven by historical and archaeological evidence that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, Nepal. Lumbini, the birthplace of Buddha and the fountain of Buddhism, is one of the Unesco world heritage sites.” The spokesperson added: “It is true that Buddhism spread from Nepal to other parts of the world in the subsequent period. The matter remains beyond doubt and controversy and thus cannot be a subject of debate. The entire international community is aware of this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Shiv Sena sees ‘harass’ plot in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Rarely has the death of a movie star stirred sections of the political class like Sushant Singh Rajput’s. What had earlier appeared to be a slugfest between two state governments, Maharashtra and Bihar, has now turned into a triangular affair with the central government seeking to take control. Many believe that soon the matter would become a direct clash between the central government and Maharashtra, where political developments late last year left the BJP wounded like never before. The Modi government’s keen interest in incidents surrounding the young actor’s death, which by all available evidence seems a case of suicide, was evident in the swiftness with which a CBI probe was ordered. The Centre has already deputed the Enforcement Directorate, an agency tasked to fight economic crimes. On Friday, the Centre petitioned the Supreme Court to become a party in the plea of Rhea Chakraborty, actress and Sushant’s rumoured girlfriend, seeking the transfer to Mumbai of an FIR lodged by the deceased actor’s father in Patna. The Shiv Sena’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Vinayak Raut, on Sunday alleged a “clear political motive” in the way the Bihar government and the Centre have been dealing with the Sushant case. “There is definitely an attempt to harass the Uddhav Thackeray government. The central government is trying to misuse its powers by ordering a CBI probe,” Raut told The Telegraph. “Mumbai police have been conducting a detailed inquiry. They should be given time,” he added, questioning the haste in ordering a CBI probe without any recommendation from the Maharashtra government. “Have Bihar police ever acted so promptly on complaints by common people in the state?” he asked. Raut said the Centre had been trying to harass and “destabilise” Uddhav’s government from Day One. “This (to institute a CBI probe) is a villainous action by the central government. They can’t digest the fact that they lost power in Maharashtra,” another Sena MP, Arvind Sawant, said. Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Sunday alleged a “conspiracy against the Maharashtra government”. The BJP had initially played from the sidelines as political ally and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar moved fast in Patna. Bihar police lodged an FIR and rushed officers to Mumbai to launch a probe. After a face-off with Mumbai police over jurisdiction, Nitish recommended the transfer of the Patna FIR to the CBI. The Centre, without wasting any time, accepted the suggestion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||DMK MP Kanimozhi questioned on Hindi||DMK MP Kanimozhi on Sunday said a CISF official had asked her if “she was an Indian” as she could not speak Hindi. “Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if ‘I am an Indian’ when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi,” Kanimozhi, who is also the DMK women’s wing secretary, posted on her Twitter account. The CISF said it had ordered an inquiry while asserting that it was not its policy to insist upon any particular language. According to party sources, the incident occurred in Chennai when the MP was at the airport to board a Delhi flight in the afternoon. She has reached the national capital and she will be there for a few more days for official engagements. “I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi,” she tweeted with the hashtag “hindiimposition”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Samajwadis and Mayawati resurrect axe-wielding Brahmin to counter Yogi||The heartland’s Mandal parties appear to be vying to hold up Parashuram as an alternative to the BJP’s Ram and woo the Brahmin community that is frustrated with the government of Kshatriya leader Yogi Adityanath. Legend has it that the battleaxe-wielding Parashuram, a Brahmin and the sixth incarnation of Vishnu, had gone on Kshatriya-killing sprees 21 times and had challenged the young Ram -– a Kshatriya and Vishnu’s seventh avatar — to a faceoff. On Saturday, the Samajwadi Party declared it would install Parashuram statues in all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh, starting with a “108 feet high” statue in Lucknow. The announcement came at a time the Brahmins’ longstanding aversion to the “anti-Brahmin” Adityanath had deepened over the unsolved assassinations of several Brahmin Hindutva leaders and state police’s “fake encounter” killing of gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his fellow Brahmin henchmen in July. Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati, who had in 2007 won power by forging a Dalit-Brahmin alliance that has long come apart, was quick to react to the Samajwadi announcement. On Sunday, she castigated the Samajwadis as “fake sympathisers of Brahmins” and promised to set up hospitals named after Parashuram as well as his statues across the state if voted to power in the 2022 Assembly elections. “The Bahujan Samaj Party government will build hospitals and guesthouses in Uttar Pradesh in the name of Parashuram, the symbol of the faith of Brahmins. Similar programmes will be implemented in the names of heroes of every community,” she said. Since the killing of Dubey and his men, the legend of Parashuram has been cropping up in private conversations among Brahmins, who have been stressing that the fiery avatar was the “original Ram”. Parashuram was named “Ram” by his parents, with “parashu” (battleaxe) later prefixed to his name because of his exploits with the weapon. Certain versions of the Ramayan claim a meeting between the two avatars during which Ram successfully met a challenge set by Parashuram, who admitted defeat. Neither Mayawati nor the Samajwadis have ever before shown any great affection for Parashuram. The Yadavs, who have traditionally been the Samajwadi mainstay along with Muslims, are worshippers of Krishna while the Dalits who form the BSP vote bank have their own pantheon of saints and leaders. Some political observers believe that the two parties’ newfound love for Parashuram also reflects an effort to counter the mileage the BJP is likely to gain from its Ram temple push in Ayodhya. Saturday’s Samajwadi announcement had come from former state minister Abhishek Mishra, a Brahmin, whom party chief Akhilesh Yadav had sent to Jaipur to place the order for the stone statues. “People should not see our move as a political gambit. We believe that some heroes of India should receive due respect,” he told reporters. Mishra said his party had formed a Parashuram Chetna Peeth Trust to execute the statue programme. Manoj Pandey, a former Samajwadi minister and a Brahmin, said: “This idea (of Parashuram statues) first came to members of the Prabuddh Mahasabha, an organisation of enlightened citizens that I head. I suggest that people stop looking at the matter from a political angle.” The Mahasabha was formed in 2016 to try and bring the Brahmins under the Samajwadi fold. Attacking the “casteist” Samajwadis on Sunday, Mayawati recalled how they had “opposed” her when, during her stints in power, she built statues, monuments and memorials to Dalit leaders including Jyotiba Phule, Narayana Guru, Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram. “They should have installed Parashuram statues when they were in power. We will install bigger Parashuram statues than theirs,” she told a news conference. Mayawati had, however, also got her own statues installed at several places in Lucknow and Noida — one reason for her annoyed Brahmin allies to dump her in the 2012 elections that the Samajwadis won. Brijesh Pathak, minister for rural engineering in the Adityanath government, had on Saturday dismissed the Samajwadi statue programme. “Those who mistreated the Brahmins in the past are now trying to woo them in the name of Parashuram. People will reject the casteist party in the elections,” he had said. Brahmins’ anger with Adityanath had been simmering since the assassination of BJP leader Rakesh Sharma in Hapur last September and that of Hindu Samaj Party leader Kamlesh Tiwari in Lucknow in October. Their fury boiled over when the police eliminated Dubey and his gang members days after they had ambushed and killed eight cops. Mayawati had at the time said the “encounter” killings had sown “fear in the mind of the Brahmins”. The Samajwadis have also decided to build statues to 1857 hero Mangal Pandey in every district of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Plea to CJI: Improve tabletop runway safety measures  ||A senior lawyer has written to the Chief Justice of India requesting that the Supreme Court register on its own a writ petition on the Calicut airport tragedy with the aim of improving safety measures relating to tabletop runways. G.R. Mohan mailed the letter on Sunday, asking the apex court to get the Centre and aviation authorities to “evolve proper guidelines and safety measures” to prevent such accidents. An Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai, with 190 people on board, had overshot the tabletop runway amid heavy rain at Calicut airport on Friday evening, dropped more than 40 feet and broken into two. The accident killed 18 people, including both the pilots, while 23 remain critical. “It is pertinent to note that time and again air accidents are taking place due to callous attitude and failure to strictly follow Section 5, 7 of the Aircraft Act, 1934, and Rules 74, 78 of Aircraft Rules, due to which this Hon’ble Apex Court has to step in to direct the ministry of civil aviation to evolve proper guidelines so as to save the precious lives of the citizens of our country,” Mohan has written. These sections and rules deal with the government’s role in framing, enhancing and enforcing aviation safety regulations, investigating air accidents and taking preventive steps. Mohan had earlier himself filed a writ petition with Karnataka High Court after a similar accident on Mangalore airport’s tabletop runway killed 158 people in 2010. That plane, also an Air India Express flight from Dubai, had overshot the runway and hit an illegally built wall, the impact breaking the wings within which the fuel tanks were located. The heat of the engines sparked a fire that killed all but 8 of the 166 passengers and crew members. Karnataka High Court had disposed of the case after the final hearing in March 2011, taking into account a memo filed by the directorate-general of civil aviation about safety measures being taken up. The risk involved in tabletop runways, especially when the weather is bad and the visibility poor, has been debated since the Mangalore accident. “Three more such airports are in our country, i.e. Shimla, Himachal Pradesh; Pakyong, Sikkim; and Lengpui, Mizoram. I respectfully submit that safety issue and payment of compensation were raised in my WP (writ petition) No. 19862 of 2010,” Mohan has written. Aviation officials have suggested the length of the tabletop runway at Calicut airport and the safety areas on its ends are “more than sufficient” by the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s norms. They said Friday’s flight had already passed the first 1,000 metres of the runway when it touched down, thus shortening by more than a third the available stretch of the 2,700-metre runway, which rain had made slippery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||10 die in fire at Covid care hotel in Vijayawada||Ten patients died on Sunday at a star hotel converted into a coronavirus treatment centre in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada as they tried to flee a fire suspected to have been caused by a short circuit, the government said. Vijayawada police commissioner B. Srinivasulu confirmed the deaths. All the victims were patients, Andhra Pradesh deputy chief minister (health) A.K.K. Srinivas said. There were 40 patients undergoing treatment at the private facility and 10 staff members of the private hospital running the centre. According to sources in the Andhra Pradesh disaster response and fire services department, the fire apparently broke out because of an electrical short circuit in the hotel’s front lobby and spread to the first and second floors. The panicked patients tried to escape to safety using the main stairway after they noticed smoke. “They should have actually used a different stairway on the rear side and that would have saved their lives. Unfortunately, they used the main one in a panicky situation and got caught in the fire,” a fire official said. While one of the victims was charred to death, nine died of asphyxiation, according to the police. The firefighters and National Disaster Response Force personnel used ladders to bring down people who were stranded inside the hotel. The hotel leased by a private hospital to treat coronavirus patients had “violated” safety rules, fire safety director Jairam Naik said. “The fire alarm did not go off at the time of the accident and there was a delay in opening the rear door. Investigation has been initiated and there will be action against the hotel management,” he added. The Andhra Pradesh government announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 50 lakh each to the kin of the 10 victims. State home minister M. Sucharita said an electrical short circuit appeared to be the possible cause of the fire. A manager of the public sector Bharat Electronics Limited, who tested positive three days ago, was among the dead. A pastor who came on Saturday night to see his wife, who was a patient, died in the fire along with her, the police said. A retired government officer and a retired police sub-inspector, both aged about 80 years, were among the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Youth Congress targets Prime Minister on lost jobs||The Youth Congress on Sunday ran a social media campaign demanding jobs from the Narendra Modi government, alleging that the unemployment rate was at an all-time high because of wrong policies and mishandling of the economy. Top Congress leaders, who participated in the #RozgarDo campaign, argued that it was erroneous to blame the pandemic for the miserable scenario as the Modi government’s policies had ensured a constant rise in unemployment since 2014. They insisted that the unemployment rate had already reached a 45-year high before this March, when the pandemic hit India and triggered a harsh lockdown that resulted in massive job loss. Rahul Gandhi recalled that Modi had promised to create two crore jobs every year but had ended up destroying over 14 crore jobs in the past six years. “This happened because of wrong policies. Three wrong decisions — demonetisation, flawed GST and lockdown. These three decisions destroyed the economic structure of the country. Now the truth is that India cannot provide employment to its youth. I am happy that the Youth Congress has hit the streets to highlight the gravity of the crisis,” the Congress leader said in a video message. While Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas said there was no sector that had not witnessed massive job loss because of Modi’s flawed policies, many other party leaders claimed that creating employment opportunities was never the priority of the government. They argued that the government was now trying to lay the entire blame on the pandemic but the truth was  the crisis had been deepening over the past few years and the Prime Minister was only trying to deny the reality and divert the nation’s attention. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said at a news conference: “The RozgarDo campaign is an expression of the pain and agony of millions of youths and migrant workers who do not have livelihood options. In May 2014, when Modi took over, the unemployment rate was 2.9 per cent, which grew to 8.9 per cent in March 2020 before corona. In May 2020, it was 29 per cent. There is an estimate that 12 to 15 crore people have lost their jobs during the lockdown. It is not only because of corona, but (also because of) the gross mismanagement of the economy by the government.” Singhvi also raised the Chinese aggression. “The talk of robust nationalism, 56-inch chest and showing red eyes to China have all turned out to be empty slogans,” he said. The Congress spokesperson continued: “At the Depsang Plains in Ladakh, reports say 17,000 soldiers of the fourth motorised infantry division have been posted by China, contrary to reports of disengagement. “The Nepal government has deployed its military to build a road under the Darchula-Tinkar project (to increase access to China). They are doing it so fast as if they have to go to war tomorrow. We don’t know what influence the Indian government can exert on our traditional friend Nepal to avoid getting under this Chinese influence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
10-08-2020||India||Covid tit-for-tat on soldier body||An unverified militant audio has claimed that a slain soldier’s body would not be returned to his family in view of pandemic protocol and pointed out that the security forces cite the same reason while dealing with bodies of killed insurgents. If true, this will be the first such tit-for-tat action by militants for the security forces’ refusal to return bodies of insurgents killed in encounters to their families citing Covid-management measures that prohibit large gatherings. Funerals of slain militants attract large crowds in the Valley and many believe the security forces are using the pandemic as a ruse to prevent the galvanisation of public sentiments and pro-azadi protests. Police said they were investigating the authenticity of the audio, which surfaced on social media on Sunday, but clarified there was no confirmation that the soldier had been killed. Shakir Manzoor, a resident of Reshipora village in Shopian and a soldier in the Territorial Army, was reportedly abducted by militants on August 2. He had been dragged out of his car, which was torched, and taken away. The soldier’s father, Manzoor Ahmad, had in a passionate video appeal on Friday urged militants to forgive and release his son but said he would have no complaints if they had killed him, seeking only the return of the body in that case. The speaker in the audio doing the rounds on Sunday identifies himself as Abu Talhah but does not name any militant group. Claiming that Shakir has been killed, the man says in Urdu: “We understand the pain of the soldier’s parents and his family but his body was not returned to his family due to the coronavirus and to avoid crowding at his funeral. It is similar to what the army is doing. They do not return the bodies of the Mujahideen (as militants are usually called in Kashmir) and bury them at unknown places.” The man in the audio claims that they have performed the last rites of the soldier. While justifying the killing, the speaker also claims that Kashmiris working in the security forces are not mending their ways. The audio specifically mentions two slain Hizbul Mujahideen operational commanders, Burhan Wani and Riyaz Naikoo, and says they too had warned those helping the Indian forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
10-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Bid’ on BJP leader life||BJP leader and former Naihati civic chairman Ganesh Das, 62, escaped an alleged bid on his life when miscreants hurled bombs at his car on Sunday early morning. The bombs were hurled at Das’s car at three spots along  the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore road in Halisahar, leaving the vehicle severely damaged. Das was returning home after lodging a complaint at Bijpur police station in connection with a separate incident. “I survived thanks to my driver who sped through the attack. The attackers were clearly ready to kill me,” Das alleged. Sources said groups of Trinamul Congress and BJP workers had clashed at a youth club in Balibhara around 9pm on Saturday, leaving several supporters, including the BJP's Naihaiti unit chief, injured, prompting Das to respond to the incident. Sources said a police team responded late on Saturday and brought Das back to Bijpur, releasing him only on Sunday morning. BJP sources on Sunday, however, accused the police of playing a “partisan role”. “They did not arrest the miscreants named in the earlier complaint,” said a BJP leader in Barrackpore. Police sources, however, said Das had been brought to Bijpur station for “protection” and an investigation had been started in connection with the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Took loan from MLA, no threats’||Mabud Ali, a resident of Chanchal in Malda, arrested by the police in connection with the July 13 death of Debendranath Roy, the BJP MLA of Hemtabad in North Dinajpur, admitted he had borrowed money from the MLA. CID sources probing the case said Ali admitted that he had taken loans from Roy many times and repaid it. “Because of financial problems, he said, he could not repay one loan, but denied that he and Niloy Singha, another accused, had threatened the MLA.” The MLA was found hanging near his home in front of a shop. Police had found a suicide note with names of Ali and Singha. Roy’s wife Chandrima alleged that the duo had taken money from her husband and threatened him over phone if he asked for it. The police and the CID nabbed Singha from Malda soon but Ali was arrested from Mothabari, also in Malda, last Friday. “Investigators will verify Ali’s remarks,” the source said. Uttam Sutradhar, the BSF constable who on August 4 gunned down an inspector and a constable of the force with his service rifle on the India-Bangladesh border of North Dinajpur, was handed over to BSF’s custody by the police on Sunday under paramilitary rules. “BSF officers had filed a petition in a local court here so that they could take him into custody and start court proceedings against him under laws that govern the paramilitary force. The court approved it on Saturday and Sutradhar was handed over to officers of the BSF 146 battalion on Sunday,” a policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Youths say sorry, assault case withdrawn||An officer of the state consumer affairs department, who filed a police complaint alleging four youths of a courier firm assaulted and threatened him on Friday, said on Sunday that he withdrew the complaint after the accused apologised profusely. Uttam Paul, the consumer welfare officer of Jalpaiguri, said the youths met him at Kotwali police station late on Saturday and said sorry. “They said that if they are named in a police case, their careers would suffer. I decided to withdraw my complaint,” Paul said. Last month, Paul had ordered a mattress from an e-commerce site. Last Thursday, a thin blanket was delivered. Paul complained to the customer care centre of the e-commerce company. On Friday, four youths employed by the courier firm that arranged the delivery, went to his home and assaulted him. Paul said his complaint with cyber cops against the e-commerce company for supplying a different item stood. “I have been cheated,” he said. “I have also decided to file a case at the circuit bench of the West Bengal State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission against the company. I paid over Rs 6,500 for a product but got a different and cheaper product,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Rs 54cr sanctioned to widen Eastern Bypass in Siliguri||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb said on Sunday that the state government had sanctioned funds to repair two major roads in Siliguri and finish the construction of another road through Baikunthapur forest. “It has been decided to repair and widen Eastern Bypass that connects northeast of Siliguri with the southeast part. It is a 10km-long road and Rs 54 crore has been sanctioned for the project. Another 10km-long road that connects Gurungbusty with Milan More (a prominent arterial road in the northern part of the city) will be repaired and the state has allocated Rs 5 crores for it. Both the works will be carried out by the state public works department,” Deb told a news conference in his office at the Mainak Tourist Lodge Complex here. He also said Rs 70 lakh had been sanctioned to finish the construction of a 12km-long road that would move through Baikunthapur forest, connecting the Bengal Safari Park and Bhorer Alo, the mega tourism hub developed by the state government at Gajoldoba near the Teesta Barrage Project. “The state forest department has been assigned with the project,” said the minister. A government official said around 500 trees would be removed to widen the Eastern Bypass and the necessary approval had been given by the forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||TMC bid to woo tribals ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Sunday celebrated Biswa Adivasi Diwas or the International Day of the World’s Indigenous People, across the state, including some areas in north Bengal. The scale of celebrations is being seen as an attempt by Trinamul to win back the tribal population, most of whom had supported the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls last year. Officials of the district administration and even the police organised a slew of events to celebrate the day, as did Trinamul leaders of the region. Cultural events and felicitations of tribal faces featured in many of the events, which gave an opportunity to Trinamul leaders to trumpet state government initiatives for the tribal population. North Bengal has 20-odd Assembly seats (in total, there are 54 seats in the region) where tribal votes decide the results. In 2019, when the BJP won seven of eight parliamentary seats from the region, it was clear that most tribal people had voted for the saffron party. A political observer said that Trinamul was trying to recover lost ground. “Trinamul tried to utilise this day to reach out to tribal people, using administrative and party machinery. The recent inclusion of Chhatradhar Mahato as a secretary of the state committee also indicates the party’s strategy.” Cultural events were held in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri. The main government event in north Bengal was held in Kumargram, the farthest block of the state from Calcutta, where backward classes’ welfare minister Binoy Krishna Burman promised Adivasi cultural centres in the Dooars.  In Malda, Sarala Murmu, who heads the Trinamul Adivasi Cell, attended events in Habibpur and Bamangola blocks.  “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has always seen your demands as priority,” she told the tribal people. “Trinamul leaders could not bank on their party, and engaged the administration and police to plan events to woo the tribal populace,” scoffed Khagen Murmu, BJP MP of Malda (north).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown: Trauma outguns job thirst in Bengal||The blisters of the lockdown are still raw. The head hunters of one of the largest private engineering firms in India have failed to source even half the labour requirement from Purulia after a three-week effort. The uncommon experience underscores how the ill-conceived Covid lockdown — announced by the Prime Minister with a four-hour notice at night — and its harrowing fallout are still preying on the minds of some prospective migrant labourers and have cast a shadow on the flow of workforce in a labour-surplus economy like India. “We contacted various labour organising agencies in Purulia, where we never faced any trouble before in sourcing labourers. But for the past three weeks, we have not been able to meet even half the labour demand for our projects,” said an official from the human resource wing of the company on the condition of anonymity. He said the company had suffered a loss of Rs 2 lakh recently as an air-conditioned bus it had sent to Purulia to ferry 35-odd workers to a project site in Maharashtra had to return empty. The workers declined to board the bus, changing their minds at the last moment. The workers had been offered a monthly pay of Rs 20,000 and company-provided shelter and food, the HR official said. “Six months ago, this situation would have been unimaginable,” the official said, referring to the unexpected shift in the labour market where, all of a sudden, supply has fallen short of the demand. The balance in India’s market for semi-skilled or unskilled workers had always been tilted in favour of the employers because of the labourers’ poor bargaining power. The labour-surplus economy was characterised by large-scale migrations of workers from rural areas to urban centres. The Purulia development does not appear an isolated one. Sources said they had come across similar reluctance among the workforce in some other parts of Bengal as well as in neighbouring Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha — key suppliers of labour to western and southern India. District officials in Purulia said this week that in anticipation of Unlock 1, they had begun compiling a database of the migrant workers who had returned during the nationwide lockdown, in order to match them with prospective employers and ensure livelihood for them. After the compilation, the officials had launched a website in June so that companies could make use of the data and take labour-sourcing decisions. “The company in question used our website in late June, asking for 1,500 workers — 900 masons, 200 fitters, 200 welders and 200 carpenters. But we were able to enlist barely 700 from a district that had seen at least 40,000 youths return during the lockdown,” said district magistrate Rahul Majumdar. He said the rest were unwilling to leave the villages. “They all said they would rather work in low-pay rural scheme jobs than go through the harassment they had faced while navigating the closing and reopening of the economy…. That’s why we are trying to help these people in getting employment in various government-run schemes in the state,” he said. Labour agencies, which supply labourers to project sites across the country, confirmed the trend. “We are finding it difficult to enlist youths for the large-scale infrastructure projects outside the state…. They seem to be scared because of the ordeal they faced when the lockdown was announced,” a labour contractor said. The labourers agree. “I don’t care about my income right now. Nor do the thousands of other youths like me. Safety and proximity to home are more important, like they are for everyone. Until the virus dies out, we will not be the cogs of an unreasonable machine,” Sambhu Mudi said. A migrant labourer from Arsha village in Purulia, Mudi was able to make it home from Maharashtra only in mid-June after weeks of attempts yielded him a ride on a private truck plying materials. While Mudi considers himself “lucky to still be alive and healthy”, he is unwilling to take a gamble on what he termed “the new Covid economy”. Industry insiders and economists said the trend may hurt industrial output in the near future. “This is a very unconventional picture because it is hard to conceive a scenario where the labourers would refuse to go to their workplaces,” said Saswati Chaudhuri, associate professor of economics at St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. She said the supply shock in the labour market might result in a disproportionate reduction in aggregate demand, because lower earnings by the labourers would result in lower spending that, in turn, would further squeeze demand and hence industrial output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Administration orders probe into alleged negligence of a Covid doctor||The Nadia district administration has ordered a probe into the alleged negligence and apathy on the part of a doctor in treating a critical patient “gasping for air” who eventually died on Saturday at a Covid hospital in Kalyani. Sources said a number of patients and staff of the hospital repeatedly appealed to the doctor in question to attend to the patient, but she refused to respond. The patient, suffering from acute respiratory problems, who was admitted to the Covid hospital on Saturday afternoon, died a few hours later in the evening. Sources said the Nadia administration on Sunday was left red-faced when it transpired that a staff member of the Kalyani-based SNR Carnival Hospital put up a video on social media showing patients complaining against the “indifference” of the doctor. SNR Carnival Hospital is the designated Covid hospital run by the state government in Kalyani. Sritama Deb, the staff member who shot and put up the video on social media, on Saturday had lodged a complaint with the district’s chief medical officer (health) against the alleged apathy of the doctor, who ordered an internal probe into the allegations. Sources said the family members of the deceased patient had also lodged a complaint with the nodal officer in charge of the hospital. Acknowledging the incident as “unfortunate”, Kalyani subdivisional officer Dhiman Barai said: “The allegation (of the doctor’s indifference towards a dying Covid patient) is being examined. Senior officials of the district health administration are making inquiries to find out what exactly happened. It will be too early for me to comment now.” Without coming on record, multiple sources said that the Covid patient with serious respiratory troubles had been admitted in a critical state to the SNR Carnival hospital on Saturday, but neither any doctor nor nurse bothered to attend to the patient. “The patient went on gasping for air and eventually died,” said a source. In the video clip, a woman patient at the hospital is seen saying: “No doctor went to visit that patient with acute respiratory troubles. Later we found him lying dead. Even hours following his death, no doctor bothered to go near him. There is no doctor or nursing staff inside the ward to take care of patients. Patients are panicking at the sight of such negligence inside the hospital.” Deb, who lodged the complaint, was also seen in the video saying she went to inform doctors about the critically ill man at the behest of some other patients. “The doctor on duty abused me verbally and pushed me out of his room. Three nurses present there refused to listen to me and did not bother to visit the dying patient.” A senior official involved in the probe refused to identify the woman doctor. “It is an internal matter. We will do what is needed for justice. But nothing can be said at this stage without an investigation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Safe homes solely for police||Bengal police have started setting up safe homes in south districts exclusively for its members who test positive for Covid-19 but show mild or no symptoms as over 500 novel coronavirus cases were detected in the force. Sources said the law enforcers were looking for right buildings to convert them into safe homes following a recent directive from the state police directorate to take care of its members during the pandemic. “Police personnel are playing one of the most vital roles in keeping people safe from the coronavirus by implementing the lockdown or maintaining law and order problems during the current crisis,” said a senior IPS officer. “Most police personnel are posted far away from their home districts and often reside in barracks or quarters. So, if they are found to have Covid, it is impossible to keep them in home quarantine. On the other hand, if police occupy government safe homes, other patients would suffer,” the officer added. According to government protocol, asymptomatic and semi-symptomatic civilian patients are to be admitted to the state-run safe homes for 14 days with monitoring by local health officials. If they develop serious symptoms later, they are transferred to government hospitals. The sources said more than 500 police personnel had already contracted the novel coronavirus in the state. In districts like Birbhum and Hooghly, the police have already established safe homes for each station. “We have set up safe homes for each station so that there will be no need for asymptomatic police personnel to travel a long distance. It would help to control the spread of the infection,” said Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh. In Birbhum, 24 buildings, including guest houses and a motel, have already been earmarked to be converted into safe homes. Fifteen police personnel have already been infected by Covid in the district. In Hooghly, there are 16 police stations in rural police districts and seven in the Chandernagore police commissionerate. Sources said at least one safe home each for all police stations had  been launched in the district. “In Chandernagore, we have already selected 16 safe homes. Most of them are either guest houses or empty buildings or flats,” said Chandernagore police commissioner Humayun Kabir. Source said nearly 130 police personnel had tested positive for Covid so far in the Hooghly district and around half of them were yet to recover. In East Burdwan, the police have set up two safe homes in Burdwan town that can house more than 200 patients. “We did not set up safe homes at every police station here because there is a spurt in cases only in a few areas. Setting up safe homes is expensive as we need to maintain infrastructure. Only 8 percent of beds are accommodated at our safe homes in Burdwan town,” said a district police officer. “If needed, we can increase the number of safe homes anytime,” said East Burdwan police chief Bhaskar Mukherjee. Around 45 police personnel, including senior officers, were infected in the East Burdwan district but most have recovered and the rest are asymptomatic and in home quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal crosses 11 lakh tests||Bengal on Sunday reported a new 24-hour high in Covid-19 tests at 26,242, taking the total number of tests past 11 lakh. On Sunday, the state also logged 2,939 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths, besides 1,996 recoveries. The current recovery rate is 70.24 per cent. The total test tally reached 11,05,899 on Sunday, 82 days after completing 1 lakh tests. It took four days each reach the test figures of nine lakh and 10 lakh. The previous number of highest intra-day tests was 25,258 recorded on Friday. Even a month ago, the state was conducting around 10,000 tests daily. The total case count rose to 95,554, of which 67,120 are recoveries. Of the 26,375 active Covid-19 cases, 7,041 are in Calcutta, while 5,774 are in North 24-Parganas. The highlight of Sunday’s bulletin on Covid statistics, according to a minister, was the total test count of 11,05,899, at 12,288 per million people. “We began testing in early February and it took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19,” he said. At that stage, Bengal was among the least testing states in the country, a tag it has been striving to shed. On Sunday, Bengal was ninth on the list of states conducting the most tests in the country, a list topped by the likes of Tamil Nadu, with around 32 lakh tests, Uttar Pradesh, with around 31 lakh, and Maharashtra, with over 27 lakh. “We crossed 2 lakh in 12 days (on May 31), 3 lakh in 11 days (on June 11), 4 lakh in 10 days (on June 21), 5 lakh in 11 days (on July 2), 6 lakh in nine days (on July 11), 7 lakh in eight days (on July 19), 8 lakh in seven days (on July 26), 9 lakh in six days (on August 1) and 10 lakh in four days (on August 5),” said the minister. “We covered the latest lakh in just four days, again. We will go past 12 lakh on or before Thursday. We are looking to better even this rate,” he added. However, owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.64 per cent, which was 4.56 even a month ago. Of the 2,939 new cases reported, 615 were from Calcutta, while 588 were from North 24-Parganas. Of the total 2,059 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 948, with 21 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 478 deaths, 15 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 1,822 deaths (88.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. In a month, there have been 1,179 reported deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 1,116 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.15, but still lagged behind the national rate of 2 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.4. Of 11,560 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 83 dedicated hospitals in Bengal, 39.08 per cent are occupied. Besides, 53,467 people have availed themselves of telemedicine consultation for the pandemic till now, and nearly 3,000 of those calls were reported on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
10-08-2020||West Bengal||5 lakh more seek Amphan relief, surprise officials ||Over 5 lakh fresh applications have been filed for compensation for homes damaged during Cyclone Amphan, surprising many in the Bengal government who were not expecting such a high number nearly three months after the storm. The government is now verifying the authenticity of the claims of the 5 lakh-odd people who applied for Amphan aid on August 6 and 7. A senior official said that if the claims of most of the new applications were found genuine after verification, it would raise the question why such a large number of people were left out from the initial lists. On the other hand, if many of the claims are found to be fictitious, it would suggest some form of political intervention, without which such a large number cannot be organised. In the second scenario, if the Opposition can organise such a huge number of bogus applications in just 48 hours, it would beg the question whether the ruling party is losing its grip on rural areas of Bengal, said a bureaucrat who did not want to be named. The new applications were submitted at BDO or municipality offices after the state government asked people who felt overlooked in beneficiary lists to come forward with their claims. An official said that of the 5 lakh-plus fresh applications, 2.07 lakh came from East Midnapore, 1.17 lakh from North 24-Parganas, and over 1 lakh from South 24-Parganas, while some applications came from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area, Howrah and Hooghly. “It was assumed that 10,000 to 15,000 applications would be received. Nobody expected 5 lakh,” added his colleague. A senior IAS officer at Nabanna commented that the numbers were “unusual”. “So many affected people can’t have been left out of the initial list. Field surveys by district authorities in the next two days to verify the applications will clarify the picture,” he said. Before this, 22 lakh applications had already sought compensation for homes, of which, 17.30 lakh applicants were considered eligible and 14.82 lakh got compensation. The state initially announced Rs 20,000 as relief, then revised it to Rs 20,000 for homes totally damaged and Rs 5,000 for those partially damaged. Allegations that a large number of people were left out of Amphan relief had been simmering since May-end, amid accusations of nepotism and corruption in the distribution of Amphan relief. In June, chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked people with grievances to file complaints with local police. “Some 40,000 applications were received at that time and 34,000 were genuine,” said a source. But protests of people “left out of the loop” went on, forcing the Bengal government to open a window for fresh applications, which resulted in these 5 lakh applicants. A senior official said there were errors in the primary list of beneficiaries soon after the cyclone as the state government hurried to give compensation. “A window of eight hours was given to BDOs to verify the lists given by panchayat functionaries. So, some mistakes were bound to happen,” said the official. Now as well, the state government wants to upload verified applications on its official website by August 14. Verifying each complaint within such a short span would prove to be difficult, said sources. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
10-08-2020||Opinion||Look in the mirror: Personal grooming during Covd-19||Sir — There was much talk about how staying at home and not being able to get salon treatments may cure vanity, what with men not being able to get haircuts or shaves and women not being able to get their eyebrows done and so on. But looking good is not just about vanity, it is also intricately tied to one’s self-worth. When men and women who are running themselves ragged between the kitchen and the laptop look at themselves in the mirror, how they look affects their self-esteem. This, along with the strain of being cooped up at home, is not doing wonders for people’s mental health.Roshni Sen,Calcutta Green path Sir — The initiative taken by the Odisha forest department to grow bamboo forests by scattering seed balls is laudable (“Seed balls to grow a forest for jumbos”, Aug 9). However, some important factors need to be considered before the initiative is kicked off. Bamboo survives and grows through underground rhizomes, which take years to develop. The succulent seedlings may germinate under favourable soil and moisture conditions, but they will be vulnerable to grazing by the village cattle and goats, especially after the rains, as well as to bush fires — factors that are ubiquitous to forests across the country. Elephants roam over very large stretches, something they are wont to do by force of their instinctive nature and they are in the habit of destroying forests while searching for forage. Regenerating small patches of forests with bamboo and other fodder crops thus has very limited mitigatory effects so far as marauding elephants are involved. Attempts like the one in question being made in the Athagarh Division will succeed only if these are made a part of an integral approach involving large scale rehabilitation of forests, creation of large water bodies and fodder banks, including villagers and local communities to ensure that elephants do not carry off the seeds with themselves and ensuring prompt payment of reasonable compensation for crop damage and attacks on humans. The forest department needs to think harder before implementing this plan.Biswajit Majumdar,NagpurStep too far Sir — The decision to close Confucius Institutes would be a knee-jerk reaction to the ongoing crisis between India and China (“Great walls”, Aug 8). These institutes are aimed at providing an insight into the history and culture of China, this closure ensures that a Herculean effort would be needed to restart such an exchange — if at all. Deriving their name from the famous Chinese educator and philosopher, Confucius, these institutes are not for profit and were started in 2004. The initiative to start these institutes was a positive one and benefited citizens in 162 countries and regions who wanted to learn the Chinese language, and about its culture and lifestyle. Such institutes help develop harmonious relations among countries at a time when protectionism is peaking. ] India’s reaction is thus premature and unwarranted. It followed suit on the action being taken by other countries when it should have stood out and set an example.Vinay Asawa,Howrah Sir — Confucius Institutes were started by China to promote the learning of Mandarin and educate people about the Chinese culture in 162 countries and regions. While China claims that these institutes are aimed at helping people better understand the culture, roles of CIs have been questioned in many quarters. There have long been accusations that China uses the institutes for political and commercial purposes like spying on foreign entities and overseas Chinese students. The institutes’ learning materials allegedly distort contemporary Chinese history too. It is thus not surprising that the United States of America stopped funding programmes at universities that host CIs. Sweden has shut down all CIs in the country. The Indian government, too, has decided to review the presence of CIs. Given the dubious manner in which the Chinese authorities function, there is definitely a case for shutting down all CIs in the country at a time when Indian and Chinese troops are up in arms at the border. This is justified and broadly consistent with the Central government’s decision to ban some Chinese apps which threaten Indian users’ privacy. This however does not mean that learning Mandarin language or doing research on Chinese culture should be stopped or discouraged. Rather India can turn to Taiwan or Singapore for assistance in setting up Mandarin language learning centres. In fact, India’s pivot towards Taiwan was also witnessed when New Delhi chose a high-profile career diplomat as India’s next envoy to Taipei. It is time to take China’s hegemony in the region head on.Khokan Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
10-08-2020||Opinion||Wrong court: Trial by media, again||Little is more deplorable than a continuing public cacophony around the tragedy of an untimely death. The death of the young actor, Sushant Singh Rajput, has provoked precisely this kind of a cacophony, with video-recorded accusations, excited tweets and sullen defences — and the strident reporting of every step by some sections of the media. This was bad enough, but the ugliest part of the exercise was the gradual homing in of attention on one individual, Rhea Chakraborty, with whom the late actor was reported to have had a close relationship. The viciousness of the sexist — and origin-based — attacks on her on social media suggests that a scapegoat was needed to blame for the actor’s death. The actor’s father must have had reasons for filing a first information report against Ms Chakraborty, but that is matter for police investigation and the law. The inquiries have just begun, and nothing has gone to court as yet; there is no question of guilt or innocence till the processes are complete. Yet Ms Chakraborty is being publicly called out as culpable, not just through the irresponsible viciousness of social media, but through the rhetoric and emphasis of certain other sections of the media as well. This is almost judgment by media. It is not novel in India: the Aarushi Talwar murder case provided an example of such judgment by media. There are many others. The media in a democratic country have the overwhelmingly important role of pointing out wrongs and injustices, evidence of corruption, failures of the administration and in the investigation of crimes. Building up villains in an unproven case is not their job. At a time when people are struggling with multiple crises, it is almost as though the focus on the case is providing a distraction. This is not just a matter of taste; it is an alarming failure of ethics. A civilized approach to a tragedy cannot be too difficult to achieve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
10-08-2020||Opinion||Cloudy skies: RBI rate-reduction cycle||The policymakers at the Reserve Bank of India hit the pause button at their monetary policy review last week, choosing to hold interest rates after a sustained, staccato-like 250 basis point cut in the policy-setting repo rate since February 2019. It is hard to say whether the central bank will resume its rate-reduction cycle when it meets again before its next announcement due on October 1. It will want to wait for commercial banks to play catch up. Banks have found ways to wriggle out of the pressure to slash lending rates in tandem with the repo. Perhaps with good reason. If 40 per cent of the loan book is virtually directed lending through the grab-all concept of priority sector lending imbued with heightened risks of default and the moral hazard question, can anyone blame banks for forcing creditworthy borrowers to fork out more than they normally would need to? Much will also depend on how quickly the fog on government’s statistics dissipates, and how the cost pressures start to build up in an economy that continues to wilt under the sledgehammer of the Narendra Modi government’s capricious announcements in a foolhardy quest for self-reliance. When the spirit of hyper nationalism undermines pragmatism in the realm of business suffused with the delusion of doing good for the country, disaster must lurk round the corner. This has only magnified the risks of an uncertain future and the Mint Street wonks are not ready to play a game of popgun Russian roulette with forecasts. The central bank has wisely chosen to steer clear of numerical predictions although it does believe — like the International Monetary Fund and other luminous authorities — that India’s growth rate will be negative this year. It also believes that inflation, which is currently riding above the 6 per cent ceiling set in mandate for monetary policy-making, is not going down in a hurry; it expects inflation to taper off in the second half of the year because of base effects. Most pundits now believe that the RBI will cut rates by at least another 50 basis points this fiscal even as Mr Modi’s government tries to shrug off its responsibility of kickstarting the economy with a strong stimulus package. The shambolic exercise in May has done nothing to move the needle. The five-year monetary policy mandate runs out in March next year. Urjit Patel, who fought hard when he was Raghuram Rajan’s deputy, must be thanked for changing the mindsets within the establishment in early 2014 and accept the concept of an inflation anchor to policy formulation. The broad 2 to 6 per cent range for consumer price inflation has since acquired legislative backing. The RBI has a vague mandate to spur growth too but with no numerical targets or metrics set on that count. Later this year, discussions will begin on a new template. More demons could emerge from that exercise than a flailing Mint Street can deal with. Mr Modi can then focus on his real mission: persuade the nation to clang pots and pans and pray for growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
10-08-2020||Opinion||Help at hand: Development assistance||For decades, the idea of development aid has been debated and marred by controversies. The current pandemic has further divided the conversation, opening up a Pandora’s box, overhauling the meaning attributed to development aid. First, the word, aid, is considered problematic and faulty as it seems stuck in a time warp. Highlighting the international governance of the 20th century, aid reflects the domination of a handful of rich countries, particularly from the Western world who take precedence in decision-making. Cut to the 21st century where the governance landscape is undergoing a change with the emergence of democratic values, where small and poor countries hold the potential to bring a decisive change in the system, where the rise of the South is believed to be the new normal, where civil society has moved away from the periphery to the centre, and aid has a new dimension added to it. The words, cooperation or assistance or even partnership, appear more suitable now. The journey from aid to cooperation has been nothing short of difficult. Interestingly, in these times of the coronavirus, those countries that have traditionally been categorized as middle-income countries are now taking centre stage by offering assistance to the more advanced countries. For example, China shipped essential health supplies, including respirators and protective suits to Italy and Spain earlier this year. This trend, or more specifically, the rise of the South is now being gradually considered as the new normal. In fact, the arrival of ‘emerging’ donors is slowly shaking up the international development architecture for the better. In this context, India has invariably remained at the forefront by providing development assistance to countries in its immediate neighbourhood and beyond even before it achieved independence. For example, cooperation on humanitarian grounds has been continuously extended by New Delhi to countries affected by disaster, especially to Mozambique, Nicaragua, Libya and Myanmar.New opportunity Experts stress how development assistance has been an integral part of India’s foreign policy even before Covid-19 arrived on the scene whereby the meaning of development is aligned more with the global good than charity. It is believed that the coronavirus is likely to open up a world of opportunities for India, spurring a wave of international cooperation. The post-Covid-19 scenario carries the potential of shouldering the weight of multi-alignments between different actors as development cooperation spearheaded by the South will gradually take the spotlight. Even though it is too early to predict how the states might behave in the coming months, it would not be completely wrong to anticipate that the trade rules in the post-Covid-19 world will be slightly altered. Since 2013, Chinese investments in the Belt and Road Initiative-affiliated nations have been viewed with suspicion. It has also been noticed that several of these developing countries have fallen into a debt trap by taking on loans which they find difficult to repay. Given the hostility China has been facing owing to the origin of the deadly virus, many countries will either be wary or sceptical of welcoming investments from Beijing. This opens up a new realm for New Delhi’s development cooperation initiatives in South Asia. This borderless crisis faced by the international community today asserts the fact that no country can fight this pandemic in isolation. Emerging new trends in the arena of development cooperation increasingly suggest that an amalgamation of both developing and developed countries could bring about sustainability. Countries which cooperate and contribute financially can also receive funding since nation states at different trajectories of development need support. The coronavirus pandemic has taught us that global solidarity is not just philanthropy but it is fundamental to our very existence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
10-08-2020||Opinion||A flawed vision||For some reason, reports on India’s ‘tiger numbers’ get a lot of people excited. This was the case on July 28, 2020 when a report on the country’s tiger numbers from 2018 was released accompanied by profuse self-laudatory statements. The fact is there is nothing new in this report because the same results were released by the prime minister a year earlier. Perhaps everyone was bedazzled by the beautiful tiger photos and glossy production values, which are, of course, new. Several scientists, including this author, who have been working on this topic for years, have presented robust critiques of India’s tiger surveys. They clearly demonstrate their multiple flaws. And the consequent invalidity of the results. These critiques have been published in scientific journals as well as in the popular media. They have pointed out the total opacity of these government tiger surveys with regard to data access, field methods, details of sampling effort, as well as about the statistical models employed. Even amateur naturalists and journalists have pointed out cases of errors in individual identification of tigers in the photographic captures and other related problems. Clearly there is no awareness in the upper echelons of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change that the ‘results’ they have branded as the ‘gold standard’ is the same old wine in a new bottle. Here is my attempt to demystify these camera-trap-based tiger surveys for the readers. Obviously we all need to know whether the massive national efforts at conserving tigers are succeeding or failing. Major investments have been made, and even lives lost by forestry staff and public in this endeavour over the past 50 years. However, counting wild animals is a technically difficult enterprise. This is particularly true of tigers whose potential habitat in India covers over 300,000 square kilometres of rugged forests. Their low population densities and elusive nature indeed posed many challenges when I began trying to estimate their numbers using camera traps in 1991. However, if we focus on only tiger population ‘sources’ which are at reasonable densities that produce surplus tigers that disperse into the wider ‘sink’ forest landscapes, the task becomes easier because these source populations cover only 30,000-45,000 square kilometres (10-15 per cent) of the potential habitat. This is the area in which 80-90 per cent of wild tigers occur. The most reliable method for estimating tiger densities (number of tigers/100 sq.km) and numbers is the ‘Photographic Capture-Recapture Sampling’. Automated camera traps are used to unambiguously identify each individual tiger from their unique body markings. If photos are only of one flank of the tiger, or are unclear for multiple other reasons, the individual identity itself becomes uncertain and further analyses dubious. An even bigger challenge is that only some unknown proportion of tigers will be photographed. A statistical modelling approach of ‘capture-recapture sampling’, if used correctly, can estimate what proportion of tigers has been caught in addition to getting a count of identified tigers. Using this additional information, the total number of tigers in that source population, including those missed by the cameras, can be estimated. However, if rigorous sampling protocols are ignored, the entire exercise becomes worthless. The camera trapper is left with only pretty pictures of tigers and anecdotes, but not scientific results. Unfortunately, with a few exceptions, most of the camera trapping conducted under the present government monopoly has been far too logistically complex, technically deficient and overly expensive to boot. These tiger surveys have lacked necessary rigour both in their field and analytical methods right from their beginning in 2005. The institutional problems such as ‘data fudging’ and scientific issues such as the lack of data transparency cannot be fully elaborated in this brief column. However, a few key issues are critical. Incorrect identification of individual tigers is a problem, which has been highlighted many times by amateur naturalists as well as by scientists. Without addressing this problem, many tigers will continue to be counted multiple times. A linked problem is of linking each tiger photo with its exact time and place of capture. In 2009, I was involved with the MoEF in setting up an elaborate, detailed protocol that comprehensively laid out how photographic and ancillary data should be recorded in the field, gathered, collated and labelled to ensure that correct identifications and capture histories are generated. These protocols, put on the National Tiger Conservation Authority website, apparently, have not even been fully understood by those who are conducting surveys in the field. As a result, incorrect tiger identities with multiplication of tigers, mixing up of capture locations and timings and even capture seasons are commonplace in the raw tiger survey data. And none of this information is ever made public because the raw data in the form of photos, ancillary information and field protocols are locked up as if they hold India’s military secrets. Even 15 years after the first surveys were conducted in 2005, not even qualified scientists are permitted to examine these data, gathered at a cost of over Rs 100 crore to India’s taxpayers. A fundamental requirement of Photographic Capture-Recapture Sampling is to ensure that the tiger population from which the sample of individual tigers is drawn remains relatively unchanged during sampling. This assumption, known as ‘population closure’, is a critical one because if it is violated the number of individual tigers caught will continue to accumulate, without the tiger losses being unaccounted for. The net result is to continually inflate the estimated tiger numbers. Rigorous studies try their best to analyse capture data from a reasonably short ‘closed period’ of 30-60 days to ensure that the effect of mortalities, recruitments and movements of individuals is minimized. However, virtually all the government surveys conducted so far appear to have violated the critical closure assumption. Sometimes, photos obtained over months or years are pooled to create the sample ‘data’, which will yield overestimates. No report contains information on dates and locations of the camera trap surveys. The third fundamental problem is the frequency at which individual tiger populations are being monitored. Thriving, healthy tiger populations have high reproduction rates (a female produces about 15 cubs in her lifetime), and high mortality rates of 15-20 per cent per year. To track the fate of a population accurately, both ‘recruitments’ (number of tigers added) and losses have to be estimated. This needs to be done annually, not once in four years if the results are to be meaningful. This is indeed possible, but only if data from the shorter closed period surveys mentioned above can be integrated, over multiple years, using what are called ‘Open Capture-Recapture’ models. Using this approach in a research project extending over 15 years, my colleagues and I have estimated tiger densities, numbers, recruitments and losses for each year in several key populations in India and Thailand. However, the very manner in which the National Tiger Estimation is conducted cannot generate this kind of useful, high-quality data. The results in glossy reports are silent on vital demographic parameters that should have been generated if surveys were properly conducted. In 2017, my long-term collaborator, James Nichols, and I edited a Springer Monograph titled Methods for Monitoring Tiger and Prey Populations in which 31 scientists have presented these useful alternative approaches to tiger monitoring. There have been no takers within India’s tiger establishment for these ideas. The present government makes a case that it has radically overhauled governance in other fields, such as direct transfers or resources to beneficiaries, agriculture sector reforms and so on. However, the fact remains that as far as the monitoring of our national animal is considered, it is continuing the same sloppy, expensive and invalid methods that were initiated by the earlier regime in 2005 based on recommendations of the Tiger Task Force report under the former prime minister, Manmohan Singh. It is not a surprise to me that the same bureaucratic institutions and individuals, who created this self-serving National Tiger Estimation approach in 2005, have continued to run the same show to this day. Therefore, I for one am not holding my breath for the next tiger survey due in 2022. It will be a new bottle, but the wine will be even older.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Highest single-day spike in casualties takes Covid toll to 189||Jharkhand on Monday reported the highest ever single-day surge in Covid casualties as a dozen patients died within 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in state to 189 while as many as 531 fresh cases of infection were reported taking the patient tally in the state to 18,786. Five of the 12 deaths were reported from East Singhbhum, a district that has recorded 72 Covid casualties so far, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. West Singhbhum and Sahibganj reported two deaths each, while Deoghar and Giridih reported one casualty each. The virus has so far claimed 31 lives in Ranchi, which means that East Singhbhum and Ranchi account for 103 deaths, nearly 55 per cent of the total number of Covid casualties in the state, government data showed. While the Covid mortality rate in the state jumped to 1 per cent on Monday, the recovery rate shot above 50 per cent as Jharkhand reported higher number of recoveries than fresh cases for two consecutive days. On Monday, as many as 531 new cases of infection were reported, while 699 patients recovered, the NHM bulletin highlighted. As per the bulletin, Monday's data takes the Covid tally in the state to 18,786 and the number of active cases to 9,748. Ranchi, which has been the hotbed of SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand so far, reported 62 fresh cases on Monday, while 233 patients recovered here. As per government figures, the Covid tally in Jharkhand's worst-affected district rose to 3,634 on Monday. The tally in East Singhbhum inched towards the 3,000 mark as 67 more people were found infected in the district and only 11 patients recovered. The district's Covid tally was 2,917, the second highest among 24 districts in Jharkhand, till the time this report was filed. The tally in Dhanbad, which has reported the third highest number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, reached 1,045 on Monday as 14 more people were found infected there. As many as 1,037 cases have been reported in Giridih so far. The government has collected swab samples of around 3.93 lakh people so far in state and tested 3.87 lakh of them. The number of Covid cases has also skyrocketed in Jharkhand lately, and the government attributed the spike to intensified testing efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto shows the way for Jharkhand’s ‘matric ministers’||Academic qualifications of Jharkhand ministers is bound to become a hot-button topic of gossip again after state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, a matriculate, got himself enrolled in a Plus-Two school that he had founded a decade back to pursue further studies. On Monday, after enrolling himself at Devi Mahto Inter College in Bokaro district, Mahto said the reason behind going back to class was to silence his detractors, many of whom had taunted about him about being a “mere matriculate” when he took oath as the education minister in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government comprising the JMM, Congress and RJD. But Mahto isn’t the only one in the ministry who is a matriculate. In the 11-member Hemant Soren cabinet, there are four others who have studied up to class 10. And all are in-charge of key portfolios. They are Congress’s Banna Gupta (47), who as the state’s health minister is at the forefront of the Covid crisis; RJD’s Satyanand Bhokta, who holds the labour and employment department at a time when jobs is what the state’s youth are talking about; JMM’s Joba Majhi (55), who is currently state social welfare and women’s development minister; and JMM’s Champai Soren (63), who now heads the state transport ministry. Champai, who has won Assembly elections several times from Seraikela, put his “education” in perspective when he recalled his long association with the Jharkhand andolan alongside the likes of party patriarch Shibu Soren. “Many of us like Jagarnnath, Joba and others, were part of the tribal movement for a separate Jharkhand. Although there is no age limit for studies, when I look back now, I realise I have learnt more from what life has taught me and not books. Despite being a matriculate, I am proud to have come this far, fighting for the cause of the landless and adivasis all my life,” said Champai who cleared his class 10 from RKM High School in Jamshedpur in 1974. Health minister Banna Gupta, who is an MLA from Jamshedpur West, moved to politics after completing his matric from Tata Worker’s Union High School (Bihar secondary education board, Patna) in the steel city in 1989. Gupta was a union leader of auto drivers and owners in Jamshedpur. This is his second stint in government. While he was with Hemant Soren in 2013, he had served as agriculture minister. Over seven lakh migrants who returned to Jharkhand in the wake of the Covid pandemic are looking at labour minister Bhokta with hope. He cleared his matric from Hindi Vidyapeth, Deoghar, in 1994, but discontinued studies thereafter. Bhokta was elected to the state Assembly from Chatra twice, in 2000 to 2009, as a BJP member and also served as state drinking water and agriculture minister in the former Arjun Munda government. Joba Majhi cleared her matriculation from Ram Janaki Kanya High School, Jugsalai, in 1982. She became an MLA for the first time in 1995 when she won from Manoharpur in a byelection held after the murder of her husband, Devendra Majhi. After the formation of Jharkhand, she went on to win from the seat in 2000, 2005, 2014 and 2019. After serving as a Union minister of state for housing in 1998, she was minister in the state in 2005 and 2009. Majhi could not be contacted, but an aide said, “Joba Majhi tried pursuing further studies but never got time, being an active politician who had run a home, too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Get Covid test reports through SMS from Tuesday||You can get your Covid test report via SMS from Tuesday, with state Health Secretary Nitin Kulkarni directing all district deputy commissioners to operationalise the system within the next 24 hours.  Timely testing is important and so is the timely availability of results, Kulkarni said to deputy commissioners on Monday in a letter seen by The Telegraph Online. An SMS is delivered to the person whose sample is collected through the RT-PCR machine, according to the top government official. But there is, at present, no mechanism to provide results of the test through SMS and in some instances, people had to wait for a few days to get information about their Covid-19 results.  The health department with National Informatics Centre (NIC) has developed a solution to send out results to the person concerned through SMS, who has undergone Covid-19 tests along with an option to print out the result report, Kulkarni said in the letter.  Deputy commissioners have been directed to activate a team in each and every district for proper functioning of the SMS system. Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) units of each district are to get in touch with their respective district information officer for getting the login credentials. The district IDSP team will compile the entire list of the testing results sent to them by the government and private laboratories and by the state in case of any outsourced samples, the letter said.  Since conduct of tests and communication of results is a continuous process, in order to ensure seamless and timely communication, it is advisable to populate the portal with available reports in desirable format twice a day i.e at 10AM and at 8PM everyday, the state Health secretary directed.  The district TB officer will send the compiled report of all TrueNat tests done in the specified format to the district IDSP by 10AM and 8PM everyday. The district IDSP will compile all the reports of the Rapid Antigen Tests, TrueNat and from the private labs in the specified format on a daily basis keeping in view of the above mentioned timelines.  Kulkarni cautioned that utmost care needs to be taken while compiling the data as any wrong information may create confusion and a chaotic situation. The respective district information officer, who has been given the task to verify the files for any format errors that are submitted by the IDSP, shall facilitate the data correction. If required, two people from each district IDSP can be trained in this regard either by the respective district information officer or by the state NIC.  Asking deputy commissioners to personally monitor the progress in the initial days, Kulkarni directed them to constitute a dedicated team of two or three persons for smooth functioning and delivering of the results via SMS on a large scale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid takes heavy toll on young people in steel city||Covid is taking a heavy toll on young people in Jamshedpur, who seem to be unable to cope with depression and finding the noose an easy way out. Statistics provided by Jeevan, a Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre, reveal most of the 29 people who committed suicide in July were in the younger age group, with 25 of them being below the age of 45. “It’s very sad to note that young people are committing suicide. We understand that the Covid-induced situation is making people depressed and stressed. However, suicide is not the answer. We think that suicide can be avoided through counselling,” said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. Shedding light on the methods of suicide, 25 killed themselves by hanging, two by coming under a train, and one each by drowning and self-immolation. “Hanging seems to be the most common option as far as the method of suicide suggests,” Jain told The Telegraph Online. According to him, financial crises, family disputes, stress, depression, and for one, a failed love affair, have emerged as the reasons behind the suicides in July. The number of suicide cases was 16 in January, 10 in February, 12 in March, 18 in April, 20 in May and 30 in June. The list included people mostly in the younger age group. Jain said the number of distressed people dialling Jeevan has come down since their helpline numbers are not properly advertised. “A social organisation has come forward to help us out by distributing pamphlets with our helpline numbers mentioned. The pamphlets are being distributed at general and medicine shops across Jamshedpur,” Jain informed. During the days after coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown in March, Jeevan was receiving around 10-12 calls daily. However, now the number of distress calls has dropped to just 3-4 per day at Jeevan, which operates in collaboration with Tata Steel Foundation and district administration. Jain explained that people needing help used to call on a regular basis since the helpline numbers were displayed prominently during the lockdown. “Our volunteers are reaching out to a maximum number of people who need our counselling and help,” said Jain. Get in touch with Jeevan volunteers on 9297777499, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Search for more hospitals amid Covid surge in steel city||The East Singhbhum district administration has started scouting for health hubs to turn them into designated Covid hospitals in and around Jamshedpur as all existing facilities are full. On Monday, the district administration identified Abadh Dental Hospital, on NH-33 on way to Ghatshila, to turn into a Covid treatment facility.  Another hospital on the highway, Uma Superspeciality Hospital, was identified on Sunday and it will start functioning from Wednesday, setting aside 50 beds for Covid patients. District civil surgeon Rajendra Nath Jha confirmed that there was a shortage of beds for treatment of Covid patients. "Tata Main Hospital, which has the largest facility for the treatment of serious Covid patients and asymptomatic patients, besides providing isolation facilities, is almost filled,” he told The Telegraph Online. In all, Tata Main Hospital has 890 beds. Of these, 600 are on the hospital premises while the remaining 290 beds have been set up at GT hostel No 1, 3 and 4 beside Hotel Sonnet, Jha explained. He said MGM Medical College and Hospital had a 100-bed Covid ward, but the number of patients admitted there has exceeded capacity. Jha said the medical college authorities had converted several staff quarters on the premises into the Covid treatment facilities. The civil surgeon pointed out that other hospitals, like St John's Hospital along the NH-33 and Tata Motors Hospital where Covid patients were being treated, were also full. "On an average, 100 people are testing positive for the coronavirus every day from the East Singhbhum district. But, as the recovery rate is 62.2 per cent the volume of patients is increasing at hospitals," Jha stated. As of Monday afternoon, the total number of Covid cases recorded in East Singhbhum district was 2,812, of which 1,082 have recovered and 76 have died. Currently, there are 1,654 active cases in the district. On Monday, four persons, two of them women, died at Tata Main Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dialysis centre for Covid patients at Dhanbad Sadar Hospital||After the re-launch of dialysis facility at Central Hospital Dhanbad for Covid patients last month, another dialysis facility for Covid patients was unveiled on Monday at the Sadar Hospital here as per the direction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. Talking to The Telegraph Online, M Hussain, in-charge of the dialysis centre at Sadar Hospital by DCDC Kidney Care said, “We are already running a two-bed facility for the general (non-Covid) patients but now we have also developed another two-bed facility for Covid patients." Hussain added, "There is usually a huge rush of non-Covid patients for dialysis facility so out of the two beds developed for Covid patients, we will allocate only one bed to Covid patients now as very few Covid patients require dialysis facility. We will increase it to two for Covid patients as and when required.” Talking about the challenges faced by the hospital in treating Covid patients, Hussain said, “We had to make separate arrangements of reverse osmosis water supply, separate drainage for the waste products of the Covid patients and also separate toilet facilities to avoid any infection to non-Covid patients.” He added that they also carried out counselling of non-Covid patients visiting Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad for dialysis to avoid any confusion among them. The dialysis facility at Sadar Hospital for non-Covid patients was launched about three months ago on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. “Though we have to install a total of 10 beds at the hospital, we will increase the number of beds as per the assessment of requirement of patients. Procuring machines and then keeping them idle will lead to exhaustion of battery and other issues,” said Hussain. Dhanbad DC Singh on July 22 instructed the Chief Medical Superintendent of Central Hospital, AK Gupta to relaunch the dialysis facility at the hospital lying non-functional for a while in order to provide the dialysis facility to covid patients by July 30. The BCCL management restored the facility by July 25 itself. Singh during the same day had also instructed different hospitals including Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality Hospital, Asharfi Hospital Limited and Pragati Medical and Research Centre to keep two beds each in their respective hospitals reserved for the  dialysis facility of Covid patients. The DC also pulled up the management of Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality hospital for denying dialysis facility to a Covid-affected patient despite the fact that the district administration has instructed the hospital on July 20 itself to provide dialysis facility to the patient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Free of cost oxygen for the poor in steel city||With the virus cases on the rise in steel city and many patients gasping for air, Marwari Yuva Manch (MYM) on Monday opened an oxygen bank where oxygen cylinders will be distributed free of cost to below-poverty line (BPL) patients.   Presently, the MYM has 11 cylinders at its disposal, each weighing 14.3 kg.  “There is a spike in Covid cases in Jamshedpur and there are very few beds available at the hospitals. Oxygen is vital for patients in these difficult times. We thought of opening an oxygen bank to help people overcome the crisis. Cylinders will be given free of cost to BPL patients. We felt it is our responsibility to help people who have tested Covid positive,” said MYM president Amit Khandelwal.  Two oxygen cylinders have already been made available to BPL patients.  The oxygen bank will be operating from Bistupur and Adityapur from where the cylinders will be made available to the needy. “Family members of BPL patients shall have to deposit photo copies of their (patient) aadhaar card, BPL card and doctor’s prescription, The documents have to be duly attested by ward councillors, mukhias (village head) and MLAs of their respective areas. The ward councillor or mukhia or the concerned MLA shall have to take guarantee of the cylinders,” Khandelwal told The Telegraph Online.  The initiative was launched at Adityapur in presence of office incharge Rajendra Prasad Mahto.  Khandelwal said non-BPL patients need to deposit a cheque of Rs 12,000 as security money which will be refunded once the cylinder is returned. “The oxygen cylinder will be free for seven days but Rs 50 per day will be charged after seven days,” the Manch president added.  Justifying the per day charge, the MYM president said there can be people who may keep the oxygen cylinder even when there is no need for an oxygen cylinder for the concerned patient.  According to him, the oxygen cylinders have been sponsored by well wishers from the Marwari community of Jamshedpur. “We have arranged the cylinders from suppliers in Jamshedpur and Adityapur. However, presently there is a shortage of oxygen cylinders,” Khandelwal added.  The needy can obtain the cylinder by dialling Khandelwal (7549777770) and Prakash Sharma (9334811006).  The MYM is also lending its support in arranging blood for the needy in Covid times. Members donate blood during camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Minister advocates home quarantine for those with mild Covid symptoms||The state health minister Banna Gupta, inarguable the one who is facing the brickbats from people battling a pandemic, agrees that the going has been tough, but says that Jharkhand is definitely better prepared to deal with Covid-19 now than it was four months ago. Gupta admits there is a crisis of hospital beds. Therefore, he advocates a change in the line of action. “After discussions with chief minister Hemant Soren we might decide on home quarantine for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms,” he says. The minister agrees that the Jharkhand, and other poor states like it, would have to develop a far robust health infrastructure because “we don’t know what lies in the future”. He also seems to suggest that lockdowns are perhaps not the best way forward for a state like Jharkhand. We don’t want people to suffer any more. We may look at graded restrictions in red, orange and green zones,” he tells The Telegraph Online in an exclusive interview. Excerpts. TTOnline: How far has the state been successful in controlling the pandemic? BG: The government is working to its full capacity and with commitment. We started work even when there were few cases. This is not only a state problem. It is an international issue. The death rate in Jharkhand is lower than the rest of the country, but even one death is a loss to us. Yes, patients with high blood pressure, diabetes and kidney issues are at greater risk. Age is another factor. People are confused about costs, be it a Covid test or treatment in private hospitals. The government has arranged for free treatment. Four laboratories, approved for Covid testing by the state government, used to charge Rs 4,500 per test. But we reduced it to Rs 2,400. The problem is that nobody was ready to deal with the coronavirus. At the beginning people demanded ventilators and oxygen cylinders. But it was found that the line of treatment was different for patients. Someone who is asymptomatic or has mild symptoms can be cured with simple precautions. For private hospitals, the cost depends on the seriousness of the ailment. However, if any private hospital flouts state government guidelines, they will be penalised. The fear is that there aren’t enough beds for Covid patients. I agree that there is a crisis of beds in hospitals, but hospitals are trying to manage. We have to come up with more Covid hospitals. I have also asked the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner to set up more Covid hospitals, may be, at JRD Tata Sports Complex and DBMS School. People are being told they are Covid positive verbally. They are not getting their reports. There is a backlog of reports and we are trying our best to resolve it. Recently, paramedical staff went on strike which added to the backlog. We have plans to increase testing facilities. We have already made new BSL (bio safety level) labs in Palamau. Others will soon be established in Dumka and Hazaribagh. Compared to just one lab that conducted RT-PCR tests earlier, we have now established multiple labs with the permission of ICMR. Are you planning anything specific for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms? There is a need to change the line of action. After discussions with chief minister Hemant Soren we might decide on home quarantine for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. The only way we can all be safe is through physical distancing and some changes in our habits. Has the government thought about insurance for doctors and health workers? They are our frontline workers and we are indebted to them. The government has linked health workers with insurance coverage of up to Rs 50 lakh. We are working on certain incentives too. Is there a monitoring mechanism for quarantine centres and hospitals? Nothing so far. But we are installing CCTV cameras to monitor cleanliness, hygiene and quality of food being served at quarantine centres and isolation wards. Any plan to deal with the social stigma associated with Covid? There is a lot of awareness. People will gradually understand that we need to care for each other. Many have Covid patients in their homes and are dealing with it. Do you agree the state needs better health infrastructure? We don’t know what lies in the future. We had never heard of Covid. Likewise, we hardly know what kind of diseases will emerge as a result of global warming. So, governments will have to invest in research. East Singhbhum now has the maximum deaths in the state. East Singhbum is surrounded by West Bengal and Odisha. Bihar isn’t too far. People migrate. The total number of deaths in the district also includes those who have come from elsewhere. What is the government’s thinking on lockdowns? The chief minister has to take the final call. But lockdowns affect states badly, especially a state like ours which comprises mostly poor people. We don’t want people to suffer any more. Our focus now is to reduce Covid numbers. We may look at graded restrictions in red, orange and green zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Kolhan region to get 12 real-time air monitoring stations||The three districts of the Kolhan region will soon have 12 continuous, real-time air monitoring stations to be set-up by the Adityapur-based regional office of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB). The locations include the circle and block offices of East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, apart from district collectorates, a few other government buildings and the office of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA) at Adityapur formerly known as Adityapur Industrial Area Development Authority (AIADA). These stations would be equipped with advance dust samplers which will help determine ambient air quality, apart from sulphur-di-oxide and carbon monoxide content in air. Regional officer of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board Suresh Paswan said the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has okayed the move.  "We have started identifying the spots with the help of local district administrations. In each district we will identify four places. We’re zeroing on government buildings for safety and security of the monitoring stations," Paswan told The Telegraph Online. The monitoring stations would function round-the-clock and monitor ambient air quality on real-time basis, he explained. As continuous monitoring involves various processes, special software would be installed to provide direct and real-time measurements of air pollution. "It is an important tool for better compliance. The monitoring stations would help get accurate and real-time data at higher frequency with minimal manual intervention and manpower," Paswan explained. A senior scientific officer of JSPCB said the monitoring stations would be equipped with PM10 dust samplers, which measure particulate matter up to 10 microns. Currently, three manual monitoring stations are functional under the Adityapur regional office of JSPCB. They are based at Bistupur, Golmuri and Adityapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Back on the road for two months, auto drivers still face penury||Two months after the district administration granted permission to operate auto rickshaws, no significant improvement has taken place in the financial condition of auto rickshaw operators, who still face extreme penury. Passengers are unwilling to dish out higher fares fixed for the lockdown period, and operators are facing a crisis, as they have to pay hefty fines for permit charges and other fees. Owing to the lack of proper monitoring, many auto drivers are also ferrying more than the allowed limit of two passengers, thus violating social distancing norms. Talking to The Telegraph Online Sunil Singh an auto driver of Dhanbad who is also president of the auto driver association union Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, said that nothing much has changed for them since the time that auto rickshaws lay stranded during the lockdown. “You can see auto rickshaw drivers jostling with each other when there are only a few passengers,” he said. “With the rise of Covid, very few people are taking the risk to travel in public vehicles. Furthermore, the high charges of fares fixed for the lockdown are deterring passengers. We are also facing losses as we have to wander from one stoppage to another, spending fuel in search for passengers and then returning empty handed,” said an auto rickshaw driver, Shravan Kumar. “Though the transport department has waived off the fitness charges, other charges like permit charges are weighing too heavy on us at a time when we are facing extreme decline in our income” said Sunil Singh. The fine on permit charges renewal is a vexing issue since operators could not renew their permit during the three-month lockdown and are now being compelled to pay fines for non-renewal. “Public transport facilities like buses are still closed. How can we be expected to visit the Regional  Transport Authority office at Hazaribagh,” said Singh. District transport officer, Om Prakash Yadav said, “Though the state has relaxed fitness charges for the lockdown period to an extent, there is no provision for the relaxation in permit charges from same, so we can’t allow any relaxation at the district level also”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||10th pass education minister back to college at 54 to silence critics||Jharkhand's School Education and Literacy minister, Jagarnath Mahto, on Monday applied for admission in an inter college to complete his education in a move aimed at putting “scornful remarks” over his academic qualification to rest. Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) MLA, allegedly found himself in the crosshairs of some opposition leaders after he was sworn in as the education minister of Jharkhand earlier this year. Mahto, a son of the soil, was class 10 pass then, and many opposition leaders termed him incompetent in taking up the responsibility due to his poor academic achievements. “I had vowed to complete my education, on the day itself when I took oath as education minister and people taunted on me saying 'metric pass'. It’s a reply to all of them who at several occasions challenge my decision taunting my educational qualification. Now I will study and also elevate the standard of education in my state,” said Mahto to The Telegraph Online after taking admission in Devi Mahto Memorial Inter College in Nawadih. Mahto said that he would pursue class 11 and 12 in humanities, and also go for graduation in political science after successfully passing class 12. “I have been in active politics for years now. I think studying political science will help me understand politics better, and also keep me interested in academics,” he said. The 54-year-old completed class 10 under Bihar School Examination Board in 1995 from Nehru High School in Telo, which was very far from his house in Alargo under Chandrapura Block. He did not pursue any further studies. "I had passed with second division marks. I dropped my education as I got involved in Jharkhand Andolan (a movement demanding separate state),” said the education minister. Mahto said that his aim was not only to study, but also impart quality education to students in Jharkhand. Devi Mahto Inter College, where Mahto is set to take admission, is also run by the minister himself. “Hum sirf padhenge hi nahi, padhayenge bhi (I will not only study, but also teach),” he said in affirmation. When asked why he chose Monday to take admission, Mahto said “Today is very good for me and my party JMM as today is the birthday of our chief minister Hemant Soren.” Mahto is a two-time MLA from Dumri, which falls in Giridih Lok Sabha constituency. As education minister, Mahto recently took a decision of waiving all forms of additional school fees in private schools other than tuition fee in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also directed all private schools not to sack any teaching or non-teaching staff during the lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll jumps to 177 as nine more die||The Covid toll reached 177 in state on Sunday after nine patients, including three from East Singhbhum and two from Ranchi, died during treatment, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. East Singhbhum, the 2nd worst-affected district in Jharkhand, has already reported 66 Covid deaths, which is more than 35 per cent of the total casualty count in state. Ranchi, which has the highest number of active cases, has reported 31 deaths so far as per government data. As many as 530 fresh cases of infection surfaced in state on Sunday, taking Jharkhand's Covid tally to 18156. However, state's Covid recovery rate touched 50 per cent on Sunday as 607 patients were discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection. Jharkhand's recovery rate had nosedived below 35 per cent in July, when cases skyrocketed and relatively fewer recoveries were reported, health officials said. On Sunday out of 5182 samples collected, 4953 samples were tested and 530 were found to be positive. The total number of recoveries in State surpassed the count of active cases on Sunday. As per NHM bulletin, as many as 8998 people have recovered so far and 8981 are infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand. As per government figures, Garhwa reported 85 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest among all districts. Ranchi, which has been witnessing triple-digit-spike in cases every day lately, reported 71 fresh cases of infection on Sunday, while East Singhbhum reported 48 cases. The tally in Ranchi was 3563 on Sunday. Meanwhile, Dhanbad became the third district to have over 1000 Covid cases after Ranchi and East Singhbhum. The tally in East Singhbhum was 2792 while in Dhanbad it was 1004. On August 8 night, Ranchi topped the list after detecting a maximum of 412 cases, the highest ever single-day spike of any district. Besides, Giridih reported the second highest number of cases adding 286 patients. Of the 14 deaths reported on Saturday, seven occurred in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, four in Dhanbad and one each in Ranchi, Godda and Koderma districts. The Centre on Saturday advised 13 districts including Ranchi across eight states and a Union territories to focus on ramping up testing and addressing delays in diagnosis results, flagging that the coronavirus disease case fatality rate in these regions was higher than the national average and that they contributed 14% of all deaths due to the disease in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
10-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid shadow on World Tribal Day in Ranchi||The International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples was a low-key affair in Ranchi this year because of the restrictions imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The state government decided that the World Tribal Day (as the day is also known as) will be a state holiday every year,” chief minister Hemant Soren declared. But since the day fell on a Sunday, people did not get a separate holiday. The theme of the World Tribal Day this year was Covid-19 and the indigenous peoples’ resilience, with focus on preservation and promotion of their traditional knowledge and practices. “The Constitution gave certain rights to the tribals but it is time to assess the achievements made since Independence,” Soren said in a video message to the people. “The pandemic has changed the world and the tribals must remain united and resolve how to go forward in this fast-moving, competitive world with focus on education,” he added. Despite restrictions, a few small groups came out on the streets to mark the day. Some activists like Prabhakar Tirkey and Ratan Tirkey who took active part in the movement for a separate Jharkhand state led one such small group at Albert Ekka Chowk. The state unit of the Congress also organised a small gathering at Bapu Vatika at Morabadi where the party followers led by state unit president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon observed both the tribal day and August Kranti Divas that commemorates Quit India Movement. Soren also went to Morabadi to attend another small function where he paid floral tribute before the statues of tribal freedom fighter brothers, Nilambar and Pitambar and also planted saplings. “I planted saplings of saal and karam with the hope that the trees would help us live in harmony with the nature as those did for centuries,” he said there. Jharkhand is often described as a tribal dominated state that is inhabited by 32 different scheduled tribes, including 9 belonging to particularly vulnerable tribal groups. According to the 2011 census, there were  86.5 lakh tribals residing in Jharkhand who constituted 26.2 per cent of the state’s population. Among the tribals, the Santhals were the largest group with 31.9 per cent of the total tribal population,  followed by the Oraons (19.9%), the Mundas (14.2%) and the Hos (10.7%).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-339
