11-08-2020||Calcutta||Six-city flight ban extended till August 31||The ban on flights to Calcutta from six cities with high Covid prevalence, including Delhi and Mumbai, will be extended till August 31, officials said. The ban was to expire on August 15. “I am further directed to inform you that the suspension of flights from the aforesaid cities to Kolkata will continue till 31 August, 2020,” reads a letter from Bengal’s home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kharola. “We’ll announce the extension of the ban in a day or two,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. The ban on flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad, which have been reporting a large number of Covid-19 cases every day, kicked in on July 6 following a request from the Bengal government. The ban was till July 19 but was extended till July 31 and then till August 15. Airlines had opened bookings for flights between Calcutta and these cities post-August 15 but tour operators said they were not taking any bookings. “Every time passengers have to cancel or rebook. We will book tickets to these six cities only after the state government formally announces resumption of operations. Till then we are booking passengers to these places through other cities,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. An airport official said airlines were suffering heavy losses because of the ban. “The flights to Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai carry at least 25 per cent more passengers compared with flights to other cities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Supply hit, chilli price at Rs 300 a kilo||The price of green chillies has touched Rs 300 a kilo in the city, up from around Rs 200 a couple of weeks back, with traders blaming the steep hike on erratic supply from other states in the run up to lockdown days. Green chillies usually sell for Rs 40 to Rs 60 a kilo in the city around this time. In contrast, the retail price at the Maniktala, Gariahat, Lake market, Entally, Kasba and Behala markets has remained around Rs 300 a kilo for three consecutive days since Saturday. At other markets, the price varied between Rs 250 and Rs 280 a kilo on Monday. Bengal produces around 9.5 to 10 lakh tonnes of green chillies a year, compared with its annual demand of eight lakh tonnes. It remains one of the biggest suppliers of green chillies to other states. But around this time of the year, Bengal has to depend on supplies from other states. Officials at the wholesale hubs in Sealdah and Howrah said that ahead of the lockdowns on August 5 and 8, trucks carrying chillies from other states got stranded at various points. Also, trucks from Nadia and North 24-Parganas were allegedly stopped at Boro Jagulia, Barasat and Kanchrapara, further widening the gap between the supply and the demand. “Nine trucks carrying 15 tonnes of green chillies from Aurangabad’s Buldhana were stranded at different points on August 5. The impact was felt almost immediately,” said Kamal  Dey, the working president of the West Bengal Vendors’ Association. “The wholesale price of chillies stood at Rs 105 a kilo on August 6. It shot up to Rs 150 the next day as the demand soared.” Green chillies, like other vegetables, are highly perishable. Traders said a delay of a few hours on transit could result in a loss of nearly 40 per cent of the produce from each bag. Reduced volume and high demand ahead of the lockdown pushed up the price. “I bought four pallas (one pallah weighs 5kg) of green chillies on Tuesday (August 4) for Rs 110 a kilo from Sealdah. Nearly 25 per cent of the total buy was lost on the two lockdown days. I have no option but to sell the remaining for Rs 300 a kilo,” said Subol Saha, a vegetable vendor at Lake market. “Since local trains are not running, the bulk of the supplies from the districts to Sealdah is dependent on trucks. There are obstacles on the roads, I’m told,” said Pradip Mazumder, adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on agriculture and chairman of West Bengal Agro Industries Corporation Limited. “We have started working on these bottle-necks.” Police officers said there were complaints that trucks carrying vegetables were being stopped. “Orders have been sent to the police superintendents to ensure it doesn’t happen,” said an officer. The state government has decided to regularly monitor the prices of some essential commodities such as potatoes and chillies. The price of potatoes, too, has risen from Rs 25 a kilo a few weeks ago to Rs 35. At a meeting in Nabanna last week, potato producers were asked to ensure that the Jyoti variety reached wholesale markets at Rs 23 a kilo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Students find parents too caught up with phones||Teenagers value family time but often find parents preoccupied with their devices and not trusting them to do something productive on the Net, a group of students have said. Students of various schools attended a workshop for parents on positive parenting — organised by a city school which wanted parents to understand what their children want from them and where they maybe going wrong — on Saturday. Parents should know how to give children time when they are ask for it instead of fiddling with their phones or watching TV, the head of a school said. The gadget can be a “distraction” for an adolescent or a teenager as well as for adults who, too, fail to use it “responsibly” many times, a teacher said. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, organised the workshop on positive parenting for parents of students of Classes IX to XII. Students of various schools voiced their thoughts during the workshop and parents heard them out. “The session was organised to let children tell their parents directly what they want from them. Often, parents do not do a lot of things intentionally but it creates pressure on children even without parents realising,” Bobby Baxter, principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar, said. “Children need to spend time on the phone or the Internet… to talk to their friends and they don’t need parents to breathe down their neck always,” he said. A teenager said they valued the time they could spend with their families but parents were busy browsing the Net or on social media. “Whenever teenagers are on the computer or phone it does not mean that we are aimlessly browsing… on many occasions we do productive work. Parents need to trust their children,” Sreejib Pal, a Class XI student of Julien Day, said. “Online classes are tiring and we need breaks where we can refresh ourselves.” Often parents ignore signals because they are too preoccupied with their devices, according to teachers. “At times parents have to be sensitive to pick up the signals… when the child needs a break from studies, when they need to sit and watch TV or a film together and it is not necessarily passive viewing,” Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School, said. “Children can understand when parents are hard at work and when they are not. Adults should have a sense of responsibility and not be slaves to gadgets always but know when they have to keep it away. They need to behave more maturely with gadgets and not behave as teenagers,” Prasad said. The pandemic has forced children to be inside homes for months and the feeling of not being heard can be very dominant in the absence of school and friends, according to psychiatrists. “Children are used to their voices being heard by their peers and teachers. On many occasions teachers listen to children more than parents… since that school space is obliterated they need to be heard by their parents,” psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram said. “The use of a phone is a serious concern and instead of blaming children always for overuse, parents need to lead by example so that their instructions do not seem hollow.” “When the lockdown began parents did not know how they would spend so much time with their children because their day was structured in a certain way… whether it was spending time with their devices or at work,” Reeta Chatterjee, administrator at Apeejay Schools, said. “If a teenager is on the phone it can separate him/her from the family… similarly if parents are on the phone it will have the same impact on family life,” Aditi Bhattacharya, a Class XI student of The Central Modern School, Barasat said. Aditi said their parents were usually not single children like them. “Most of us are single child… we need that fruitful communication.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Hospital deposit for Covid patients leaves Calcutta doctor ‘aghast’ ||The Bengal health regulatory commission’s permission to private hospitals to take deposits for admissions and ask for removal of  patients within one hour after a 12-hour window belies its mandate of protecting patients, a senior doctor at the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid-19 said on Monday. “Saturday’s advisory allowing private hospitals to seek deposits (up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is less) during admission defeats the purpose for which chief minister Mamata Banerjee had created the commission,” said the doctor who requested anonymity because he did not want his opinion to be misinterpreted as a sign of divisions or an attempt at building personal popularity. “The commission’s mandate was to address the grievances of people in distress who had gone to hospitals,” added the doctor, who is part of the chief minister’s core Covid combat team. “The commission says it’s trying to strike a balance — but is it its job to strike a balance or to give relief to patients at a time Covid-19 has snuffed out livelihoods? Such regulatory bodies should be treading more carefully while trying to strike a balance between the fleecing of patients and keeping the private facilities viable,” he said. The doctor said the legitimisation of the “deposit culture” had left him “aghast”. Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, had said on Saturday that the amount had been fixed for the benefit of both the patients and the hospitals. No response could be ascertained from Banerjee on Monday evening to the doctor’s views as the retired judge had an appointment. The senior doctor said a fear of having to pay deposits could now give people with Covid-19 symptoms one more reason not to visit hospitals. Saturday’s advisory said that if a patient was unable to pay the deposit during admission, the hospital should provide “provisional admission and give adequate necessary treatment required right at that moment”. But if the patient’s family fails to cough up the amount within 12 hours, the hospital “would be at liberty to cancel the provisional admission and ask the patient party to take back the patient within one hour thereafter”. On Monday, the senior doctor from Mamata’s Covid team said: “This could lead to some hospitals not starting the treatment even for critical patients. If they are put in the ICU and the relatives fail to pay the deposit, the patient can’t (morally) be shifted out. This (clause) might lead to more conflicts rather than solving the problem.” Some private hospitals, too, have complained about this clause. The CEO of a private hospital said it would be inhuman to remove such patients or have them shifted to another hospital. A state health department official said the authorities would go through the advisory in detail and then have a discussion with the commission “if necessary”. Another doctor, a member of the commission, raised similar questions. He said the commission had on Monday met to hear grievances lodged by patients and their relatives. “Most of the complaints against private hospitals were about billing. Only a few had complained about medical negligence. This crisis has left people short of cash, and billing is the biggest issue,” he said. Mamata had created the commission in February 2017 following widespread complaints against private hospitals over billing and treatment. “(Do) I have to sell my house, land, valuables, everything (for hospital treatment)? Give my land deeds and fixed deposit? Finish my life? It has to be kept in mind that there’s a social responsibility,” Mamata had said. Apurba Ghosh, senior paediatrician and director of the Institute of Child Health, said the state government should try to ascertain what benefits the private hospitals had received from it while setting up their units. “Many hospitals got land very cheap or almost free from the government on the understanding that they would treat some patients free of cost. This is the time for those hospitals to do it. The government should ask them why they are not doing so,” Ghosh said. He said his hospital, run on a no-profit basis, too asks for small sums as deposits from the patients. But if they are unable to pay up, treatment is not stopped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||JU aspirants can apply online from August 14 to September 4||Students aspiring to study humanities or science at the undergraduate level at Jadavpur University can apply online from August 14 to September 4, a notification uploaded on JU’s website says. Applications are to be made online through the university’s website www.jaduniv.edu.in. Details about the admission will be available on the website from August 14. The original plan was to have the site activated on August 10 in keeping with an advisory from the state government, but the start had to be delayed to make the system ready for online payment. “We ran several rounds of checks to ensure that the payment gateway for application and admission fees works smoothly. This caused a little delay,” said a university official. The higher education department has ordered that this year fees would have to be paid online or through designated banks. Candidates have been barred from paying the fees on the campus as a precaution against Covid-19. “Till last year, those who had the facility could make an online payment. Those who did not, had to go to a bank. This year it will be entirely online so that aspirants do not have to step out of home,” an official said. Each department will publish a provisional merit list as well as a list of provisionally selected candidates for admission. After verification, the provisionally selected candidates of each department will get a link to pay the admission fee online. “The admission fee has to be paid within three working days of getting the link, failing which the candidature will lapse,” said another official. Among the seven departments in humanities, five — English, comparative literature, international relations, sociology and Sanskrit — will admit students based on their plus-II board marks. The Bengali and economics departments will admit candidates based on their plus-II and Class X board marks. In science, while selecting students from the Bengal board, the university will consider marks in the higher secondary as well as Madhyamik exams. Students from the CBSE and the ISC council will be selected based on their plus-II board marks. Classes are likely to start in mid-September. The teachers have suggested that study materials — notes, soft copies of textbooks, powerpoint presentations, and audio and video lectures — be delivered to the students through email and WhatsApp. The university will carry out a survey among students to find out who need smartphones, which are required to download study materials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Janmashtami plan at temple scares Jodhpur Park residents||A pandal spanning the width of a road has been erected near the Jodhpur Park market to mark the foundation day of a streetside temple and organise a puja on the occasion of Janmashtami. Members of the Jodhpur Park Baba Loknath Mandir Committee, which is organising the festivities on Tuesday and Wednesday, said nearly 1,000 devotees would be given prasad over two days. Three counters have been set up for that. Many residents said they were scared about the possible impact of a large congregation in the heart of their neighbourhood at a time the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise. Home to countless elderly people, this south Calcutta neighbourhood went to sleep on Monday night wondering if such celebrations could result in a spike in cases over the next fortnight. An order issued by the Bengal chief secretary on June 8 said “maximum number of persons permitted to enter the places of worship at a time shall be limited to twenty-five (25)”. A ministry of home affairs guideline issued on July 29 said “large public gatherings/congregations continue to remain prohibited”. It added that up to 50 people could be allowed for weddings and up to 20 for last rites or funerals. The organisers of the Jodhpur Park puja defended the scale of the celebrations saying the arrangements “are modest” compared to what happened in previous years. They cited the reduced size of the pandal — “from 240ft-long last year to 40ft this time” — to drive home their point. A member of the organising committee said they had cancelled illumination and a six-day fair, which was a fixture of the festivity, to prevent large gatherings. “Who would keep a check on whether these people are wearing masks or maintaining a distance of at least six feet among themselves,” a resident told Metro. Jodhpur Park residents’ other worry is that many traders from the Jodhpur Park market assemble for the celebrations. “If traders get infected in the gathering, residents may catch the virus from them in the market,” said a resident. Lake police station is aware of the celebrations. An officer of the police station said the celebration had been allowed because it was being held for several years. “They have informed us that they would perform the puja. They will follow government guidelines on holding such programmes,” the officer said. Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of Jodhpur Park Baba Loknath Mandir Committee, said they were “only holding the rituals but all other celebrations have been cancelled”. “We used to have a six-day fair where nearly 30 stalls selling various items were set up. We had decorative lights done by artists from Chandernagore. All these have been cancelled to avoid a large gathering,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Panel to set Covid patient test norm||The regulatory commission for private hospitals has decided to issue a guideline on pathological tests for Covid-19 patients following complaints that some hospitals are conducting unnecessary tests and inflating bills, the chairperson of the commission said on Monday. An eight-member committee of doctors has been formed to frame the guideline, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. Banerjee referred to a case in which a private hospital had billed a patient’s family Rs 23 lakh. The patient, himself a doctor, had passed away at the hospital. “We got hold of the bill and found that Rs 7 lakh had been charged for investigations. Out of that, Rs 5.75 lakh was for pathological tests,” said Banerjee. “We found that one test was done repeatedly. Hence, we decided to form a committee of doctors who can frame a guideline on the kind of tests that are necessary to treat Covid-19.” The commission chairman did not name the hospital. The committee that will prepare the guideline comprises Sukumar Mukherjee and Maitrayee Banerjee, members of the commission; Subhankar Chowdhury, the head of endocrinology at SSKM Hospital; Raja Roy, the head of microbiology at SSKM; Sarbari Swaika, of the critical care department at SSKM; Bibhuti Saha, from the department of tropical medicine at the School of Tropical Medicine; Sushruth Bandopadhyay, a critical care specialist from AMRI Hospitals, Salt Lake; and Tanmoy Banerjee, from Medica Superspecialty Hospital. An order issued by the commission’s secretary said the panel would request the “team of experts to prepare such a guideline to help the Covid-19 treatment that would ultimately reduce the financial burden of the patient”. The order also added that the guideline would be “suggestive and recommendatory” and not binding. The doctor treating a patient will have the final call, it added. An official of a private hospital said there was already a team of doctors appointed by the state health department that visited hospitals after every three to four days. The team checks prescriptions, treatment records and whether patients are being given medicines according to the protocol. “The team also checks the kind of tests being done for a patient,” the official said. Chairman Banerjee said the regulatory commission’s aim was to reduce the financial burden on patients and the team of doctors was appointed keeping that in mind. The official of the private hospital said Covid-19 patients who had low oxygen saturation had to undergo an arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis routinely. Besides, they have to undergo the liver function test because many of the medicines administered to them are toxic for the liver. Also, Covid-19 patients have to routinely undergo a coagulation profile as their body is often found to develop clots. A member of the committee, however, said he was not sure how the panel would function — whether or not the members need to enter wards to verify how Covid-19 patients are being treated. “There are too many committees now. One committee will overlap with the jurisdiction of another. We are not sure how as members of the committee we are going to find out how patients are being treated and what tests they are being subjected to,” he said. The state government has capped the rate of several items such as personal protective equipment (PPE). It had on June 26 issued an order stating that private hospitals could not charge an indoor patient more than Rs 1,000 a day for PPE and other protective gear. Doctors’ consultation fees for indoor patients have been capped at Rs 1,000 a day and the rate for a Covid-19 test at Rs 2,250. Even after the state government’s intervention, there was no let up in complaints of overcharging. Some hospitals were charging patients separately for gloves and sanitiser. There were complaints that hospitals were charging as much as Rs 450 for dispensing sanitiser and masks at the entrance to outpatient departments. The commission had earlier this month issued a series of advisories capping the rates of several services charged by private hospitals and diagnostic laboratories. Private hospitals should not charge an OPD patient more than Rs 150 for Covid gear and laboratories collecting swab samples from home should not demand any extra payment other than a conveyance fee of Rs 15 a kilometre, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Fake’ US cousin in Rs 8-lakh fraud||A Lake Town resident was cheated of Rs 8 lakh by three men, one of whom posed as his US-based cousin in dire straits and sought monetary help, police said. Two of them were arrested on Sunday night and one on Monday based on a complaint Apurv Garg lodged with Lake Town police station, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Garg said in his complaint he had received several WhatsApp messages from a number with the US country code. He could not recognise the number but it had a profile picture of his cousin Abhishek Goel, the police said. The messages sent to Garg pleaded for help and asked him to deposit Rs 8 lakh into a bank account, the officer said. The person sending the messages claimed Goel was using a new phone as he had lost his older one. Worried about the safety and well-being of his cousin, Garg deposited the money into the bank account, the number of which he had received on WhatsApp. A day later, he got to know his cousin hadn’t sent the messages. “He then filed a complaint,” the officer said. Cops started tracking the phone number from which Garg had received the messages and the money trail and zeroed in on Bhavesh Mehta, Nilesh Nimavat and Dhawal Panchami, the police said. They were picked up from their homes. “We tracked down the money trail and arrested all three. We are investigating if anyone else is involved,” the officer said. They have been booked under various IPC sections, including 420 (cheating). A Salt Lake court sent them to police custody for two days. Another investigating officer said the police were trying to find out if the men knew Garg and Goel as the latter’s photograph had been used on WhatsApp. “We will question the men to find out if they know the two brothers. It is likely they do… they knew exactly which photograph to use and were careful to use a number with a US country code,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Trader shot at, friend arrested||A man was allegedly shot at by a friend he was having a drink with near his home in Beleghata on Sunday night. Sushanta Das, 38, who runs a catering business and lives near Beleghata Main Road, has been hospitalised with a bullet wound in his neck. The accused, Raja, alias Guddu Sharma, who works as a data entry operator, has been arrested on charges of attempt to murder. After being shot at, Das somehow managed to reach home, which is 100 metres from the spot, and knocked on the door. His elder sister opened the door and found him bleeding from his neck. “He had mentioned Guddu Sharma’s name to his sister before passing out,” said an officer of Beleghata police station. Sharma, a resident of the neighbourhood, also fled from the spot. He was arrested on Monday. Police said the two were drinking together near Das’s home when the incident happened. “According to the statement of the accused, he and the victim were friends. He said Das had taken out a gun and was pointing it at Sharma. The bullet got fired when the accused tried to snatch the gun from Das,” said a police officer. “Sharma has claimed innocence and put the entire blame on the victim. We are verifying his claims. Circumstantial evidence. however, suggests the gun belongs to Sharma. The motive behind the firing is still not clear,” the officer added. The police said they had seized the weapon, an improvised single-shot gun, from Sharma’s possession after he was arrested. Officers were checking whether any old enmity between the two friends had led to the firing. Das was operated on at a private hospital along EM Bypass on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Mother held on child murder charge||A 21-year-old mother of two was arrested on Sunday on the charge of murdering her three-day-old daughter in February after the post-mortem report suggested she had been strangled to death. The report came in the last week of July. Sonia Sen has admitted to the crime, police said. Sen, a resident of Jagarani Colony off the Bypass in Anandapur, is separated from her husband Provash Barui, who works in a bag-manufacturing unit, over allegations he is into an extramarital relationship, the police said. The couple have a one-and-a-half-year-old son. “She has said in her statement her husband did not help her financially with their son’s upkeep and that she was dependant on her father,” an officer of Anandapur police station said. “She was no longer in a position to ask for more money from her father for another child.” The post-mortem report suggested the infant had been manually strangled. Cops have found that Sen had visited a private hospital near her home with the infant in February on the pretext of illness. The hospital had declared the infant dead. After receiving the post-mortem report, cops apparently had to interrogate Sen for days before she admitted to the crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Fire breaks out in a city building ||A fire broke out on the third and fourth floor of a five-storey building at the crossing of Pollock Street and Hare Street on Monday. The fire in central Calcutta brought back memories of the fire at Nandaram market, barely 600m from the spot, 12 years ago. People of the area spotted thick black fumes emanating from the building, painted in white, at 18B Brabourne Road around 4.45pm. The building, known locally as PNB Building, has several offices across the floors. The fire brigade was alerted and members of the city police’s disaster management group joined in after a while. It took at least 22 fire engines to bring the blaze under control. Police said there were no casualties. The building, located amidst offices and wholesale markets in Dalhousie, posed a challenge for the fire brigade as the area has several multi-storey buildings in narrow lanes. Hydraulic ladders were used and a joint team of cops and firefighters began work on dousing the flames. Traffic on Brabourne Road was diverted and the area cordoned off. Most offices in the building were shut and the few that had opened in the morning had almost downed their shutters for the day by the time the leaping flames could be spotted from a distance. Firefighters and members of the disasters management group helped people struggling to get down the stairs of the building. Most of them were guards and members of the building’s maintenance team who live in the building, the police said. “One person had to be rescued from the rooftop,” Firhad Hakim, chairman of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said. He was later identified as Gopa Bondhu Das, 52, a liftman. He was taken to SSKM Hospital where he was treated and discharged. Hakim had turned up at the site, along with fire and police officers. Sujit Bose, the fire and emergency services minister, joined Hakim to oversee the firefighting. “It is still not clear how the fire began. A forensic test will be carried out on Tuesday. The fire was brought under control in three hours,” Bose said. “We were worried because several buildings are close to the one that caught fire,” a person in the area said. “The hydraulic ladders were very helpful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Hoteliers hold out career hope||The slump in business because of the pandemic is not permanent. Once it passes, skilled professionals in the hospitality industry will be back in demand, seasoned hoteliers said at a virtual session on Sunday. Aspiring hospitality professionals should hone their skills and be ready to grab opportunities that come their way as the economy kick-starts, they said. Virtual Insights — an ABP initiative in partnership with IIHM presents a virtual session on “Careers in Global Hospitality Management” was held between 5pm and 6pm on Sunday on Zoom platform. Over 1,000 people — mostly students and their parents — watched the session, according to organisers. “Our industry took the biggest hit. We depend on travel a lot. Since flights are closed… we are facing a challenge. But this is not going to be the new normal. The new normal is going to be same as what it was… with a little more emphasis on hygiene. This is just a phase,” Kumar Shobhan, general manager, Hyatt Regency Kolkata, said. The hospitality industry has overcome challenges in the past, he said, citing “2008, when the economy was completely flat”. Vijay Malhotra, cluster executive chef, ITC Royal Bengal and ITC Sonar, said safety and hygiene audits were not new to the hospitality sector. “We are the torchbearers for all these protocols now being followed at malls and shops.” On recruitments, he said: “The team is going to be spruced up…. Replacements are going to be sought as and when people move out. It is wrong to say that people are not going to be hired. It is just a passing phase where businesses are at a low. But the succession has to carry on. People have to be there… so that they are well-trained and ready to take on the mantle tomorrow when the responsibilities fall on them.” Suborno Bose, chairman and CEO of IIHM and IHC London, moderated the session. “Business cannot continue to happen over virtual platforms,” he said. “Once travel starts picking up, the hospitality sector will bounce back strongly.” Abdullah Ahmed, director, IIHM Delhi and associate director, Indismart Global, delved into the past. “Mankind picks up. It picked up after WW I. It picked up after WW II. It is going to pick up again the same way.” Ahmed asserted that India was poised to recover strongly once the pandemic was over. “We could not be at a better place than India at this point of time. We are 130 crore people. We depend massively on our internal consumption and our internal demand. We produce and we consume — 130 crore people need food, they have desires, they want to buy something. So, the moment Covid-19 passes away, we will be the fastest to pick up.” Multiple questions from viewers centered on the lack of practical training as classes had shifted online. Abdullah said: “We are keeping a tight eye on the situation. As soon as we get government approval, we will start physical classes and practical lessons. We will go for multiple batches a day… work on Sundays. We will ensure you get the required exposure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Business||Equity mutual funds see outflow for first time in 4 years||Equity mutual funds saw their first outflow in four years in July as profit booking by investors saw them making net withdrawals of Rs 2,480.35 crore. In the preceding month, the net inflows into these schemes stood at Rs 240.55 crore. The schemes have been showing a declining trend since April, attracting Rs 11,723 crore in March, Rs 6,213 crore in April and Rs 5,257 crore in May. Data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) on Monday showed that the outflows were maximum in the case of multi-cap funds at Rs 1,033 crore (net outflows of Rs 778 crore in June). It was followed by mid-cap, contra and focussed funds. Barring equity-linked saving schemes that saw an inflow of Rs 279 crore) and focused fund (Rs 535 crore) categories, all the other equity segments witnessed a net outflow. Experts said that the net outflow was because of profit booking by investors amid concerns about expensive valuations in the market despite the rising number of coronavirus cases in India and an economy under contraction. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed a net inflow of Rs 89,813 crore across all segments last month, much higher than Rs 7,265 crore seen in June. This inflow has been attributed to the infusion in liquid and low-duration funds. The assets under management (AUM) of the industry as a whole increased 5 per cent to Rs 27.3 lakh crore. Amfi chief executive N. S. Venkatesh attributed the outflow to withdrawal from multi-cap and large cap funds because of profit-booking by investors. He added that investor confidence in the market continues to be robust, going by rising net fresh SIP registrations and overall increase in the average asset under management of mutual funds since the pandemic. Debt mutual fund schemes, he noted, are an attractive proposition, with a benign interest rate environment leading to better yields as also superior risk management by the debt fund managers. “The outlook for the mutual fund flows for the rest of 2020-21 would continue to be encouraging with rising digital-driven inflows, accommodative stance on interest rates by the RBI, improving macro-economic environment and a pick-up in economic activity on the back of easing of lockdown,’’ Venkatesh observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Unions call off coal strike after delay in commercial mining auction ||Coal industry unions have deferred a one-day strike scheduled on August 18. The strike was called against the government decision to open up the sector for commercial coal mining by private players. Five central trade unions — BMS, HMS, AITUC, CITU and INTUC — last month declared their decision to go on a one-day strike against issues such as commercial coal mining, disinvestment of Coal India and the wages of contract workers. However, a deferment of the auction process has now prompted the unions to call off the strike for the time being. The auction of blocks earmarked for commercial mining will now take place between October 19, 2020 and November 9, 2020. Difficulties in site visits by prospective bidders because of the lockdown and the need to review the initial list of 41 coal blocks after objections were raised over ecological concerns have led to a delay. “The auction dates have been deferred by the government. So, the strike has also been deferred,” said D.D. Ramandan of the CITU-affiliated All India Coal Workers Federation. “A date has not been fixed yet. The unions will meet in October and take a further call on the strike,” said Nathulal Pandey of HMS. Informally, it has been discussed among the unions that a protest could happen between November 5 and November 9 ahead of the nominated authority of the Centre recommending the successful bidders on November 11, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Lockdown: passenger vehicle sales skid 25% ||Passenger vehicle sales in July declined 25.19 per cent to 1,57,373 units over the corresponding period last year as the impact of the pandemic on vehicle offtakes continues, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (Fada) said on Monday. Pitching for industry-specific policies to boost demand for the speedy revival of the auto sector, Fada president Ashish Harsharaj Kale said as the country continues to open up, July saw better registrations compared with June, though on a year-on-year basis recovery in the auto sector is yet to be anywhere near normal. Two-wheeler sales declined 37.47 per cent to 8,74,638 units last month from 13,98,702 units in July 2019. Commercial vehicle sales declined 72.18 per cent to 19,293 units compared with 69,338 units in July 2019. Total sales across categories declined 36.27 per cent to 11,42,633 units last month against 17,92,879 units in the year-ago month. Current market conditions are still not indicative of the actual demand situation on an all-India level and retail sales continue to decline in huge double digits despite the low base of last year. The rural market, however, continues to show strong sales growth for tractors, small commercial vehicles and motorcycles as monsoon continues its good spell, Kale said. Banks and NBFCs though flush with high liquidity are still cautious about funding, affecting demand revival, especially in the commercial vehicle, three-wheeler and two wheeler segments, he added. Maruti Suzuki India continued to lead domestic passenger vehicle retails in July, followed by Hyundai, Tata Motors and M&M.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||ICICI kicks off QIP issue to mobilise Rs 15,000 cr||ICICI Bank has set a floor price of Rs 351.36 per share for its qualified institutional placement (QIP) to mobilise Rs 15,000 crore, while InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of budget carrier IndiGo, announced its plans to mobilise Rs 4,000 crore. Last month, the board of ICICI Bank had cleared a proposal to raise Rs 14,000 crore. In a regulatory filing to the bourses after the market hours, the lender said its board will meet on August 14 to determine the issue price for the institutional buyers. The bank has set the floor price for QIP at a discount of over 3 per cent to Monday’s close of Rs 363.60 on the BSE. The bank’s issuance committee, which met on Monday evening, decided to open the QIP immediately and set the floor price of Rs 351.36 per share at the end of the board meeting. Mortgage lender HDFC had last week announced plans to raise  Rs 14,000-crore through the issue of equity shares and warrants and up to Rs 9,000 crore via secured redeemable non-convertible debentures.  HDFC’s  QIP comprised Rs 10,000 crore through equity shares and Rs 4,000 crore from warrants. Axis Bank had also witnessed a strong response to its QIP which sought to raise Rs 10,000 crore.  Earlier, Kotak Mahindra Bank had mobilised Rs 7,000 crore through this route. The lenders are raising funds as they prepare for a possible rise in bad loans during the second half of this fiscal. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also asked them to shore up their capital base. ICICI Bank had decided to set aside Rs 5,500 crore as provisions for possible reverses on the loan book in the June quarter, where its consolidated net profit grew 24 per cent to Rs 3,118 crore on the back of one-time gains on stake sales in insurance arms. Analysts are  divided on how the bad loan situation unfolds as some feel that non-performing assets (NPAs) will not see a huge rise after the central bank announced a one-time restructuring mechanism last week. Banks will, however, have to make a provision of at least 10 per cent on cases where such a restructuring has been done. “We believe that the restructuring will certainly slow down/defer the NPA formation well below the RBI’s expectation, while 10 per cent provisioning cost for banks should discourage unwarranted restructuring,’’ analysts at Emkay said in a recent note. The financial stability report of the RBI, released last month, had projected that baseline gross bad loans for the system would rise to 12.5 per cent of bad assets and in the worst case to 14.5 per cent during this fiscal from 8.5 per cent as of March 31, 2020. The projection did not factor in a restructuring mechanism. InterGlobe Aviation’s board has approved a plan to raise up to Rs 4,000 crore through a qualified institutional placement of shares, subject to the approval of the company’s shareholders and receipt of applicable regulatory approvals. Ahead of the announcement, its shares settled 1.43 per cent higher at Rs 952.90 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Bank of Baroda reports over Rs 800cr loss||State-owned Bank of Baroda on Monday reported a standalone net loss of Rs 864 crore for the June quarter of 2020 because of higher provisions and contingencies. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 710 crore in the same quarter a year ago. “On account of provisioning on standard accounts of Rs 1,811 crore, the bank has reported a (standalone) net loss of Rs 864 crore and a consolidated net loss of Rs 679 crore,” Bank of Baroda said. Interest income fell 2.38 per cent to Rs 18,494 crore from Rs 18,944 crore a year ago. Total provisions and contingencies for the quarter jumped 71.32 per cent to Rs 5,628 crore from Rs 3,285 crore a year ago. Gross non-performing assets fell to 9.39 per cent of gross advances as on June 30, 2020, from 10.28 per cent a year ago. Tata group firm Titan Company on Monday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 297 crore for the June quarter, impacted by lower income because of the pandemic. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 364 crore a year ago. Total income declined 61.21 per cent to Rs 2,020 crore from Rs 5,208 crore earlier, Titan said. Titan Company managing director C.K Venkataraman said: “The recovery in business, particularly in the jewellery business is encouraging and we expect to get back to normalcy by the fourth quarter of this year.” Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL), a leading PSU oil company in Assam, has recorded a dip in revenue from operations at Rs 14,073 crore in 2019-20 compared with Rs 18,511 crore in 2018-19 because of lower sales and a reduction in prices of petroleum products in the international market. “Profit before tax fell to Rs 1,735 crore from Rs. 3,052 crore a year ago. Profit after tax decreased to Rs 1,381 crore from Rs 1,968 crore in 2018-19,” NRL said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Gadkari asks to reduce China import dependency||The government plans to encourage the manufacturing of select products to boost import substitution. Addressing a virtual MSME conclave organised by the Ficci Karnataka State Council, Union MSME minister Nitin Gadkari said there is a need to think on how India can increase exports and reduce import dependence. Speaking about Chinese exports, Gadkari said 30 per cent of the entire global manufacturing is based in China and there are 10 major export categories that comprise 70 per cent of its overall exports, including fields such as electrical machinery and equipment. “Now, this is the time... we should identify which are the fields where we can make import substitution, how we can develop the MSMEs and the industry by which we can take advantage of the economic situation in the world,” said Gadkari, who is also the road transport and highways minister. Refuting criticism for supporting the domestic industry and putting a check on imports, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said we want to protect our industries so that they can get a fair play and access. “What we are trying to do is make sure our domestic industry gets a fair play. How can it be that one country does not allow tyres to be exported to them but wants free imports of tyres from that country into India? “There has to be equal, fair and reciprocal arrangement. If other countries are keen to enter the 1.3-billion Indian market opportunity, they will also have to give our businesses an equal opportunity to engage in their countries,” Goyal said at the Ficci event. “They can’t put technical barriers or regulations on our products and then complain if we put any standards in our country.” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court raps bankrupt telecom operators for filing insolvency||The Supreme Court on Monday asked telecom operators Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Aircel and others why they went in for insolvency proceedings when they had more than Rs 40,000-crore dues in adjusted gross revenues hanging over them. The court asked the department of telecommunications (DoT)  why it did not move the apex court against the insolvency cases at the National Company Law Tribunal where national resources such as spectrum were listed as assets, meaning they could be sold to pay off dues. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the DoT,  told the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah: “We have told the NCLT that spectrum can’t be owned by anyone… We have raised the point that a company which is to go into insolvency cannot show the spectrum as one of the assets. Spectrum cannot be owned by anyone like this. Government is the trustee. Spectrum is a national asset.” The bench, which is hearing  the case relating to the payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore dues in adjusted gross revenue (AGR) from the private operators to the exchequer, adjourned the matter till Friday, by which time the operators and the DoT will have to come up with their position on the insolvency claims. The solicitor-general told the court that Aircel had shown spectrum as its assets in the insolvency proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal(NCLT). “What’s the material placed on record for the insolvency? What were the reasons to initiate insolvency,” Justice Mishra asked. The solicitor-general said it was for the respective companies to address the court on the issue. “We have told the NCLT that spectrum cannot be an asset of a company. Cannot be sold.” He said the objections raised by the Centre against the sale of R-Com’s spectrum were also under the consideration of the tribunal. “We want to know the cause of initiation of insolvency for telecom companies under IBC. We want to know if there is any urgency,” the bench asked. The court asked the solicitor general why the DoT did not bother to file an appeal before it against the NCLT proceedings that spectrum cannot be part of bankruptcy assets. “What if spectrum is sold in the meanwhile?” Justice M.R. Shah asked. Senior advocate Shyam Divan appearing for RCom said the insolvency proceedings had to be undergone by the company as the “monetisation outside the IBC failed due to lack of consensus among lenders”. The court wondered how come the NCLAT revived insolvency proceedings despite RCom’s payment to Ericsson. The court then asked the resolution professional in the RCom-IBC matter to file his stance on the issue. “If your main asset is spectrum, then you don't want to pay anything,” the court observed to the RCom’s  resolution professional while seeking the DoT’s response also on the issue. According to RCom, the resolution plan is presently pending NCLT approval after being cleared by the committee of creditors (CoC). On July 2 the apex court had agreed to consider a staggered payment of over Rs 1.47 lakh crore AGR dues, but sought details on the bona fide of the insolvency claims made by R-Com, Aircel, Videocon and Sistema Shyam Teleservices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||India||Railways suspends all regular passenger services indefinitely||Indian Railways has stated that all regular passenger train services will remain suspended till further notice, but 230 special trains will continue to be in service. "This is to bring to the notice of all concerned that as decided and informed earlier as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice," a statement from the Railways said. "It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate. Local trains in Mumbai, which are presently being run on limited basis only on the requisition of state government, will also continue to run", it said. The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on a regular basis and additional special trains may be run based on the requirement, the national carrier said. However, all other regular trains and suburban trains run before the lockdown will remain suspended for the time being, it said. All special trains 12 pairs running on the Rajdhani routes since May 12 and 100 pairs operating since June 1 will continue. The limited special suburban services which began recently in Mumbai to ferry essential services personnel identified by the local authorities will also continue to run, officials said. Earlier, the national transporter had suspended all services till August 12. With the suspension of passenger trains indefinitely, Indian Railways has estimated a loss of around Rs 40,000 crore in its passenger business for this fiscal. The extension of the suspension comes at a time when active Covid-19 cases in India stand at 6,39,929, while 15,83,489 people have recovered, according to the Union Health Ministry. On Tuesday, a single day spike of 53,601 Covid-19 cases pushed India's virus caseload to 22,68,675 with the death toll climbing to 45,257.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
11-08-2020||India||Amusement parks incurring losses, wants permission to open||Amusement parks in the country on Tuesday urged the government to allow reopening as the restrictions are causing huge losses, which may lead to job cuts. The Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries (IAAPI) has already submitted the standard operating procedure to be followed to the Union Home and Health ministries, Prime Minister's Office, and the chief ministers of different states. "The amusement and water parks are running into huge losses since their closure on March 15 due to the lockdown," IAAPI president Ajay Sarin said. There are nearly 150 such parks in the country, including the famous Ramoji Film City, which give direct employment to around 80,000 people and indirectly provide livelihood to nearly three lakh, he mentioned. "We are fearing huge job losses if these parks are not allowed to reopen and the present estimate of the loss is Rs 2,000 crore," he said. Gatherings can be easily controlled in the amusement parks and it is also possible to maintain social distancing, Sarin claimed. "Even the water parks are safe as the chemicals used there can kill any kind of virus," he added. Sanitisation of employees and all individual units inside the parks are also mentioned in the SOP, he informed. Sarin said that if the parks are allowed to reopen, at least they will generate some revenue though footfalls will be very low, adding that the parks are in a very bad shape. In the SOP, they have also mentioned mandatory download of the Aarogya Setu app, among other measures. He said the SOP has been prepared after consulting experts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
11-08-2020||India||10 states account for 80 per cent Covid cases, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday noted that 10 states account for 80 per cent of active COVID-19 cases, and asserted if the virus is defeated in these states, then the country will also emerge victorious in its fight against the pandemic. At a video conference with chief ministers and representatives of these 10 states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, Modi said the recovery rate has gone up which, he added, meant that government efforts have proved to be effective. The Centre and states have been able to work as a team in the fight against COVID-19, he said. "Our experience so far is that containment, contact tracing and surveillance are the most effective weapons against the pandemic, with experts of the view that if cases are identified within 72 hours of onset, then infection slows down to great extent," the prime minister said. He emphasised on the need to trace and test all those who come in contact with an infected person within 72 hours. This should be followed like a "mantra", with the same earnestness as washing hands, maintaining social distance and wearing masks, he said according to an official statement. The prime minister pointed out that the number of active cases in the country stands at over six lakh, and most of them have been reported from the 10 states. Today, 80 per cent active cases are in these ten states. Hence the role of all these states is very big in the fight against coronavirus, he said. He told the participants that such meetings and discussions are necessary as new situations are emerging amid the pandemic. "Pressure on hospitals, pressure on our health workers, lack of continuity in everyday work. They bring a new challenge every day" Modi elaborated. He said there was a need for the ten states to sit together, review and discuss. "... from this discussion, we also leant a lot from each other's experiences, best practices" he said. Modi said it was a matter of satisfaction that the average fatality rate in India has been going down and noted that it has been very low compared to the world average. He noted that the number of daily tests has reached almost 7 lakh and is increasing continuously, which has helped in early identification and containment. The average fatality rate in the country is amongst the lowest and is continuously going down. The percentage of active cases is reducing, while the recovery rate is increasing, he said. He noted that these steps have boosted the confidence of people, and said that the target of bringing down the fatality rate below one per cent can be achieved soon. States where testing rate is low and where the positivity rate is high, the need to increase testing has come to the fore. Especially in states like Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana, he said. Modi noted that people have become aware and are ably assisting these efforts, as a result of which the country has been successful in using home quarantine so effectively, the statement said. He said at one point of time, cases in certain districts of UP and Haryana, and Delhi became a matter of concern. He also referred to statement of the Delhi government about COVID-19 cases and recounted the experience of Home Minister Amit Shah in preparing a roadmap for tackling the pandemic together with Delhi and nearby states. According the statement, he said the main pillars of this strategy were segregation of containment zones and focus on screening, especially of those in high risk category. The results of these steps are there for all to see, he said, adding that steps like better management in hospitals and increasing ICU beds also proved very helpful. The chief ministers provided feedback on the ground situation in their states. They praised the leadership of the prime minister for the successful management of the pandemic and thanked him for his constant guidance and support, it said. They talked about tests being conducted, steps taken to increase testing, use of tele-medicine and efforts to ramp up health infrastructure. They requested further guidance by the Health Ministry for conducting sero-surveillance, while also suggesting setting up of an integrated medical infrastructure in the country. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh emphasised that the government is making all possible efforts in this battle against the virus, which have been praised by the World Health Organization as well, the statement said. Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare presented an overview of COVID cases in the country, noting that the rate of growth of cases in some states is higher than the average rate, and requested the states to focus on optimal utilisation of testing capacity. He emphasised on the need for reporting accurate mortality figures and also talked about perimeter monitoring of containment zones with the help of local communities. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and minister of state for Home were also present at the interaction. Chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh were invited for the virtual meet. "Karnataka was represented by the deputy chief minister," the statement said. Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan attended the meet along with state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
11-08-2020||India||4G services on trial basis in one district each of J&K: Centre to SC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that a special committee looking into the issue of internet restoration in Jammu and Kashmir has decided to provide 4G internet access on a trial basis in limited areas of the union territory after August 15. A bench headed by Justice N V Ramana was told by Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, that the committee has decided that trial will be done in one district each in Jammu and Kashmir division. He said that the Committee has decided that access to 4G internet in J&K will be given in a calibrated manner and outcome of the trial will be reviewed after two months. The bench also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai said this is a fairly good stand on the part of the respondents (Centre and J&K administration). High speed internet service in J&K was suspended in August last year when the Centre announced revocation of its special status and bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories -- Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. On May 11, the top court had ordered the setting up of a"special committee" headed by the Union Home Secretary to consider pleas for restoration of 4G internet services in J&K, saying national security and human rights need to be balanced in view of the fact that the UT has been"plagued with militancy". On August 7, the top court had asked the J&K administration to explore the possibility of restoring 4G services in certain areas of the Union Territory. At the outset, Venugopal said the Centre has filed an additional affidavit on the issue, and that the special committee had held its meeting on August 10.  "The committee was of the view that threat perception continues to be high," Venugopal said, adding that restrictions on high speed internet are not posing any hindrance in the Covid-19 pandemic management and health care services. The committee was of the view that "overall situation was not conducive for lifting restrictions on high speed internet", he said, adding that it decided however to permit "easing of some restrictions in specified areas which are less sensitive, subject to strict monitoring and periodical review". Venugopal said the committee has decided that access to high speed internet would be provided on a trial basis in a calibrated manner and its impact on security will be assessed. He said restrictions would not be eased around the LoC and the prime criteria for the areas where restrictions could be eased is that the region should have a low intensity of terror activities. The top court closed NGO's plea seeking contempt proceedings against the Union Home Secretary and Chief Secretary of J&K for their alleged "wilful disobedience" in complying with the court's May 11 order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee health condition worsens||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee has worsened and he remains on ventilator support, the Army's Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Tuesday, a day after he underwent a brain surgery. The 84-year-old was admitted to the military hospital around noon on Monday, and had also tested positive for Covid-19 prior to the surgery. "Shri Pranab Mukherjee's health condition continues to remain critical at Army Hospital (R&R) Delhi Cantonment. The former president, who underwent lifesaving emergency surgery for brain clot on 10 August 2020, has not shown any improvement and his health status has worsened. He remains on ventilatory support," the hospital said in its latest statement. It earlier said the former President was admitted to the hospital at 1207 hours on August 10, 2020 in a critical condition. "Workup at the hospital revealed a large brain clot for which he underwent emergency life saving surgery," the hospital earlier said. A multidisciplinary team of doctors is constantly monitoring the health of the former president. Mukherjee tweeted on Monday that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and urged people who had come in contact with him in the last week to isolate themselves and get tested for the novel coronavirus. Soon after the news of his hospitalisation, wishes poured in from various quarters for his early recovery and a number of leaders sent their wishes on Twitter. President Ram Nath Kovind also spoke to Mukherjee's daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee and enquired about his health on Monday evening. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the R&R Hospital on Monday and enquired about the former president's health. Singh was at the hospital for around 20 minutes. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also sent in his best wishes to the former president and wished him early recovery. A powerful orator and scholar, Mukherjee had been a Congress stalwart before he was elected as India's 13th President and served from July 2012 to 2017 in the top post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Shah Faesal quits politics||Shah Faesal, the IAS topper and medical doctor who left the civil services for public life, has announced his decision to quit politics, becoming a casualty of the abrogation of Article 370. Faesal, the only Kashmiri to top the IAS exams, had resigned from the civil services to launch his political party last year. Many saw him as a potential chief minister and an alternative to traditional forces such as the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party. Faesal, 37, soon found himself in uncharted territory as the Centre abrogated Article 370. He, along with thousands of others, was arrested and continues to be under house arrest. He was not available for comment but the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement (JKPM), the party he founded last year, said he was calling it quits. “Dr Shah Faesal had informed the state executive members that he is not in a position to continue with political activities and wants to be freed from the responsibilities of the organisation,” a statement said. The party has accepted his request “so that he can better continue with his life and contribute whichever way he chooses”. On Sunday, Faesal had changed his Twitter bio, which identified him as the JKPM chief, triggering speculation that he could exit politics. Faesal had announced his resignation from the civil services in January 2019 and, two months later, launched the JKPM. He had been one of the sharpest critics of the abrogation of Article 370. He was detained under the Public Safety Act while on his way to Harvard to pursue a course. He was released in June this year and placed under house arrest a day later. Faesal’s resignation from government service was never accepted and speculation is rife that he might rejoin the bureaucracy. Shah’s success in the civil services exam has inspired many young Kashmiris to sit the exam. This year, a record 16 candidates cleared the exam from Jammu and Kashmir. The JKPM said it would appoint vice-president Feroze Peerzada as its interim chief until formal elections can be held for the post of party president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan contempt case hearing before Justice Arun Mishra retires ||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine on merit lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s 2009 statement alleging that at least “half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt”, prima facie not accepting yet his expression of regret. “Before reaching to any finding whether the statement made as to ‘corruption’ would per se amount to contempt of court, the matter is required to be heard. List the matter on 17.08.2020,” the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari said. Senior advocate Shanti Bhushan, appearing for son Prashant, had urged the court to defer the matter until physical hearings resumed. But the court said it would hear the matter on August 17 through videoconferencing. Justice Mishra, who heads the bench, retires on September 2. Last week Bhushan had expressed “regret” for the statement. “In case we do not accept the explanation/apology, we will hear the matter,” the bench had then said. The bench headed by Justice Mishra will hear a plea filed by Arun Shourie, Bhushan and N. Ram on the constitutional validity of a legal provision dealing with criminal contempt. It was earlier listed before another bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and K.M. Joseph, adds PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Disquiet-hit Sachin Pilot tests truce waters||Sachin Pilot on Monday met Rahul Gandhi in a dramatic turnaround that could bring down the curtain on the vicious internal war in the Congress that had jeopardised the party’s government in Rajasthan. At night, Pilot told the media that he had raised certain issues with the party leadership and thanked it for hearing him out. He had been talking to a few top Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, over the weekend to explore whether reconciliation was possible at this late stage. He finally visited Rahul’s home on Monday afternoon to discuss his grievances. A broad understanding has been reached on the return of the rebels although the issues will take time to resolve. Late in the evening, the general secretary in charge of the All India Congress Committee, K.C. Venugopal, said in a formal statement: “Sachin Pilot has met with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and expressed his grievances in detail. They have had a frank, open and conclusive discussion. Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan. “Following this meeting, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will constitute a three-member committee to address the issues raised by Pilot and the aggrieved MLAs and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof.” Priyanka, Venugopal and party veteran Ahmed Patel are on the committee. Pilot and 18 other MLAs had rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan, which led to Pilot’s sacking as deputy chief minister and state party chief. Asked if the crisis was finally over, a senior leader said: “Nothing is final in politics until it is done but Rahul would not have met Pilot without a broad understanding about a patch-up. We expect the MLAs to return to Rajasthan soon. Whatever issues are there can be resolved mutually. We have been saying this publicly from the very beginning. It’s good that the Pilot camp has realised its follies now.” Sources said it had been decided that the Pilot camp would not set conditions but efforts would be made towards an honourable rehabilitation. While the rebels’ main demand — the removal of Gehlot as chief minister — is not on the table any more, no decision has been taken whether Pilot will return to Rajasthan as deputy chief minister. The leadership is aware of the irreconcilable differences between Gehlot and Pilot. Insiders believe the Pilot camp’s change of heart was forced by two factors — the inevitability of the Gehlot government’s survival and the cracks in the rebel group. A leader told The Telegraph from Rajasthan: “There was extreme unease in the rebel camp and six MLAs were in touch with us. These MLAs were willing to defy Pilot as the impression that they were destabilising the government in connivance with the BJP had made them uncomfortable. They assured us they would vote for the government on the trust motion.” Even Pilot, who had initially expected to have 30 MLAs on his side, got unnerved by the fortification made by the Gehlot camp and his failure to lure away certain MLAs he had thought were loyal to him. Gehlot, fully backed by the high command as manifested through the constant presence of Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken in the Jaipur and Jaisalmer hotels, has prevented further depletion of the flock. He is also said to have successfully worked on several BJP legislators who would have propped him up if there was a shortfall in numbers. While the BJP’s most powerful leader in Rajasthan, Vasundhara Raje, appeared unexcited about the toppling game, the doubts about the loyalty of some MLAs had forced the party to take them to Gujarat. This, coupled with the behaviour of six MLAs in the Pilot camp, had deepened the impression that the government would sail through the crisis, rendering the rebellion meaningless. Had six MLAs betrayed him, Pilot would have been left hamstrung with an uncertain political future. That the Congress has agreed to accommodate him after such a rancorous politico-legal battle in which the BJP clearly got involved indicates two things — one, the central leadership has made a pragmatic assessment of the fate of the state government; and two, the high command values Pilot both emotionally and politically. Gehlot was obviously not willing to compromise. He got a resolution passed at the legislature party meeting on Sunday night suggesting the rebels’ votes were not needed for the government’s survival. Although Pilot, who had indisputably a bright future in the Congress, will now struggle to regain his clout and may have to grapple with a trust deficit for some time, both Rahul and Priyanka are said to favour his rehabilitation being made comfortable. If he does not immediately return to Rajasthan politics, he will be given the post of national general secretary. If he returns to Rajasthan, he is unlikely to regain both the posts of state unit president and deputy chief minister. A key rebel, Bhanwarlal Sharma, who had been suspended from the party, had already arrived at the chief minister’s home in Jaipur on Monday evening. Sources said six more MLAs would reach Jaipur by late night irrespective of the final deal with Pilot. Sharma was Gehlot’s bitterest critic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Delhi violence: Jamia probe call||A group of Left-leaning women activists on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry into the February 10 incidents outside Jamia Millia Islamia University, alleging police brutality against students and residents. No reaction was immediately available from Delhi police on the allegations levelled by the National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW). The organisation claimed that its “fact-finding” team had spoken to the victims of the violence that occurred when students and residents gathered outside the university’s gate No. 7 to take out a march to Parliament against the amended citizenship law and National Register of Citizens. The NFIW team alleged that the police attacked the protesters without a warning. “Those who suffered grievous injuries include around 35 men and 17 women. One of the students told the NFIW team that his spleen had ruptured,” the activists alleged. The NFIW demanded that the Union home ministry “give a white paper” on the events of February 10 and a judicial inquiry be ordered into the incident. “A team of doctors should investigate the nature of injuries of the survivors,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Sunni Central Waqf Board to invite Yogi for Ayodhya stone-laying ceremony||The Sunni Central Waqf Board will invite Yogi Adityanath to the stone-laying on the five-acre alternative site in Ayodhya where it will build a mosque and other structures, the trust set up to oversee the construction has said. The statement by the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation belies a public comment made by the chief minister on August 4 that “the (Sunni board) trust will not invite me to their programme in Ayodhya”. Adityanath had added: “And more precisely, I’m not going to attend it.” “We will invite the chief minister and expect that he will actively participate in the construction of the structures we have planned,” Foundation (trust) member Athar Hussain, a community leader, told reporters in Lucknow on Monday. Another Foundation member, asking not to be named, suggested the trust might make it easier for Adityanath by splitting the stone-laying for the mosque from that for the other structures and inviting the chief minister only to the latter event. Apart from a mosque, the Sunni board intends to build a hospital, community kitchen, library and research centre on the five-acre land. “We don’t want to annoy anybody. While we want the chief minister to attend all our events to initiate the project, we might organise two foundation stone-laying functions — one for the mosque and another for the rest of the structures,” the trust member said. “At our meeting to be held early next month, we may resolve to invite the chief minister to our second programme. His Hindutva identity can, for him, be an obstacle to attending an event for the construction of a mosque.” The Supreme Court had last November handed the 2.77-acre disputed plot to the Hindu side while asking the central and state governments to allot a five-acre plot to the Sunni board to build a mosque somewhere else in Ayodhya district. On Friday, the Ayodhya administration transferred five acres in village Dhannipur, 30km from Ayodhya town, to the Sunni board. Hussain said the trust had rented an office at Burlington Square in Lucknow, where its first meeting would be held in the first week of September. It would decide everything from the site map to the budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||CBSE: PM's Atmanirbhar Bharat to make way into student essays||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for an Atmanirbhar Bharat, the Central Board of Secondary Education wants students to delve into the concept and suggest a road map. The national board has written to all its 24,000 affiliated schools to encourage students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII to take part in an online essay competition on any one of the 10 sub-themes related to self-reliance. One of the sub-themes is —While I exercise my rights, I must not forget to undermine my duties to usher in an Atmanirbhar Bharat. The other sub-themes include Digital India for Atmanirbhar Bharat: Opportunities on Covid-19 and Beyond and India at 75: A Nation marching towards Atmanirbhar Bharat. A school principal said the choice of sub-themes echoed what “the government wants to propagate” among schoolchildren. “The schools should have been allowed to decide sub-themes related to the main theme,” she added. An official of the central education ministry said the government had decided the sub-themes for the competition. The students have been asked to upload the essays on www.MyGov.in by August 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Nepal not cooperating on flood management: Nitish Kumar ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Nepal was not cooperating on flood management. “Bihar’s water resources department takes care of flood management along the border on the basis of the Indo-Nepal treaty. However, the Nepal government has not been extending full cooperation in the recent years, Nitish told Modi during a videoconference on floods at which the Prime Minister and six chief ministers were present. “This year also the Nepal government did not extend cooperation in repairing the existing embankment in Madhepura district and another on no man’s land along the border close to Madhubani district,” he said. “Our officials tried to talk to their Nepal counterparts and resolve the issue, but they did not cooperate. The repair works that should have been completed by mid-May was completed only by June-end and we have been able to strengthen embankments within our border limits. There is a need to pay attention to this situation,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Future uncertain for Madras crocodile park ||India’s largest crocodile park may have as little as four months before it runs out of funds to feed animals, pay staff and do research, as ticket revenue shrinks after coronavirus lockdowns choked the flow of visitors, park officials said. Annual sales of around 5 million tickets usually make up roughly half the revenue of the park, located about 40km from Chennai, but it has been shut since March 16, with no prospect of reopening in sight. The lockdowns during the summer vacation season have cost an estimated Rs 1.4 crore ($187,000) as visitors dropped by almost 2.5 million, said Allwin Jesudasan, the director of the Madras Crocodile Bank. “Our present funding situation will allow us to stay functional for another three or four months,” he told Reuters. Started in 1976 by US-born snake expert Romulus Whitaker, who has also won recognition for his conservation work, the park is spread over 8.5 acres. It is home to more than 2,000 crocodiles and alligators, as well as reptiles such as turtles, tortoises, lizards and snakes. “Our senior staff have taken a voluntary 10-50 per cent pay cut on their salaries and we have cut down our activities to just the critical ones,” the park said in an appeal for funds on its website. But the future of its staff and animals was not immediately clear after funds are exhausted. The Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology, which has bred more than 5,000 crocodiles during its existence, houses 14 of 23 existing crocodile species, three of them endangered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Army ‘fake encounter’ probe in Kashmir||Rajouri resident Mohammad Saleem has been frantically searching his cousin and friend Ibrar Ahmad, a class XII student, and two other relatives missing for the past three weeks. After “rumours” surfaced on social media that they might have been killed by security forces across Pir Panchal mountains in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on July 18, he was overwhelmed with anxiety since Sunday. There is no way for him to confirm, as the “rumours” suggested, that the three men killed by security forces in a gunfight in Amshipora village of Shopian and declared “unidentified militants” could be his missing relatives. So, he requested this correspondent to share the picture showing the three bodies. “I have seen the picture,” cried Saleem, 19, after this newspaper sent him the picture that was available on the social networking sites, through WhatsApp. “The one in the middle is my brother Ibrar (cousin)…I am shocked, can’t understand how this can happen. I will go crazy. He was few years younger to me and we would play together,” he said. The families live in Peeri village of Jammu’s Rajouri district, 25km from the district headquarters. Saleem and some other relatives had travelled all the way to Rajouri town to meet the senior superintendent of police, who reportedly told him to wait till evening for confirmation. Saleem alleged the picture leaves no doubt that his relatives were killed in a fake encounter. If true, it could be the first reported instance of a fake encounter — the bane of three-decades-long militancy — in years. Security forces and police have faced many allegations of killings innocent people in fake encounters and dub them militants for rewards and promotions. Saleem identified the man next to Ibrar in picture as his 25-year-old sister’s husband and namesake, and father of a child aged 3. He said the third, whose face is not visible in the picture, could be Imtiyaz, 22, their relative and the third missing person. Jammu journalist and author Zafar Choudhary, who is the elder brother of Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary, wrote on Facebook that the three killed in Amshopora were “his distant relation”. “I have just spoken to family, they’ve identified them beyond any doubt. They don’t remember the exact date of speaking to them last but say the news of death came on (the) 22nd day of losing contact with them,” he wrote. Saleem said the three had left their homes in Peeri village of Rajouri to work as labourers in Kashmir on July 16 to earn livelihood. “They are from very poor families. Ibrar’s father works (as a labourer) in Saudi Arabia. You will be shocked to find the condition of their homes and there was no way they could be linked with militancy,” he said. “On July 17, they spoke with their families on the phone. The same evening their phones were found switched off. We have been trying to locate them since then.” Jammu activist Guftaar Ahmad said the three belong to poor Gujjar families. He said the families has lodged a missing report in Rajouri on Sunday but the police has not responded so far. Defence spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia said the army has launched an investigation based on the social media reports. “We have noted social media inputs linked to the operation at Shopian on 18 July 2020. The three terrorists killed during the operation have not been identified and the bodies were buried based on established protocols,” he wrote in a text message to The Telegraph. Shopian police chief Amritpal Singh did not respond to calls and text messages from this newspaper. Both the army and the police had claimed to have killed the three “militants” in a joint operation on July 18. Army brigadier Ajay Katoch told reporters on July 19 in Shopian that three “terrorists” were killed in the gunfight. “Our search party was moved into target house, which was a newly constructed small single house. While the search party moved inside, it came under fire from inside the house. The search party immediately got deployed, lobbed grenades, and retaliated the fire which came from inside,” he had said. ‘In the ensuing action, three terrorists were neutralized. Dead bodies of terrorists, along with arms ammunition and IED material was handed over to J&K police.” The officer claimed the area had not seen any operation for quite some time before the one on July 18 and it will further curtail the recruitment of militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||CPI urges Pinarayi Vijayan government to oppose draft EIA notification||A senior CPI leader has openly urged the Left government in Kerala to file its objections to the draft environment impact assessment notification before the last date on Tuesday. Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam on Monday reminded the Left government that it had a duty to show the right path to the rest of the country. “I am not someone who thinks what the Kerala government says is only (meant) for Kerala,” Viswam told The Telegraph on Monday. The CPI is a partner in the CPM-led coalition government in the southern state. “The LDF government of Kerala is liable to show the right path to the country when the BJP governments at the Centre and states follow the path of environmental degradation and anti-people policies,” he said. The EIA is a process under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, preventing industrial and infrastructure projects from being approved without proper evaluation and scrutiny. This process is essential for ensuring every project passes through the rigours of the EIA prior to the grant of an environmental clearance. Some of the major concerns about the draft EIA 2020 are that it allows hitherto non-permissible projects without even prior clearance of the environment ministry. This includes petroleum and petrochemical industries, biomedical waste treatment plants, pesticides and construction activities, all of which were disallowed by the existing EIA. The new EIA also reduces the time for public response from 30 to 20 days. Viswam’s statement came with just a day to go for states and other stakeholders to respond to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate changes to the amended EIA that has already been widely criticised by environmental groups over the dilution of the old notification on preserving nature. “When Kerala witnessed heavy flooding in 2018, our chief minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) had declared that the new Kerala we are going to build will not be the old Kerala and it would be a Kerala that respects nature,” recalled Viswam. “I feel those words have great relevance. So the LDF’s promise is for development that respects nature and respects the people,” he said. “The response is (already) delayed. But the government has to call for withdrawal of the notification with the full realisation that EIA 2020 is dangerous for the environment,” said Viswam. P.A. Muhammed Riyas, the national president of the CPM’s youth wing, the Democratic Youth Federation of India, said: “There is no doubt that the LDF government will convey its objections and oppose this draft. But my question is what are the Congress-ruled states doing about it? “If cleared, this draft will straightaway write off our natural wealth to large corporations. This an anti-democratic and anti-people proposal that will destroy our nature.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||EIA: Congress terms new rule changes disastrous||The Congress on Monday joined a chorus of opposition to the Centre’s moves to modify existing rules relating to the environmental impact assessment process that governs development projects, describing the proposed changes as “dangerous” and “disastrous”. The draft environmental impact assessment regulations 2020 proposed by the Union environment ministry could lead to long-term, widespread environmental destruction if notified, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former environment minister Jairam Ramesh said in independent messages. Several environmental groups and over 60 former senior bureaucrats, including IAS officers, had last month called on the Narendra Modi government to revise the proposed EIA 2020 modifications. The critics had said while the government claimed it wanted to expedite and introduce greater transparency in the EIA process, the modifications would lower levels of public scrutiny and safeguards on environmental protection. The EIA process, introduced through a legislation in 2006, provides for a formal assessment of the likely impacts of development projects on the local environment and takes into account public opinion from the resident communities. “The EIA 2020 draft placed by the BJP government for public feedback is not only disgraceful, it is dangerous,” Rahul said, pointing out that the proposals will exempt polluting industries such as coal mines as well as highways and railway lines passing through dense forests. The EIA draft “seeks to silence the voice of communities who will be directly impacted by the environmental degradation”, Rahul said, and referred to a proposal to provide projects post-facto EIA approval as a “terrible idea”. “I urge every Indian to rise up and protest against it (EIA 2020)…. If EIA 2020 is notified by the government, the long-term consequences of the widespread environmental degradation will be catastrophic for us and future generations of Indians,” Rahul said. Jairam Ramesh on Monday wrote to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, saying the EIA draft was “fundamentally flawed and makes a mockery of the Prime Minister’s many statements on the need to protect India’s environment”. Javadekar had on August 5 written to Ramesh saying the draft notification had been kept in the public domain for comments and that the suggestions and concerns expressed by Ramesh were “unfounded and based on misinterpretation”. The environment ministry, which released the draft notification in March this year, has set August 12 as the deadline for receiving suggestions and comments. “This is only a draft, not the final notification. The draft will be finalised after taking into consideration suggestions and comments received,” Javadekar said on Monday. However, Ramesh, who is chair of the parliamentary standing committee on environment, forests and climate change, said environment ministry officials had briefed the standing committee on August 7 and iterated his multiple “strong points of objection”. Ramesh has pointed out that the proposed reduction of public consultation period from 30 days to 20 days means the public will have less time to engage with the material available on potential impacts of the proposed project, seek advice and decide how best to express opinion and ask questions. He also pointed out that the draft notification would reduce public access to relevant information as the project proponents would need to provide the EIA report only in English and not in the local or regional languages as hitherto required. In a separate message to the Congress party’s research department, Ramesh said the proposed changes would reduce the role of public hearings. “Good, bad or imperfect, public hearings are an essential aspect of environmental impact assessment,” Ramesh said in an online video message. “Now that role has been curtailed dramatically.” Ramesh said the changes would also open a window for ex-post facto approval, which means project proponents could start a project and then receive environmental clearance. “It really makes a mockery of the environment impact assessment process,” he said. He also said many projects would be exempt from the EIA, adding that this is another source of grave concern. A group of 63 former bureaucrats had last month written to Modi, saying the proposed EIA 2020 would deliver a “most serious and long-lasting blow to the environment”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Probe plea in Ugandan prisoner death||The Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, an NGO, on Monday sought an independent inquiry into the circumstances that led to the death of a Ugandan woman in Tihar jail. Jesca Sarah Kafeeco, 43, died at a Delhi hospital where she was admitted on July 25 for a surgery on her right hand for injuries suffered during a scuffle after a protest by foreign prisoners on June 16 demanding release on interim bail amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Jail authorities have reportedly cited the ‘use of minimum force’ as the cause of her injuries, and that itself warrants an enquiry by the National Human Rights Commission,” the CHRI said in a statement. “There are a range of vulnerabilities that foreign national prisoners face in India and these have intensified after the pandemic.” “Blanket denial of bail and parole for foreign nationals, curbs on communication with family and lawyers, suspension of regular hearings in courts, delayed consular access, suspension of international flights”, are among factors heightening the stress, said Madhurima Dhanuka, CHRI’s programme head, prison reforms. The CHRI said the committee should have taken cognisance of the situation and faulted it for not passing any directions for ascertaining the special needs of foreign prisoners. A similar representation by male foreign prisoners in Tihar was also rejected last month, the statement said. While many national and international bodies have called for the release of prisoners during the pandemic, “focussed attention must be provided to each foreign national prisoner, through remote access to consular representatives, who must ascertain that they are in good health, and are being provided appropriate facilities in prison”, said Sanjoy Hazarika, international director, CHRI. The CHRI also called upon the National Legal Services Authority, mandated to provide free legal services to all persons in custody, to conduct specialised campaigns across the prisons in the country to ascertain the rights of foreign nationals. It also stressed the need for the new expert committee set up by the NHRC to document the specific impact of Covid-19 on foreign nationals, and recommend appropriate steps to state governments and the Centre. It urged the Supreme Court to frame guidelines for their release to address certain procedural inadequacies in grant of bail/parole to foreigners. Dhanuka stressed that the CHRI has received several requests for assistance — via its urgent action desk — over the past few months: on release of foreigners, legal representation, communication with families and ascertaining provisions of basic amenities in detention centres. These warrants affirmative action by appropriate authorities. The inquiries highlight the growing impact of Covid-19 on foreign prisoners, she said. According to the Prison Statistics India, 2018, there are 5,168 foreign national prisoners in India, of which 15.2 per cent are women. Their vulnerabilities have been detailed in the CHRI’s “Strangers to Justice: A report on foreigners in Indian prisons”, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Snags hit Delhi University online exam kickoff||Delhi University on Monday kicked off its final-semester undergraduate and postgraduate exams in the online mode amid complaints of examinees struggling to upload the answer scripts and visually challenged students failing to find scribes. Most students and teachers had opposed online exams citing the digital divide, that is, the lack of quality devices and Internet connectivity among rural and poor students. However, the university went ahead with its Open Book Examination programme following a clearance from Delhi High Court. The Centre and the University Grants Commission want all the universities to hold final-semester exams by September, offline or online. So far, only individual institutes and smaller universities had done so. Delhi University, with its about 70 affiliated colleges, has rural and urban students from across the country. It had asked the examinees to download the question papers, write the answers on plain paper and upload their photos on the examination portal. The first paper for the BSc honours courses began at 7.30 in the morning. By 10.30am, reports were pouring in about students’ difficulties in uploading the answers. “I uploaded my answers but received no acknowledgement. I eventually sent images of the answer paper as attachments to the email addresses of DU and my college,” a student, who did not wish to be identified, said. DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said that many students from rural ar-eas and Jammu and Kashmir could not take the exams “because of a lack of proper gadgets or high-speed Internet”. Among the worst affected were visually challenged rural students, who could not arrange for scribes in their villages. “We have been highlighting the digital divide for months,” Jha said. He said the lack of invigilation that online exams from home entail leaves a lot of scope for malpractice and impersonation. The university, which has not revealed the percentage of students who were able to take the online exams, will later hold offline exams for those who could not. Abha Deb Habib, assistant professor at Miranda House College, said that scheduling the test at 7.30am had inconvenienced students who took the exam from common service centres. “In a WhatsApp group of my students, a large number among the 42 students wrote that they had not received confirmation that their upload had been accepted,” Habib said. She criticised the university for asking the students to mention their names on the answer papers. “The students are never asked to mention their names. A name can indicate the region the student comes from, or the student’s caste or religion. It’s better if names are not asked,” she said. Normally, before an exam, the university issues each examinee with a roll number, but this was not done this year because of the disruption caused by the pandemic. An email and a text message sent to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi seeking his comments on the students’ complaints and the teachers’ concerns evoked no response. The academic session at DU and some of the IITs began from Monday, and in the online mode. Other institutions funded by the central government are to start their classes online later this month. Rudrashish Chakraborty, a teacher at Kirori Mal College under DU, said eye contact in the classroom was the best indication a teacher could receive about the level of a student’s absorption in the lesson. “Teaching is not about delivering a lecture alone; it’s more about the connect the teacher has with the students, which helps them understand concepts better,” he said. “In online teaching, the students are mostly listeners whose faces are not visible. This is not an effective mode.” IIT Bombay, which began online classes on Monday, has decided to supply a laptop with broadband connectivity to each poor student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||32 Jharkhand communities seek inclusion of ‘Sarna’ religion||The 32 tribal groups of Jharkhand have decided to boycott the 2021 national Census if their longstanding demand for the inclusion of “Sarna” as a specific option in the column for religion is not accepted, community leaders have said. They highlighted that with the Centre dropping the “Others” option from the religion column for Census 2021, Sarna adherents would be forced to either skip the column or declare themselves members of one of the six specified religions: Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh. “We have started an awareness campaign among tribal people at the panchayat and block levels about the decision,” Bandhan Tigga, Ranchi-based dharm guru (priest) of the Raji Padha Sarna Prarthana Sabha — a religious body of the Oraon, Munda and Santhal tribes — told The Telegraph. “If necessary, we’ll launch a massive agitation not only in Jharkhand but also in other tribal states. There’s a ploy by the Centre to merge the tribal communities with the Hindus or other religious denominations, undermining their separate identity.” Till 2011, people who opted for the “Others” option could also spell out their religion in words as, for example, “Sarna”, “tribal” or “Parsi”. But the official document counted them all merely as “Others”. Now the government has taken away even this option. Karma Oraon, a tribal academic, alleged this was a BJP “conspiracy to bracket the tribal people with Hindus” and threatened to petition the Supreme Court against the Registrar-General of India, who oversees the Census, if a code for Sarna was not adopted. Sarna followers are worshippers of nature. Only small numbers of people from Jharkhand’s 32 tribal groups — who make up more than 26 per cent of the state’s population — identify themselves as Christian, Hindu or Muslim. The tribal communities have for decades been demanding a separate code for Sarna in the Census. The demand was part of the Assembly election manifesto of the UPA, which wrested power in Jharkhand from the NDA last year. Jharkhand Congress president and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon had on Sunday, World Tribal Day, announced: “The Assembly will pass a resolution seeking recognition of a separate Sarna Dharma code and send it to the Union government.” Karma Oraon, principal of the Bishu Bhagat Mahila College in Bero, Ranchi, said: “In the 1951 Census (the first in Independent India), ‘tribe’ was available as the ninth option under the religion column. It was later removed, leading to the tribe (members) being counted under different religions, which has caused great harm to the identity of the tribal people.” He added: “Till 2011, a seventh option, ‘Others’, was provided and most tribal people opted for it. But now even that has been removed. We smell a conspiracy by the BJP-led central government to bracket tribal people with Hindus. We will file a PIL in the Supreme Court against the Registrar-General of India if we are not given a separate Sarna code.” Dashmat Hansdah and Baiju Murmu, tribal heads of the Jugsalai and Kolhan zones, respectively, said they were ready for any agitation to safeguard their communities’ constitutional rights. “We have been granted rights under Article 25(1) to practise our religion. If Jains and Buddhists, with smaller populations than tribal people, can have their separate religious codes, why can’t we?” Hansdah said. Bandhu Tirkey, MLA from Mandar, said at least 85 lakh tribal people from eastern India followed the Sarna faith. The 2011 Census had counted 84 lakh Buddhists and 44 lakh Jains. Tribal groups from 19 states had staged a daylong agitation in Delhi last year demanding a separate Sarna code in the 2021 Census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||UGC terms awarding of degrees without exams illegal||The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Monday told the Supreme Court that any decision by individual states to award degrees to final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses without conducting exams would per se be illegal and invalid. Appearing for UGC, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that Maharashtra and Delhi, which had decided to cancel the final-year exams and award degrees on the basis of their internal assessment, could not do so because they were bound by the UGC guidelines to complete the exams either offline, online or a blend of both before September 30. “Delhi and Maharashtra have taken the decision to cancel exams in state universities. That is against the UGC rules. UGC is the only body that can prescribe rules for conferring a degree. States cannot change rules… It’s not in the interest of students to not have exams. Such degrees won’t be recognised if there are no exams,” Mehta told the bench also comprising Justices R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah. The bench then asked the UGC to file an affidavit justifying its stand that Maharashtra and Delhi could not cancel the exams or award degrees under the Disaster Management Act 2005. It posted the matter for further hearing on August 14. The Delhi government had earlier informed the court that it had decided to cancel all final-year exams on account of the Covid crisis and was not bound by the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the UGC mandating the completion of final-year post-graduate and undergraduate exams by September 30. Instead, it wanted to award degrees on the basis of internal assessment marks. The Maharashtra government had also taken a similar stand. The apex court was dealing with a raft of petitions seeking quashing of the July 6 circular issued by the MHA and the commission to universities across the country to complete final-year exams by September 30. Students complained that the order exposed them to severe health risk on account of the pandemic. Several individual students and youth organisations had filed separate petitions seeking either the postponement of the exams or announcement of final-year results on the basis of internal assessment marks as was done in the case of CBSE and ICSE students. On June 26, the apex court had cleared the decks for the cancellation of the unfinished CBSE/ICSE board exams for Classes X and XII scheduled from July 1, allowing the respective boards to adopt internal assessment marks as one of the criteria for declaration of results in view of the pandemic. In the present case, the petitioners have essentially challenged the MHA notification dated July 6 providing for the compulsory conduct of final term examination by universities and institutions and the revised guidelines on examination and academic calendar for the universities issued by the UGC on the same day. Another bench of the Supreme Court headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar on Monday issued a notice to the Centre on a petition seeking the filling up of 3,373 post-graduate medical seats under the All India Quota in NEET 2020 that have been vacated by the original allottees. The original allottees had vacated the seats after securing seats in AIIMS, PGI Chandigarh and JIPMER Puducherry. The petition filed by Dr Raghuvir Saini and other aspirants had contended that if the vacant All India Quota seats were not filled by the MCI and other authorities, then they would be reverted to the respective state quotas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Tsunami Ready tag on Odisha villages   ||Two coastal villages of Odisha, the first in the country, were on Friday declared “Tsunami Ready” by Unesco. With this India has become the first country in the Indian Ocean region to achieve this honour, informed Odisha government. Unesco also handed over the ‘Certificate of Recognition’ to the state government on Friday. Additional chief secretary and managing director, Odisha State Disaster Management Authority (OSDMA), P.K. Jena said: “The Venkatraipur (Boxipalli) village of Rangeilunda block in Ganjam district and Noliasahi village in Ersama block of Jagatsinghpur district have been recognised by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of Unesco for their high degree of preparedness to face a natural disaster like tsunami. The two villages are completely ready to face any kind of tsunami and certificates were handed over to the communities of Venkatraipur and Noliasahi as Tsunami Ready villages in a virtual event.” Indian Ocean had first witnessed an earthquake-triggered tsunami on December 26, 2004. It killed more than 2.3 lakh people in 14 countries of the Indian Ocean region. The Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready Programme of IOC-Unesco is a community performance-based programme that facilitates tsunami preparedness as an active collaboration of the community, community leaders, and national and local emergency management agencies. OSDMA has implemented the Tsunami Ready programme in the state. The ministry of earth sciences had established a national board that visited different places and selected six villages in Odisha for this purpose. Jena said: “Disaster Management Plans at different levels have been prepared to address tsunami disasters. Regular tsunami mock drills are being conducted at the tsunami prone villages as a part of International Tsunami Drills (IOWaves) and National Tsunami drills. The Early Warning Dissemination System (EWDS) for Last Mile Connectivity has been set up in the tsunami prone villages. This system addresses the existing gap for disseminating tsunami warning up to the community level. Regular awareness campaigns are being carried out in the tsunami prone area.” Odisha which witnessed a Super Cyclone in 1999 that left more than 10,000 people dead has been able to reduce the vulnerability of its people to natural disasters by building up resilience of communities over the years. “We as a state have learnt to live with disasters by strengthening our disaster preparedness from the community to the highest levels of administration. The State set up the first Disaster Management Authority of the nation in the aftermath of the Super Cyclone of 1999. Since then, Odisha has been marching ahead in the field of disaster management with the core principles set by the chief Minister, Naveen Patnaik,” said Jena. Jena said: “The state achieved this through intuitive planning and creating infrastructure in advance, empowering the communities to take charge of the situation through community-led efforts, decentralised governance through empowerment of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), use of technology in planning, monitoring and management. The officer said that with the award from the top world body Odisha has turned a role model in tsunami preparedness. “Now we plan to make the balance 326 villages and Urban Local Bodies tsunami ready in one year’s time,” Jena added. The virtual event was organised by the Intergovernmental Coordination Group for the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System (ICG/IOTWMS) Secretariat in Perth, Australia and Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC) in Jakarta, Indonesia. Dr M. Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) and G.V.V. Sharma, Member Secretary, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Govt. of India graced the event. International delegates including Dr Srinivasa Kumar Tummala, Head-ICG/IOTWMS, Ardito M. Kodijat, Head, Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC), Prof. Dwikorita Karnawati DG, BMKG(Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysical Agency of Indonesia) & Chair, ICG/IOTWMS of UNESCO-IOC participated in the programme. At the national Level, Dr. S.S.C. Shenoi, Vice-Chairperson, UNESCO-IOC, Former Director, INCOIS & Former Chairman of the National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready; Dr. T.M. Balakrishnan Nair, Director (I/C) Indian National Centre for Information Services (INCOIS) and E. Pattabhi Rama Rao, Head-TWG, INCOIS  & Member-Secretary, National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready were present at the virtual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||2 held for Covid rumours in Odisha||Odisha police on Monday arrested two persons on the charges of spreading rumours about Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) failure to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Police took action after an audio clip of the conversation between the two persons was circulated and shared on the digital platform of a private news channel. The private channel is owned by the family of BJP national vice-president Baijayant “Jay” Panda. Panda, who was once the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, is at loggerheads with him on various issues. The Odisha government as well as the ruling Biju Janata Dal feel that the channel owned by Panda’s family is deliberately targeting the government with ulterior motives. In a press release, the Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Police Commissionerate said: “The said clip was reportedly propagated by a news channel named OTV. On examination and prima facie investigation, it has been found that the audio recording has been prepared and circulated, edited, uploaded and propagated with mala fide and mischievous intention as the clip contains misleading and false information about Covid pandemic.” The release further said: “The mischievous conversation is trying to make others believe that there is false corona positive reports, persons are being shifted to hospital falsely showing them positive, there is certain target for number of patients to be fetched by hospitals etc. This goes against the guidelines related to the management of the present disaster and violates many legal provisions, thus attracting criminal actions.” The arrested duo have been identified as businessman Biswajit Mohanty, 47, and Laxmikanta Behera, 46, an employee of Ortel Communication that is widely perceived to be owned by the Panda family. However, the OTV management has made it clear that the Panda family has no control over Ortel Communication. “Odisha police have arrested two men who posted their phone chat online. Their ‘crime’? One of them allegedly tested Covid +ve & spoke of fake ‘treatment’ at massive govt cost. This just the latest of massive Corona related corruption scams in Odisha. Will #FoE activists speak up?” Baijayant Jay Panda tweeted. In the audio, Laxmikanta had shared his experience with his friend Biswajit about his treatment at the hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19. Biswajit had recorded the conversation and shared it on social media without Laxmikanta’s knowledge. Laxmikanta has made it clear that he had no intention of doing this and his friend had circulated the audio without his knowledge. Speaking to The Telegraph, OTV News editor Radhamadhab Mishra said: “We have just uploaded the viral audio on our digital platform. Even we have made it clear that it is not ours. We did not even carry the viral audio in our bulletin. On this issue, we had also contacted the BMC commissioner, but he did not respond. Where was the need for the police to come at midnight and serve notice to us. It is nothing but harassment.” Mishra also made it clear that Ortel has no connection with the Panda family. The BMC had registered a case against the channel on August 7, a day after the audio clip was uploaded on its social media site. OTV chief financial officer Manoranajan Sarangi told the media: “OTV and Ortel communication are separate entities. For the last 15 years, the companies are being run as different entities under the Registrar of Companies (ROC). Panda family has no control over Ortel and its board is under suspension. Ortel and OTV are different companies and run by their own managements.” The media fraternity is divided over the issue. Many journalists have condemned the police action on OTV and termed it as an attempt by the government to gag the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Nod to keep green areas out of coal auction in Chattisgarh||Union minister for coal and mines Pralhad Joshi has agreed to the request of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel to keep coal mines in dense forest areas and elephant corridors in the state out of the upcoming auction of coal blocks. Baghel made the suggestion during a meeting with the minister at the chief minister’s house in Raipur recently, according to an official statement. The chief minister demanded that the additional levy of Rs 4,140 crore which was deposited by industrialists to the Centre according to the instructions of the Supreme Court before 2014, should be transferred to the state. Joshi agreed to the demand saying that the central government has filed an application in the Supreme Court for disposal of the aforementioned amount, based on which a decision will be taken soon. In the meeting, Baghel also demanded transfer of the penalty amount of Rs 10,129 crore to the state, based on the Supreme Court’s decision in a common cause case. Baghel also made the following demands during the meeting — issue of guidelines to South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) to increase production in Gare Pelma mines immediately, utilisation of waterlogged coal mines for safe drinking water supply and irrigation, return of land to the state government after completion of the mining process and immediate action on the SECL mines that have been shut down for proper disposal of fly ash. On this, Joshi gave consent for formation of a joint team of Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, SECL and state officials. Baghel also requested that with approval of Coal India Limited chairman on the proposal to provide coal to local small-scale industries according to their requirement, the state government should be appointed as an agency for this purpose. While discussing the topics related to the ministry, the state government requested for amendment in the royalty rates of iron ore. Baghel said that under the National Exploration Mineral Trust (NMET), Chhattisgarh has deposited about Rs 300 crore with the Centre. He drew the attention of Joshi towards simplification of rules for the use of this amount and for authorising the state governments to select minerals for mineral exploration. The minister agreed to the demands. In a presentation given by the Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain, it was said that despite the reserves of about 150 billion tonnes in India, coal is being imported from Australia, Indonesia and other countries. Therefore, there is a need to make India self-sufficient by properly planning for adequate exploitation of the coal available in the country, it said. Coal India chairman Pramod Aggarwal, SECL CMD A.P. Panda, additional chief secretary to the chief minister, Subrata Sahu, principal secretary (forest), Manoj Pingua, secretary to the chief minister, Siddharth Komal Pardeshi, secretary (mineral department) Anbalagan P, principal chief conservator of forests Rakesh Chaturvedi and director (mineralogy), Sameer Vishnoi, and other senior officials of the central and state government were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Schools ask about birth history, grandparents ||A private school in Gurgaon has on its admission form sought information on the occupations of the children’s grandparents, and another has demanded details of the children’s and their mothers’ medical histories. These questions from the Kunskapsskolan School and the Shiv Nadar School have prompted educationists to level charges of RTE violation, privacy breach and possible caste or class-based selection. Both schools have defended the questions and denied they would be used to eliminate or select students. Many Gurgaon schools recently released their admission forms for the session beginning next January. Kunskapsskolan’s form asks for the mother’s age during pregnancy, the mode of delivery, and the child’s Apgar (appearance, pulse, grimace, activity, respiration) score at birth. The Shiv Nadar School has sought to know the occupation of the grandparents. Many schools across the country do ask about the parents’ professions but rarely does any invoke the grandparents’ occupation — which can be a clearer indicator of caste because it relates to earlier times, less conducive to social mobility. Officials of both schools said their admission forms had carried these questions for several years. They argued that the information gleaned helped meet the children’s special needs, if any, and provide them the benefits of any special knowledge that any grandparent possessed. Controversy broke out after some people wrote about the forms on social media. Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, said the questions on the children’s and their mothers’ medical histories violated the Right to Education Act and amounted also to a breach of privacy. “A mother’s age during pregnancy or the mode of delivery is personal information. Asking for such information is a breach of privacy,” she said. “To claim that this would let them (the school) decide if a child has special needs is specious and mala fide. More significantly, the RTE Act bans any kind of screening process for admission. This violates the law.” Section 13 of the RTE Act says: “No school or person shall, while admitting a child, collect any capitation fee and subject the child or his or her parents or guardian to any screening procedure.” Kunskapsskolan said it needed the medical histories to determine whether some of the children had “developmental vulnerability”, and to address it. “Developmental vulnerability” refers to the risk of a child having a difficult start to school and of her educational challenges harming her long-term health. “Kunskapsskolan has always been an inclusive school and continues to cater to students with neuro-diverse needs. We also believe in providing personalised education to each child and understand that the learning graph and ways for each student will be different,” the school told The Telegraph in an email statement. “The questions regarding the birth history of the child, like age of the mother at the time of pregnancy, mode of delivery, and Apgar score are to understand if the child has a probability of developmental vulnerability. These details help the professionals at school to acknowledge the specific needs of the child to provide adequate and effective support.” According to the school website, the Kunskapsskolan Educational Program (KED) was conceptualised in 1999 in Sweden. It focuses on personalised education and individualised goals based on each student’s needs and abilities. “We at Kunskapsskolan are looking at students being successful academically, emotionally and socially, and this information helps us understand how best we can support the child. This information is not used for elimination and does not impact the admission process,” the school’s statement said. “However, as a school, we need to be clear and confident that we are in a position to support the child in his/her journey at school.” Asked whether Kunskapsskolan schools sought these information from parents in Sweden too, a school official said they didn’t have to because the Swedish government issues cards to children detailing their special needs, if any. Dr Sunil Dargar, a Delhi pathologist, questioned the method adopted by the Gurgaon school to assess the children’s probable developmental vulnerability. “No detailed data are provided to the parents at childbirth, so they cannot provide most of the information sought. Only when there’s a significant event like delayed crying, etc, it may be revealed to the parents,” he said. Even if the parents have all the information sought, he said, these data cannot by themselves determine whether the child is developmentally vulnerable. “Just data will not help determine whether the child has special needs, it’s observation of the child that may reveal this. Redundant data collection helps nobody; it only aggravates the confusion,” Dargar said. The school’s email responses to this newspaper were silent on the contention that the information sought didn’t necessarily establish whether the child might be developmentally vulnerable, and the charge that seeking the information violated the RTE Act. Venita Kaul, professor emerita for education at Ambedkar University, said a school may ask the parents generally whether their children have any special needs. “But asking every parent to give such data is not right,” she said, arguing such practice suggested the possibility of profiling and biased selection. The Shiv Nadar school said it often invited grandparents with special knowledge to interact with its students, hence the questions about their occupation. “Shiv Nadar School has a robust and a transparent admission process that provides equal opportunities to students of all backgrounds. The school believes in involving the parents in the teaching-learning process of the child,” it said in a statement. “In our admission form, we only ask for grandparents’ professional background and not their education qualification. This information is not an eligibility criterion but a way to develop learning partnership. For example, a judge or a lawyer can talk to our students about law, while a farmer can help our students learn about agriculture.” But Kaul questioned the way the data were being collected. “The grandparents can share their new or unique knowledge in any area. But instead of seeking this information on the admission form, the school should have asked for a statement whether any grandparent could help enrich the classroom practices,” she said. Rampal too said the school could very well seek the information on grandparents’ “expertise” after the admission process was over. “When the school has put it (the question) on its admission form, it can clearly be used to select children for admission, which is a violation of the law,” she said. The Kunskapsskolan global chain has formed a joint venture with Gyandarshan Eduventures Private Limited to set up schools in India. There are two such schools in Gurgaon, one in Lucknow and a fourth in Bangalore. “Kunskapsskolan Eduventures is a joint venture between Kunskapsskolan Education Sweden AB and Gyandarshan Eduventures Private Limited. Kunskapsskolan Eduventures develops and provides Kunskapsskolan’s offer and services in India,” the school website said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Cremation solution for Covid-19 bodies||Hooghly district’s Arambagh Municipality will restart a burning ghat lying unused for the last 30 years to cremate the bodies of Covid patients. The move comes after residents living near the town’s crematorium protested against cremating the bodies of Covid patients who did not belong to the locality. Subdivisional officer of Arambagh Nripendra Singh, and chairperson of board of administrators of Arambagh Municipality Swapan Nandi, along with the police and senior officials, held a meeting on Monday afternoon to decide on reopening the old crematorium on Pallishree Circus ground. The SDO and other officials visited the ground on Monday evening and decided to set up a makeshift tin-sheet boundary around the place where bodies would be cremated. “Some 30 years ago, this place used to be a crematorium. We faced several problems in cremating Covid bodies and so decided to reopen the old crematorium. There should be no objection now,” said Nandi. Arambagh has so far reported 230 Covid cases and four deaths. An official said Arambagh town had half a dozen crematoriums, but residents were not ready to allow bodies of ‘outsiders” to be cremated in those. “The old crematorium is far away from any residential locality and we hope there are no objections now,” he added. Rajesh Choudhuri, a member of the board of administrators in Arambagh Municipality, said the area was deserted and was a dumping yard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Team to probe Covid-19 death in Kalyani||The Nadia district administration formed a three-member team to probe the alleged “negligence and apathy” of a doctor at the SNR Carnival Hospital in Kalyani that allegedly led to the death of a Covid patient without treatment on Saturday. The SNR Carnival Hospital is a Covid-designated hospital. A top official of the district administration said the JNM hospital’s medical superintendent would lead the inquiry team. “The team will visit the Covid hospital on Tuesday and summon the doctor for her version. The complainant (hospital employee Sritama Deb) and all other persons present will be questioned,” said the official, terming the incident as “most unfortunate”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Plantation management serves herbal tea to boost worker immunity  ||Herbal tea, a concoction that has been gaining popularity because of the Covid-19 outbreak and is considered as a drink for boosting immunity, is now being served by the management of a tea estate in Alipurduar district among people who make the principal ingredient of the drink. In the Kadambini tea garden, the management prepares the herbal tea and serves the same among the workers twice a week to improve their immunity. Simultaneously, the managerial employees encourage the workers to prepare the concoction at their homes regularly and drink it at least twice a day. Located around 32km from here, the Kadambini plantation has 1,064 permanent workers. This is the first time that any tea garden in Alipurduar district has come with such a move for the workers. So far, no Covid case has been reported in the garden where around 5,000 people reside. The factory and office premises are sanitised on a regular basis, soaps and sanitisers have been provided to the workers and norms like social distancing are strictly followed in the garden, said Samik Ghosh, the manager. “Added to these, we are also providing labourers with herbal tea twice a week. Usually, it is distributed at the factory in the afternoon hours. The hot brew is given to the labourers after they finish their work. We want to continue this practice till the crisis is over. We feel it is necessary that the drink that has become popular these days is provided to those who make tea, the main ingredient,” Ghosh said. The herbal tea, Ghosh said, is prepared with a number of items which include cardamom, bay leaf, lemon juice, clove, turmeric, black cumin, black pepper and ginger. When the workers are handed over the concoction, they are also being asked to prepare similar herbal tea at their homes, said another managerial employee of the garden. He said each worker would get 400 grams of tea in a month from the estate. “Occasionally, we tell workers about other ingredients also,” he added. The initiative has earned appreciation from an organisation of tea planters. “It is a commendable initiative. Some other gardens have taken similar steps and we feel it would encourage more tea estates to help the workforce,” said Sanjay Bagchi, the secretary of the Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Cave-ins rise, as do political tempers||West Burdwan’s coal belt has reported a spurt in subsidence in the past one and half months, triggering a blame game between the Trinamul and BJP. Last week, land close to homes in Satgram of Raniganj block caved in, causing at least 2,000 people to spend sleepless nights. In July, a woman was buried alive in debris when her home caved in at Jambad village in Andal block. Around two dozen private homes and a primary school were damaged in Harishpur, Andal again, when land caved in, and 1,200-odd people left their homes in fear. In Salanpur block, a truck driver had a narrow escape when his vehicle was trapped under a cave-in. Harishpur, Jambad and Satgram are among the 146 human habitations with a population of around 2 lakh in the coal belt area identified as subsidence-prone, but people live here without rehabilitation. Trinamul has blamed the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), under the central government, for not allowing them to build homes to rehabilitate people in subsidence-prone zones. The party, riddled by factional feuds and corruption charges in the district, has taken up subsidence to use it against the BJP with an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls. West Burdwan coal belt is represented by BJP MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo, elected twice since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP on the other hand has alleged rampant illegal mining backed by Trinamul led to the spurt in subsidence. ECL sources said subsidence has “increased suddenly” because of illegal mining at abandoned mines. An ECL official said there was no subsidence-linked death in the past two years but as people started digging coal from abandoned mines the situation worsened this year. “Usually subsidence occurs in monsoon when soil becomes loose in rain. But now, land is unstable with pilferers extracting coal from abandoned mines,” he said. Land becomes “unstable” when voids are not properly filled up by those who illegally extract coal, said sources. But Jitendra Kumar Tiwari, Asansol mayor and Trinamul MLA and district party president, blamed the Centre’s “apathy” to rehabilitate people living in subsidence zones. “People here elected Babul Supriyo of the BJP that runs the government in the Centre but no one is taking the initiative to address the issue (subsidence) and people are compelled to live in danger. A woman was killed and many people lost their homes to subsidence in the past one and half months,” Tiwari said. The Bengal government, he alleged, got “no cooperation” from the Centre on rehabilitation. “The ECL does not allow us to construct homes for them on the land we have identified. Our chief minister is trying hard to rehabilitate people but is facing obstacles from the Centre, the BJP MP elected from the area is also not coming forward,” added Tiwari. Bengal housing development and the Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA) planned around 33,000 dwellings to rehabilitate around 2 lakh people. But though they need 400 acres to construct the homes, they received permission for only 172 acres from the ECL. ECL sources said the area had coal reserves within 600 metres of the surface and could be mined in near future. “The ECL is only concerned about coal and business, not people. They did not allow us to construct homes on land under their leasehold area with coal reserves,” alleged Tapas Banerjee, a Trinamul MLA and chairman of the ADDA executing the Centre-funded rehabilitation project. Laxman Ghorui, BJP chief in West Burdwan, however, put the blame squarely on illegal mining. “Trinamul-backed smugglers loot coal from abandoned mines. That leads to subsidence. People know everything. We will stop all such illegal activities after coming to power next year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP focus on north Bengal||The Bengal BJP has its eye on north Bengal, including minority-dominated Malda, ahead of the 2021 state polls. In the 2016 state election, the BJP won two Assembly seats out of 54 in the region, but its Lok Sabha performance — where it won seven of eight seats — has increased its confidence. The party is reaching out to minority-dominated Malda, tribal belts of the Dooars and the Rajbanshi-dominated Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri in equal measure, said sources. Gobinda Mondal, Malda district BJP chief, said: “We are visiting minority belts to tell people that though they did not vote for us, the Centre has come up with schemes for them and they are getting benefits. We are iterating they are Indian citizens and that they have nothing to fear.” The BJP also claimed credit for a recent language-criterion tweak for a state forest recruitment drive, which it said helped many north Bengal youths apply for the job. In North Dinajpur, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Monday held a meeting in Hemtabad, where party MLA Debendranath Roy was found hanging last month, and repeated that Roy had been murdered and only a CBI probe would help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Active cases fall from Sunday count||A rise in recoveries has lowered the number of active Covid-19 cases from the previous day for the first time since July 28 in Bengal. The number of active cases till 9am on Monday stood at 26,031, a fall of 344 from corresponding figure on Sunday. On Monday till 9am, the state reported 2,905 new cases and 41 deaths. Total recoveries have gone past 70,000, and the recovery rate has risen to 71.43 per cent. The national rate now is 69.54 per cent. The state carried out 26,297 tests on Monday, taking the total to 11.32 lakh at 12,580 per million population. Out of the new cases on Monday, 618 were reported from Calcutta and 492 from North 24-Parganas. As the two districts reported 846 and 604 recoveries, respectively, the total active cases fell by 242 in Calcutta to 6,799 and by 124 in North 24-Parganas to 5,650. “We focused on the high-incidence districts and these two were right at the top. There will be further improvement over the next few weeks,” said a minister. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.7 per cent, which was 4.7 even a month ago. Of the total 2,100 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounts for 962, with 14 in the 24-hour cycle till 9am. North 24-Parganas has reported a total of 490 deaths, 12 of them on Monday. The state government reported 1,861, or 88.6 per cent, as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.13, from 3.18 per cent a month ago. But it still lags behind the current national rate of 1.99.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Iskcon bars visitors to temple for at least a month||Iskcon authorities in Mayapur have decided to shut its temple premises and suspend the daily darshan of deities for at least a month amid the rise in Covid-19 cases in Nadia district. Till Monday, Nadia recorded 1,340 Covid cases, most of which were reported in the past one month. No visitor, devotee or pilgrim can enter the Chandrodaya temple premises at the Iskcon headquarters in Mayapur till further notice, the Iskcon communiqué says. The decision was taken ahead of Janmashtami scheduled for August 12. Iskcon Mayapur’s head of communications Subroto Das told The Telegraph: “Only pujaris will be allowed to enter the temple premises to carry out the daily services for the deities. We have urged all the devotees to use the online medium to participate in the Janmashtami festival.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Hilsa makes a comeback, thanks to August rain ||Hilsa fishermen of coastal East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas this weekend ended their dry spell of the past two months. Sources said that fishermen returned to Digha in East Midnapore, and South 24-Parganas, with a hilsa haul of 50 tonne between Friday and Sunday. To put this figure in perspective, fishermen from these areas normally expect a daily hilsa haul of 1,000 tonne in early August. “It is nothing compared to hilsa hauls in other years, but whatever it is, it will help us recover some money,” Bijon Maity, secretary of Kakdwip Fishermen’s Association in South 24-Parganas, said, adding the catch in June and July was “virtually nothing”. Fishermen and other stakeholders of hilsa trade attributed the haul to the recent low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal. Though a sea fish, the hilsa swims from the Bay of Bengal to rivers to spawn. Rain and easterly winds help the shoals reach the rivers, say fishermen. “Low pressure formation last week is starting to induce the fish to flock to rivers,” said a source in Digha Fishermen’s Association. “Since June, we faced unexpected weather, including westerly wind and lower-than-usual rainfall. That made the hilsa stay away and everyone connected with the trade suffered.” Agreed Digha Fishermen and Fish Traders Association secretary Shyamsundar Das: “Easterly wind and rain are helping the hilsa reach rivers. We hope we can recoup our losses of the last few months.” Das said while it was too early to speculate on hilsa trade numbers this year, they would be underwhelming even though the fish is being sold in markets for anywhere between Rs 800 and Rs 2,000 per kilo, depending on size. “These premium prices are not enough to recoup our losses in fuel and maintenance (for fishing trawlers) and maintenance that we suffered since June,” Maity explained. Assistant director of fisheries (East Midnapore) Surajit Bag held out hope for “higher volume” of hilsa catch during the rest of August. “Weather patterns seem to be changing for the better,” Bag said. Diehard hilsa fans are already celebrating. Digha resident Gourishankar Bijoli on Monday bought the hilsa for “nearly Rs 2,000 a kilo”. “I could not resist splurging on the fish for my family,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
11-08-2020||West Bengal||BSF raids village, youth shot dead||A youth was shot dead when BSF personnel raided a village in the Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district on Sunday night to search for alleged cattle smugglers, triggering protests from local people who ransacked an ambulance, blocked roads and prevented police from taking away the body. The residents of Madhya Balabhut eventually allowed the police to seize the body of Shahinur Haque, 19, around 11am on Monday, almost 15 hours after his death. “There have always been allegations of highhandedness by the BSF from the other side of the border in Bangladesh... Now, Indians are also accusing the BSF of excesses,” said a senior police officer. Sources said BSF personnel had entered Madhya Balabhut village, which is in Balabhut panchayat, around 8.30pm on Saturday and told some residents that they were in search of cattle smugglers. “We heard gunshots after they entered the village. After some time, Shahinur Haque was found lying dead with bullet injuries. A young man was killed for no fault of his,” said Minati Das, the pradhan of the Trinamul-run Balabhut panchayat. The death of Haque, a weaver, sparked protests, prompting deployment of Tufanganj police. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh raised fingers at the BSF and said he would seek the chief minister’s intervention. “We have seen how certain activities of the BSF along the border have been criticised by the Bangladeshi authorities. Now, the security force that is supposed to guard the border and people living in our country is entering Indian villages and shooting people. I will seek the intervention of the chief minister to stop such atrocities by the BSF along the border,” said Ghosh. BSF sources, however, claimed that security personnel had to open fire as they had been attacked. “Those involved in cattle smuggling attacked the team. To save themselves, the team opened fire,” said a source. When the police brought an ambulance to take away the youth’s body for post-mortem on Monday, a section of villagers turned violent and ransacked the vehicle. After Ghosh spoke to the protesters over the phone, they allowed the police to seize the body . The minister asked why the BSF had entered the village that is not next to the barbed wire fences but a kilometre away. “It is away from the border and we have doubts whether they have any authority at all to raid villages. If they had information of any wrongdoing, they could have intimated the same to the police or planned a joint raid. I will visit the village on Tuesday,” said Ghosh. A few months back, he said, BSF personnel were accused of ransacking a market in Balarampur that is around 15km from the border. Also, in February, three farmers had suffered bullet injuries after BSF had fired at them at another locality in Tufanganj, the minister said. Tufanganj subdivisional officer Arabinda Ghosh said: “We are trying to find out why the BSF entered the village. We will also convene an administrative meeting on the issue where officials of the force would be called.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
11-08-2020||Opinion||DGCA bars use of wide-body aircraft at Kozhikode||The DGCA has barred the operation of wide-body aircraft at Kozhikode airport this monsoon "out of abundant caution", a senior official said, adding that the aviation regulator will conduct a special audit of airports that receive heavy rains. The decision was taken four days after a narrow-body B737 aircraft of Air India Express with 190 people on board overshot the runway and crashed at the Kozhikode airport amid downpour. Asked about the duration of the ban, the DGCA official said, "No date has been fixed. We will wait for the monsoon to get over and as a means of abundant caution we are doing it." Wide-body aircraft like B747 and A350 have a bigger fuel tank and can therefore travel longer distances in comparison to narrow-body aircraft like B737 and A320. A wide-body aircraft also needs a longer runway length to take off or land. The table top runway 10 of the Kozhikode airport is approximately 2,700 metres long. Wide-body aircraft operations were permitted at this airport from 2019. The senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, "The special audit will be done at airports like Mumbai and Chennai that are affected by heavy rains annually." The Airports Authority of India (AAI) manages more than 100 airports in the country, including the one in Kozhikode. However, major airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad are managed by private companies. The Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot the tabletop runway on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 18 people, including both the pilots. The airline on Tuesday said 74 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode have been discharged from hospitals after "obtaining complete fitness". A day after the crash, Congress MP Manickam Tagore had tweeted that the AAI and the DGCA "seem to have ignored" the proposal for using Engineered Material Arrestor System (EMAS) technology to ensure the safety of Kozhikode airport's tabletop runway. The AAI works under the Civil Aviation Ministry. The EMAS is a unique surface of special materials that is built at the end of the runway to stop the aircraft in its tracks if it has overshot the area while landing. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday that the Kozhikode airport is equipped with Runway End Safety Area (RESA) as per the safety guidelines of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). He said the provision of EMAS is not mandatory in a civil airport as per the ICAO guidelines. Puri said EMAS provides safety benefits if standard RESA length is not available at the airport or if RESA cannot be provided at the airport due to some constraints. "Provision of EMAS at Mangalore and Kozhikode were examined by AAI in consultation with DGCA, subsequent to the Air India Express accident at Mangalore in 2010. Tabletop runways at both these airports are accordingly provided with RESA of 240 metres and 90 metres in compliance to DGCA directive," Puri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Flawed notion: Quantifying happiness||Sir — A recent study — it surprisingly asked just two questions to 1,155 respondents — found that 89 per cent of people think that happiness can be controlled. But the idea of quantifying happiness is flawed, as it varies from one person to another and is dependent on several factors. Moreover, such findings can invalidate the sufferings of people, many of whom struggle to simply get through the day.Ananya Chakraborty,New Delhi Dire straits Sir — The conversation between Rahul Gandhi and the Nobel laureate, Muhammad Yunus, on the plight of migrant workers in the aftermath of the nationwide lockdown that was imposed as a result of the outbreak of Covid-19 was eye-opening (“An epiphany”, Aug 6). Millions of migrant workers, who had always been treated like a silent cog in the wheel of the urban economy, could no longer be ignored as their miserable conditions were laid bare to all. While the early five-year plans in post-Independence India worked towards the betterment of the rural economy, soon the government focused on the growth of the urban sector. The decline of the rural economy led to the mass migration of labour to the urban centres which eventually led to rampant exploitation. Although the Left rallied for the rights of the workers in the informal sector, its fall from power meant that it could only succeed for a short while. The loss of the socialist ideals envisioned for an independent India has had devastating effects on the national fabric of our country. With the waning of the bargaining powers of labour unions around the world and the large scale contraction of jobs as a result of technological progress, there is an urgent need for governments to address the dire condition of the working class population. In case they fail to do so, the International Labour Organization must hold administrations accountable and intervene if necessary. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — Muhammad Yunus is right to point out that it would be a grave mistake to return to the pre-Covid economic setup. The pandemic has laid bare the inadequacies of a system that privileges certain sections of people over others. Governments must take this opportunity to establish a fair economic order. Rohan Datta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Mind the gap: A flawed Kashmir policy||Vox populi — the voice of the people — should ideally be the kernel in the fruit of democracy. A polity sans the political agency of the people is thus the very antithesis of democracy. It is being argued that the appointment of Manoj Sinha as the new lieutenant-governor signals a political outreach on the part of the Narendra Modi government to Kashmir’s people and political parties. Mr Sinha is a seasoned politician; he replaces a bureaucrat who has not exactly distinguished himself when it comes to ushering in normalcy in this restive Union territory. But it takes two to engage in constructive political dialogue. Kashmir’s political system is in tatters. Some of its principal leaders remain in detention. Mehbooba Mufti of the Peoples Democratic Party, with which the Bharatiya Janata Party shared power briefly, is the most prominent example. Others — the National Conference’s Omar Abdullah — may have been released from detention but remain enfeebled politically. The BJP may be itching to fill the political vacuum but the lack of local political representation is proving to be ominous. Militancy is on the rise. The people remain anxious about the Centre’s motives. The anxiety is not unwarranted. The principle of proportional representation seems to have been undermined in the administration with Muslims and residents of the Valley being overlooked for key posts. There is also concern that the redrawing of assembly seats may lead to a disproportionate representation from Hindu-dominated Jammu. Meanwhile, deliberations continue over the restoration of high-speed internet, a basic entitlement in the rest of India. India’s highest court has expressed its dismay over the delay. Strikingly, Indians in other parts of the country remain blasé about the everyday challenges faced by their brethren in Kashmir. The cumulative result has been the erosion of the credibility of Mr Modi’s dispensation. The prime minister seems to be ignoring two fundamental aspects in his flawed Kashmir policy. The restoration of the people’s confidence in New Delhi is of paramount importance. But such a renewal is predicated upon the creation of a level turf of engagement between the Centre and Kashmir’s political representatives. The other, equally important, missing element concerns the dignity of Kashmir. Dismantling statehood in the name of integration was a cynical blow not only to Kashmir’s political framework but also to the self-respect of the people. The BJP has its task cut out when it comes to re-establishing that trust. The deficit will widen if Mr Modi prioritizes electoral and ideological compulsions over the welfare of and equitable representation from Kashmir. Changing lieutenant-governors periodically is not the answer to Kashmir’s growing alienation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Breezy ride: Bicycle culture in India||A colleague who stays a few kilometres away from office has bought a bicycle, and is now cycling tens of kilometres within and without Calcutta regularly for all sorts of activities. Many people are now discovering freedom on two wheels. In his book, Everyday Technology: Machines and the Making of India’s Modernity, the historian, David Arnold, argued that the nation entered the ‘cycle age’ by the 1950s. But the bicycle culture in India was initiated by Englishmen and it became quite popular among Indians. The arrival of automobiles and class consciousness detracted colonial officials from bicycles, while its popularity among ordinary Indians increased steadily, with the added stimulus of affordability with the establishment of local companies. In his book, Arnold illustrates how small-scale technology such as bicycles, rice mills, sewing machines and typewriters became integral to new ways of thinking about class, race, and gender, as well as to the politics of colonial rule and Indian nationhood. Seven decades on, is a world on two wheels going to be the new normal in a pandemic-hit world? People living in and around cities are reluctant to use public transport, and governments worldwide are also encouraging bicycles as a mode of transportation. In a joint article Arnold and Erich DeWald analysed the role of bicycles in empowerment in colonial India. While the car is the symbol of modernization, the bicycle may be regarded as its modern antithesis. It started off as an identifiably foreign import and served as a symbol of upward mobility in its initial days in the country. The rise of automobiles, however, has marginalized bicycles. Bicyclists in Indian cities thereafter are mostly ‘captive users’, who use it because of affordability.Pedalling up A 2016 survey showed that the poorest 20 per cent households accounted for a majority of the bicycles in the country. Unfortunately, social attitude to non-motorized vehicles is, in general, not positive — bicycles have been associated with the urban poor in the country for decades now. Even in the late Seventies, an overwhelming majority of cyclists in cities like Delhi, Jaipur and Hyderabad were from the lowest income groups and the unskilled category. A 2013 study argued that the use of non-motorized transport in the country has been declining with the increase in income levels. But the socio-economic pattern of bicyclists in the country is going to change. Covid-19 has brought a rare opportunity for a ‘bicycle revolution’ as well. Arnold believes that bicycles also have caste connotations. In the early days, there were objections to Dalits riding bicycles because this was thought to be an assumption of status that they were not entitled to. Traces of such social stigma still persist. Also, traditionally in the Indian context, bicycles had gender connotations. Unlike sewing machines, bicycle names remain grossly masculine — makes like Hercules or Atlas or even Robin Hood became popular in India. There is alarming gender disparity among Indian bicyclists. Arnold mentions that small things can be “of primary, even paramount, importance when it comes to daily lives and the everyday objects with which people surround themselves”, and emphasizes “the centrality of the machine and of technology generally in Indian thinking about past, present, and future”. Clearly, technology like the bicycle evolved as a metaphor for differentiation in Indian society, and assumed its own values and meanings in the local context and significantly altered social, economic and cultural equations among Indians. A ‘bicycle revolution’ will thus not only increase the quantum of bike-users in major cities, but also drastically change the socio-economic and demographic distribution of the cyclists. Will bicycles in their new avatar become a symbol of status and upward mobility once again?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||A critical look at NEP-2020||The National Education Policy-2020 received cabinet approval on July 29. In the last six months, education has been reshaped in India and the world. Modes of teaching and learning resources have been redesigned for online and distance education. NEP-2020 also comes at a time when almost 183 nations are expected to feel the heat of a reducing GDP. NEP-2020 aspires to combine traditional knowledge with modern thinking and introduces vocational education from elementary schools. It emphasizes on technology in education and attempts to transform education planning, teaching and learning assessment. But a large number of students do not have access to such technology and gadgets. How would these excluded students benefit from the new modes of learning? Rising poverty and job losses would impact the continuity of education for a large number of students. Some budgetary commitments have been highlighted for online education. But they might not be enough to offer devices to the students or building e-infrastructure in rural areas. Research has revealed a significant digital divide at the university and school levels. The Shiksha Mantralaya needs to come up with ways of tackling the digital divide and the gender iniquities within digital technology. The policy talks of establishing a National Education Technology Forum to advance digital learning and e-content. The latter will be created in eight regional languages. This is a good move. But a road map will be needed to align graduates in regional languages with job opportunities. ‘School readiness’ has been prioritized as the foundation of learning. But neither anganwadi centres nor primary schools grant the liberty to try new ways of learning. How can school readiness be achieved without infrastructural transformation, procedural modifications and resource allocation? NEP-2020 plans to remodel higher education in India and establish reputed universities. India has more than 800 universities and 39,000 colleges. Self-financed courses have also surged. Universities and colleges have witnessed constant fee hike. But the quality of education imparted remains a source of concern. The education sector is expected to get 6 per cent of the GDP. The question is how would the Centre raise the funds amidst an economic crisis? Will it bear the brunt of the expenditure? Or will the states be asked to take on the burden? A 2 per cent education cess was introduced by the Centre in 2004 to generate additional resources for education. Will the educational cess be a part of the primary budget or will it be an additional tax as conceptualized in the beginning? How many existing Indian universities are equipped to compete with universities of global repute? This data may be used as a baseline while working on the plan of action. Earlier education policies of 1968 and 1986 tell us that it takes years to translate policy ideas into action. What happened to the financial commitments to implement the Right to Education Act? After a decade, roughly 10 per cent of schools meet the RTE norms. NEP-2020 shows concern about teachers’ credibility. Innumerable teaching posts are vacant. Educational institutions lack benches, blackboards, well-equipped libraries and so on. A substantial proportion of college teaching is done by ad hoc teachers. Is it possible to make a long-term, sustainable plan with scanty resources? The NEP aims to create a knowledge economy. A knowledge-based economy requires its pupils to develop a combination of skills and prioritizes scientific temperament to enhance employment opportunities. However, with growing economic hardship and educational expenses, the education of the girl child could be considered a ‘luxury’ and children with disabilities may not be able to continue with formal learning. The policy has opened the doors for foreign universities to have campuses in India. Will they provide reservation to economically poor students? Can NEP-2020 motivate students to study in India instead of going abroad? It is understood that classrooms and learning processes won’t be the same in a post-corona world. A budgetary provision is a must to address the challenges that students are going to face in the coming months. Common entrance exams for universities, reforms in the school examination system and mother-tongue-based primary education are welcoming steps. But how would the quality of secondary education be enhanced? The policy recommends the discontinuation of MPhil course. What will happen to the students pursuing this degree? Corruption in the education sector and the lack of financial resources are major concerns for policy implementation. We must have an outstanding teacher preparation and recruitment system as well as teacher training institutes. The recognition of merit would be the key to reconstruct Indian education. Often, merit loses to nepotism. The future of NEP-2020 depends on the political will and the system to welcome ‘quality’ human resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||City on wheels||Travelling to Bombay as a child, the train pulling into the vaulted Victoria Terminus was pretty similar to pulling into Howrah Station; as in Calcutta, the porters were Bihari or from Uttar Pradesh, their hustle, bustle and bargaining the same, the bookstalls and food kiosks in the station were also familiar. One of the first markers that one had arrived in a very different city was when we climbed into the Fiat taxi that would take us from VT to my aunt’s place near Kemp's Corner. Unlike Calcutta, the taxi rank was organized and no-nonsense, without any of our eastern city’s sense of chaos: you had to move quickly to stuff your luggage into the vehicle and get going; no one was honking from behind but you could feel the tension in the porters and the taxi driver. As opposed to Calcutta’s kaali-peeli Ambassador taxis, these yellow-black Fiats had no ample space welcoming you; you and your luggage were efficiently stuffed into every nook and cranny of the little car, the doors shutting on you giving off a very different sound, a kind of exact but tinny rattle, which was very different from the Amby doors’ heavy thunk of ancient metal locking into place. The speed with which the little creature ejected itself from the taxi rank and hurtled into traffic was also in marked contrast to the lugubrious, first-gear waddling of an Ambassador as it decided whether to become fully un-stationary. Within minutes, we’d be on Marine Drive. Whizzing by on our left would be the brown-green-blue sea and beyond it the whole planet. Flashing by on our right would be art deco apartments that cost an astronomical arm and a leg. In a speeding Ambassador, you were thrown about a bit, loose goods in the hold of a large ship; in a Bombay Fiat you were part of a tightly packed rocket heading arrow straight. Traffic lights in Bombay would bring the rocket to a sharp stop, very different from the Calcutta taxi meandering to an incontinent pause. On the rare occasion a Bombay policeman stopped a taxi for a traffic violation, there was no debate or discussion between cop and driver; there was no possibility of any bargaining or bribing — the challan was delivered, the driver drove on. It wasn’t that there was no overtaking; after all, Bombay, at its core, was about aggressive overtaking, but it had to be done within a set of strictly followed rules. Released from the red light or a funny-looking ‘Mama’ in blue shorts and white shirt, the driver would surge ahead in a burst of whining speed, the nasal horn emitting its alien beep, and the sea air with its fishy sting would again be in our noses and hair. Reaching the destination, the luggage would be unloaded by the driver with an urgency unchanged from the taxi rank, the metered money taken without fuss, and then he would be off, back onto the streets where time was as jealously husbanded as gold. At some point in the early 70s, the shape and smell of the Fiat taxis changed, but not the economical efficiency of each ride and transaction. Unlike Calcutta, there was never any khit-pitt about fares or destination — the Fiat (now branded Padmini, a name which no one adopted), in its kaali-peeli livery, would go where you asked it to go and the fare was strictly according to the meter and whatever the taxiwalla’s official fare-chart threw up. For a Calcuttan, the speed and the efficiency of a taxi ride in Bombay remained mind-boggling. For a Kolkataiya in his late teens or early twenties, equally startling was the fact that you could do many things in the back seat with another mutually desirous person and, forget taking his eyes off the road, the driver wouldn’t even blink — he wasn’t concerned about peeping at your amorousness — he was only interested in making his fare. As a child, I was both thrilled and daunted by the Bombay taxis. As I grew up and spent time in Bombay as a young working adult, I began to appreciate them as one of the services that best represented the peculiar egalitarianisms of a can-do city. As Calcutta fell (further) apart in the late 70s and 80s, so did our taxi services. The fiddled meters, the squabbling about where a driver would go or not go, the sheer dilapidation of the vehicles and their interiors, the dangerous rusted bits that could seriously damage you as you got in and out of a taxi — all of these signified a collapse of the basic idea of a city. Bombay, on the other hand, continued to zoom straight ahead with shiny cosmopolitan speed. I still remember the first time I saw a Bombay taxi-driver bribe a Bombay cop. It was in the late 80s and we were stopped near the High Court for leaving a red light early. The policeman leaned into the window and said something. The driver reached into the top pocket of his safari suit uniform. Hand curved to meet hand, and small currency was transferred from one pocket to another. In a couple of years, we would start witnessing the regression of a great metropolis into a narrow-minded, slit-eyed, suspicious frown of a small town. By 1990, thuggish young men were thumping around on their motorcycles, waving saffron flags with stencilled tiger faces, shouting about Ram temple and Marathi manoos. In a few years, their cynical overlord had won the elections and placed his minions and puppets in charge of Maharashtra and Bombay. The Fiat-Padmini taxis still ran efficiently, their interiors now souped up with coloured lights and over-stuffed seats, their rear windshields proclaiming their home bases in the far-flung suburbs to filter passengers in the evening. However, the city that had throbbed for decades with a certain enviable cosmopolitan mix was now on its way to being shrink-wrapped in a toxic orange mindset. Across the nearly thirty years that have followed, a lot of things have happened. We in Calcutta have been dealing with our own thuggish young men carrying flags in all sorts of colours, even as our own taxis have been denuded and made almost defunct. Sections of our Republic have been hollowed out and put into the junkyard, whether permanently or temporarily remains to be seen. As the last of the Fiat-Padminis are decommissioned this year, Bombay is in yet a different place now, its inherent energy having sloughed off some of the toxic shrink-wrap but still very different from the city of possibilities it was in the 60s and 70s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Chief cause: Yogi or Chief Minister?||The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, cannot be faulted for forgetting his duty. That consists of paying lip-service to the premise behind the chief minister’s chair in a secular country. When asked after the founding ceremony of the Ram Mandir whether he would be present at the inauguration of the mosque that the Supreme Court has ordered to be built in Ayodhya after the Babri Masjid demolition, he reportedly said that as chief minister he had no issue with any community or religion. Having made this pronouncement, he proceeded to hedge it with multiple speculations and declarations of his layered identity. He was not a petitioner or respondent — how is that relevant? — and he would not be invited anyway, plus if invited as a yogi he would not go — why would a chief minister be invited as a yogi? — and, most notably, as a Hindu he would not go because he was free to follow the way of worship of his own religion. That is a lot of excuses. Although the obvious question here is whether he is a chief minister first or a Hindu and a yogi first, and many have asked this not too kindly, there is also a greater confusion. Does Mr Adityanath’s way of worship forbid attendance at the holy places of other faiths? Such a claim would be rejected by many who share this religion, and by numbers of thinkers and leaders who have moulded the practice of the faith. The closed mind is special, if not to Mr Adityanath alone then to the champions of Hindutva in general. That lies at the basis of the divisiveness that is tearing apart the secular fabric of the country. In telling irony, the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation has decided to invite the chief minister not for the inauguration of mosque-building alone, but for the simultaneous opening of public utility facilities including a community kitchen, a hospital and a research centre for Indo-Islamic studies on the same premises. The chief minister would be expected to be present at the inauguration of public welfare institutions. There is a message inhering in this programme. Perhaps Mr Adityanath will take note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Boiled eggs, kadha for Covid-positive prisoners ||In a bid to help prisoners fight Covid-19, authorities have included boiled eggs and kadha – a therapeutic Indian drink for boosting immunity– to the daily diet of infected inmates in jails across the state, officials said on Tuesday. “We are serving one boiled egg to each infected prisoner every day. Besides, Kadha, made in the jail kitchen, is also served to the inmates who are fighting the Novel Coronavirus,” said Inspector General, Prison, Birendra Bhushan. The addition to the regular menu for prisoners was incorporated in the beginning of this week in wake of the pandemic. The protein in eggs, jail officials said, helps boost immunity, while kadha has been used for several years in Indian households as an immunity booster. “Infected people need a nutritious diet in order to overcome the virus, so we are doing our bit to help prisoners cope with the infection,” said Bhushan. The count of Covid-infected prisoners at Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi reached 105 on Saturday as at least 73 more jail inmates were found to be Covid positive. On August 4, as many as 40 prisoners and 14 staff at Jharkhand's largest jail tested positive for Covid-19. At least 200 more jail inmates were tested on the basis of contact tracing after the findings on August 4, officials said. Meanwhile, prison authorities have supplied prophylaxis, zinc, vitamin C and vitamin D tablets in sufficient quantity to the jail for treatment of infected patients. At least five doctors, including two MDs, are treating patients at Birsa Munda Jail, which can accommodate around 2,000 inmates, Bhushan said. The additions to the menu in jail were only for infected prisoners and not for other inmates, jail officials said. The infected prisoners have been kept in a separate isolation centre within the jail premises. Bhushan said the situation was particularly alarming in Birsa Munda Jail, while there were negligible cases of Covid infection in other jails of Jharkhand. Besides Ranchi, Jharkhand has four other central jails in Palamau, Hazaribagh, Dumka and East Singbhum. Additionally, there are over two dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Porters of Dhanbad station appeal to railways for help  ||Over 100 registered porters of Dhanbad Railway station are facing a tough time ever since train services were suspended following the announcement of a pan-India lockdown in March. Gorelal Yadav (45), a native of Jehanabad district of Bihar, who has been working as a coolie at Dhanbad station since the last 20 years, said, “With almost zero income for the first two and-a- half months of the lockdown, and nominal income after the resumption of some special trains in June, we are barely to support our families. I have to take care of my wife and three chidren. We have already lost all our savings. Somehow, we are managing with PDS foodgrains.” Yadav said with barely any income, they were unable to buy essentials liek dal, vegetables and cooking oil. "We can't afford the tuition fees of our children, besides our house rent," he added. “Due to the Covid crisis, many passengers arriving on special trains do not let us touch their luggage," he added. Before the lockdown, Dhanbad station would see a daily footfall of over 20,000 passengers. Echoing similar sentiments, Ranjit Kumar, another coolie working in Dhanbad for the last nine years, said, “With an income of Rs 9,000 per month, I have been somehow managing and taking care of my family of four. But the post-lockdown period had brought the biggest misery upon us as even the railway ministry is not helping us." Basant Paswan, (35), another coolie, pointed out that both Gorelal Yadav and Ranjit were better off as they had BPL cards. "But my position is even worse as despite applying for a BPL card several times, I didn’t get one. Thus, I am now dependent on the foodgrains distributed by some social workers." Divisional railway manager of Dhanbad A.K. Mishra could not be contacted for a comment. However, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad Akhilesh Kumar Pandey said "there is no guideline regarding compensation or nor do we have a provision to engage them elsewhere but we are mulling options at the personal level to help them", adding that the porters had been given the option of working as sanitation workers with railway contractors .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI launches new session online at twin campuses ||For the first time in its history, XLRI-Xavier School of Management began its new academic session online from Monday, delayed by around two months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 477 students joined XLRI this year at its campuses in Jamshedpur in Jharkhand and Jhajjar in Delhi NCR. The welcome session, conducted online with an inaugural prayer, was addressed by XLRI Jamshedpur director Father P. Christie, XLRI Delhi-NCR campus director Father Sebastian George and dean (academics) Ashish Pani. “It’s the first time in the history of XLRI that we have the inauguration online due to the extraordinary circumstances created by the Covid-19 outbreak. With all classes online, this term will be a new experience for all of us. We are doing everything possible to provide you with a similar learning experience as in the classroom,” said Father Christie. “However, we look forward to seeing your bubbly selves on campus as soon as MHRD and the local district administration give us the green signal,” he added. There are 181 students each in business management and human resource management in Jamshedpur, while the new batch of business management in Delhi NCR has 72 students. This apart, the Jamshedpur campus also has 15 students in Fellow Programme in Management and 28 students in Executive Fellow Programme in Management. As a side effect of the Covid-19 pandemic, XLRI’s compulsory Village Exposure Programme has been dropped since it required students to stay for a couple of days in a rural area to understand grassroots level challenges. XLRI will take the new students through a special orientation programme to upgrade their knowledge. Both the campuses of XLRI have a standard curriculum, syllabus, pedagogy, e-library, and a common admission and placement process. All students will get the same opportunities. The faculty from the main campus will also be taking classes at the new campus virtually. “XLRI’s successful growth over seven decades has been guided by four important hallmarks of Jesuit education and we will continue to place a strong emphasis on them. One them is ‘Excellence’ – to strive continuously for the best, without getting easily satisfied and without becoming complacent with our achievements. The other is ‘Integrity coupled with Ethics’ - which describes the ethos of XLRI,” added Father Christie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||IMD issues lightning and thunderstorm alert across seven districts ||Several districts of Jharkhand are likely to witness bouts of thunder and lightning in the next 24 hours, the state disaster management department has warned, based on IMD forecasts. Among the vulnerable districts are East Singhbhum, Pakur, Godda, Koderma, Giridih, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Sahebganj. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre also issued a nowcast (short-term forecast) for moderate thunderstorm and lightning. "People in vulnerable districts should be careful in the next 24 hours. They should avoid venturing out to the fields and taking shelter under trees," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He also predicted heavy rain in southern, central and north western Jharkhand between August 13 and August 15. "A low-pressure area is developing over the northwest Bay of Bengal. It will result in heavy showers in isolated pockets of Jharkhand from August 13, " he said. A senior official at  IMD's  Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said lightning and thunder was expected in Jharkhand due to the formation of convective clouds, coupled with a low-pressure trough running from southwest Uttar Pradesh to south Chhattisgarh across east Madhya Pradesh between 1.5km and 2.1km above sea level. Bu Tuesday afternoon, there were reports of lightning from various places of Koderma, Godda, Sahebganj and East Singhbhum. The Chhotanagpur plateau region is vulnerable to lightning strikes as a result of which there are casualties every year. The monsoon activity was week over Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. Only a handful of IMD Met observatories recorded rainfall during the past 24 hours, according to Met data. Jharkhand, since the onset of monsoon, has so far received normal rain. Against a normal of 633.5 mm, Jharkhand has so far received 546.2 mm, a deficit of 14 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Buses unlikely to hit the road anytime soon, says minister||Transport minister Champai Soren has said that the Jharkhand government was unlikely to allow resumption of bus services anytime soon, given the steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases across the state. There is no question of resuming bus services anytime soon. We haven’t even started thinking about it. The way coronavirus cases are on the rise, the situation is not appropriate yet. The chief minister is personally monitoring the overall situation,” he told The Telegraph online on Monday. Hit by several financial losses, bus operators across Jharkhand are now planning to approach Jharkhand High Court to press for a waiver of road and other taxes as none could ply their vehicles during the continued lockdown since March. The current lockdown in Jharkhand is scheduled to be in force till August-end. Earlier, during a phased withdrawal of lockdown curbs over a month back, the state government allowed autos, e-rickshaws and cabs to ply but with strict safety protocols. The standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the state transport department restricted the number of people on board each mode of transport besides issuing other dos and don’ts to prevent over-crowding. The minister conceded that bus owners were facing a huge crisis because their fleet had been grounded since March but added that allowing them to start plying now would lead to further chaos. “It will be virtually impossible to control crowds, their movement and behaviour if we allow inter-state and intra-state bus movement. We will think about resuming services only after August,” he said But bus operators are getting desperate. Uday Prasad Singh, the president of Jamshedpur Bus Operator’s Welfare Association, announced on Monday that they were left with no option but to knock the doors of the court. “We met with officials and leaders of the state government, including chief minister Hemant Soren, several times, demanding waivers in road and other taxes on humanitarian grounds as all our buses are grounded since March 24. But the state government has not responded. In such a situation, our only option is to take legal recourse. We will move court formally very soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||ASI shoots self after brawl with wife in Golmuri||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver at his residential flat in Police Line under Golmuri thana area late on Monday afternoon. The ASI, identified as Tarun Pandey (37), fired a shot in his right temple soon after a brawl with his wife on the second floor of a four-storeyed police quarters at the police line at about 4 pm. As the incident unfolded, the cop's wife who was also at the residence screamed for help. Police men from the neighbourhood ran to the spot and rushed the critically injured cop to the Tata Main Hospital, but he collapsed while being carried from the upstairs to the ground floor. Soon a doctor was called in and finally he was declared as dead. The news of the ASI shooting himself spread like a wildfire in the police circle, leading senior SP M Tamil Vanan and city SP Subhash Chandra Jat to reach the spot at the Police Line. Jat later confirmed the suicide while talking to The Telegraph Online. "The ASI, Tarun Pandey shot himself and eventually died on scene of shooting.  The incident took place at his residence where his wife was also present.  It has not been known yet whether there was a quarrel with his wife or not.  The cause of the suicide is being investigated," the City SP told The Telegraph Online. The City SP said they tried to talk to the deceased's wife but she could not speak as she was terribly in shock.  He said the reason behind the cop taking such a drastic step will only be known when the widow gives a statement to the police.  He stated that they have seized the pistol that the ASI had used in shooting himself. A senior police officer, however, said that there was a brawl between the husband and wife, and the ASI had shot himself dead in an impulsive mood soon afterward. According to police sources, Tarun, who married in June, had returned from Nalanda district a week ago and was in home quarantine at the Police Line Quarters with his newly-wed wife. Originally a resident of Nalanda district of Bihar, Tarun Pandey was an athlete.  He had joined the police department as a constable, but due to his athletic background, he was promoted to the post of ASI a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand education minister sets example, signs up for intermediate classes at 53||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto set a unique example on Monday to prove that age is no bar for continuing education. The 53-year-old Mahto, who had discontinued studies after passing the school final examination 25 years ago, got himself admitted for intermediate classes on Monday. “Yes, I just took admission in an inter college today,” Mahto confirmed when The Telegraph contacted him immediately after he took admission in an inter college on Monday. “It’s Devi Mahto Smarak Inter Mahavidyalaya, a rural inter college at Nawadih in Bokaro district,” the minister informed when asked about the college where he took admission. A native of Alargo village in Bokaro district, Mahto, the oldest among five children of Nem Narayan Mahto, had also cleared his school final examination rather late in his life. He had passed the final examination of Class X in 1995. “It was Nehru High School at Telo in Bokaro district,” Mahto said when asked about the school from which he had cleared the school final examination. “I thought of resuming studies without further delay,” Mahto further said, adding he could not do it so far due to other pressing demands of his political and social life. After passing the school final examination, Mahto got actively involved in politics and were in thick of it. In 2005, when the first Assembly election was held in the state after Jharkhand was carved out of erstwhile undivided Bihar in November 2000, he got elected as an MLA from Dumri Assembly constituency in adjacent Giridih district as a candidate of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM). In the next three Assembly elections in 2009, 2014 and 2019, Mahto retained the seat, proving Dumri was a JMM stronghold. When Hemant Soren became the chief minister, he picked up Mahto as a member of the council of minister and allotted him the education portfolio. Though it never became an issue as such, some of the JMM adversaries would express their displeasure about the choice of the education minister who did not study beyond high school. It now remains to be seen if they appreciate, if not admire, the spirit of Mahto who resolved to resume studies after a really long gap of a quarter of a century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
11-08-2020||Jharkhand||45 new Covid-19 cases reported in Garhwa; police bust illegal liquor business in Chatra||The biggest spike of Covid-19 cases across Garhwa district continued at an alarming rate with more than 45  new cases being reported on Sunday as the district’s cumulative case tally (including deaths and recoveries) surged to 584, said authorities. “A total of 49 cases have been reported on Sunday late evening. All positive people shifted to the various Covid-19 hospitals in the district. On Sunday, 25 people were cured and discharged from the hospital, while on Saturday 30 people discharged after they tested negative,” said Garhwa Civil Surgeon Dr N K Rajak. This is  the highest single day spike reported in the district since March when the first Covid-19 cases were reported from Maharashtra. There are 123 active cases in the district’s total tally while as many as 457 persons have been discharged so far. The district’s death toll currently stands at four with one fatality being reported on August 6 at RIMS during treatment. On Saturday, the district reported only three positive Covid-19 cases. As per figures given by the  Garhwa Health Department till Saturday evening, there were 123 (excluding Sunday’s surge) active positive cases in various hospitals across the district. Hazaribagh MLA demands for a better road Hazaribagh sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal on Monday chaired a meeting with officials of NTPC and Thriveni Sainik Private Limited asking them to stop coal transportation on Kusumbha road and to make a separate route for this purpose. Jaiswal who reached there after villagers of Kusumbha in Katkamsandi contacted him and apprised him about the poor plight of this road due to regular coal transportation by NTPC and Thriveni Sainik. NTPC's additional general manager Rajeev Ranjan said they were working on separate routes but were having some technical issues with railways. However, he promised to solve this issue at the earliest. Police bust illegal liquor business Chatra Sadar police station officer-in-charge Luv Kumar busted an illegal liquor manufacturing unit near police lines at Jitni Mor, destroying hundreds of litres of illegal alcoholic drinks and raw materials. Acting on various complaints, Kumar formed a team, led by assistant sub inspector Sushil Tuddu, which conducted the operation. Police officials said regular inputs were coming to them about this unlawful activity and residents were also demanding action to put an end to this menace. Kumar, who had recently taken charge, said no one will be allowed to take up any kind of illegitimate activity in areas under his jurisdiction. Father accuses son of physical torture One Rajesh Saw, resident of Bamandih village under Mayurhund police station allegedly beat his father Mohan Saw (65) mercilessly with a lathi. Mohan, who gave his complaint in writing to Mayurhund police on Monday, said he was cutting grass outside his house when his son Rajesh came and started shouting on him. He said he objected after which Rajesh forcefully dragged him inside the house and locked the door from inside. Mohan said Rajesh picked up a lathi and started hitting him. "I shouted but he didn't stop and hit me everywhere on my body," he added. Hearing his screams, local villagers rushed to save him and forced Rajesh to open the door. Mohan said he was provided treatment at a local health centre but said his son is now threatening to kill him. He requested officials to save him from his son and to punish him for this merciless act. Officials said they have started the process to lodge an FIR against Rajesh followed by suitable action against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-338
