12-08-2020||Calcutta||Fruit-to-sapling mangrove drive in Sunderbans||Over 200,000 mangrove saplings have been planted in the Sunderbans in the past 45 days as part of a drive to preserve the ecology and generate income for local women. The fruits shed by the mangroves are washed away by the tidal water — away from land during low tide and into the land during high tide. During high tide, more than 350 women have been collecting the fruits at the banks of two rivers — Kalindi and Raimangal — and the Durgaduani creek. The areas are spread over Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas and Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. The fruits are taken to nurseries — under Gobindokathi, Kalitala and Gosaba village panchayats. The seeds are planted in the soil and sand mixture kept inside polythene packs. The base with the sapling is then replanted on the riverbank. Over 150 acres of land has been allocated by two village panchayats — Gobindokathi and Gosba — for replanting the saplings. According to government estimates, Cyclone Amphan ravaged 1,600sq km of the 4,200sq km of the Sunderbans forests. The project by Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage is aimed at preserving the ecology as well as generating income for people of the area. Mangroves are known for viviparous germination where seeds germinate and develop into saplings while still attached to the parent tree. “If they get favourable conditions, they can form a colony,” said Sugata Hazra, director, School of Oceanographic Sciences, Jadavpur University. The replantation drive started in the middle of June. “Over 800,000 fruits have been collected to date. Around 272,000 saplings have been planted,” said Sourav Mukherjee, the founder of the NGO. The NGO requests companies and individuals to adopt a bunch of trees. “Till now 60,000 trees have been adopted, each for Rs 50 on average,” said Arpita Mukherjee, the coordinator of the project. Tens of thousands of people have returned to the Sunderbans from other cities because of the pandemic. “Mangrove plantation is helping us economically and shielding the environment as well,” said Binodini Mondal, who has been working on the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Career tips for students today via webinar||Industry professionals and academics will address students on Wednesday on how businesses are overcoming challenges to continue operations in the midst of the pandemic that has taken a toll on the economy. Adamas University in association with Anandabazar Patrika presents #StandOutWithAU, a webinar on Business and Economics Careers post-pandemic for Plus II students will be held in the evening for two hours from 5.30pm. Students can register at http://bit.ly/standoutwithAU-2. The session is part of a series of webinars that is being conducted by Adamas University and Anandabazar Patrika. Students will get valuable insights into how businesses are adopting interesting models, the latest trends and job opportunities. Students are now confined to their homes and many high school students are confused regarding their careers and how things will play out in the next few years and in the post-pandemic world. “The pandemic should not put a brake on their aspirations and aptitude. The webinar will give them an opportunity to learn about career options from field experts,” an organiser said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Extortionist in bank fraud net||Sheikh Vinod, an extortionist with several cases pending against him, was arrested in the Regent Park area early on Tuesday in connection with a bank fraud, police said. The fraud came to light after officials of a nationalised bank in Purba Putiari unearthed “suspicious transactions” in an account, the police said. Vinod was trying to set up a network to call up unsuspecting account holders and dupe them into making payments. He has been booked for cheating, the police said. “We started investigating the matter after the bank’s branch manager filed an FIR claiming a Patna resident had complained to the bank saying money from his account had been siphoned off online,” an officer of Regent Park police station said. While investigating the complaint filed by Kumar Anand, cops stumbled upon Chaman Singh’s account, which showed “unusual transactions”. “On August 7, when Singh turned up at the branch to withdraw a hefty amount, bank officials questioned him about the sudden spurt in transactions in his account. When he failed to explain, the officials alerted us,” the officer said. Singh turned out to be Vinod’s driver. Cops later found Vinod had received money from eight similar accounts but he could not offer any satisfactory explanation regarding its source, the police said. The Telegraph  had recently reported how several people in Calcutta have been cheated on the phone by the Jamtara gang. “We are trying to find out if Vinod tried to replicate the Jamtara model here,” an officer said. “Vinod was out on bail and we thought he would mend his ways. It appears he hasn’t.” Having lived in and out of jails for over a decade now, Vinod’s name had cropped up recently in connection with an extortion complaint. The owner of a dhaba on Syed Amir Ali Avenue near Quest Mall had alleged that Vinod had demanded Rs 5 lakh as “goonda tax”. A car hit multiple barricades along Kidderpore Road and Mayo Road minutes before the Independence Day parade rehearsals were about to start on Red Road around 6.30am on Tuesday, police said. A 20-year-old college student, who was at the wheel, was arrested and later released on bail. He is a resident of Bondel Road in Ballygunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||NIT ‘crash semester’ to bridge digital gap||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), in Durgapur, will conduct an on-campus “crash semester” for students who lack the basic connectivity required to attend online classes in the upcoming semester starting September. The decision follows a survey among the institute’s 3,000-odd students on Internet accessibility. The survey revealed about 12 per cent students lack the basic connectivity. The institute plans to start online classes in September and will offer 350-odd students the option of attending crash semester on the campus to make up for the theory classes they could miss out on. “There is a possibility that some students will not be able to access the learning material online, because of the absence of reliable Internet or computing devices. For them a special crash semester will be conducted through conventional classroom lectures only when the situation allows,” said Anupam Basu, the NIT Durgapur director. Another official said the students who would attend online classes, too, would have to be brought back to the campus for practical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Craters on Calcutta roads blamed on Covid||The Covid-19 pandemic, apparently, has hit the city’s roads, too. Engineers of several state government agencies are blaming the battered state of so many roads in Calcutta on the lack of repairs ahead of the monsoon because of curbs imposed to slow down the spread of the novel coronavirus. Every year, roads in the city are repaired twice — before the monsoon and again before Durga Puja. This year, the pre-monsoon repairs could not be taken up in most places as the country was in lockdown in April and May, the crucial period for repairs, said engineers from the public works department (PWD), Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). These three agencies are custodians of most roads of Calcutta. Even after the “complete lockdown” was lifted, getting skilled hands proved to be a challenge, a hurdle the agencies are yet to overcome. On top of that, the government is having a tough time arranging for funds for repairs because of a sharp drop in revenues following the pandemic, a CMDA official said. “We have to now answer a much longer list of questions, compared with the pre-Covid times, before funds are sanctioned,” the official said. “The situation this year is quite bad. All agencies repair broken roads during summer. Still the road surface wears out during the monsoon. This year there was no repair. So, imagine how bad the condition will be,” said an engineer of the CMC. The result is evident for commuters. A resident of Gariahat had last week experienced a bone-rattling ride down Garia Main Road, which he said was riddled with potholes and giant craters. Multiple stretches of EM Bypass are in a sorry state, too. The stretch near the Ruby crossing is particularly bad, said a regular commuter. A 150-metre stretch leading to the crossing on the Ruby-bound flank of the Bypass has multiple craters and potholes. Puddles have formed on the undulating road here and there, making it more difficult for motorists to gauge the depth of a pothole. “I was about to fall off my two-wheeler when it hit a deep pothole while I was returning from office on Monday evening,” said Chandan Banerjee, a resident of New Garia. Metro spotted cops filling a pothole with crushed bricks at the New Alipore rotary crossing on Sunday. “Vehicles are skirting the pothole, resulting in long snarls. So we are filling it up,” an officer at the spot said. The police have also put up a guardrail to steer motorists away from a crater on Deshapran Sashmal Road, near its crossing at Tollygunge Phari. Several main roads in Salt Lake are also riddled with craters and potholes. The road leading to the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre complex, on Broadway, from the Tank number 13 bus stop in IA Block is filled with craters, some of which are spread across the width of the flank. On Tuesday, Metro saw several two-wheelers, cars and autorickshaws switch flanks and drive down the wrong lane to avoid the pothole-ridden stretch. Driving down roads adjacent to the City Centre, near the P&T Housing Complex, that cut through the DC Block, is a nightmare. Namrata Agarwal, a resident of DC Block, said roads in the block had not been repaired over the past six months. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said they had conducted a survey of the bad roads in the township and would carry out patchwork repairs for the time being.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Hawkers trigger VIP Road snarls in Calcutta||Hawkers selling fish, vegetables and poultry products have taken over multiple stretches of VIP Road resulting in traffic chaos almost every day. A 100m stretch in front of the Baguiati bus stop on the airport-bound and the Bypass-bound flanks, a 50m stretch in front of Kestopur and a 150m stretch in front of Kaikhali are the worst hit. Every morning and evening, hawkers set up stalls by laying plastic sheets on the road or park their vans and carts on the road eating into its space. People, too, park their vehicles at random and continue to shop. Also, shoppers headed to Baguiati market park their vehicles along VIP Road. The result: traffic snarls on both flanks of the road. These stalls and parked vehicles have been creating bottlenecks on an important road that connects the city with the airport, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “We conduct regular drives and ask hawkers to move away. The problem is the moment they see cops or a police vehicle approaching, they pack up and leave only to return the moment cops are gone.” Bangshagopal Dolui, who sells fruits on a van, said he had switched to selling fruits after losing his driver’s job during the lockdown. “I was asked to leave as Covid-19 kicked in. From earning Rs 12,000 a month I was staring at no earnings… I started selling fruits.” Dolui said he chose VIP Road as many motorists and two-wheeler riders stop to buy fruits from him before continuing on their journey. On a Monday evening, Metro saw at least 60 cars parked on VIP Road in a haphazard manner. Almost all of them were locked and had no drivers. A few drivers leaned against the vehicles and chatted. “Babu bazaar-e gechen. Ekhanei gari rakhi (Sir has gone to the market. I usually park here),” the driver of an SUV parked in front a “No Parking” board said. There was not a single traffic cop in sight. “No Parking” boards are spread all across the road but absence of cops make it easy for motorists and two-wheeler riders flout signage all over the road motorists and two-wheeler riders to flout the rule. Vehicles and hawkers occupy the road space daily, several residents Metro spoke to said. Also, many go for parallel parking and it adds to the chaos, some said. The service lane in front of the PWD office is almost filled with hawkers selling snacks on carts. There are hardly any cops and snarls are regular with buses, autos, cycles and rickshaws fighting for space on the road, Subhrojyoti Mukherjee, a resident of Baguiati, said. “Hawkers just set up their stalls on the road. As it is footpaths are with them, now they have started encroaching on roads as well. Mornings and evenings are a nightmare on the road,” Mukherjee said. “Most of the people who park here are residents of the area. They often ask officers to find them alternative parking spots when they cops try to prosecute them or their drivers,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||JEE board announces counselling schedule||The three-round online counselling for admission to the BTech programme, which starts on August 12, will continue till October 28, the state joint entrance examination board has said. The board has put up the counselling schedule on its website www.wbjeeb.nic.in. The first round of registration, uploading of testimonials such as board exam marks and mentioning the choice can be done from August 12 to 25. The choice for a specific institute can be locked from August 25 to 28. The first round of seat allotment results will be announced on August 31. An engineering aspirant can accept the allotted seats and make payment for provisional admission from August 31 to September 6. If the aspirant does not accept the choice and opts for an upgrade, a round of in-cycle upgrade will be held on September 7. A candidate can accept the upgraded seat and make payment for provisional admission from September 7 to 9. “If a candidate does not accept the upgraded choice, he or she can go for further upgrade in the next round of counselling, which will start on September 11,” said a JEE board official. The third and final round of online counselling will start on October 6, said JEE board vice-chairman Dilip Mitra. “The process will end on October 28. We will have at least three rounds of counselling. Any change in schedule will be uploaded on the portal.” This year, a candidate whose name features on the state JEE merit list can participate in counselling in every round. The JEE board will hold a separate round of counselling for students who will crack the JEE Main exams, which are scheduled for the first week of September. The board this year will hold counselling in two phases, unlike previous years when it was held in one phase. The decision to postpone the JEE Main, usually held in April, because of the Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the board to stagger the counselling in two phases. The NITs and the IIEST, Shibpur, are among the institutes that admit students through JEE-Main. This year the candidates don’t have to visit “reporting centres” to get their testimonials verified before ad-mission because the pand-emic has forced the state JEE board to conduct the process online, a board official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown: Travel agents write to Bengal government for flight resumption||Travel agents’ associations on Tuesday have written to the state government requesting it to resume flights between Calcutta and six cities and also international repatriation flights. Flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur Chennai and Ahmedabad — the cities that have high Covid prevalence — have remained suspended since July 6  following a request from the state government. The ban was to end on August 15 but has been extended till August 31. “We seek your support to reconsider this suspension so that the residents of West Bengal who are stranded in these cities and also the business travellers who could bring in business engagements/revenue to Bengal, can avail (of) these direct services,” reads a letter from the Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) and the Travel Agents’ Association of India (TAAI) to Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopdhyay. “We seek your approval to restart the Bubble flights/ Repatriation flights /operations from /by the International Carriers (subject to the approval from our State Government as per our State Government’s SOP) (Not just the charter flights).... We need your support towards restarting, restructuring and restoring the travel and tourism industry.” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, TAFI, said they had recommended safety measures such as making all arriving passengers undergo the rapid antigen test for Covid-19 at the Calcutta airport. “If a passenger refuses to undergo the test, he or she will have to undergo 14 days’ home quarantine. The health department counter at the airport will issue quarantine documents, copies of which will be given to the local municipal corporation/panchayat office and the local police station for intimation and close monitoring,” he said. “We have decided to write the letter together to make our voices heard. Resuming flights is vital for our business,” said Manav Soni, the chairman of TAAI’s eastern region. Representatives of airlines said they, too, would write a similar letter to the state government shortly, pleading for resumption of flights between Calcutta and the six cities as well as repatriation flights. The state had stopped repatriation flights after many passengers, most of them medical students, refused institutional quarantine after arriving in the city. The government has recently allowed chartered evacuation flights with passengers testing negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before the departure. “Special operating protocol can be put in place to ensure that,” said a senior official at the airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta hospitals contest panel’s deposit logic||The Bengal health regulatory commission’s view that its permission to private hospitals to take deposits during admission was aimed at striking a balance between patients’ convenience and keeping hospitals viable does not hold good, officials of several healthcare units said on Tuesday. The officials also described as impractical another part of the commission’s advisory, which states that hospitals can ask for removal of a patient if the family fails to pay the deposit within a stipulated time. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had on Saturday issued an advisory allowing private hospitals to take up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is less, as advance during admission. Private hospitals cannot refuse admission if a patient cannot pay the sum immediately, but the money has to be paid within 12 hours. If a patient fails to pay up within that time, the hospital can ask that the bed be vacated within an hour, the advisory said. A senior official of a private hospital said taking the deposit during admission and viability were not connected. “It’s true that if the hospital cannot recover the entire cost of treatment from a patient, its viability is affected. But I don’t think that paying the deposit during admission is a guarantee that the patient or his or her relatives would pay the entire remaining cost at the time of discharge,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said many elderly people are brought to hospital for admission by a relative, neighbour or some other person because their children live elsewhere. The person accompanying such a patient usually does not pay any deposit during admission. “Elderly people living in housing complexes are often accompanied by guards. There is no question that a guard will pay the deposit. But the patient’s son or daughter, who stays elsewhere, sends the money in a day or two or the patient makes arrangement himself or herself. At the time of discharge the bill is paid in full,” said Mitra. In many other cases, however, the initial deposit is paid, but the patient’s family throws up their hands when the treatment cost goes up. “In such situations we have to forgo a substantial part of the treatment cost. All private hospitals face such situations,” Mitra said. Relatives of a patient on Tuesday alleged that Desun Hospital, off EM Bypass, had taken a deposit of nearly Rs 3 lakh but did not treat the patient, who died in an ambulance. Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the regulatory commission, said the panel would look into the matter if a relative of the patient lodged a complaint. “Earlier, too, there were allegations against the hospital,” said Banerjee. Tapas Mukherjee, a senior official of Desun, did not take calls from Metro on Tuesday evening. The commission chairperson said the new advisory on deposit was aimed at striking a balance. “Many hospitals were taking huge amounts as deposits. We tried to cap the amount. At the same time, hospitals need to stay viable,” he said. Officials of several private hospitals said the advisory to admit a patient provisionally for 12 hours and then discharge within an hour if relatives fail to pay the deposit was “impractical”. “Treating a patient gets priority over money. If a patient is admitted, then treatment continues irrespective of whether the payment is made at that point in time or not,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, an organisation of private hospitals in Bengal. “To discharge a patient undergoing treatment, we need relatives to sign a discharge-against-medical advice form. Unless the form is signed with proper justification, we cannot discharge a patient undergoing treatment, irrespective of the payment status,” said Barua. The CEO of another private hospital said that a patient could not be discharged without the clearance of the doctor treating him or her. “On many occasions, when the treatment cost shoots up and family members say they cannot pay the amount, we counsel them to shift the person to a government faci-lity. It can take more than two days to shift such patients. It can’t be done in an hour,” he said. The commission’s advisory also says that for any inves-tigation above Rs 2,000, a hospital has to take the consent of a patient’s family. This was because the commission found that many expensive investigations were repeated, which was pushing up the cost. “Most investigations for a Covid patient cost more than Rs 2,000. Is it possible to take consent for every test over the phone?” the CEO of a private hospital asked. “My hospital has around 600 beds. It’s not possible to take consent for so many patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||South Point trusts students with integrity pledge||South Point High School students have to pledge to uphold the school’s and their teachers’ faith in them and take a set of tests without the direct supervision of teachers. The school has sent the “code of honour” expected of students and a detailed plan to parents on the way the school will assess how much each student has learnt so far. Parents have been requested to invigilate the tests, which will be held in the pen-and-paper mode. Many schools in the city have been using technology to monitor students during exams but some have rested the responsibility on parents and students. It is time to inculcate a sense of integrity in students as well, a teacher of a city school said. “I do understand that I will be taking a set of tests to assess the learning outcome without the direct supervision of my teachers and my school. I promise that I will uphold my teachers’ faith in me and shall conduct myself with honesty.... I hope to live up to my teachers’ and parents’ expectations, now and always,” reads the code of honour sent to each student of Classes VI to XII. They will have to read it out before the start of the tests. The principal said in a note to parents on Tuesday: “Under these unusual and unpredictable circumstances, the collaboration between the parents and us teachers has taken a more meaningful turn, and based on that strength we hope to make... the process a complete success. Any outside help the child gets during this assessment process will only harm his or her academic progress.” Several other city schools are relying on the cooperation of parents to conduct tests during the pandemic. Some schools such as Modern High School for Girls and Calcutta Girls’ High School have worked out the modalities to conduct the terminal exams in September. The exams of both these schools will be held under the supervision of parents at home. In Modern High, students will have to download the question papers, write the answers and upload the answer scripts. “Parents have to supervise the exams and create a secure environment at home. We have been speaking to our girls… if they do something academically dishonest ultimately they will harm themselves,” Damayanti Mukherjee, principal of Modern High, said. Calcutta Girls’ High School has decided to split a question paper into sets of three and students will have to take the tests during online classes. The school will send out a note to parents to invigilate the exams. “It will be an appeal to parents to invigilate the exams at home. We have to teach the child to be honest and responsible,” principal Basanti Biswas said. Several teachers said the pandemic had presented an opportunity to teach children life’s lessons like discipline, responsibility and integrity. “It is part of self-discipline and teaching students to take full responsibility of their thoughts and actions. No matter whatever circumstances or disadvantages are one will not compromise if the person considers it to be wrong,” Mukherjee said. South Point has decided to award grades instead of marks and there will be no ranks. “While we expect students to follow what we have said, we have strategised the entire process… to take away from students any incentive to indulge in any unfair means,” Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point, said. Apeejay Schools will follow the same principle and teachers will have to frame questions that do not have direct answers. “If parents assist their children they should know they are throwing up their children’s future,” administrator Reeta Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Business||Railways shell out more in ticket refunds than ever before||Perhaps for the first time in its 167-year-long history, the Railways has refunded more than it has earned from ticket bookings, registering a negative passenger segment revenue of Rs 1,066 crore in the Covic-19-hit first quarter of 2020-21, an RTI query by a Madhya Pradesh-based activist has found. The freight earnings, however, during the period managed to hold ground, according to the RTI reply provided to Chandra Shekhar Gaur. The revenue in the first three months of this financial year, when the Railways had to suspend all its regular passenger services due to the coronavirus travel restrictions, was in the negative -- Rs 531.12 crore in April, Rs 145.24 crore in May and Rs 390.6 in June (all in negative), the RTI reply said. "The minus figures are being shown due to the fact that the value of refunds is more than the value of tickets booked", said Railway spokesperson DJ Narain. An official explained that due to the suspension of services, tickets booked for travel in April, May and June were offered refunds, while fewer tickets were booked during these three months due to the restrictions. The Railways has cancelled all regular passenger services indefinitely. In the first quarter of the 2019-20 fiscal, the Railways had earned Rs 4,345 crore in April, Rs 4,463 crore in May and Rs 4,589 crore in June. The Railways has said that due to the pandemic, it is envisaging a loss of around Rs 40,000 crore this financial year. However, freight traffic seems to have recovered somewhat since the Railways has been the preferred mode of transportation for ferrying essential during these months. In April 2020, the freight earning was Rs 5,744 crore, in May it was 7,289 crore and in June the number stood at Rs 8,706 crore. In the first quarter of last fiscal year, it earned Rs 9,331 crore in April, Rs 10,032 crore in May and Rs 9,702 crore in June. Narain said the Railways' freight operations during the last two weeks are higher than the last year's corresponding figures for the same period, adding that it is a very encouraging and positive sign. A concerted effort by railway officials and better management practices will ensure that revenue lost in the passenger segment is significantly offset by an outstanding freight performance, Narain said. The Railways said that it has also suffered losses to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore in the running of the Shramik Special trains which began operations from May 1 to ferry stranded migrant workers home. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Aramco revives Reliance Industries interest||Saudi Aramco has indicated that it is doing a due diligence on picking up a stake in the oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business of Reliance Industries, which raises the prospects of some movement in the proposed $15-billion transaction. However, at a conference call with investors after it announced its results for the half- year ended June 30, Amin H. Nasser, CEO, president and director of Aramco, did not indicate any timeline for the closure of the transaction as he refrained from giving any further details. This is the first official comment coming from the top brass of the oil giant in several months. “With regard to the Reliance deal, all I can say at this stage, it’s going through the due diligence. So depending on it, we will make our decision. This is a big deal. So we need to take our time to review and then decide based on the outcome of the study,’’ Nasser said when asked for an update on the progress of the  deal. Addressing shareholders at its annual general meeting last month, RIL chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani had said that the proposed transaction is not proceeding for now. “Due to unforeseen circumstances in the energy market and the Covid-19 situation, the (Aramco) deal has not progressed according to the original timeline,’’ Ambani said. The deal was initially announced by the RIL chief at a shareholders meeting in 2019 where he had disclosed that Aramco would pay $15 billion for a 20 per cent stake in its O2C business. While RIL is spinning off its O2C business into a separate subsidiary, analysts are of the view that Reliance will have to settle for a much lower valuation. It is not immediately clear if Nasser’s latest comments would lead to Reliance accepting a lesser valuation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Government e-Marketplace sees potential of $100 billion of transactions ||The Government e-Marketplace (GeM) platform sees a potential of $100 billion of transactions as it gears up for an upgrade in September. The online platform, which turned four years on August 9, has registered a transaction value worth Rs 58,578 crore with 441,043 sellers and service providers on board. GeM CEO Talleen Kumar said on Tuesday that a unified procurement system is being planned that consolidates all public procurement platforms allowing vendors to onboard on one platform. The consolidation will lead to better economies of scale, dissemination of best practices and efficient price discovery. “The products and services amenable to procurement in a marketplace is about 5 per cent of the GDP. In India this translates roughly to Rs 5-8 lakh crore per annum. If we consider Rs 7 lakh crore per annum it translates to $100 billion. Our aim is to get as close to $100 billion per annum as possible,” Kumar said at a session organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce. “Around 200 plus processes are in the pipeline which will be completed by September 2020,” he said. Besides onboarding weavers and craftsmen to promote domestic industry, the platform is working with banks to provide uncollateralised working capital credit for sellers. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech had said that the government intends to create a unified procurement system for the public sector by providing a single platform for procurement of goods, services and works, that will benefit MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Minimum support price on sugar to rise||The government is likely to hike the fair and remunerative price of sugarcane to Rs 285 per 100 kg and also the minimum support price  for sugar to Rs 33 per kg. The cabinet is likely to arrive at a decision soon to help the mills clear the arrears of cane farmers worth Rs 20,000 crore at the earliest. Officials said the food ministry has prepared a cabinet note to “fix the minimum selling price of white sugar and also to increase cane FRP (fair and remunerative price)”. FRP of sugarcane is now priced at Rs 275 per 100 kg, while MSP of sugar is Rs 31 per kg. However, industry sources feel that even after the hike the price of the sweetener will remain below the cost of production of Rs 35-36 a kg. But, it would provide some relief to mills at a time most are facing liquidity issues. Last year, the government had increased the price at which mills sell sugar to bulk buyers by Rs 2/kg to Rs 31 per kg. The minimum selling price of sugar is fixed taking into account the components of FRP and minimum conversion cost of the most efficient mills. According to the official data, mills have purchased sugarcane of around Rs 72,000 crore from farmers during the 2019-20 cane season (October-September). Of that, around Rs 20,000 crore of arrears are yet to be paid to farmers. Arrears comprise payments to be made on the basis of the FRP fixed by the Centre, and the state advisory price determined by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Car sales down 4% in July||Passenger vehicle sales in the country totalled 1.82 lakh in July, marking a decline of 3.86 per cent from 1.9 lakh units in the year-ago period, data released by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) showed on Tuesday. The decline was cushioned by a rise in demand for entry-level cars and motorcycles in the rural and semi-urban markets. “After a few consecutive months of falling sales in a post-Covid scenario, there are signs of green shoots in passenger vehicles and two-wheelers. Sales in August would indicate if this is sustainable demand and not just a pent-up demand,” Rajan Wadhera, president of Siam, said. According to the  Siam figures, Maruti Suzuki India sold 70,090 units last month compared with 71,486 units in July 2019. Hyundai Motor India wholesales stood at 19,828 units compared with 22,776 units in the year-ago month. In the two-wheeler segment, scooter sales fell 36.51 per cent year-on-year to 3,34,288 units, while motorcycles sales declined marginally by 4.87 per cent to 8,88,520 units. Overall, two-wheeler sales fell 15.24 per cent to 12,81,354 units. Three-wheeler sales totalled 12,728 units last month, marking a decline of 77.16 per cent from 55,719 units in July last year. Siam did not provide wholesale dispatches of commercial vehicle in July. Total production of passenger vehicles, including three-wheelers, two-wheelers and quadricycles, in July was 17.15 lakh units against 24.28 lakh units a year ago. July saw a 29 per cent drop in total domestic sales at 1,715,514 units against 2,428,518 units a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||HDFC, Axis achieve fund-raising goals||The country’s largest pure play mortgage lender HDFC on Tuesday said it has raised close to Rs 14,000 crore by issuing shares to qualified institutional investors and through non-convertible debentures. The Government of Singapore received 13.37 per cent of the shares allotted (75.9 lakh shares), while Invesco Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund received 5.54 per cent (3.2 lakh shares). In a separate announcement, Axis Bank said it has raised Rs 10,000 crore through a QIP (qualified institutional placement) issue. HDFC disclosed that it has raised Rs 10,000 crore, allotting 5.7 crore equity shares at an issue price of Rs 1,760 per share. The price represents a discount of 1 per cent to the closing price of its equity shares on the stock exchanges prior to the launch of the issue. The HDFC stock on Tuesday ended with gains of 1.48 per cent at Rs 1,825.35. HDFC said it has received Rs 307.03 crore upfront through the issue and the allotment  of 1.7 crore warrants at an issue price of Rs 180 per warrant. The warrants entitle the holder to exchange each warrant for one equity share of HDFC at any time over the next three years until August 10, 2023 at a pre-agreed price of  Rs 2,165. The warrant issue price together with the warrant exercise price represents a premium of 32 per cent to the closing price of its shares prior to the launch of the issue. In addition, HDFC raised Rs 3,693 crore through the issue of redeemable non-convertible  debentures for a tenor of three years, carrying an annualised coupon rate of 5.40 per cent per annum. It added that the issue has been over-subscribed overall. “Assuming all the warrants are exercised by investors within the next three years,  the corporation would receive an additional Rs 3,386 crore by way of securities  premium. Accordingly, the maximum equity dilution possible under  the  issue would be up to 4.26 per cent of the enhanced equity share capital of the corporation,” HDFC said. Axis Bank too saw good response to its QIP offering from the global and domestic investor community, including several large FPIs, domestic mutual funds and insurance companies. The deal was over-subscribed with the aggregate size being Rs 10,000 crore. The issue was done at a price of Rs 420.10 per share ,a discount of five per cent to the floor price of Rs 442.19 per share. “We believe that the Bank is well placed to leverage all the possible growth opportunities that will come in as the economy opens up and is in a strong position to combat the challenges that emanate from the Covid-19 pandemic crisis. We believe in the strong fundamentals of the Indian economy and based on our vision for growth, profitability and sustainability, will keep delivering the best value to our customers, shareholders and investors’’, Amitabh Chaudhry, MD & CEO, Axis Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Food retail prices up in July||India’s retail inflation edged up slightly in July due to higher food prices, remaining firmly above the RBI’s medium-term target of 4 per cent for a 10th straight month, a Reuters poll showed. Food prices, which account for nearly half the inflation basket, have soared since April because of supply-side disruptions caused by a nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus. While the central government gradually eased restrictions in June, regional lockdowns in some major agricultural producing states continued to disrupt supplies of essential perishables like fruits and vegetables. The August 6-10 Reuters poll of over 45 economists showed Indian retail inflation rose to 6.15 per cent last month from 6.09 per cent in June. Forecasts for the data, scheduled to be released on August 12, ranged from 5.00 per cent to 6.55 per cent. “We see July CPI inflation to be steady above the Reserve Bank of India’s policy limit. Food remained a dominant inflation driver but high utility and transport costs also contributed,” said Prakash Sakpal, Asia economist at ING. Reuters The government suspended the release of CPI inflation headline numbers for April and May due to insufficient data during the lockdown. The RBI kept interest rates on hold last week after reducing the repo rate by a total of 115 basis points since February - despite a recent rise in retail consumer prices - but said it would ensure inflation remains within target. According to the RBI’s latest survey, household inflation expectations for the three-month and one-year horizons rose to over 10% in July, suggesting Asia’s third-largest economy could enter a period of stagflation - a phase with lofty inflation, high unemployment and stagnant demand. “With inflation expected to remain elevated on supply side disruptions, we think a rate cut is more probable in December,” said Rini Sen, India economist at ANZ. “We expect food prices to abate likely from September onwards, once the rabi crop (summer harvest) enters the market.” Monsoon rains, which are critical for farm output and economic growth, are expected to be 104% of a long-term average in August and September, indicating bumper harvests and helping to alleviate the economic damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Fitch: Worry over debt recast||The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) decision on the one-time restructuring of stressed advances may delay bad loan recognition, Fitch Ratings said on Monday. Last week, the RBI had allowed banks to restructure loans facing stress because of the Covid-19 crisis. Fitch said there would now be more uncertainty over the asset quality of banks. The recast opens a window for banks to build capital buffers while putting off the full recognition of the pandemic’s impact on loan portfolios. The mechanism is reminiscent of a strategy adopted over 2010-2016 that delayed and exacerbated problems for the banks, the ratings agency said. Fitch pointed out that the scheme may be designed to give banks more time to raise capital to address the impact of the crisis on loan portfolios. The ratings agency said PSU banks may find it difficult to raise funds as investors may be reluctant to participate in the sales of stakes in state-owned lenders until the impact of the pandemic on their balance sheets is clear. It also felt that delaying the recognition of problems in the banking sector could provide some short-term support to economic growth by stimulating credit issuance. “However, many state banks may remain reluctant to lend to all but the most creditworthy borrowers in the near term, as their overall weak capital position remains unsupportive of growth — even with impaired loans permitted to be classified as ‘standard’ after rescheduling,” the rating agency noted. Besides, the attempts to restructure debts between 2010 and 2016 were characterised by poor implementation and weak monitoring. The central bank has, however, looked to address this concern by tightening supervision through the Kamath  Committee, which will vet all restructuring plans involving creditors with more than Rs 1,500 crore of debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Industrial production falls 16.6 per cent in June||Industrial production fell 16.6 per cent in June, the fourth straight month of contraction — but pent-up demand burst through during the month as a result of which the pace of contraction was a lot slower than in the previous three months. According to the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) data, manufacturing sector production registered a decline of 17.1 per cent, while the output of mining fell 19.8 per cent and power, 10 per cent. Industrial production contracted 34.7 per cent in May after falling 57.6 per cent on a yearly basis in April. IIP had expanded 1.3 per cent year-on-year in June 2019. The contraction will be still less in July, according to Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, based on various lead indicators such as the output of Coal India Limited, electricity consumption and GST e-way bills that contracted in narrow single-digits in July. “Nevertheless, we continue to caution that pent-up demand contributed to the improved performance of certain categories of manufacturing in June-July 2020, which may not sustain in August 2020 especially in the light of the extension of localised lockdowns in various states,” she said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said some industries restocked goods which were depleted in April and May when production was hindered by the lockdown. He said there appeared to be a positive relation between the unlock process and the IIP growth numbers. “While it has been negative in the three months, there has been improvement in May over April and improvement in June over May.” “While there still exists localised lockdowns in several geographies production will be impacted in July and August for sure and we may expect negative growth in these months,” Sabnavis said. He said the strong decline in the first quarter will weigh heavily on GDP growth estimate for the quarter which can tend towards -20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Lockdown: Surge in demand for cheaper homes||Pent up demand created during the lockdown period has induced a spike in booking for apartments in the last two months, bringing relief to the hapless developers who expect the momentum to continue only if there is a corresponding uplift in the overall economy. City-based developers and brokers say enquiries have gone up and the number of bookings have increased in June and July compared with the previous two months, but they are still far away from the pre-Covid levels. “Enquiries which had completely stopped have started coming back a bit. Properties priced below Rs 1 crore has traction and ready-to-move (RTM) apartments have an edge over unfinished ones. I believe well known brands will do better in the current scenario,” Harsh V. Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia, said. Sanjay Jain, managing director of Siddha, agreed. “Seeing demand for RTM properties in one of our projects in north Calcutta, we are readying 100 more units to bring to the market,” said Jain, who claimed sales are back to 60-70 per cent of normal times. NK Realtor, one of the top city-based brokers, says three out of four properties booked in the last four months are under the Rs 50 lakh bracket. Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK, said there has been a month-on-month improvement in booking with the best seen in July. There is a changing bias towards large complexes post Amphan and during the pandemic. Around 47 per cent of the 500-odd respondents to a survey conducted by the brokerage say they prefer to stay in projects having 500-plus apartments. Visible advantages of staying within a gated community during a crisis is drawing buyers in Calcutta and beyond. Arya Sumant, managing director of Eden Realty Ventures, witnessed more bookings in June-July than November-December in his ultra-affordable project (Rs 9 lakh-Rs 23 lakh) in Serampore. “I was really surprised. Believe that the fence sitters came forward. It was more of a pent up demand created during lockdown,” Sumant said. But he had a word of caution too. “How the rest of the year is going to pan out will depend on the economy. If there is no job security, how many people would come forward to buy property? After all, one takes a long term view of income while taking a home loan,” Sumant said. Jitendra Khaitan, chairman and managing director of Pioneer Properties, noted that only serious buyers are in the market. However, that would not necessarily mean that all bookings would translate into agreement for sale. “There is at least 10-15 per cent cancellation from booking usually. Given that many developers offered easy exit terms, the number may rise,” an industry source pointed out. Sidharth Pansari, managing director of Primarc, however, sees little challenge in existing projects. “If you have built a reputation for delivering quality projects on time, there should not be any problem,” Pansari said, adding focus on right size and pricing has paid off during this time. Few launches, loans scarce Knight Frank, an international property consultancy, noted that there have been no launches in the Calcutta market during April-June. Neotia said he didn’t expect launches before November. Top developers sell around 11,000-12,000 units a year on an average. The Knight Frank report suggests 2,937 units were sold during January-June, all of which took place before lockdown. The report says more than 30,000 units continue to remain unsold as on June 30. The bias towards RTM properties also means that there is an incentive for builders to complete existing projects rather than taking up new ones which typically takes 36-48 months to complete. Bank finances have also become scarce and costlier, said Surekha Bihani, managing director (East) of JLL India. Even though many projects have been registered with state regulator from April onwards, builders are wary of bringing them to the market, fearing lack of demand. This, however, does not mean that there is any dearth of choice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||JSW Steel July output falls 5%||JSW Steel on Tuesday said its crude steel production during July stood at 12.46 lakh tonnes (lt), down 5 per cent from the same period a year ago. The company had produced 13.17lt crude steel in July 2019, it said in a statement. However, on a month-on-month basis there has been an improvement both in terms of steel production and average capacity utilisation. “On a month-on-month basis, the crude steel production achieved for the month of July 2020 was at 12.46lt, showing a growth of 9 per cent over June 2020. The average capacity utilisation during the month of July was 83 per cent against 76 per cent in June 2020,” it said. During July, output of flat rolled products was at 9.40lt, up 3.5 per cent from 9.08lt in the same month of 2019. The company’s production of long rolled products fell 24 per cent to 2.40lt in the period under review, from 3.16lt in July 2019. JSW Steel Ltd is the flagship company of the diversified $12 billion JSW Group, which has a leading presence in sectors such as steel, energy, infrastructure, cement, sports among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
12-08-2020||India||IAF writes to Censor Board objecting 'undue negative' portrayal in 'Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl'||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has written a letter to the Censor Board objecting to its "undue negative" portrayal in the movie Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl, said a senior official. The movie was released on streaming platform Netflix on Wednesday. According to the official, the letter mentions "concerns related to the movie's portrayal of gender bias as an institutional work culture" at the IAF. The movie is based on the life of IAF officer Gunjan Saxena who became the first woman pilot to take part in the 1999 Kargil war. It has been produced by Karan Johar's Dharma Productions. "The IAF has written a letter to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) objecting to certain scenes in the movie 'Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl' wherein it has been portrayed in undue negative light," the official said. The official said a copy of the letter has also been sent to Netflix. "Before the release of the film, the IAF had requested Dharma Productions to modify or delete the objectionable scenes. However, it did not take any action," the official noted. The Defence Ministry had written to the CBFC last month raising strong objections to the depiction of armed forces personnel in some web series, sources said. It had urged that production houses may be advised to obtain a no-objection certificate from the ministry before telecasting any film, documentary or web series on an Army theme, they added. The ministry had received some complaints raising strong objections about the portrayal of Indian Army personnel and the military uniform in an "insulting manner", they said. The sources said the communication last month was also sent to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||AYUSH minister Shripad Naik tests positive for coronavirus||Union minister of state for AYUSH Shripad Y. Naik on Wednesday announced he has tested positive for Covid-19. In his tweet, the he said he's going into home isolation because he's asymptomatic. "I underwent Covid-19 test today & it has turned out assymptomaically positive. My vitals are within normal limits and I have opted for home isolation. Those who have came in contact with me in last few days are advised to get tested for themselves and take required precautions," Naik tweeted. Naik, who heads the Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) Ministry, also asked all those who had come in contact with him over the past few days to get themselves tested as well. Naik is the fourth and latest minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet to test positive for the virus. Amit Shah, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Vishvas Sarang, Dharmendra Pradhan tested positive earlier are already hospitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||UP accident: Over 15 bikers brought to police station and questioned||Over 15 motorcycles were brought to a police station here on Wednesday and their owners questioned over the death of a 20-year-old woman, who was visiting home from the US, in a Bulandshahr road accident, police said. Information has also been sought on all Bullet motorcycles registered in the district from the assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), they added. The police said 15-20 bike owners were questioned. The woman, Sudiksha Bhati, died on Monday morning near Aurangabad when she met with an accident while riding pillion on a motorcycle with her younger brother. She was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at the Babson College, Massachusetts (US), and was scheduled to go back on August 20. Her family has alleged that the accident happened because two motorcycle-borne men were following her two-wheeler and harassing her. Jitendra Bhati, the deceased's father, said on Tuesday: “Sudiksha had gone to see some relatives at her maternal uncle’s village in the Aurangabad area of Bulandshahar district (40km from Dadri) two days ago. She was returning with her brother on Monday morning when two youths on two Bullet motorbikes began chasing them. “My son told me that they were not only passing lewd remarks but also making obscene gestures. They were also doing stunts on their motorcycles. This continued for about 3km. Then one of them overtook my son’s motorcycle and suddenly applied the brakes. My son’s bike hit the Bullet and Sudiksha fell on the road and suffered head injuries.” Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said the road accident took place near the border of Charaura Mustafabad village in the morning of August 10. According to eyewitness Hemant Sharma, a Bullet motorcycle in front of the two-wheeler in which Sudiksha and his brother were travelling hit the brakes due to a milk tanker coming from the opposite side, he said. Because of this, the motorcycles collided, leading to injuries to Sudiksha, Singh said. He added the woman's brother had not mentioned anything about harassment to the police at the time of the incident. In a purported video that has surfaced on social media, Bhati's brother said, "We were on a motorcycle at a speed of 30 km per hour. The men on the Bullet were riding near us and applied brakes on their vehicle suddenly...The Bullet had 'Jat Boys' inscribed on its number plate and its number started with UP-13." The Bulandshahr Senior Superintendent of Police has constituted a three-member SIT, led by Circle Officer (city) Diksha Singh, to probe the matter. The district police has filed an FIR against two unidentified people on the basis of a complaint by Sudiksha's father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Bangalore: 3 killed after police open fire to quell angry mob ||Atleast three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage irked over a social media post allegedly put out by a Congress legislators relative, as a city locality witnessed arson and violence. "Three people have died (in police firing)," Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said. Further, 110 people have been arrested in connection with the incident at Pulakeshi Nagar here. Scores of persons, including around 50 policemen, were injured in the violence that erupted on Tuesday night and continued till the wee hours of Wednesday, apparently prompted by the communally sensitive online post. The Congress MLAs residence and a police station were among those targeted by the angry mob, prompting the government to issue a stern warning that rioting and law and order issues will not be tolerated. Pant said Naveen, who allegedly posted the social media post has been arrested and appealed for peace. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the "attack on the residence of MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and the DJ Halli police station and riot are condemnable." "Already given directions to initiate stringent action against the criminals (and) the government has initiated all the measures to contain violence," he said. The attack on police, media persons and common citizens was unpardonable. The government will not tolerate such instigation and mischief, he added. On Tuesday night, irked by the social media post, hundreds of people went on a rampage and set DJ Halli police station on fire. They torched many police and private vehicles, smashed the belongings of MLA Murthy and those of his sister. An ATM was smashed into pieces. To disperse the mob, police resorted to lathi charge, lobbed tear gas shells and later opened fire, killing three people. One of the victims has been identified as Yasin Pasha. The victims father Afzal told reporters that his son was innocent. "My son operated a meat shop in the area and had gone for dinner when the police opened fire and he died. He is innocent and was not involved in any arson," he said, claiming that some outsiders who came in hordes and damaged property were responsible for the violence. Meanwhile, curfew has been imposed in the affected areas in and around DJ Halli and KG Halli. Legislator Murthy appealed against violence. "I appeal to my Muslim brethren that we should not resort to violence for the fault committed by some miscreants. There is no need to fight. We all are brothers. We will get the person punished as per law. We will also be with you. I appeal to the Muslim friends to be calm," he said in a video message last night. Congress MLA and former minister B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan termed the violence as unfortunate. "I am hopeful police will take action against all those who are responsible for this. I also request everyone to stay calm and maintain peace in the area," Khan tweeted. Shivaji Nagar Congress MLA Rizwan Arshad too appealed to the people to maintain peace and harmony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Kerala CM objects to green draft||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday broke his silence on the draft environment impact assessment 2020 notification and cautioned that if implemented in the current form it would lead to serious ramifications. “In the current form, it will lead to serious environmental issues. Hence, Kerala cannot agree with many of its recommendations,” Vijayan said. He urged the Centre not to take a final call without holding detailed discussions with all the states. “One of the main objections that we have is related to mining. As per the draft no environmental clearance would be needed for mining activities in areas between 5 and 100 hectares. But we want environmental clearance made mandatory for all mining activities in more than two hectares of land,” he said. “The draft notification has reduced the time for public hearing from 30 to 20 days. We want it to be retained at 30 days since shortening the period would not be appropriate,” he said. Another objection the Kerala government had was about the proposal to eliminate district environment impact assessment committees. “These district committees have a key role to play in protecting environment. We want them to be retained,” Vijayan said. He did not mention anything about putting the objections in paper and sending them to the minister for environment. But the CPM has been raising objections to the EIA 2020 and urged the Centre not to provide any relaxation that would harm the environment. CPM Rajya Sabha member from the state, Binoy Viswam of CPI had on Monday ticked off a debate about the state government’s delay in conveying its objections to the centre. Rajya Sabha member Elamaram Kareem, in a letter to environment minister Prakash Javadekar, on Tuesday, raised strong objections about the draft notification and pointed out it would pave the way for corporations to exploit natural resources. “It maybe redrafted taking the opinion of all stakeholders and considering the interests of the environment, the people and the country to further strengthen the environment regulation structure,” Kareem said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Desertions that doused desert storm||Sachin Pilot, who is now projecting his rebellion as a fight for “principles”, appears to be making a virtue out of a compulsion because he had little option left but to surrender to the Congress after a key associate betrayed him. Top sources revealed to The Telegraph that the veteran Bhanwar Lal Sharma, one of the main conspirators to pull down the Ashok Gehlot government, slipped out and met Congress general secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal on Sunday. He expressed deep regret for his actions and pledged his support and that of five more MLAs to the Congress. Another MLA slipped out on Sunday night and reached Jaipur on Monday morning. Venugopal, in consultation with Ahmed Patel, asked Sharma to return to Jaipur immediately and meet chief minister Ashok Gehlot. His absence created panic in the Pilot camp, which was on a hunt for him. Sharma, 75, spent Sunday night in hiding, at a relative’s place in Delhi, and left for Jaipur early next morning. The Congress had planned to present him before the media by Monday afternoon. After his lieutenant’s exit, Pilot was left with no option and swiftly decided to call it quits. While Sharma was already on his way to Jaipur in the morning, Pilot met Rahul Gandhi at 1pm. The meeting was set up through Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who Pilot got in touch with only after he realised that Gehlot had sailed through the crisis. It was presumed that Sharma left for Jaipur because Pilot met Rahul, but it was actually the other way round. Sharma, a seven-term MLA, had fled with all the secrets and plans of the Pilot group, signalling a collapse of the rebellion. A Congress leader told The Telegraph: “Pilot moved swiftly in a smart act instead of returning to the party after August 14 when Gehlot would have proved his majority. That would have further diminished his stature and bargaining capacity. It is the magnanimity and grace of Rahul Gandhi who embraced him despite full knowledge of the developments. Rahul knew there is no threat to the government at all.” Party leaders, however, are willing to let bygones be bygones and make life easy for Pilot. One senior leader said: “Leadership is not developed overnight. We have invested heavily in Pilot and he has developed into a formidable leader. He is young and has committed a mistake in impatience. That was juvenile and we have forgiven him. Things should be normal for him after a short cooling-off period.” Assessing the role played by various leaders during this unseemly episode, insiders believe the maximum credit should go to the 100 Congress MLAs who refused to yield under abnormal pressure and allurements. “It is primarily because of them that we won this war. Gehlot was vigilant and protected his flock with amazing energy and political acumen. Only after these two, the role of strategy-makers comes,” one source said, insisting that this was a wonderful example of collective effort as both seniors and younger leaders worked together to protect the party’s pride. Four persons played a critical role in salvaging the situation: Ahmed Patel, K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken. They poured in all their energies to crush the rebellion of their “dear friend Pilot” who would not have expected the party to stand behind Gehlot with such solidity. The management was so effective that Congress MLAs, apparently so saleable in Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and other states, refused to take the bait in Rajasthan. Asked about the gossip in political circles about the pressure mounted by Farooq Abdullah, who is Pilot’s father-in-law, one leader said: “That’s rubbish. Why did that pressure not work before he revolted? Why not when he opted for vicious legal battles? Why did the pressure become effective only when the survival of the Gehlot government became inevitable? The Congress has defeated a rebellion with deft management and the credit to Pilot is that he avoided crash-landing. He abandoned the self-destructive path in time.” Asked about the bitterness, party communications chief Surjewala said: “Some bitterness and heated exchanges did happen but it is a closed chapter for us now. With Rahul Gandhi’s foresight and resolve to take everybody together, we have overcome this crisis. Now we will work together to focus on Rajasthan’s development and fighting Covid-19. Pilot has reaffirmed his faith in the Congress and his commitment to serve the party. All the differences will be resolved now.” On the BJP’s involvement in the month-long drama, he said: “The BJP was so eager to pull down the government, fishing in troubled waters to grab power by hook or by crook. They hired three aircraft to take their MLAs to Gujarat because they were not sure of their loyalty. They could not hold a meeting of their legislature party even once.” Congress leaders do acknowledge the positive role played by BJP veteran Vasundhara Raje, who was not willing to aid the conspiracy hatched by Gajendra Singh Sekhawat in collusion with his central bosses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||SC clears air on Hindu women inheritance right||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that a Hindu woman is entitled to an equal share of the property as the male heir irrespective of whether the father or the mother died before 2005 when the Hindu Succession Act was amended to allow women an equal share in parental property. However, the court made it clear that if the property had already been bequeathed before 2005, a female heir would not be able to claim any share if nothing had been left for her. Before the 2005 amendment to the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, only the male heir had the right to inherit parental property. Prior to the 2005 amendment, Section 6 provided that if the parent had given a share of the property to a woman, it would be with her only till her lifetime, following which it would be distributed among her male coparceners or their male heirs. The woman had no right to sell or give away the property. The Hindu personal Mitakshara coparcenary (matters relating to succession) law, widely prevalent in the country, not only contributed to discrimination on the ground of gender but was also oppressive and negated the fundamental right of equality guaranteed by the Constitution. On Tuesday, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra cleared the air as various two-judge benches of the apex court had taken contrary views on the matter of inheritance by a female heir if the parent had died before the 2005 amendment. While some benches had held that the amendment had retrospective effect, some others had said their rulings would have prospective effect, prompting the matter to be referred to a three-judge bench for an authoritative pronouncement. In the Prakash & Others vs Phulavati & Others (2016) case, the last ruling in the matter before Tuesday’s, a two-judge bench had ruled that Section 6 of the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, which gives a woman the right to have an equal share in parental property, would not apply in cases where the parent had died before the amendment came into effect on September 9, 2005. Overruling the earlier judgments, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday: “It is not necessary that there should be a living, coparcener (heir) or father as on the date of the amendment to whom the daughter would succeed. The daughter would step into the coparcenary as that of a son by taking birth before or after the Act.” Justice Mishra, who authored the judgment, wrote: “The expression used in Section 6 is that she becomes coparcener in the same manner as a son. By adoption also, the status of coparcener can be conferred. The concept of uncodified Hindu law of unobstructed heritage has been given a concrete shape under the provisions of Section 6(1)(a) and 6(1). “…Thus, it is not at all necessary that the father of the daughter should be living as on the date of the amendment as she has not been conferred the rights of a coparcener by obstructed heritage. “The effect of the amendment is that a daughter is made coparcener, with effect from the date of amendment and she can claim partition also, which is a necessary concomitant of the coparcenary. “Hence, we respectfully find ourselves unable to agree with the concept of ‘living coparcener’, as laid down in Prakash v. Phulavati. In our opinion, the daughters should be living on 9.9.2005.” The bench, which also had Justices Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah, clarified that if the property had already been written in the name of an heir before the amendment came into effect, the woman would not be able to claim a share. The bench asked high courts to dispose of within six months all pending disputes on the issue in terms of Tuesday’s judgment. “We understand that on this question, suits/appeals are pending before different high courts and subordinate courts. The matters have already been delayed due to legal imbroglio caused by conflicting decisions. The daughters cannot be deprived of their right of equality conferred upon them by Section 6. Hence, we request that the pending matters be decided, as far as possible, within six months,” the Supreme Court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Banging plates shows results: India tops Covid claptrap list ||India had the highest counts of rumours and misleading information about the new coronavirus disease circulating on social media and online platforms, followed by the US and China, a study on the Covid-19-related infodemic has suggested. The study by health researchers in Bangladesh has identified India, the US, China, Indonesia and Brazil as the top five among 87 countries where rumours, stigma or conspiracy theories circulated as infodemic waves from January to early April, the timeframe of the survey. Their exercise, described as the first global study to track and document adverse impacts, including deaths, from Covid-19-related misinformation, has counted 357 rumours, stigma or conspiracy theories circulating in India, 307 in the US and 189 in China. “It wasn’t possible for us to trace the actual sources of the rumours,” M. Saiful Islam, who led the study, told The Telegraph over phone from Dhaka. Islam is an infectious disease specialist at the International Centre for Diarrhoreal Disease Research, Bangladesh. The study, which scanned online platforms including fact-check agency websites, Facebook and Twitter, has been published in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. Many rumours related to false or unsubstantiated claims about remedies that might cure or prevent the infection — cow urine, cow dung, alcohol, rose water, vinegar gargles, warm socks, goose fat, sesame oil, vitamin C, vitamin D and hot drinks laced with turmeric or cinnamon — were circulating among people through social media across the world. Scientists in India have independently tracked at least 28 hoaxes or rumours shared through social media accounts — some misleadingly touting tea, garlic, kalonji seeds, steam inhalation and nasal rinses as remedies, some claiming air-conditioners, houseflies and mosquitoes spread the infection, and one even claiming that clapping hands can drive away the virus. After the March 22 event when Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to bang pots and pans to honour healthcare workers engaged in combating the coronavirus, scientists say, a rumour emerged that vibrations from sound can eliminate the virus. “There was blind belief in such things — many people believed the messages they received,” said Aniket Sule, a faculty member at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Mumbai, who is among the scientists in India who created a website to debunk Covid-19 hoaxes. The study by Saiful Islam and his collaborators in Australia, Thailand and Japan has documented cases of deaths or illness, discrimination, physical harassment and violence resulting from such rumours about cures or prevention. In India, at least 12 persons, including five children, fell sick after drinking liquor made from the seeds of the Datura plant after watching a video claiming the seeds provide immunity against Covid-19. In Iran, doctors documented over 800 deaths among over 5,800 people hospitalised after drinking methanol as a remedy against Covid-19. At least 60 of them have gone blind. In Qatar, two persons ingested disinfectants. The misleading information also triggered stigma and discrimination. Doctors in India and Australia have reported harassment and discrimination by neighbours. The Chinese in some countries have faced discrimination and racial abuse amid misleading messages claiming “Chinese dietary habits have caused Covid-19” or the “Chinese had manufactured Covid-19”, or “every disease has come from China”. Rumours, stigma and conspiracy theories have the potential to decrease community trust in governments and international health agencies, M. Saiful Islam and his colleagues wrote in their study, pointing out that rumours can mask credible infection prevention and control strategies. “Policymakers should track misinformation in realtime and correct wrong information,” M. Saiful Islam said. “Since misinformation spreads so quickly through social media, policymakers should also use this platform to spread correct information.” M. Saiful Islam said the idea to track rumours about Covid-19 occurred to him after he noticed a doctor in Bangladesh suggesting on a social media account that the coronavirus would go away with the approach of summer. “There was no evidence for this at all,” M. Saiful Islam said. “But so many people appeared to believe it.” In Bangladesh, he said, there have been other rumours too, one with tragic consequences. A mother who learnt her son was infected with Covid-19 died after suffering a heart attack. M. Saiful Islam said: “She had heard this absurd rumour that people infected by Covid-19 would be killed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||BJP MP calls BSNL staff ‘traitors’||BJP parliamentarian Ananth Kumar Hegde, infamous for spewing communal poison, has now targeted government telecom company BSNL by claiming that it is “packed with traitors” and calling for its privatisation and sacking of its employees. Hegde, who represents Uttara Kannada in the Lok Sabha, was addressing a gathering at Karwar on Monday when he accused BSNL of providing poor service to his hometown. Hegde, sources said, was apparently angry over a recent flood of tweets to the Union minister for telecommunications seeking 4G spectrum for BSNL. Hegde is heard saying in the video clip, with a seemingly like-minded audience cheering him on: “This company is packed with traitors…. BSNL has become a blot on the nation and it has to be finished.” “The Prime Minister is talking about Digital India and is even providing funds for that. Even the technology is ready, but they (BSNL employees) are not ready to work,” the MP from Karnataka added. “BSNL has an arrogant system. Just imagine how arrogant they are as even our government has not been able to set it right,” he went on, suggesting that the only option was to privatise the company. “We have so far removed some 85,000 employees. More retrenchments would be needed in the coming days. Whatever it is, it has to be privatised. That’s the only way out,” Hegde said. Over 80,000 employees of the loss-hit BSNL last year opted for a government-introduced voluntary retirement scheme. The Centre, however, had informed Parliament in March this year that it would not sell or privatise BSNL and its subsidiary MTNL and had spoken of plans for a revival package. The All Unions and Associations of BSNL, a collective of trade unions, held a meeting in Bangalore on Tuesday and condemned Hegde’s comments. The state president of the BSNL Employees’ Union, the most popular labour wing of the company, C.K. Gundanna, told The Telegraph that they would write to the President, Prime Minister, communications minister and the BSNL chairman in Delhi about Hegde’s statements. “So far he had been spewing communal venom against anyone opposed to his ideology. Now he has turned against a company like BSNL that has rendered yeoman service to our country,” Gundanna said. “He is accusing us of not working. For his information, we laid an under-sea cable from Chennai to Port Blair only yesterday to have our own dedicated line to provide all services to the people of Andaman and Nicobar islands,” the trade union leader said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had himself hailed the 2,300km submarine project for fast Internet to Andaman and Nicobar and tweeted: “Kudos to those who worked on this!” Gundanna said telecommunications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had promised to give 4G spectrums to BSNL way back in April 2019. “That was one of the conditions for shrinking our manpower. But now there is no talk of 4G,” he said. Gundanna disputed Hegde’s claim that the government had provided enough funds for BSNL. “The government has not paid us one rupee. Government departments have huge dues towards unpaid bills for our service. Our contract workers haven’t been paid salaries for one year,” he said. Besides VRS, many BSNL employees have left due to non-payment of salary. “From 1,60,000 employees on December 31 last year, we are right now around 60,000. How is it possible to provide great service with such reduction in manpower and no fresh recruitments?” Gundanna asked. Hegde, who had been a Union minister in the previous Modi government, is known for making communally charged and intemperate comments and also getting away with it. This time too, the BJP has not said anything about his attack on BSNL. Earlier, Hegde had courted controversy by calling the freedom movement “an adjustment with the British” and appearing to be critical of Mahatma Gandhi. He had called S. Sasikanth Senthil, an IAS officer who resigned in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370, a “traitor” and said a government servant should not question the decisions of the government. In the run-up the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Hegde had kicked up a storm by lampooning Rahul Gandhi for saying he was a Brahmin and making communally loaded statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Prepared for LAC long haul: Military to govt||The Indian military brass is believed to have told a parliamentary panel that the forces are ready for a long haul along the Line of Actual Control with Chinese troops having strengthened their positions at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh. “The top brass led by Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat has said that the disengagement and de-esclation between the two sides may take a long time and the forces are prepared for deployment in the harsh winter to counter Chinese aggression,” said a government official. The chief of defence staff and other senior military officers have briefed the parliamentary panel on defence on the Chinese aggression along the LAC, the official said. Since the standoff began in early May, the Chinese have deployed nearly 40,000 troops along the LAC. So far, five rounds of military talks at the corps commander level between the two sides since June 6 have failed to break the logjam. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is yet to show any sign of relenting or backing off from the areas that India used to control, including the Pangong Lake and the Depsang Plains. Beijing’s latest claim on Pangong Lake areas have triggered a scare in India’s security establishment, and also among military veterans, who fear the Chinese are trying to establish “a revised status quo” in the region. Recently, a physical verification conducted by the Indian Army suggested that despite the claims of disengagement by the PLA, the Chinese troops were still very much present inside territory India claims as its own at the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. Besides hindering patrolling by the Indian Army at multiple points, the Chinese forces have made offensive deployments along the LAC and brought in tanks and artillery guns. India has made mirror deployments at the friction points to counter the Chinese threats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||4G in one district each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that restoration of full-fledged 4G mobile Internet services in Jammu and Kashmir would not be possible because of security concerns but that on a pilot basis, it would be restored in one district each in the two divisions of the Union Territory from August 15. Attorney general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, told a bench headed by Justice N.V. Ramana that the special committee constituted by the Jammu and Kashmir administration held three rounds of meetings with various stakeholders on August 10 where the decision was arrived at keeping in mind border security and national interests. “Committee is of the view that the threat perception in J&K continues to be very high. Internet restrictions are not posing any hindrance to Covid care, education or business. Given the current security scenario situation, it is not yet conducive to restore high speed Internet access to mobile phones,” Venugopal told the bench also comprising Justices R. Subhash Reddy and B.R. Gavai. The bench was dealing with a contempt petition filed by the Foundation for Media Professionals, an NGO, alleging wilful default by the Centre and J&K administration in not complying with the bench’s May 11 judgment directing the government to set up a committee to review the restoration of full-fledged Internet services. Internet services, mainly 4G connectivity, had been withdrawn in the wake of abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, with the government pleading that it would otherwise aid terrorists to intensify their activities in the two Union Territories of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||BJP leader killed in UP  ||A BJP leader was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district while he was out for a morning walk on Tuesday. Police said four attackers fired four bullets on Sanjay Khokhar at Chhaprauli while he was walking in his agricultural field, and fled. “He had gone to his agricultural field at around 6.30am. He was walking on the elevated divider between the fields when four persons hiding there opened fire. Khokhar received one bullet in his head and another in his chest and was declared brought dead at the hospital. We have formed several teams to identify and arrest the killers,” said Baghpat superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Singh. Khokhar, 52, was a former district president of the BJP. The villagers said no candidate could win the panchayat election in Chhaprauli without the support of Khokhar. The deceased had joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh 20 years ago and was a BJP member for the last 15 years. Khokhar was also a government school teacher. There are framed pictures of Khokhar with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath at his residence. A villager said Khokhar was preparing to contest the Lok Sabha election from Baghpat. This is the 8th murder of a Sangh parivar leader in Uttar Pradesh in three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Chased by bikers, US student falls to death||A girl pursuing higher education in the US died in her native Uttar Pradesh after falling off her brother’s motorcycle when two bike-borne youths who had allegedly been chasing the siblings, making lewd comments and gestures and performing stunts, caused an accident. The Uttar Pradesh police chief, even before a probe had been conducted, initially said the incident was just a road accident and rejected the allegations of harassment and bike stunts, but took a more accommodating stand after the 19-year-old girl’s father chastised him bitterly and accused the police of not taking the case seriously before the media began reporting on it. The tragedy unfolded when Noida girl Sudiksha Bhati, 19, who had been pursuing an undergraduate degree in entrepreneurship from Babson College in Massachusetts on a scholarship from an Indian company, and her younger brother were returning from a relative’s home in Bulandshahr district on Monday morning. Sudiksha, who had done her schooling from the VidyaGyan Leadership Academy run by the Shiv Nadar Foundation in Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) and got admission to Babson College in 2018, had returned to India by a repatriation flight in May because of the pandemic. Jitendra Bhati, Sudiksha’s father who runs a small dhaba in Dadri, Gautam Buddha Nagar, said on Tuesday: “Sudiksha had gone to see some relatives at her maternal uncle’s village in the Aurangabad area of Bulandshahar district (40km from Dadri) two days ago. She was returning with her brother on Monday morning when two youths on two Bullet motorbikes began chasing them. “My son told me that they were not only passing lewd remarks but also making obscene gestures. They were also doing stunts on their motorcycles. This continued for about 3km. Then one of them overtook my son’s motorcycle and suddenly applied the brakes. My son’s bike hit the Bullet and Sudiksha fell on the road and suffered head injuries.” Sudisksha was taken to hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. Her younger brother has suffered minor injuries. Atul Srivastava, the superintendent of police of Bulandshahr, said: “We have registered a case against the two unidentified motorcycle-borne goons and will arrest them.” However, Uttar Pradesh police director-general H.C. Awasthi initially rejected the allegations of molestation and bike stunts. “Prima facie, it is a case of road accident. There is no information of stunts or molestation.” But after Sudiksha’s father criticised the comments, the media reported the incident and CCTV footage showed the Bullet-borne youths chasing the siblings’ bike, Awasthi said: “We are probing all angles.” When reporters had informed Jitendra about Awasthi’s initial comments, the bereaved father had said: “The DGP can say this because the victim is not his daughter. Two goons followed my son’s motorcycle on two Bullets for about 3km. They frequently overtook my children’s bike to harass and terrorise them. The DGP can say anything. The police didn’t register my complaint on Monday. They rushed to my house today (Tuesday) when the news was flashed on television channels. The case was registered 24 hours after I submitted my complaint (in Aurangabad).” Former chief minister and BSP chief Mayawati condemned the incident. “Sudiksha Bhati, a talented student…, lost her life because of the molesters. It is sad, shameful and most condemnable. How will our daughters move forward? The UP government must take legal action against the guilty persons.” After taking over as chief minister in 2017, Adityanath had formed “Anti-Romeo Squads” with cops as members to check harassment of women. However, squad members themselves were found involved in various crimes, including sexual harassment. The squad is currently defunct.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Cotton, jute advisory panels axed||After abolishing the advisory boards for handloom and handicrafts, the Union ministry of textiles has abolished the three remaining advisory panels for cotton, jute and powerlooms. The wording of the notifications dated between August 3 and 4, give the same reason: “In consonance with the Government of India vision of ‘Minimum Government and Maximum Governance’, a leaner government machinery and the need for systematic rationalization of government bodies.” The terms of the members of all these boards had expired more than three years ago. The term of the Cotton Advisory Board members were extended although ministry officials have not clarified if the terms of others were extended too. Only the advisory boards have been abolished. Textiles secretary Ravi Capoor did not respond to queries on whether any institutional platform would be offered for cultivators, manufacturers, traders and scientists to offer their advice for policies that affect the sector. Rajeev Jaiswal, a former jute mill owner and peasant leader from Bihar’s Katihar, was inducted into the Jute Advisory Board in 2016. He told this paper that he was unable to make any impact on policy. “The cost of cultivating jute is much higher than the price a farmer gets for it. Through the Jute Krishak Seva Swawlambi Samiti of Araria, we organised public hearings of jute cultivators with several district collectors in Bihar. In the board meetings too, I raised our demand for rate fixation. Low and uncertain prices is the biggest bane of jute. Earlier the cotton industry procured several of our products, but now they have stopped too.” In 2017, Jaiswal got a loan to save his ailing jute mill, which finally shut down in 2018 after it became unviable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Faesal ready to return to govt, Kannan stays firm||Shah Faesal, the IAS topper who left the civil services last year to join politics, had on Monday announced his decision to quit politics and is now willing to work with the government again. Unlike him, Kannan Gopinathan, the IAS officer from Kerala who had resigned last year against the abrogation of Article 370, is determined not to backtrack on his decision. “No, I will not do it…. Government has (already) filed an FIR against me for not rejoining duty,” Kannan told The Telegraph over phone. The former IAS officer from Kerala appeared surprised by Faesal’s willingness to rejoin but said he respected his decision. “There could be compelling reasons for an individual to take a decision. I cannot imagine what he must have gone through the last one year. To be honest, we let him down…. What was his crime for which he was put under house arrest or jailed?” Kannan said he was distraught by the Centre’s decision to scrap Article 370 and the clampdown that was imposed. “That was not expected in a democratic country. The rights of people were blatantly disregarded. I don’t agree with what is happening, you cannot shut down an entire state, that is not the country I would want India to be,” he said. In contrast,  Faesal told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “I’m not averse to working with the government knowing that public service is the best way to bring change.” “One unfortunate result of my resignation was that an act of dissent came to be seen as an act of betrayal. I was very hurt when people started calling me an anti-national.” Faesal suggested he was reconciled to the abrogation of Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||No Galwan inquiry, says Army||The army on Tuesday dismissed media reports that it had conducted a court of inquiry into the June 15 clash with Chinese troops in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. “No such inquiry has been conducted or ordered by the Indian Army,” it said. Earlier in the day, there were reports that “a formal Court of Inquiry (CoI) had been conducted by senior officers headed by 15 Corp Commander, Lt Gen. BS Raju, “into the standoff at Galwan, orders that preceded the incident and as well as actions taken by troops after they came under attack by the People’s Liberation Army while verifying the disengagement process”. Media reports also claimed that the report was submitted to the top brass of the army and action was now awaited. Reports also quoted sources to say that the inquiry was “necessary” to evaluate if standing operating orders need to be “modified” to prevent a repeat of the incident. Since the violent clash on June 15, Indian and Chinese armies have had several rounds of diplomatic and military talks for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh but the PLA continues to hold its newly claimed zones inside Indian territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
12-08-2020||India||Poet whose words took a life of their own||Urdu poet Rahat Indori, whose powerful and lucid poetry filled halls, connected with the young and old alike and lent itself to protests against oppression such as that against the new citizenship regime, died after a heart attack at a hospital here on Tuesday while being treated for Covid-19. He was 70. The teacher-turned-poet had been admitted to hospital on Tuesday morning after he tested positive. He is survived by three sons and a daughter. Indori had tweeted on Tuesday morning: “After initial symptoms of Covid-19, my corona test was done yesterday which came out positive. Pray that I defeat this disease as soon as possible.” Indori’s career in poetry spanned 50 years, during which the Urdu scholar was one of the biggest mushaira (poetry symposium) draws in the country and someone who fearlessly called a spade a spade. Indori translated the mood of the nation in his poetry, which was emotive, direct and political. He famously wrote: “Sabhi ka khoon hai shaamil yahan ki mitti mein, kisi ke baap ka Hindustan thodi hai (Everyone’s blood is mingled in this earth. Hindustan is no one’s property).” When these lines written three decades ago were used on posters and banners during the anti-CAA protests last winter, Indori told The Indian Express: “I wrote this ghazal some 30-35 years ago, though I don’t remember the exact year or the context in which it was written…. Had even forgotten about it, but I don’t know what’s happened in the last three to four years that like a crop rises again, these words have risen again. “Now, wherever I go, people request me to recite this but it’s unfortunate that it’s often taken as a sher by a Muslim. Yeh kisi ek mazhab ka sher nahi hai (these lines are not for any particular religion). They are for everyone. I wrote this sher as an Urdu poet and as a citizen of India. This country is not the property of any particular individual, party or religion.... But I am happy that people are using it to raise their demands; that they are using it to add weight to their voice; that it’s being used as a call for peace in the country.” Indori had also written on the atmosphere of intolerance and cow vigilantism. He penned the lyrics of some Bollywood songs. Earlier this year, Indori’s poem “Bulati hai magar jane ka nahi” took a life of its own on social media and was immensely popular among youths. Lyricist-poet Gulzar said Indori’s death was an “unquantifiable loss”. On Tuesday, lines from another Indori poem circulated on social media: “Main mar jaaun to meri eik alag pehchaan likh dena, lahu se meri peshaani pe Hindustan likh dena (If I die, write a new identity for me. With blood, write Hindustan on my forehead).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
12-08-2020||India||BJP puts off Jaipur meet||The BJP on Tuesday deferred a scheduled meeting of party MLAs in Jaipur to strategise for the Assembly session beginning on Friday and claimed it had no role in the political crisis in Rajasthan. The development followed the return of 19 rebel Congress MLAs led by deposed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot to the party fold a day earlier, dashing the hopes the BJP may have been harbouring of pulling down the Ashok Gehlot government. “The meeting (of MLAs) has now been deferred to Thursday. We are reworking our strategy,” the leader of the Opposition in the Rajasthan Assembly, Gulab Chand Kataria of the BJP, told reporters in Jaipur. Replying to queries on the Gehlot government’s crisis blowing over, Kataria denied any involvement of the BJP and slammed the Congress for the situation. “The BJP had no role to play. It was due to a clash between Gehlot and Sachin Pilot that the people of the state suffered,” he said. The Assembly session, which the Gehlot camp got ratified from the governor after days of experiencing one stumbling block after another, was seen as primarily aimed at creating an opportunity for the Congress government to prove its majority amid the rebellion by Pilot. Despite Kataria’s claim, the general perception was that the BJP, particularly its central leadership, had been actively working behind the scenes to stoke rebellion and destabilise the Gehlot government. The BJP’s efforts, according to insiders, failed because Pilot couldn’t get enough MLAs to reduce the Gehlot government to a minority. For the purported overthrow bid to succeed, at least 25 MLAs would have been required, while the Pilot camp could manage 19. Cracks were said to have appeared in the already numerically challenged Pilot camp. Many believe that the plan failed also because Rajasthan’s most powerful BJP leader, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje Scindia, refused to play ball with the central leadership. Vasundhara, who enjoys a good rapport with MLAs cutting across party lines, kept herself aloof and maintained near-total silence as other st-ate leaders of the BJP claimed that the days of the Gehlot government were numbered. A BJP ally, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MP Hanuman Beniwal, had gone to the extent of accusing Vasundhara of trying to save the Gehlot government by asking MLAs not to side with Pilot. Internally, the reluctance of Vasundhara to play a role in jeopardising the Congress government has not gone down well with the top leadership but it is believed to be finding it hard to act, given her influence in the state. Some pointed out that the clouds over the Congress government lifted after Vasundhara travelled to Delhi to meet BJP chief J.P. Nadda on Friday. BJP sources claimed that during her meeting with Nadda, Vasundhara discussed the political situation in Rajasthan and clearly said the party would burn its fingers if it tried to bring down the Gehlot government as Pilot did not have the required support. Kataria on Tuesday said Vasundhara would participate in the meeting of BJP MLAs on Thursday, a day ahead of the Assembly session, appearing to suggest that she had not wavered from the party line. The BJP had shifted some two-dozen of its MLAs to neighbouring Gujarat in a bid to keep its flock intact in preparation for the Assembly session. The BJP sources said Vasundhara was not happy with that decision as many of the lawmakers were her loyalists. Despite the Congress appearing to have weathered the storm for now, many in the BJP insisted that the differences between Gehlot and Pilot would persist and fester for the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
12-08-2020||India||Pilot: I never left Congress, did not revolt||Sachin Pilot’s dramatic somersault to slip back into the Congress’s embrace, bringing to an abrupt end the feud that had shaken the government in Rajasthan, is a rare development in Indian politics. Defections and betrayal are common in politics but few have come back after going this far. After a rebellion that generated bitterness, legal wrangles and the grave charge of playing into the hands of the BJP, Pilot has returned to the Congress fold. Pilot explained his actions while refusing to concede there was any revolt in an interview with The Telegraph. Excerpts: Q: You are back in the Congress but are you happy with whatever happened over the last month? Pilot: I never left the Congress. We were very clear from the beginning that we are raising some genuine issues within the party. Nobody does this happily. We were constrained to do this. Q: Given the sordid drama that it triggered, do you think you could have raised these issues differently, ensuring that your actions did not acquire the form of a revolt? Pilot: It wasn’t a revolt. And if you insist it was, let me tell you we never planned it that way. It doesn’t give us any pleasure or comfort to recall whatever happened. What do you do when your own government sends you notices for sedition? How can anyone tolerate this? FIRs are lodged, MLAs are suspended, police are unleashed on us. The acrimony was increased so much at the very outset…. You do feel like fighting for your honour under these circumstances. We were only raising issues with the central leadership. We had come to Delhi because issues raised calmly in the past were not addressed. But we were mischievously branded as BJP agents. What do we do when somebody is hounding us? We fight back. Q: But what would the chief minister do if you destabilise his government, if there is evidence of deal-making with the BJP? Not only the chief minister, the Congress formally said several times that you were playing into the BJP’s hands. Pilot: There was never the question of leaving the Congress. I made it repeatedly clear that joining the BJP was out of question. What you are saying is precisely the reason for our anger, compelling us to fight back. But we never spoke a word against the party, against our leadership, even against the chief minister. The MLAs who came with me are not ordinary people; some of them have been the backbone of the party for decades, they went to jail fighting for Indira Gandhi. They were called BJP agents. But we did not utter a word against Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi or even (Rajasthan chief minister) Ashok Gehlot. Personal attacks were made on me. But I avoided responding to them. Q: There were allegations that you accepted the BJP’s hospitality in Haryana, the BJP’s support systems and protection. Pilot: Any allegation can be made. We never accepted the BJP’s hospitality. The MLAs were paying from their pocket. The BJP knew I had no intention of joining them. Q: In this ugly episode, which was primarily triggered by you, has your political career been disrupted? Have you hurt yourself by your miscalculation and misstep? Pilot: I am not in politics for a personal career. We had to raise some issues of principles and I did it because we had to deliver on the promises made to the people. All of us worked very hard for five years to bring the Congress back and we wanted that those who worked hard should be recognised, respected. They made certain promises to the people and they should be in a position to deliver after coming to power. It is never about posts and personal ambitions for me. It is only about principles and justice. Q: Will you return to the Rajasthan government or get a role in the high command structure? Pilot: We have put forward our grievances before the leadership. A three-member committee will examine them. We have been assured that all issues will be sorted out. We don’t want vendetta against those who raised their voice. The high command is very sensitive about this and has assured us this will not happen. As far as my role is concerned, I will serve the people in whatever capacity the party asks me to do that. Posts and positions are not the be all and end all of politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
12-08-2020||India||PM prod to 5 states to ramp up Covid-19 testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked five states, including Bengal, to further ramp up testing for the new coronavirus disease as part of nationwide efforts at early identification of cases and containment to break chains of transmission and reduce Covid-19 mortality. Modi, in a videoconference with the chief ministers and representatives of 10 states that account for around 80 per cent of the country’s Covid-19 cases, also underlined a target to reduce mortality among Covid-19 patients to less than 1 per cent. The current mortality rate among lab-confirmed Covid-19 patients is 1.99 per cent. Modi said the average fatality rate in India was among the lowest in the world and had been continuously reducing. Union health ministry figures show that the case fatality rate has dropped from 3.36 per cent on June 18 to 2.77 per cent on July 10 to 1.99 on August 11. The 10 states — Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh — accounted for more than 513,000 (80 per cent) of the 639,929 Covid-19 patients under medical supervision on Tuesday. Modi said if the virus was defeated in these 10 states, the entire country would emerge victorious in the battle against Covid-19. The Prime Minister also said there was an urgent need for Bengal, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh to ramp up their testing for early detection of cases, containment, contact tracing and surveillance. Modi emphasised the need to trace and test all those who had come in contact with an infected person within 72 hours. “A view has emerged that if we defeat the coronavirus in 10 states, the nation will also win,” Modi said, according to tweets put out by his office. “There is urgent need to increase testing in states where the rate is low and the positivity rate is high,” the Prime Minister said. “It has emerged from the discussion that there is an urgent need to ramp up testing in Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana,” a release from the government said, quoting Modi. The positivity rates — or the proportions of persons found positive among those tested — in these states is “on the higher side”, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said while explaining their need for more testing. Public health experts view high positivity rates as the result of either large epidemics or restricted testing in which only those with the most obvious symptoms are tested. Under restricted testing, patients with mild symptoms are likely being missed and could continue to spread the infection. Health officials have said all states should perform at least 140 tests per day per million population, citing a threshold for comprehensive testing set by the World Health Organisation, and seek to achieve positivity rates of below 5 per cent. Bhushan said on Tuesday that all states had fulfilled the testing target but some states were yet to achieve the positivity rate goal of below 5 per cent. Bengal, for instance, has a test positivity rate of 8 per cent, while Gujarat has a positivity rate of 8.8 per cent. Modi also lauded the efforts of the states and talked about “Team India”. “Everyone has shown a great degree of cooperation and the team work displayed by Team India has been remarkable,” he said, stressing that the target now was to bring down the fatality rate to 1 per cent and saying it was achievable. Modi, according to the government release, referred to the success of Delhi in containing the virus and appreciated the role of Union home minister Amit Shah in preparing the roadmap for tackling the pandemic in the capital. “The main pillars of this strategy were segregation of containment zones and focus on screening.… The results of these steps are there for all to see,” Modi told the 10 chief ministers, according to the release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
12-08-2020||India||ITBP jawan springs to poor farmer’s aid ||An Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawan has come to the rescue of a cash-strapped Odisha farmer who was struggling to arrange money for paddy transplantation in his fields. Harekrushna Mahalik, who hails from Jhinkiria village in Bhadrak district, had become desperate as monsoon has already set in and any delay in paddy transplantation would have ruined his chances of having a good paddy harvest this time. While he found arranging money a challenge because of corona pandemic induced lockdowns he was also unable to find workers for the transplantation job as most feared contacting the virus. The labour charge demanded by the few who agreed was beyond the capacity of Mahalik whose only son has deserted him while all his four daughters are married and settled with their husbands and unable to come to support him. The only support Mahalik had was his 62-year-old wife who does odd jobs and earns anywhere between Rs 600 and Rs 800 per month. But that would hardly suffice for the transplantation work. It was under these circumstances that ITBP jawan Jyotirmaya Pandab from the neighbouring Arasa village came to Mahalik’s rescue. Mahalik said: “I can’t find work because of corona pandemic and my only son has deserted me. As the rains have set in I was at my wit’s end how to do the paddy transplantation work in my field. Labourers would have demanded around Rs 5,000 which I didn’t have. Then someone suggested that I approach Jyotirmaya who lives in the neighbouring village. I had heard stories about his generosity.” When Mahalik approached Jyotrimaya, who has earlier served on Indo-Chinese border in Arunachal Pradesh and Kashmir, he immediately agreed to help. “I agreed as I believe in slogan coined by our former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri — Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan. I went to his field with my club members last Wednesday and carried out the transplantation work. The same night I left for Delhi to join my duty,” said Jyotrimaya over the phone from Delhi. Jyotirmaya said Mahalik had ploughed his land and sown paddy seeds during May and the seeds had germinated and grown up to a level where immediately replantation of saplings was needed. “If we had not stepped it, all his saplings would have been destroyed and he would have had to forego this year’s crop,” said 37-year-old Jyotirmaya, who is currently serving as a Havildar in the ITBP. In fact, Jyotirmaya has become a household name in the area after taking to social service in a big way during the past five years. “When I come to my village on leave, I am disturbed by the plight of people. So I started helping them with medicines and even took them to hospitals. With the support of all, we started an organisation called Jivan Jyoti in 2016. With more than 300 members, it is now helping people in distress. In my absence, its members are continuing our social service drive,” said the jawan. He said, “But this time during my leave, I encountered a new kind of problem. People have no work and are locked up in their homes and whiling away time playing cards. Even people were not ready to come out to their fields for the fear of being infected by corona virus. “When I saw Mahalik’s helplessness, I thought of going to his field to carry out replantation work. We finished the job in a few hours.” Mahalik’s wife Sabitri said, “We are getting 20 kg rice per month and one kg of arhar dal from the government. But we need money to meet our other needs.  I manage to earn Rs 600 to Rs 800 by doing odd jobs but that is hardly enough. Sometimes, we manage with a single meal. Who would have given us Rs 5000 for paddy transplantation. The jawan Babu has came to our rescue. God blesses him.” Mukundpur Grampanchayat Sarpanch, Kirtan Chandra Rout heaped praise on the ITBP jawan. “He is not only doing social service he is a source of inspiration for others and because of him around 30 youths from our area have already joined different military and police organizations. He trains local youths in the village playground when he comes on leave. “Under his guidance, the local youths practice physical exercises throughout the year to maintain their physical fitness,” said sarpanch Rout. Havildar’s elder brother Khayamamaya Pandab said, “He has roped in people with military background for social work in our area. Even the physical training of local youths continues during his absence. He sometimes helps by making suggestions through WhatsApp.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
12-08-2020||India||Sanjay Dutt diagnosed with stage four lung cancer: Reports||Sanjay Dutt has been detected with stage four cancer, media reports said. The actor had been admitted to Mumbai's Lilavati hospital on August 8 after he complained of breathlessness. He was discharged on Monday. After Dutt was admitted to the hospital, he was tested for Covid-19. But hospital sources were quoted by media outlets as saying that he tested negative. It was reported later that fluid had accumulated in his chest. His cancer analysis came positive. On Tuesday, the actor said that he would be taking a "short break" from professional commitments to focus on medical treatment. He requested that there be no speculation regarding his health. Putting out a statement on Twitter, Dutt said with people's love and support, he would be "back soon". Many people took to the social media platform in support of the actor. Adhyayan Suman wrote:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Government changes complete lockdown dates for fifth time||The West Bengal government on Wednesday pared down the number of state-wide complete lockdown by one day, making it the fifth change to the shutdown schedule this month. The lockdown on August 28 (Friday) has been done away with keeping in mind the interest of banking and business operations, a state government order said. The decision drew the ire of the opposition parties, which alleged that it was taken to facilitate a function marking the foundation day programme of Trinamool Chatra Parishad, the student wing of the ruling TMC. TMC denied the charge as "completely baseless". According to the state government order signed by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the decision to withdraw the complete lockdown on August 28 was taken after several communications were received citing difficulties to conduct business and banking operations because of two days' lockdown on Thursday (August 27) and Friday (August 28) in the last week of the month followed by another the following Monday (August 31). Complete lockdowns were slated to be held on the three dates as per the earlier decision of the government. "The state government has considered the requests for the relaxation of the lockdown as would be necessary and essential. Therefore, in partial modification, the lockdown on Friday (August 28) as noted earlier is hereby withdrawn," it stated. State-wide complete lockdowns will now be observed on four days for the rest of this month instead of five days as announced earlier. The dates of the complete lockdown will now be August 20, 21, 27 and 31, it said. Earlier this month complete lockdowns were observed on August 5 and 8. The change in the total lockdown evoked sharp reactions from the opposition parties. They criticised the TMC regime alleging that it was completely clueless as it had failed to manage the Covid-19 crisis. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said, "The state government has not only failed, but is also clueless about the way forward. "The state government could change the dates but it didn't yield to our request to do so on August 5 the day of bhoomi pujan for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. It changed the lockdown dates to facilitate TMCP foundation day," he charged. CPI(M) legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her government has turned the lockdown into a "farce". "Is celebration of TMC Chatra Parishads's foundation day more important than the lives of the common people?" he asked. The TMC in its turn dubbed the allegation that the day was changed for TMCP's foundation day as "completely baseless". "We observed the July 21 Martyrs' Day this year virtually due to the pandemic. The decision to change the complete lockdown dates was taken due to difficulty in conducting business and banking operations," TMC leader and spokesperson Sougato Roy said. West Bengal has till Tuesday reported 1,01,390 coronavirus cases and the toll has touched in 2149.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt effects change in complete lockdown for fifth time||The Bengal government on Wednesday effected a change in the state-wide complete lockdowns in the state for the fifth time and decreased it by a day by withdrawing the slated one on August 28.  The decision to withdraw the complete lockdown on August 28 was taken after several communications were received citing difficulty to conduct business and banking operations because of two days' lockdown during Thursday (August 27) and Friday (August 28) in the last week of the month followed by the one-day lockdown on the following Monday (August 31), the order issued by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said.  Complete lockdowns were to be held on the three dates as per the earlier decision of the government.  "The state government has considered the requests for the relaxation of the lockdown as would be necessary and essential. Therefore, in partial modification, lockdown on Friday (August 28) as noted earlier is hereby withdrawn," it stated.  Statewide complete lockdown will now be observed on four days for the rest of this month instead of five days as announced earlier.  The dates of state complete lockdown will now be on August 20, 21, 27 and 31, it said.  Earlier this month complete lockdown was observed on August 5 and 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Loan riders cloud Covid fight ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw for a year the conditions for raising the borrowing limit to 5 per cent of a state’s GDP to ensure that Bengal can fight the Covid pandemic more efficiently. The appeal came at a time officials have said the Bengal government is spending around Rs 2,000 crore a month on the Covid battle while revenues are languishing around Rs 1,200 crore a month because of the lockdown restrictions. Sources said on Tuesday that during a videoconference between the Prime Minister and the chief ministers of 10 states, Mamata said the Centre should consider the proposal as it would help the states arrange funds to fight the pandemic at a time the states’ own revenue generation has dried up and the Centre has failed to transfer the GST compensation to the states. “It is good that the borrowing limit has been increased to 5 per cent of the state’s GDP. But only 0.5 per cent could be availed of unconditionally. I request you to withdraw the conditions attached to the remaining borrowing opportunity,” a source quoted the chief minister as saying. In May, the Centre had increased the borrowing limit of the states to 5 per cent from 3 per cent under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. The Centre had linked the increased borrowing limits to participation in the “one nation, one ration card” scheme, ease of doing business and reforms in power distribution and urban local bodies. As the ruling party in Bengal is principally opposed to some of the reforms, the state has not got the full benefits. The sources said Mamata pointed out that the Centre was yet to clear a tranche of dues of Rs 4,135 crore in GST compensation. The total amount due to Bengal from the Centre is Rs 53,000 crore. “In a situation like this, an unconditional increase in the borrowing limit for a period of one year could help the state battle the pandemic more efficiently,” the chief minister was quoted as saying. The sources said that the chief minister raised the issue as the state government was struggling to arrange funds to fight the pandemic. “In brief, we are spending more than Rs 2,000 crore a month to battle the pandemic. But we are not getting financial assistance from the Centre,” said an official. Sources in the finance department said the state was generating a revenue of about Rs 1,200 crore a month since July — far short of the usual average monthly revenue of Rs 5,000 crore. Mamata urged the Prime Minister to send more ventilators to the state. “We have so far received 100-odd ventilators under the PM CARES Fund. More ventilators will help the serious patients,” said a health department official. The chief minister requested Modi to issue guidelines on which vaccine should be procured and used by the states when it is available in India. Modi said 10 states, including Bengal, should test more and trace the contacts of positive patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bista and Thapa trade charges on Covid care||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) leader Anit Thapa, and Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, have traded charges of apathy during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Till April this year, some leaders of GTA claimed that the situation is under control. However, now that Covid cases are being reported across the hills, they have no answer and can’t even be found these days,” the Darjeeling MP said in a news release. The BJP MP has time again questioned the Mamata Banerjee government and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), alleging that the state government and the autonomous body had failed to handle the pandemic in the hills and the plains. Bista said that the hospital for Covid patients set up at Triveni in Kalimpong had poor infrastructure. Thapa, also the chairperson of the board of administrators of the GTA, has reacted sharply to Bista. “People across the hills have seen what we and the GTA have done to handle the pandemic. Residents have also seen the role of the MP in this situation,” said Thapa. The Morcha leader played the son of the soil card, an issue that was raised ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year as the Tamang faction of the Morcha that allied with Trinamul, fielded Amar Singh Rai, a veteran of Darjeeling hills, against Bista. “I should have asked the MP about his whereabouts these days but I didn’t as it is his prerogative where he stays. But I have realised and I believe residents too have realised that whoever is elected from here should be from the hills,” said Thapa, also the general secretary of Morcha’s Tamang faction. He said the GTA was doing its best at the Covid hospital in Triveni. North Dinajpur police have filed a case against state BJP president Dilip Ghosh and 26 other leaders of the party for violation of the Disaster Management Act in Raiganj on Tuesday. Ghosh and others held a party meeting in Hemtabad on Monday to remember Debendra Nath Roy, the BJP MLA of Hemtabad who had been found hanging in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Burning ground protest in Arambagh||A police vehicle was ransacked and six cops injured when a group of people, mostly women, clashed in Arambagh on Tuesday with cops to protest the reopening of a burning ghat shut 30 years ago to cremate Covid bodies. The police arrested 14 persons, 13 of whom were women, and slapped non-bailable sections under the disaster management act on them for using force to deter public servants from performing their duty. “There was no reason to protest as it is an isolated place. But residents, instigated by a group, blocked the state highway on Tuesday. They attacked the police who went for talks with them,” said an officer. Trinamul leaders blamed the BJP for instigating Tuesday’s protest. “The BJP is fanning panic among residents,” said Rajesh Chowdhury, a member of the board of administrators in Arambagh municipality. Biman Ghosh, the BJP president in Arambagh, denied the allegation and said the Trinamul-run civic body had failed to manage the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Truck kills schoolboy on cycle||A 13-year-old schoolboy was crushed to death by a truck on Kashiram Das Road here on Tuesday morning when he was cycling to the market to buy sweets and flowers for Janmashtami puja, the accident spurring residents to set the vehicle on fire. Subhrajyoti Mandal, a Class VII student and resident of Sreenagar Pally in the town’s Benachity, had come to his maternal uncle’s home in Durgapur Steel Plant township on Monday for the festival. The truck with stone chips hit the boy around 9am on Tuesday and its wheels dragged him for at least 20 feet. Subhrajyoti was declared brought dead at the Durgapur Steel Plant hospital. As news spread, a mob set the truck on fire before the police arrived. The driver fled. Protesters blocked the road to demand compensation for the deceased’s family members and refused to budge till the police promised to deploy traffic policemen in the area to rein in reckless heavy vehicles on the narrow road. A hunt for the driver is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Minister meets slain youth’s kin||A state government team of North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh and senior government officials visited Madhya Balabhut village on Tuesday to take stock after a 19-year-old was shot dead on Sunday night by a BSF posse that had raided the area. The team met the family members of Shahinur Haque, and spoke to villagers who complained about highhandedness of the BSF personnel and sought action against those behind the murder. Ghosh assured them that the state government would take steps so that such incidents did not take place in future. A BSF team had entered the village in search of a group of cattle smugglers. The smugglers had attacked them after the team seized some cattle heads which prompted them to fire, BSF sources had said. The villagers brushed aside the charges and said that the team shot Shahinur, a weaver, without provocation. “He was a migrant worker and had returned home in the lockdown. We find no reason as to why the BSF should kill him. We want stringent punishment for all those responsible for my son’s death,” Mehena Bibi, his mother, told Ghosh. Ghosh told reporters that he was visiting the villager on the instructions of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “The BSF is supposed to guard the borders and not kill common people who stay near the borders. I have collected all possible information and have sent a message to the chief minister. Such atrocities by the BSF should be stopped,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP trio lock up teachers over Krishna birthday||Police arrested three BJP workers on Tuesday evening for locking up teachers and non-teaching staff at their school building in Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas as “punishment” for keeping the institution open on Janmashtami. The BJP workers had locked the main gate of Ashoknagar Kalyangarh Sanskriti Sangha Sikshaniketan, a state-run school, “to teach the staff a lesson”, headmaster Prabir Kumar Saha alleged. Based on his complaint, the police arrested BJP workers Parthapratim Chakraborty, Shyamal Mullick and Nilratan Mitra. A local source said that on Tuesday the headmaster and some other staff opened the school despite the lockdown and Janmashtami holiday to discharge some urgent work. But, this angered the BJP workers, who, led by the party’s local convener Swapan Kumar De, allegedly barged inside the building and created a furore. Saha said: “They threateningly asked me why I dared to open the school on Janmashtami. We tried to explain that we were compelled to open the school for a few hours only. They insisted we stop our work immediately, but we refused to oblige. To teach us a lesson, they left the campus and locked us in.” Contacted, BJP leader Swapan Kumar De appeared unrepentant. “We advised the headmaster to keep the school closed today (Tuesday) because it was Janmashtami. We did nothing wrong as he misbehaved and refused to listen to us,” De said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||NBMCH to start plasma therapy||The Regional Blood Transfusion Centre (RBFC) of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) has finally got the approval to start plasma therapy for Covid positive patients. Mridumoy Das, the RBFC director, said they had come to know that the state drug control authority had approved their request to start plasma therapy. “However, certain details have to be finalised. We need to know by when we can start collecting plasma, what would be charged from the patients who get this treatment and how the therapy would be carried out,” said Das. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, plasma therapy has already started in Calcutta and some other states of the country. This treatment involves collecting antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid and transfusing it into a coronavirus infected patient. It stimulates the immune system of the patient to help him combat the infection. In Siliguri, a dentist who had recovered from Covid-19 had approached the NBMCH authorities here and offered his plasma for therapy on a patient who was critical. However, as the authorities did not have approval from the state then, they could not proceed with the plasma therapy. The patient later died. A senior doctor at the NBMCH said critically ill Covid patients could get this therapy, provided their families agreed. “There are many people in north Bengal who have recovered from the infection and are ready to donate their plasma. We feel that this therapy can help in places like Siliguri and Malda where the number of Covid cases has steadily risen,” he said. Das also said that they did not need the sophisticated plasmapheresis machine right now as the regional transfusion centre had four refrigerated centrifuge machines. “We can use the centrifuge machines that remove cells from plasma by centrifugation,” Das explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan lockdown blow to border trade ||Bhutan announced a nationwide, indefinite lockdown from Tuesday to battle the spread of Covid-19 in the country, the decision — the first in the kingdom since the pandemic broke out — pressing a pause button on trade between India and Bhutan. A senior police officer in Alipurduar, one of the two Bengal districts that shares borders with the Himalayan country, said the state would extend all necessary cooperation to the neighbouring country. “There will be no traffic movement through the India-Bhutan borders,” he said. Between India and Bhutan, bilateral trade is governed by the India Bhutan Trade & Transit Agreement of 1972 that was later renewed in November 2016 and came into force in July 2017. According to government sources, the annual volume of trade between India and Bhutan is above Rs 9,000 crore. Out of Bhutan’s total imports, 84 per cent comes from India. Of the total exports made from Bhutan, around 78 per cent come to India. Bengal plays an important role in the bilateral trade via land as almost two-thirds of the trade volume is routed via Phuentsholing ,the business capital of Bhutan that sits on the other side of Jaigaon in Alipurduar district of Bengal. Goods worth another Rs 1,500 crore, which Bhutan trades with other countries like Bangladesh, are routed through Bengal. “The lockdown and its impact on movement of goods through the international borders will affect trade,” an exporter from Siliguri said. Administrative sources in Alipurduar said around 500 goods trucks would enter Bhutan from India before the pandemic. During the past few months, the number had dwindled to 100 in a day. Trucks completely stopped plying from Tuesday. Traders in Jaigaon sounded perturbed. They pointed out that for six days till Sunday, marketplaces were closed in Jaigaon to check the spread of Covid-19. “It was on Monday that shops opened, and after just one day, lockdown was announced in Bhutan. Traders and suppliers are worried. But we want the pandemic situation to improve on both sides of the border,” said Jayant Mundra, a trader in Jaigaon. Alipurduar apart, Jalpaiguri in Bengal shares borders with Bhutan. Assam is the other Indian state bordering Bhutan. The Himalayan kingdom reported 113 Covid cases so far. Among them, 97 have recovered. There are 16 active cases in the country as of now. Bhutan has not recorded any death from Covid till date. Bhutan’s ministry of economic affairs said they had adequate stock of essentials such as  rice, oil, pulses, sugar, milk powder, salt and toiletries in the country to last another six months. Bhutan announced the lockdown after it was found that a young woman of Gelephu, who returned from Kuwait on June 26 and was in mandatory quarantine in Paro and later released after treatment, had moved around in a number of places and come in close contact with many people when she was infected. “The government enforces restrictions on movement of people and vehicles within the dzongkhags (primary subdivisions of Bhutan) and beyond.Everyone is asked to stay home to protect themselves and their families from the disease, should there be undetected, rampant transmissions,” said a release issued by the office of the Prime Minister of Bhutan on Tuesday. During the indefinite lockdown in Bhutan, all schools, education institutions, offices and commercial establishments will stay closed. The country’s ongoing exams will be postponed and students and trainees in boarding facilities will be there in the campus and follow safety protocols, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||BSF seizes smuggled medicines||A cache of medicines and medical gadgets valued at Rs 21.69 lakh was seized by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel early on Tuesday near the Bangladesh border. The BSF had to open fire and lob stun grenades to disperse smugglers trying to push their illegal consignment to Bangladesh through a stretch of the Ichhamati river close to the Haridaspur border outpost in North 24-Parganas. Under the thick cover of water hyacinths, the smugglers were trying to push 20 bags of medicines towards Bangladesh through the river when BSF personnel of the 158 battalion spotted them. A source said that during the past two months the BSF seized medicines, mostly life-saving drugs, that were being smuggled to Bangladesh. The source added that as formal export between India and Bangladesh had come to a crawl because of Covid curbs since March, smuggling gangs were active. Most gangs use out-of-work migrant workers as handlers, the source said. The BSF sources said the consignments seized on Tuesday included huge quantities of life-saving drugs of popular brands, which were handed over to customs at Petrapole. The source said as people from Bangladesh come to Bengal and other centres in India for treatment, medicines popular in India have a huge demand in the neighbouring country. The formal supply line has been hit because of trade restrictions, while illegal trade of medicines is flourishing. DIG (general) of BSF’s South Bengal Frontier S.S.Guleria said: “This is an unusual trend. We have never seen medicines smuggled in such huge quantities earlier.” The BSF almost on a regular basis seizes Phensedyl, a codeine-based cough syrup that is abused as an intoxicant in Bangladesh. Seizure of Phensedyl by the BSF shot to an all-time high during the lockdown. But smuggling of life-savings drugs, including medicines required to treat cancer, kidney and cardiac problems, diabetes, and psychiatric disorders, is a new trend, said a BSF official. “Smugglers are desperate, they tried to smuggle medicines to Bangladesh through a goods train carrying export items,” added a BSF official, referring to seizure of medicines from a Bangladesh-bound goods train last month at Gede and Petrapole. “Many Bangladeshi people visit Calcutta for medical reasons and return the same day. Existing curbs on people’s  movement between the two countries has created a crisis in the supply of medicines to Bangladesh,” said a BSF official in Petrapole. An official of a private hospital on EM Bypass in Calcutta, patronised by many Bangladeshi patients, said they usually buy medicines for two months. “The lockdown has landed them in a big mess.” “For any critical disease like cancer, kidney troubles a prescription issued by doctors remains valid for two months unless otherwise advised. So Bangladeshi patients who procured medicines before lockdown are not in a position to arrange medicines even from Bangladesh as the validity of their prescriptions has expired,”  the hospital official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea Board of India flags unregulated entry of tea from Nepal||The Tea Board of India has got in touch with the Union commerce ministry for its intervention to enforce rules to prevent the “indiscriminate import and sale of Nepalese tea” in the country. For the past few years, tea planters, particularly those who make Darjeeling tea, have time and again sought action from the Centre and the Tea Board over tea from Nepal being passed off as Darjeeling tea without certification. “This finally made the Tea Board act... On Monday, Rishikesh Rai, board secretary, sent three letters to Anjali Anand, the under-secretary in the ministry, and said that it was necessary to enforce rules to check the import and sale of Nepal tea,” said a source. According to Tea Board sources, in the past six years, around 71.9 million kilos of tea were imported from Nepal. “...there is no known national standard fixed by the Government of Nepal for teas produced in their country. Though we have FSS (Import) Regulations, 2017, for ensuring import of FSSAI compliant teas into India, the said regulations are not being enforced fully in the sense that out of 34 parameters of tea, only three to four parameters are checked..,” a letter said. “Tea being an item of mass consumption in India, any tea not FSSAI compliant could pose serious health hazard,” reads one of the letters. Rai also cited instances when tea imported from another country was sold as Darjeeling tea, causing financial loss to hill tea producers.  “The ministry can consider a notification that makes it mandatory to specify the country of origin of imported teas by wholesalers, packers and retailers,” Rai wrote. Sandeep Mukherjee, the principal advisor of Darjeeling Tea Association, welcomed the initiative of the Tea Board. “Long due and we welcome it.” “If these decisions are made, it will be a big relief for the connoisseurs of Darjeeling tea in India who have been taken for a ride for decades,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Nabanna reserves 2 lifts for Didi, core team||The Bengal government will reserve two VIP lifts in state secretariat Nabanna, one for the chief minister and the other for a handful of senior bureaucrats, as a precaution after a number of employees posted in the building tested positive for Covid-19 recently. “While Mamata Banerjee will use one lift, the chief secretary, home secretary and the director-general of police will use the other,” said an official at Nabanna. In the past one week, about six employees, mainly security personnel posted in the secretariat, had tested positive, said a source. “As lifts are considered a potential source of spreading the virus, the use of VIP lifts has been restricted for the benefit of the state,” the source added. As the use of two VIP lifts is restricted, a previously general lift is now reserved for the use of other bureaucrats and ministers who either have offices at Nabanna or visit the building on official purposes, said an official. “It won’t create any problem if a general lift is reserved for senior officers. Offices are being run with 50 per cent staff strength (physically present) to prevent crowding.” Sources in the PWD said that a second office of the chief minister has been set up in Upanna, the newly inaugurated building near Nabanna. Along with the chief minister, offices of the chief secretary, home secretary and the secretary to the chief minister have also been set up in the new building. “Offices of the chief minister and other senior officers may be shifted temporarily to Upanna in case of an extreme emergency,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Chhau dancer survives on NGO dole||Karna Karmakar, a 27-year-old chhau dancer who has performed in the US, Scotland, Brazil and France, on Tuesday morning motorcycled 40km to Purulia town to collect a packet of relief essentials worth Rs 1,200 for his family of six. Karna, who lives in Barabazar, had to borrow Rs 100 from a friend to refuel his bike for the trip to the town to collect the relief packet from NGO Nanritam. “Six months ago, I never would have never thought I’d bike 40km for a packet of relief items. I used to earn Rs 9,000 a month by performing chhau. But now, my savings are wiped out. I am grateful to Nanritam,” Karna said. He added that he was one among thousands of chhau performers battling poverty amid the pandemic. In Purulia alone, there are 30,000 chhau and jhumur performers who like Karna are jobless since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. The only income of these artistes is the monthly Rs 1,000 provided by the state government. Karna, who runs his chhau team Kharipahari Manbhum Janashakti Chhau Nritya Samiti with 20 dancers, said that it hurt him to see his colleagues roaming around in search of other jobs. “I often dream of Tagore’s drama-in-verse Kacha and Devyani that I had staged in Scotland and New York. That ovation was real, so is this poverty. I don’t know when we will return to the stage,” he added. Like Karna, Shankar Tantubai, a jhumur singer from Barabazar, also came with 16 others on Tuesday to collect relief items from Nanritam. The outfit is helping 10,500 needy families in Purulia since mid-April, said its secretary Ranjana Sengupta. Nanritam has former World Bank chief economist and C. Marks Professor of international studies and professor of economics in Cornell University Kaushik Basu as its chief mentor. “We started to provide relief among the poor and needy people since April 19. We are running community kitchens for tribal groups involved in folk art in remote corners of the districts. We started the service on April 19 to commemorate the birth anniversary of Swami Lokeswaranandaji Maharaj, the former president of Ramakrishna Mission and our inspiration,” said Ranjana Sengupta, the Nanritam secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal 7th among states in Covid tally||Bengal on Tuesday reported 2,931 new Covid-19 cases, taking its total number of infections past 1 lakh with 1,01,390 lab-tested cases. The state now ranks the seventh in India in terms of most recorded novel coronavirus cases. Maharashtra with 5.35 lakh, Tamil Nadu with 3.08 lakh and Andhra Pradesh with 2.44 lakh have reported the most number of Covid-19 infections in India. Since the first infection in Bengal on March 17, the state has taken 147 days to log 1 lakh cases. Of the 1 lakh cases, nearly 74,000 are recoveries. “We doubled from 50,000 in 19 days, which is better than the 14 days we took to double from 25,000. Prior to that, we doubled in 21 days from 12,500, in 15 days from 6,250, and from 3,125 and 1,562 in 13 days each,” said a minister. On Tuesday, 49 patients died of Covid in Bengal, taking the total state toll to 2,149. Calcutta reported 18 deaths and North 24-Parganas nine on Tuesday. In all, 980 people died of Covid in Calcutta and 499 in North 24-Parganas. On the brighter side, for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, a rise in recoveries lowered the number of active cases from the previous day. The number of active cases fell by 185 to 25,846, as 3,067 recoveries in 24 hours till Tuesday 9am bettered the 2,931 new infections. The recovery rate rose further to 72.39 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 70.31. “Active cases, which is the key (indicator), is only a fourth of the total number of infections now, a major plus,” the minister said. Of the new cases, 711 were reported from the city and 643 from North 24-Parganas. These two districts also reported 877 and 658 recoveries, and active cases fell by 184 in Calcutta, to 6,615, and by 24 in North 24-Parganas, to 5,626. The state achieved another new high in daily testing, with 27,015 tests done on Tuesday.  bettering Monday’s 26,297. “We are looking to go past 35,000 tests daily in the next couple of weeks,” said the minister. The state now has done nearly 11.6 lakh tests, at 12,880 per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||North East||AASU makes report on Clause 6 public||The All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) on Tuesday made public the report of the home ministry-constituted committee on implementation of Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord. AASU was a signatory to the accord. Clause 6 provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards “to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.” At a media conference here, AASU president Dipanka Nath, general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi and chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya said they had no option but to release the 170-page report because the government was “not acting on it” and people had a “right to know its contents as it concerned them”. Moreover, they said the BJP’s state unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass’s recent observation that several recommendations in the report would be difficult to implement had forced their hands. “It is clear that the report is out in some quarters. Let there be debate and discussion on what it is not implementable,” Gogoi said. One of the significant recommendations of the committee is the definition of “Assamese” people as anyone living in the state prior to January 1, 1951. Several attempts made in the past to define an Assamese, including one by the former Speaker, late Pranab Gogoi, were futile. The AASU trio, part of the 13-member committee, said they had waited for over five months for the Centre to act on the report or make it public. Nilay Dutta, senior advocate and member of the committee, welcomed the AASU move, saying the people had a right to know what is in the report. The 14-member committee, led by Justice (retd) Biplab Kumar Sarma, had submitted the report to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on February 25 in the presence of his cabinet colleagues. The MHA had constituted the committee in July 2019 to suggest measures within six months on how to implement the clause. Sonowal handed over the report to Union home minister Amit Shah on March 20. Apart from implementation of the recommendations within two years of its submission, the high-powered committee has mooted the setting up of an appropriate body to monitor  the process and reconcile any constitutional or legal challenges that may arise in their implementation. “The body should preferably be headed by a retired judge of Supreme Court/ High Court, with representatives from the Union home ministry, the Assam government and AASU. It should meet at least once every three months,” the report said. The recommendations: Assamese language shall continue to be the official language of Assam as per the provisions of the Assam Official Language Act, 1960, throughout the state with appropriate provisions for use of local languages in Barak Valley, the hill districts and the Bodoland Territorial Area Districts. All the indigenous languages of Assam must be protected and promoted irrespective of the number of speakers. Within hours of AASU releasing the report, Sonowal said the government was “committed” to ensuring implementation of Clause 6 in letter and spirit but disclosing the report of the committee “without giving any timeframe is very unfortunate”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
12-08-2020||Opinion||Give peace a chance: 75 years of Nagasaki bombing||Sir — The city of Nagasaki in Japan recently observed the 75th anniversary of the atomic bombing. Commemorating such sombre occasions serves to remind mankind of the extent of the destruction that hatred among nations can cause. However, one doubts if people ever take lessons from history. Most world leaders seem oblivious to the impact of war and enmity. Until recently, the premiers of the United States of America and North Korea were threatening each other with nuclear war. Research also shows that there has been a spike in the global arms trade of late. Will the world ever give peace a chance? Sumitra Roy,Calcutta Hollow claims Sir — In the article, “Hour of triumph” (Aug 6), Swapan Dasgupta echoes the jubilance of the supporters of Hindutva in Ayodhya and elsewhere on the day that the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple was performed. While the prime minister, Narendra Modi, compared the movement for the temple to the freedom struggle, social media were awash with exclamations of victory. However, the real questions are these: whose victory does this event represent and what improvement does it bring to their living conditions? India has been beset with difficulties throughout the renewed reign of the Bharatiya Janata Party. To cite examples such as the decreasing freedom of speech, increase in unemployment, the undermining of the rights of women and children and the blatant disregard for other constitutional liberties is to do nothing but scratch the surface. At present, the country is struggling to deal with the myriad effects of the coronavirus crisis. The current government at the Centre has repeatedly shown itself to be incapable of achieving any real victory against the true adversaries of the people of India, be it inequality in the spheres of healthcare and education or gender discrimination. The contribution of leaders of the ruling party to the management of the pandemic and its allied crises has been a spectrum of unscientific suggestions, including the consumption of gau mutra. To claim a victory under such circumstances is an insult to the people. Even autonomous institutions seem to be failing to stand up to the powers that be. The common people should begin to fight for their rights before it is too late. Poulami Somanya Ganguly,Amsterdam Sir— Swapan Dasgupta may well view the bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya last week as a “Hindu victory”, but it is, in reality, a victory for the proponents of Hindutva who exercise muscle power to subjugate minority communities in the country — Muslims in particular — and desire to accomplish this by establishing a ‘Hindu rashtra’. Just like Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis, tribal communities and atheists, innumerable members of the Hindu community  in India — especially those outside the ‘Hindi belt’ — do not worship Rama as a deity. In their eyes, Rama is an epic hero, like Yudhisthira or Arjuna. There are also many Hindus who might believe in the divinity of Rama, but are vehemently opposed to the insidious exploitation of his name for the sake of furthering communal politics or the demolition of a shrine that is sacred to believers of another religion. Therefore, it is not logical for either the Indian prime minister to brand all 1.3 billion Indians as “Ram-mayas” or for Dasgupta to claim the bhoomi pujan as a victory for ‘Hindus’. What Indians — and the many Hindus among them — truly believe in instead are values such as secularism, fraternity and equality. Calling the Ram temple project a “negotiated settlement within the parameters of the Constitution” or hailing it as a “judicial victory” cannot hide the fact that the judgment was passed in view of the “belief of the Hindus”. Further, taunting the so-called “Nehruvian consensus” is equivalent to undermining the value of religious harmony and acceptance as well as respect towards the diversity that is such an intricate part of our national fabric. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
12-08-2020||Opinion||Family firm: Sri Lanka and the Rajapaksas||Dynastic politics may be anathema to those who run New India. But a dynasty seems to have cemented its place beyond India’s southern borders. The Sri Lanka People’s Freedom Alliance — under the leadership of the two brothers, Mahinda Rajapaksa and Gotabaya Rajapaksa — has been given a decisive mandate by the people in the recent parliamentary elections. Mahinda Rajapaksa, whose Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna holds a large stake in the SLPFA, has been sworn in as prime minister — his brother helms the presidentship — after the SLPP decimated its opponents to win two-thirds of the allotted seats. Such was the SLPP’s dominance that the United National Party — the former prime minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, led it — won a solitary seat, while the Samagi Jana Balawegaya, which split from the UNP, fared  better than its rival with Sajith Premadasa in command. Even the footprint of the Tamil National Alliance has shrunk demonstrably. The Rajapaksas’ electoral dominance can be explained by two factors. Their pandering to ethno-religious sentiments proved irresistible to a people scarred by the devastating Easter Sunday attacks that were blamed on Islamist forces. The Opposition’s challenge, ironically, was undermined by its own lieutenants. The differences between Mr Wickremesinghe and Mr Premadasa led to a split in the UNP. As prime minister, Mr Wickremesinghe’s squabbles with the then president led to policy paralysis and, allegedly, holes in the security network; this charge seems to have stuck. But a democratic election need not always serve the cause of democracy. Sri Lanka may be a case in point. The Rajapaksas are expected to pursue their majoritarian agenda, which might enfeeble the interests and rights of minorities. Muslims and Tamils thus have cause for concern. The future of the 19th Amendment — it had reduced the executive powers of the president — now looks bleak. This implies that the centralization of power — a long spell of power by one man — cannot be ruled out: this does not augur well for a democracy. But the brothers are expected to face other, stiff challenges. The economy, battered by the pandemic, will be a cause for concern. The World Bank has estimated a contraction of three per cent of the island’s economy. The burden of foreign debt on Sri Lanka is considerably high. Then, there is the geo-political challenge. Balancing China’s aggressive wooing with an old partnership with India could prove to be tricky business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
12-08-2020||Opinion||Lost Paths:  NEP 2020 & institutional autonomy ||The middle path is a comfortable idea; the comfort depends on the subject to which it relates. The prime minister has marked a ‘middle path’ between government control and the sense of entitlement of higher academic institutions at the Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under the National Education Policy. ‘Freedom’, which, in his reported remarks, seems identified with the autonomy of educational institutions, will depend on quality. The better the educational outcomes the more autonomy the institution will be given. The institutions will have to ‘earn’ autonomy. So, will representatives of the government judge quality? This is the same government under which the University Grants Commission declared last year that in order to ensure that ‘national interest’ has priority, institutions should have a ‘shelf of topics’ on which research will be conducted. But education is the pursuit of excellence; it can accommodate no middle path. For that, higher educational institutions need to be empowered — that bogey word — to choose the variety and quality of education they aspire to, the mix of students they wish for, their methods of training and assessment — in short, to be able to mould institutions according to their academic and social visions without violating the laws of the land. Here autonomy is not wild freedom that must be reined in by the government, neither is it a reward from the rulers for doing well; it is, instead, a discipline unique to the encouragement of learning and the growth of the mind. That alone will produce the curiosity, creativity and commitment of young people that the prime minister promises under the NEP 2020, and nurture the atmosphere of enquiry, discovery and discussion that he appears to celebrate. Since many students who questioned — with commitment and desire for discussion — government policies are now under arrest, the new dawn of the NEP is bound to seem a little suspect. What is even more puzzling is the plight of those who will bring the NEP to fruition: for example, salaries of teachers of two Sanskrit universities that became Central universities in April are delayed, some contract teachers have had no work and no pay for two months, and some private universities have sent some teachers on leave. There are numerous other problems beginning with recruitment and appointment to match the NEP’s target enrolment. Even the middle path will prove elusive in this situation, let alone excellence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
12-08-2020||Opinion||The future of news in India||The news industry today stands at a vital crossroads. The worsening economic health of print journalism threatens its ability to credibly inform the public and act as an institutional check upon power. The environment of digital news, on the other hand, operates in a vacuum of regulation. The emergence of a post-truth paradigm in public communications and the widespread proliferation of misinformation are barriers to realizing the benefits of digital news distribution. This report is primarily concerned with ensuring that high-quality journalism can transition into the era of digital communications in a manner that aligns with the public good. Research focus: We examine the digital transformation of the Indian news environment from a regulatory perspective. In doing so, two distinct questions are considered — first, the question of “News and the Internet’, which is an inquiry into how the print news industry has evolved in the Internet era; and, second, the question of “News on the Internet’, which is an analysis of the state of news on digital mediums, such as online websites, social media platforms and news aggregators. These questions structure our inquiry into an evolving phenomenon: the transformation of the news industry because of the growth of technology. The print news industry is especially crucial to the processes of democratic accountability in the country. In addition to its historical role as an institutional check upon State machinery, the print news industry employs a substantial number of on-ground reporters and is critical to continued high-quality journalism. The importance of this cannot be understated in an environment of increasing misinformation, the spread of ‘fake news’ and the emergence of a post-truth paradigm in public communications. Consequently, the interaction of the news and the Internet must be studied from a ground-up perspective by examining the evolution of the news industry in response to the Internet, and its evolution on the Internet. These are the two major parts of this report: “News and the Internet” and “News on the Internet”. Objective of this enquiry: There are two outcomes towards which the recommendations of this report are geared: (a) Sustaining credible print journalism (b) Orienting digital news to the public good Recommendations: 1. Institutional reforms: The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s Department of Audio-Visual Promotion is a crucial node in channelling State support to newspapers in the form of advertisements. The department must be provided institutional autonomy from bureaucratic control, and measures to bring about transparency and accountability should be introduced. This would channel State support to newspapers in an equitable and transparent manner. 2. Checking the dominance of online advertising platforms: The advertisement-revenue model for digital news may be displaying indications of market failure. To orient the market for digital news towards the public good, the role and practices of online advertising platforms must be systematically studied by a specialized authority. An investigation by the Competition Commission of India into the dominance of online advertising platforms could be a starting point. 3. Enacting comprehensive light-touch measures to address misinformation: The entire chain of misinformation needs to be addressed in order to effectively tackle the crisis of misinformation. The report suggests a range of legislative, co-regulatory and voluntary measures, which provide an integrated framework to prevent the spread of misinformation and enhance reader literacy. 4. Imposing appropriate responsibilities on digital news entities: The legal vacuum for digital news needs to be filled in a manner which is sensitive to the nuances of online discourse. The report recommends granting limited powers to the Press Council of India in conjunction with a voluntary registration procedure and the development of a brief, accessible code of conduct as a mechanism for the imposition of editorial responsibility. The role of online platforms in the distribution of news should be addressed through targeted interventions based on the design aspects of such platforms. A report by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
12-08-2020||Opinion||A test case||It is a common practice all over the world that when those incarcerated face a threat to life, the authorities send them home. Even Benito Mussolini had been forced by an international campaign to shift the Italian communist leader, Antonio Gramsci, when the latter’s health had deteriorated greatly, first to a clinic in Formia, then to a clinic in Rome and, finally, to release him after he had served 11 of his 20-year sentence. It was, however, already too late by then, and Gramsci died within a week of his release. In India, when communists were arrested in large numbers after the Second Party Congress in Calcutta in 1948, at which the party had adopted a collision course with the Jawaharlal Nehru government, the communist prisoners had gone on a mass hunger strike demanding better prison conditions. The Nehru government had released all those prisoners whose lives had been at risk because of the hunger strike. My father, a communist activist who had been in jail at the time, had been one of those released; he had reportedly been on a hunger strike for 43 days. It is a sign of the times that our present Central government does not feel the need to follow this practice of releasing prisoners even when their lives are at risk. Varavara Rao, a 79-year-old accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, has been in jail for two years, where his health had broken down even before the pandemic; matters are worse now because he has tested positive for Covid-19. Yet the government has made no announcement till date about his release after he is discharged from hospital; and this is so notwithstanding the fact that he is merely awaiting trial and has not been convicted of any crime. On the basic principle that a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty, he is an innocent man being held in prison despite a collapse of his health, and despite being infected with the coronavirus that can be fatal at his age and with his co-morbidities. Much the same can be said of the other Bhima-Koregaon accused too. They have not been convicted of any crime; they are all, therefore, innocent persons, being held in coronavirus-infected jails despite the fact that most of them are, or are close to being, senior citizens, and almost all of them have severe co-morbidities that make the virus deadly for them. To have a law like the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, under which a completely innocent person (and one who may eventually be found innocent by the judiciary) can be kept in jail for an inordinate length of time, is a negation of democracy. The relentless application of this law to keep persons in jail in the midst of an unprecedented pandemic that can easily prove fatal for them indicates a shocking lack of humanity. If the allegation that the judiciary is complicit in this inhumanity is true, it would testify to its pusillanimity. Even more shocking is the nature of the argument that is pervasively advanced by lawyers against the granting of bail to these detainees. They are accused of ‘taking advantage’ of the pandemic to escape incarceration, as if being in jail ‘serves them right’ and constitutes their ‘just deserts’. The very language used is a denial of the basic principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’, which is supposed to be accepted by all, both those prosecuting and those being prosecuted. Adherence to that principle would mean that all the Bhima-Koregaon accused are innocent as of now. For an innocent person to ask for release from jail is an assertion of a right, not an opportunistic manoeuvre. To present an innocent person’s desire for freedom as if it is a dishonest and condemnable act turns on its head an accepted norm of jurisprudence; it amounts to a rejection of the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ and, thereby, displays a shocking disregard for human rights. The legal grounds for denying bail after charges have been framed are usually the following: the possibility of tampering with evidence by the person who is out on bail; and the possibility of that person influencing witnesses. In the Bhima-Koregaon case, the police have got all the evidence they need so that no scope for tampering remains. Besides, since the evidence consists of material found on laptops, and since the laptops have all been seized, no tampering is possible now. Likewise the question of influencing witnesses simply does not arise in a case like this where no bystander’s testimony is being used as evidence. Denying bail to the Bhima-Koregaon accused, therefore, seems more a vindictive act than one based on any genuine apprehension of possible miscarriage of justice; is the judiciary being stampeded here into going along with the executive? There is a further point here. A jail is what the government designates it to be. The Aga Khan’s palace in Pune where Gandhiji was incarcerated was not, historically, a jail; it was designated as one in order to keep Gandhiji there. Likewise, Ahmednagar fort, where the Congress Working Committee was imprisoned during the Quit India movement, was not a prominent jail; nonetheless it was converted into one for accommodating the working committee members. Similarly many leaders in Kashmir have been held recently in buildings that are not traditional jails; they simply served as jails for these leaders. And it is not only the Central government but also the state governments, within whose jurisdiction the accused are held, that have a discretion in deciding what constitutes a jail. It follows that even if the Bhima-Koregaon accused are not given bail by the courts, it is still open to the Maharashtra government to house them in premises designated as jails which are not the coronavirus-infected traditional jails of the sort where they are currently housed. They could even be sent back home to be kept under ‘house arrest’ under the watch of police guards; or they could be kept under ‘house arrest’ reporting periodically to the local police station (as my father had been asked to do almost seven decades ago when he had been released from jail after his hunger strike). State governments, in other words, have some discretion in the matter. At the very least whether or not they have this discretion needs to be tested, for which at least one of them has to step out of line with the Central government’s diktat and stand up for the rights of detainees. The fact that they have not done so till now suggests perhaps that the pusillanimity extends to the state governments as well. It has to be overcome if democratic rights are to be preserved. The significance of the Bhima-Koregaon case lies precisely in this. The question will naturally arise: why get so worked up over the Bhima-Koregaon case when there are so many other cases which are also crying out for attention? The answer lies in the fact that the Bhima-Koregaon case, while no doubt one among many, is also a test case. It has been rightly said: ‘That which can happen to anybody can happen to everybody’. Ensuring justice in the Bhima-Koregaon case, therefore, will be a means of ensuring justice in other cases as well. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Man shot at in Adityapur, another body found||A 32-year-old man was shot at and seriously injured at Majhitola, about 5km from here, late on Tuesday night in yet another instance of violence in Adityapur that has seen a spike in the number of criminal acts since June. Bittu Pandey, who sustained bullet injuries in the abdomen, is a resident of the area. A driver in a private finance company, Bittu has been admitted to Tata Main Hospital where his condition is said to be serious. Bittu’s father, Vipin Kumar Pandey, alleged to police and media that a local goon, Santosh Thapa, was behind attack on his son. Thapa, he said, had engaged a shooter for the job. "Santosh Thapa, who is a notorious criminal, had threatened my son five days ago. I am sure it was Thapa who organised the gun attack on my son," Vipin told the media at Tata Main Hospital on Wednesday. Bittu was found lying in a pool of blood near Kharkai river in Majhitola at 10pm on Tuesday. Local residents informed his family members who then took him to Tata Main Hospital. OC of Adityapur police station Rajendra Prasad Mahto said, “We are trying to get a statement from the victim. Then we will have a clearer picture about who is responsible for the attack.” The OC said prima facie, the shooting seems to be linked to a land dispute. Body found This apart, the body of a 28-year-old youth was found lying in a bush behind Tramco Company in Gamharia, also under Adityapur thana, late on Tuesday night. Police suspect the youth, a resident of Dhatkidih village in Seraikela, had been murdered. The body was been sent to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital for post-mortem on Wednesday. Residents of Adityapur, an industrial area, admit that the law and order situation has deteriorated over the past couple of months. On June 18, a teenaged girl was gangraped and forced to jump into the Kharkai river from where her dead body was recovered the next day. On August 6, a 30-year-old man, Ramzan Hussain, was shot at and seriously injured by members of the Kadim Khan gang. Kadim Khan is yet to be caught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tests a must for Swiggy, Zomato delivery boys ||All delivery boys working for Swiggy and Zomato in Ranchi will have to be tested for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of infection among consumers, officials from Food Safety Department of Jharkhand said on Wednesday. Even chefs, cooks and other staff working in restaurants have to be tested for the virus in a bid to adhere to the safety standards during the pandemic, said Ranchi's food safety officer, S.S. Kullu. “Third party food delivery companies and restaurants that have employed delivery partners have to ensure that all delivery boys are tested,” said Kullu. “There is no such mandate as of now, but food delivery companies and restaurants will soon be asked to get their employees tested for Covid-19 to maintain safety standards,” he added. Several families in New Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru were quarantined during the lockdown period after food delivery boys, who frequented the localities, were found infected. However, no such incident has been reported in any city in Jharkhand. “We are planning to conduct a survey to find out the total number of delivery boys working for Swiggy, Zomato, local food delivery companies and restaurants,” said Kullu. While there is no data available with the food department on the number of delivery boys in Ranchi, sources said that around 1,000 men were doing this for a living in the state capital. The health department has directed deputy commissioners of all districts to conduct Covid tests of vegetable and fruit vendors as they were likely to spread the infection among a large number of people. A directive from health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni on Tuesday said that vegetable vendors and roadside hawkers were often found flouting Covid-19 safety norms. Testing them, the directive said, was important as they come in contact with a large number of people every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Virus gets to 11 doctors, nurses, officials at Bokaro Covid centre||The dedicated Covid hospital of the district, Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), has been badly hit by the virus with as many as 11 doctors, nurses and officials testing positive in the last 48 hours. With the administrative head of the Covid ward also testing positive, the BGH management is hoping for support from the district administration. It wants the administration to provide BGH back-up teams of doctors from the private sector or from other government hospitals. BGH of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is a unit of Steel Authority of India (SAIL). There are 23 positive cases in the Covid ward of the hospital. Of them, five are in ICU. As on Wednesday, there were 170 patients admitted at various BGH wards. “Some routine health services have been scaled down at the moment to manage Covid cases. We are trying our best within the available resources,” said BSL chief of communications Manikant Dhan, adding that the situation was being reviewed periodically to ensure smooth functioning of the hospital. “Covid-19 is posing challenges for one and all and BGH is no different. We are keeping a close watch on the developments as some senior doctors have also tested positive,” he said. The BGH administrative officer has also tested positive. He and the rest have all been sent on isolation. The officer, who got himself tested after a cold and cough, is stable. The doctor in-charge of the Covid ward has been admitted to ICU, but he is also stable. This is the second time when a SAIL unit has seen a spurt in Covid cases. In June, 40 senior and mid-level executives, including the chairman and a number of directors at SAIL headquarters in Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19. On June 10, Director (personnel) Atul Srivastava passed away at Delhi’s Apollo Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Independence Day at Gopal Maidan to be livestreamed on Facebook||The Independence Day celebration at the Gopal Maidan in Bistupur will be streamed live on Facebook. In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic the East Singhbhum district administration had earlier decided to organise a small event at the district collectorate to mark the 74th Independence Day on August 15. However, the administration changed their stance due to the grounds’ wide area. "The function will start at 9.05 a.m. with the hoisting of the national flag," said district public relations officer (DPRO ) Rohit Kumar, adding that for the first time the function will be aired live on PRD East Singhbhum’s Facebook page. The first rehearsals for the event took place at the Gopal Maidan on Wednesday. The rehearsal will continue tomorrow too. State health minister Banna Gupta, who is also the Congress legislature from Jamshedpur West constituency will be the chief guest. Apart from hoisting the national tricolour we will also inspect the parade where Indian Reserve Battalion( IRB), Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) and home guards will participate. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar, senior SP Tamil Vannan and a few other senior administrative officials will be present. One of the highlights of the Independence Day celebration will be felicitation of coronavirus warriors. The office of the district civil surgeon and special officers of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee  (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC ) and Jugsalai Municipality have been asked to furnish the list of coronavirus warriors so that they can be feted at the function. The administration banned participation of children at the event. The function will be organised with limited participants. It is mandatory for all participants to wear facemasks and follow social distancing norms. Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said the I-Day function will be organised in accordance with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. Meanwhile, the markets particularly Sakchi and Bistupur have turned into sale points for Indian flags, stickers and banners. The district administration is also taking necessary measures to maintain law and order. "Patrolling will be enhanced from tomorrow along with positioning of cops at all sensitive places including border check posts, " said a senior police official of East Singhbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhoni gets himself tested for Covid ahead of IPL||Mahendra Singh Dhoni, former Team India skipper and a long-standing captain of, and mentor to, Chennai Super Kings underwent a Covid test on Wednesday ahead of the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL), which is scheduled to be held in the UAE next month. A team from a city based private hospital, Gurunanak Hospital and Research Centre, arrived at the 39-year-old cricketer’s farmhouse on Ranchi Ring Road and collected samples. Dr Pooja Sahai, the hospital’s pathologist, said, “We collected his samples today (Wednesday). The report is expected tonight.” She, however, did not wish to divulge any further details, citing Covid confidentiality. The district administration remained tight-lipped. Neither state health secretary Nitin Kulkarni, nor Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra had any information about Dhoni’s Covid test. Civil surgeon V.B. Prasad also said he was unaware. “Nothing has come to my notice formally,” he said. This year’s IPL has been delayed due to the pandemic. It was only recently that the Centre agreed to the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) proposal to hold the T-20 tournament in the UAE. Matches are scheduled to begin from September 19. Sources said that as soon as there was some clarity on this year’s IPL, Dhoni had started practising at the nets at Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA). “He came for two days a week back for practice. He looked fully fit. He has lots of cricket left in him,” said a JSCA source. Sources close to Dhoni said he was expected to join teammates at CSK in Chennai on August 16. The team is likely to head to Dubai on August 21. All players have been asked to get Covid tests done before reaching Chennai where they will have to undergo another round of testing. The Dubai IPL will also mark Dhoni's comeback to competitive cricket. His last match for Team India was in the 2019 World Cup semi-finals against New Zealand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) students hold twitter campaign to demand fee cut ||A fee reduction demand for the lockdown period, which began in schools and gradually reached colleges, has now reached IITs including IIT (ISM) students who joined the nationwide campaign, tweeting to the college administration as well as prime minister Narendra Modi and Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. “Aren’t (we) all affected by Covid 19? Then why should students suffer the fee burden? We stand against the injustice done to the students. Support is all we need,” a student of the institute tweeted to the prime minister, with the hashtag #reduce_IIT_semesterFee. In another tweet to the prime minister, a student of IIT (ISM) said, “Our parents have lost jobs and pay by major margins . We beseech the public educational institutions to conduct a deferral/cancellation of the fees for this semester”. Another student who is also participating in the Twitter campaign said that while the administration has waived off hostel and mess charges, students are still expected to pay other fees for sports etc. “This is despite the fact that the institute was closed in wake of Covid in March, and classes shifted online,” he said. “Since labs and workshops are not being used, why do students need to pay the same amount of fees as that of regular semesters?” questioned another student, speaking to The Telegraph Online, requesting anonymity. The students of the state’s IITs prepared a joint petition as part of their nationwide campaign for fee reduction. “There are certain fees which have included charges that are not applicable to us (such as Library fee, electricity charges and internet charges). The amount adds up to more than Rs 1 lakh” reads the petition. “For a semester which is expected to run online, why should we pay this sum?” further it said, adding that semesters are held on Google Meet and Zoom, while students’ families continue to have to bear internet charges and electric bills. “Ëven if the  fee payment is not waived off or reduced, there should be provisions for making the payments in instalments or the deadline for fee payment should be extended,” said another student of the institute. Director of IIT (ISM) Rajiv Shekhar said that students are availing of library facilities online. “We sympathize with the students, although we have limitations as we have to run the institute and some establishment costs have to be realized,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Policemen beat up doctor viciously after parking dispute||Doctors stayed away from their clinics on Wednesday in Koderma town in response to a strike call to protest police brutality against one of their own, the assault on Monday leading to counter FIRs lodged by both the victim and a police station officer in-charge. Virendra Kumar, a skin specialist, alleged that policemen tried to kill him after he was dragged to the Telaiya Chowk police station in Koderma. “Since local people had gathered outside the police station in large numbers, I was spared. I want justice… I have full faith in senior police officers,” he said. The incident occurred at Telaiya Chowk while Kumar was shopping. According to Kumar and a few bystanders who were present, first, a group of policemen asked him to park his car elsewhere. This led to an altercation after which policemen, led by officer in-charge of the local thana Ram Narayan Thakur, started beating him up. Kumar, the eyewitnesses claimed, kept screaming by which time more people assembled in the area. Later, the policemen took Kumar to the police station. By then word had spread and a number of doctors and representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) reached the police station after which Kumar was let off. SP Ehtesham Waquarib removed the OC, Thakur, and five other policemen who were with him from their posts and asked them to report to the police lines. On Tuesday, based on Kumar’s complaint, police lodged an FIR against Thakur and others under Section 307 of IPC. Thakur also complained against the doctor based on which an FIR was lodged against him for obstructing policemen in the line of duty under various sections of IPC Some eyewitnesses recorded parts of the incident on their phones, after which the clip is said to have gone viral on social media.  SP Waquarib has assured IMA of action after a thorough probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Rare sighting of a Luna moth in Canary Hill forests||Three evening walkers discovered a rare species of moth in the forests of Canary Hill in Hazaribagh on Tuesday. Mithilesh Kumar and his two friends, Jitendra Singh and Jitendra Kumar were walking on Kutcha road around this picturesque hill when they saw the moth, which was later identified as a Luna moth (Actias luna). Mithilesh said he had frequented the area for his evening walks but had never come across something like this before. Independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma, known for his various discoveries at Canary Hill as well as in the district, said he had spotted the species once in the past ten years. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sharma said that sighting the creature is a rare moment, adding that it was a matter of joy that evening walkers were showing curiosity and clicking pictures after sighting rare creatures. The moths themselves are not uncommon, but are rarely seen due to their very brief, 7–10 day adult lives and nocturnal flying time. “It’s one of the most beautiful moths, with its long curving tails and pale green wings, each with transparent eyespots,” Sharma said, adding that the moth comes in three colours. Mithilesh, who is a teacher, lives in Prem Nagar colony near Vinoba Bhave University, and the hill is close to his house. “At first I had mistaken the moth for a butterfly with tails and clicked pictures. However, I soon came to know that it’s a moth,” he said, adding that he was happy to see such a beautiful creature for the first time. Sharma said Canary hill is a place full of surprises. “I discovered a few beautiful butterflies here, including the Peacock Pansy,” he said. Regarding the presence of rare moths and butterflies at Canary Hill, Sharma said it is possible that the British, attracted by the greenery and beauty of this place, had brought and released these creatures here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||BCCL eviction notice citing cave-in risks upsets garment traders||BCCL eviction notices issued to residents of localities within a radius of 8km from the district headquarters in the last two days citing the threat of subsidence during monsoon has angered traders of the 150-year-old wholesale garment market of Karkend, who fear they will lose business that has already seen a downturn because the Covid pandemic. Garment trader and secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association Umesh Heliwal said any disruption to the existing set-up would not only hamper business, but also hurt government revenues as garment traders paid huge sums by way of GST. “Any disturbance to the market will adversely affect our business and hit revenues of the government,” he said, adding that the 150-year-old market was once the biggest wholesale  market for grains, before it was shifted to the Agriculture Produce Market Complex at Barwaddah a decade ago. Haliwal said they have decided to approach the state government, seeking its immediate intervention. Letters and tweets are already being sent out. On Tuesday, the management of Gopalichak Colliery issued an eviction notice, in the form of a public appeal, to residents of Pasi Dhaura, Bauri Basti, No.2 Gopalichak Colony and No. 17 Dhaura, with a special reference to Karkend Bazar that is to the west of NH-32. The notice asked them to vacate the area, which, it explained, faced the threat of subsidence since it was within the underground fire zone. On Wednesday, the management Godhar Kusunda Colliery issued a similar appeal to residents of No.15 Kurmidih Harijan Basti/Mochi Basti, No. 9 Kali Basti, No. 15 Godhar Basti and No. 3, 4 Ghansadih Basti. Haliwal blamed their plight on alleged indiscriminate mining by BCCL. “We are facing the ill effects of reckless mining by BCCL. One of the largest parks in the area is Nehru Udyan. It was set up in the 90s and is the only place of leisure for the community. But now it has been turned into a den of pollution as nearby coal patches have been awarded to private contractors who are carrying out indiscriminate mining,” he alleged. GM of Putki Balihari area A Roychoudhary said the risk of subsidence in underground fire affected areas increases during monsoon. “We give notice to people during monsoon so that they remain alert. But we will see how a notice was issued to Karkend Bazar which is situated on NH-32,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad morning walkers demand opening of parks||In line with the opening of marketplaces and railway stations, Dhanbad fitness fanatics are demanding the opening of parks, with the pre-condition of observing strict social distancing norms. Some morning walkers and yoga practitioners have resumed activity outside the Rajendra Sarovar Park in the heart of the town, deprived of their daily dose of fresh air and greenery since the Covid pandemic-induced lockdown. The area has turned out be a hotspot for morning walkers, especially elderly people in the past year, since the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation renovated the park. Others, including youth have been known the frequent the spot during the evening for leisure. “Since the lockdown, we are confined at our houses although we sometimes go out as a habit and make rounds around the park. We use masks and follow social distancing norms,” said Anand Chaurasia (45), talking to The Telegraph Online. “We remain connected with each other on our WhatsApp group and share our whereabouts. It’s not the same as meeting someone while doing our rounds, which we could during the pre-lockdown period,” he said, adding that they demand the state government to allow the opening of parks by framing SOPs. Sexagenarian Anil Mookim, a renowned chartered accountant of Dhanbad who is also a regular morning walker, said that he goes for morning walks near the park. “I was a footballer in my youth and went to Asansol and Durgapur to play football. I started morning walks to keep myself fit for the last 30 years at different places but with the development  of the Rajendra Sarovar, our area got a new avenue filled with lush greenery and some facilities for yoga practice also, which we have been missing since lockdown,” he said. RP Singh (69) a retired area finance manager of Baghmara area of BCCL said that it has been a fortnight since he has resumed his morning walks while maintaining social distancing norms. 62-year-old Krishna Kumari, a government middle school teacher and resident of Jai Prakash Nagar locality at Dhanbad, said that she was looking forward to when things get back to normal. “I used to go for morning walks at the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research park before the lockdown, but since the park has been closed, we now traverse the circular area outside the park. I hope that better days will return, when we can resume our daily morning schedule, going for walks at the same place together,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries surpass fresh cases for third consecutive day||The number of Covid recoveries surpassed the count of fresh cases reported in Jharkhand for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, taking the recovery rate in state close to 54.21 per cent, government data highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday late evening, as many as 591 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus in 24 hours, while 682 patients recovered from the infection during the same period. The dwindling Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand had become a cause for concern for the health machinery in late July and early August after the figure nosedived close to 30 per cent, officials said. Despite the rise in recovery rate, some districts in Jharkhand continue to suffer from an unprecedented spike in cases of Covid infection. Ranchi, which is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, reported 103 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally in district to 3696, the NHM bulletin stated. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum, which has reported highest number of Covid casualties so far in State, reported 150 fresh cases, taking the tally there to 2994. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported one Covid death each on Tuesday, while a patient lost his battle to the virus in Deoghar. The Covid toll on Tuesday reached 194, the NHM bulletin stated. Besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, the Covid tally in Giridih and Dhanbad has also crossed 1000 mark in state as per latest figures. As on Tuesday, 1140 cases were reported in Dhanbad and 1047 in Giridih. The government has so far collected swab samples of over 4 lakh people and tested 3.94 lakh of them in Jharkhand. As many as 19469 people have tested positive for the virus in State till date and 10555 of them have recovered, government figures state. The number of active cases in Jharkhand, as per the NHM bulletin, was 8720 on Tuesday. The Covid mortality rate in state was 0.99 per cent on Tuesday, while the doubling rate in the past one week was 15.27 days. The Covid growth rate in the past one week was 4.65 per cent, much lower than the national growth rate of 2.98 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Warning and praise for RIMS from Hemant Soren||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had both bouquets and brickbats for Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Jharkhand’s state-run premier medical college and hospital in Ranchi, on Tuesday. In two back to back tweets within an hour or so on Tuesday morning, Soren first asked RIMS to ensure that there would be no recurrence of an alleged negligence and then  appreciated  the corona warriors such as doctors for their "determination and dedication". His first tweet was in response to an allegation made by one Anup Kumar Singh who had tweeted to the CM alleging that a Covid positive cancer patient who fell off his bed in the Covid ward of RIMS lay unattended for a long time. The complainant had also attached a video clip from a new bulletin, telecast by a local channel, showing the patient was first lying and then continued to sit on the floor as no one helped him to get back to his bed. Soren asked health minister Banna Gupta to look into the matter and also directed RIMS “to ensure such things do not recur”. Just in about an hour, Soren tweeted once again to thank the corona warriors like doctors, paramedical staff, health workers, police personnel etc for their “determination and dedication”, adding a combined effort by all would help win the fight against corona. Soren’s second tweet was in a response to a tweet from RIMS, informing a Covid positive patient who was also infected with Hepatitis-B was successfully operated upon for mending intenstinal perforation. “Despite the risk of getting infected during the surgery,  the procedure was done to save the life of the patient,” the RIMS tweet informed, adding the patient was stable, post surgery. “The 40-year old male patient had come here two days ago with complaint of abdominal pain and was found to be infected with  both Covid-19 and Hepatitis-B,” Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid task force at RIMS, informed when asked. He added that the patient was diagnosed as suffering from gastrointestinal perforation and was operated upon on Tuesday morning. “The medical team is also under tremendous pressure,” a doctor said when asked about the alleged negligence, adding he was not aware about what had actually happened with that particular patient who fell off his bed. Ranchi is among the worst-hit districts and many patients from other districts are also reffered to RIMS that creates more pressure on the facility, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Constable kills colleague with axe ||A police constable was killed with an axe by his colleague after a heated argument in the police barrack of the Ghatshila sub-jail in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district late on Monday night. The constable who died on the spot has been identified as Dharmendra Singh (52) while the accused has been identified as Manish Kumar (35). Another constable who had tried to prevent Manish from attacking Dharmendra, has also sustained head injuries and has been referred to MGM Hospital in Jamshedpur from Ghatshila sub-divisional hospital on Tuesday morning. Sources in the Ghatshila sub-jail said that the three constables, all from Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP-7) used to stay in the same barrack. At around 11 pm there were heated exchanges between the two constables on some issues at which Manish picked up an axe lying in the barrack and attacked Dharmendra. “The police constable were under the influence of liquor and there might have been an argument over sharing of money collected from those coming to meet undertrials lodged at the jail which led to the incident. Things will be cleared after the interrogation of the injured constable,” said a senior police official. Jamshedpur city SP Subhash Chandra Jat who is also the acting East Singhbhum rural SP, reached the Ghatshila sub-jail to start a probe. “We are investigating the incident and necessary action will be taken as per law against the accused,” said Jat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
12-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Paid isolation facilities in Dhanbad open today||Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and can afford paid isolation under the supervision of trained medical staff will be offered the facility from Wednesday at two Govidpur hotels in Dhanbad: Wedlock Greens Hotel and Resorts and King’s Resort. The district administration has given the go-ahead to the management of the hotels, located outside Dhanbad, to house the facilities. The hotel staff will be trained on SOPs, including those for serving food, taking care of the unwell and maintenance of hygiene, before patients are admitted, said Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. Nodal officers and magistrates will be deputed to the hotels for 14 days to supervise and coordinate between facility and hospital authorities and ensure quick referral of patients to other healthcare facilities in case of emergency. The hospitals will have to provide paramedical staff to the hotels. Vivek Poddar, director of Wedlock Greens, said the hotel has 50 rooms available and the daily charge for paid isolation will be Rs 4,000 plus taxes. The daily isolation charge at King’s Resort, on the other hand, is Rs 3,900 plus taxes. Wedlock Greens was the first hotel in the district to launch paid quarantine at the initiative of the district administration on April 14. A 67-year-old man and his daughter were killed in a road accident near Dhawa mines under Ramgarh police station in Palamau district on Tuesday. They were on their way to collect the 17-year-old's matriculation certificate from her school in Shahpur. Arjun and Indu Bala Tirkey died on the spot. The officer in charge of the Ramgarh police station, Dhuma Kisko, said the father and daughter were on a bike which collided head on with a speeding tractor. A crowd gathered at the scene of the accident and began protesting. A case has been registered against the tractor driver. The vehicle has been seized. Two Hazaribagh youths were caught by police for withdrawing around Rs 56,000 from the account of a woman who is the mother of one of the duo's friends. Leelawati Devi decided to forgive the youths who had got her bank details apparently to activate her Paytm account after they returned the amount and promised never to repeat their act. The duo had ostensibly found the idea for the fraud online. Leelawati, a resident of Baray village in the Vishnugarh police station area, noticed that Rs 56,080 had been debited from her account when she received a text message informing her of the withdrawal. She made a complaint to the police after which the cyber cell was informed. Its investigation led to the youths being caught following which she confirmed that they were her son's close friends. The police said such incidents were on the rise in the district. Bird's Buddy, a group of avian enthusiasts, will organise its annual photography competition in Hazaribagh on August 19, the World Photography Day. There will be three categories for contestants. The first category, for age group 14-15 years, have to take photographs of sunrise and sunset with other objects like trees, birds and hills. The second category is for the age group 16-18 years and the theme for this group is product photography. The third category is open to all age groups and the theme is natural photography. Organiser Shib Shankar Goswami, a teacher at St. Xavier's School, Hazaribagh, and a bird researcher, said the entries can be sent to birdsbuddy84@gmail.com by August 13. The photographs have be the original work of the participant and taken in 2020. "Our aim is to bring people closer to nature through such activities," Goswami said. A 14-year-old girl from Munda basti near Dhanbad's Bhowra railway station jumped into the Damodar river in Birsa police station area on Tuesday morning after an argument with her family. She was rescued by three youths. The girl was taken to the community health centre at Chasnala by a police team. She was referred to Patliputra Medical College for treatment. A two-bed dialysis centre for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms was on Tuesday inaugurated at the Dhanbad sadar hospital. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the facility would be used for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms admitted at different dedicated Covid-19 health centres. He added that separate arrangements for drainage, water supply and soak pit had been made at the centre. Dhanbad police as part of its drive against coal smuggling on Tuesday conducted a raid and seized around 16 tonne from an illegally operated coal depot. The police, however, could not arrest the operators of the depot. A 45-year-old man, Gajadhar Sonar, who left his home at Tilaiya in Koderma after a dispute with his family about 20 years ago was united on Tueday with the family after being infected by the coronaviurs. Gajadhar was living in Lilori Pathra area of Jharia for the past 20 years with a fake name while working as a daily wage earner.  He developed Covid-19 symptoms recently after which neighbours informed the police. Though he tried to hide his identity from the police, he later buckled under pressure and revealed his real identity, after which his family members in Tilaiya were informed. His wife Anita Devi and son arrived at Jharia on Tuesday. The president of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI), Chetan Goenka, on Tuesday appealed to members of the industry body to keep shops open only from 11am to 7pm to check the spread of Covid-19. The FDZCCI about a fortnight ago had fixed the shop timings from 9am to 5pm but later modified it. There were complaints of shops remaining open even after 7pm, which prompted Goenka to make the appeal on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-337
