13-08-2020||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission special ritual ahead of Durga Puja||Monks and brahmacharis of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission on Wednesday performed a puja of the wooden structure on which the idol of Goddess Durga will be placed during Durga Puja at Belur Math. Swami Vivekananda had started Durga Puja at Belur Math, the headquarters of the Math and Mission, in 1901 to institutionalise the respect for divinity of motherhood and sanctity of womanhood. Since monks cannot undertake this kind of ritualistic worship, Vivekananda had decreed that Durga Puja would be performed in the name of Ma Sarada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||CCTVs help crack baby goods theft||A consignment of baby products worth Rs 7.5 lakh, headed to a godown in Howrah’s Uluberia for sale through an online portal, was stolen and hidden at Maheshtala in South 24-Parganas, police said. The consignment was recovered after tracking a former employee of the firm engaged in transporting the goods, the police said. Cops scanned footage of CCTV cameras outside the transport firm, following a complaint by the company that owns the products, and found S. Mohan Rao moving around the truck minutes before it left. This made the cops suspicious. He was arrested on August 10. Preliminary inquiry revealed Rao had planned the theft with the truck driver, its owner and others. “The truck left the Taratala godown on August 3. It crossed Vivekananda Setu and Dhulagarh to enter the Barrackpore area via the Nivedita Setu,” an officer said. The footage of CCTV cameras at the toll plazas on the truck’s route was scanned to track its movement. The goods were shifted to another truck at Madhyamgram and taken to a warehouse at Shibrampur, Maheshtala. The first truck was abandoned at a parking lot along East Canal Road. Based on Rao’s statement, the police reached the warehouse and recovered the goods on Tuesday. The owner of the warehouse, Jitendra Roy, has been arrested.The truck driver, Debendra, and its owner, Phul Chand Mali, are still to be arrested..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Met forecasts wet Independence Day weekend||Independence Day weekend is likely to be rainy in the city. A low-pressure area is expected to form over the Bay of Bengal from Thursday, the Met office has said. Under its influence, there is likely to be a rise in rainfall in south Bengal between Friday and Sunday. The monsoon trough, passing over south Bengal, has been triggering rainfall in many places, including in Calcutta. The intensity is likely to go up because of the low-pressure system, the Met office has said. Several parts on the southern fringe of the city and South 24-Parganas received a sharp spell of rain on Wednesday afternoon. “The system is a cyclonic circulation on the north-west Bay of Bengal as of Wednesday and is expected to intensify into a low-pressure area on Thursday. The next three days are likely to see an increased amount of rainfall,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The rainfall could be heavy if the system is strong. But it is too early to predict. Things will become clearer on Thursday,” he said. August has so far received over 130mm of rain. The normal quota for the month is around 345mm. July ended with a marginal rain deficit in the city. Most of the showers over the month were because of local cloud formation. They were quick, sharp spells unlike slow and steady monsoon rain. A system over the Bay of Bengal — that could have dragged the monsoon trough down from the foothills of the Himalayas — was absent. A low-pressure system over the northern Bay of Bengal had been tipped to bring heavy rain in the city and the rest of south Bengal last week. Calcutta received 40mm of rain last Tuesday and around 25mm last Wednesday. Heavy rain, in Met parlance, is over 60mm in 24 hours. The system’s route was farther from the city than expected, the Met office had said. The monsoon trough is now passing over Santiniketan and Canning to the north-east Bay of Bengal, a Met official said. “If there are a couple of more such systems after this weekend, the August rain will be normal or above,” said the official. The cumulative volume of rain in the city so far — from June 1 to August 11 — has been over 850mm compared with the usual quote of around 800mm, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||State to ‘consider’ evacuation flights plea||The state government will “consider” a request from airlines to allow international evacuation flights to Calcutta so that thousands of people stuck around the world could return home, said officials. On Monday, representatives of various airlines held a meeting with the state government and Calcutta airport officials on the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for chartered flights from abroad, which the Bengal government has allowed. “At the meeting, the airlines requested the official representing the state government to allow evacuation flights from other countries to Calcutta. The official promised to consider the request,” said an airport official. On Wednesday, a state government official said they were considering the request and that they were going through the SOPs before deciding whether international evacuation flights could be allowed. “If the state government wants to impose stricter SOPs, we will accept that. The airlines that can meet the SOP demands will operate evacuation flights and others will not,” a representative of the airline operators committee at the Calcutta airport said. The state government, while allowing chartered flights from abroad, announced that only those who would test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure would be allowed to board the aircraft. The agency hiring a chartered flight will have to ensure that all passengers follow the SOPs. Evacuation flights, operated by airlines, will have individual passengers booking tickets. The government had stopped such flights in July after hundreds of evacuees, many of them medical students, had refused institutional quarantine and gone home straight from the city airport. The Telegraph reported on Wednesday that travel agents’ federations had written to the state government urging it to allow evacuation flights. The airline operators’ committee made a similar appeal to the government during the day. “We appreciate the state government’s move to allow chartered flights. Now, if the evacuation flights are allowed, many who can’t afford to buy a seat on such chartered flights can get a chance to return home,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. The tour operators and airlines have also requested the state to allow resumption of domestic flights from six cities with high Covid prevalence to Calcutta. All flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur had been banned on July 6 following a request from the state government. The ban was to end on August 15 but has been extended till August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta police to contact doctors from IMA list for families in isolation ||The Indian Medical Association has sent Calcutta police the names of doctors who can be contacted by officers at police stations if families of Covid-19 patients in home isolation need any medical help. Officers clarified that the families can approach the local police stations for any emergency related to any member, not just the Covid patients. The list has tagged two to four doctors with every police station. The doctors either live or work in the areas guarded by the respective police stations, said a member of the association. Santanu Sen, the state president of the association, said the list of doctors was prepared after complaints emerged that the condition of some Covid patients in home isolation rapidly worsened between the time family members called the health department’s helpline for an ambulance and the arrival of the ambulance. The families panicked not knowing what to do and where to go. At a meeting held at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) last week, officials had discussed the problem faced by many families when a Covid-19 patient developed breathing trouble or other complications but had no confirmation when an ambulance would turn up to take the patient to hospital. “People should first call any of the health department’s numbers mentioned on its website for an ambulance. But an ambulance often takes some time to come. If the patient’s condition deteriorates meanwhile and the family approaches police, cops can call any of the doctors whose names are mentioned on the list and seek help,” said a senior state government official who was present at last week’s meeting at the CMC. A civic official said providing phone numbers of the doctors to the police stations was among several measures the government was taking to minimise hassles faced by families of Covid patients. The numbers of the doctors will not be displayed publicly and will only be available with police officers. “Police officers should exercise discretion and decide whether the condition of a Covid patient is such that the family should have a telephonic consultation with a doctor. There is a telemedicine helpline of the health department. So, officers should not call doctors whose numbers have been provided every now and then. It is only for emergencies,” said a member of the Indian Medical Association. The police can also call a doctor from the list if someone with fever fails to get a doctor’s appointment. There have been complaints that some doctors are refusing to see patients with fever. “In such a situation, an officer at a police station can call a doctor from the list with the request that he or she examine the fever patient,” the association member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Never-before slump in Burrabazar||A nearly empty Kalakar Street or a handful of people in Phageya Patti on a weekday afternoon would seem unimaginable to a Burrabazar regular who has not visited the trading hub recently. Ask any trader from the area. He will say the ever busy and crowded lanes of Burrabazar have changed during the Covid-19 pandemic and the change is far from pleasant. In the pre-Covid days, Posta in Burrabazar would see a turnover of around Rs 100 crore a day. That has come down to around Rs 4 to Rs 5 crore, a trader said. The textile trade is barely 15 per cent of what it used to be around this time of the year, post-Janmashthami and in the run up to Durga Puja, said a member of the Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry (Cotti). Businesses are down, many shops are opening on alternate days, some are yet to open and customers are few and far between. “We have not seen anything like this. Burrabazar has never seen businesses remain so low for so long,” said a Pawan Hamirbasia, a textile trader who has a shop on Jamnalal Bajaj Street. Eastern India’s largest wholesale market, Burrabazar is a place where one can find almost anything under the sun. Garments, groceries, utensils, toys, paper products, spices, plastic items, use-and-throw cups and dishes, steel products, tarpaulin sheets, jewellery and what not. Almost all trades have been hit. Textile trader Mahendra Jain, the secretary of Cotti, said they had already suffered huge losses during two peak business periods, Id and the Bengali New Year. “It seems the scene will not improve drastically before Durga Puja and Diwali. Usually around this time, we start supplying to our customers, most of whom are retailers. We had no time to breathe. But there is hardly any customer this year,” said Jain. According to him, the textile trade in Burrabazar alone has suffered losses worth nearly Rs 10,000 crore in the four-and-a-half months since mid-March. What that part of Burrabazar is to garment wholesalers, Posta is to those dealing with grocery items. Pulses, oil, flour, wheat, jaggery, salt, masalas — around 1,000 shops are in almost 24X7 business selling grocery items. Trucks used to bring stuff from all parts of India at night. During the day, traders from across Bengal would flock to Posta to pick up their consignments. Not anymore. “Posta used to witness sales of around 600 tonnes of pulses a day. It has come down to around 50 tonnes a day,” said Chandan Chakrabarty, of Posta Bazar Byabsayee Samity. “The daily turnover at Posta was around Rs 100 crore a day before the pandemic. Now, it’s around Rs 4 to Rs 5 crore.” Barring a small number of traders, who have been doing business for decades with several crores of rupees in credit, most regulars have shied away from the hub amid the pandemic. Many traders said the demand for grocery items across Bengal had come down and medium-sized traders were not feeling the urge to turn up at Calcutta for refills. Retailers who would earlier turn up at Posta from district towns hiring Matadors and trucks have started establishing contacts with mills and factories in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for their supplies. Factories and mills from those states have started accepting smaller orders, something they did not do earlier. This has meant further loss for the wholesalers in Posta. Faced with the downturn, several traders in Posta have decided to keep their shops shut for days. “Dukan khulney sey koi faida nahin. Bazaar nahin hain (There is no point keeping shops open. There is hardly any demand),” said a pulses trader from Jagannath Ghat Cross Road in Posta. After the lockdown was relaxed in June, most stores in Burrabazar started to open on alternate days. If one shop opened on Mondays, the one next to it would open on Tuesdays. Traders said they had made the arrangement to avoid crowding as a precaution against Covid-19. Another decision they took was that the shops would remain open from 11am to 4pm. “We had expected business to gain momentum with time and we would extend our hours. But nothing has changed and almost all shops in Burrabazar close by 5pm. Earlier, they would remain open till 7pm,” said a trader. The toy business, too, has been hit. Mohit Banthia, a wholesale trader of toys, said business was down by nearly 75 per cent. “We had a lot of customers from outside the state but not any more. I open my shop thrice a week. If the government imposes lockdown on one of those days, my earning takes a further hit,” he said. The dip in business means that the earnings of lakhs of people who work in the trade hub and are involved in allied services such as transportation and loading and unloading have been hit hard, too. The transport business, which thrived on ferrying stuff to districts or to other states in eastern India, is struggling, too. “A truck on an average is carrying 10 to 20 tonnes of goods, compared with its capacity to carry 50 tonnes. Orders from outside have dipped. Truck owners will not make any profit by carrying so little goods,” said one trader. Across Burrabazar, goods are unloaded from trucks from faraway places between 5am and 3pm. Even in early March, this would go on till 10pm. “Earlier, around 450 trucks would leave Burrabazar and Posta daily on an average. Now, barely 200 leave,” said Krishna Singh, a transporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Police stations told to ensure walkers’ safety||All police stations across the city have been asked to remain alert against snatchers, especially in the morning and the evening, when hundreds of Calcuttans step out for their daily dose of fresh air, officers said. Walking has turned out to be a popular work-out during the pandemic, as gyms were closed during the lockdown, and it has become more important to maintain vigil on parks and lakes where people usually gather for their daily walk. Anti-rowdy officers of the police stations have been asked to remain alert against criminals in their respective areas to ensure safety of morning and evening walkers. “Senior officers have observed that deployment is thin at lakes and parks, which are popular among walkers. So, all anti-rowdy officers have been asked to remain alert,” said an officer posted in the south-east division. The instructions came a day after a complaint of snatching was reported in north Calcutta on Tuesday morning. Hundreds of citizens are opting for morning or evening walk to stay fit during the pandemic. “I have been working from home for the last three months. The gym at my housing complex is yet to open. I was never an early riser. But now I have started jogging in the morning,” said Rahul Pramanik, a resident of south Calcutta who visits Rabindra Sarobar every morning. The night motorcycle patrol of every police station that has parks and lakes in its area is deployed on early morning duty at the walk spots. Cops are usually posted near lakes and parks between 5am and 7.30am. In the evening, at least two police cops of the rank of assistant sub-inspector and constable are entrusted with the security of walkers.  Despite phases of unlocking, many roads are deserted because lack of customers prompts shopkeepers to down their shutters after sundown. “Earlier, I would take a walk at Vivekananda Park, off Southern Avenue, every evening. But these days the entire Southern Avenue is deserted in the evening. I no longer feel safe to walk in the evening. So, I now visit the park in the morning,” said Debojyoti Choudhury, a 67-year-old resident of Hindustan Park. Officers said elderly people were most vulnerable. “It is easy to trick them and rob them of their valuables,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Fake news can land you in trouble, tweets top cop||The Calcutta police commissioner on Wednesday warned everyone against sharing or forwarding any social media message without properly verifying it. “Spreading #FakeNews can land you in trouble! Don’t forward any message/post on social media before properly verifying it,” top cop Anuj Sharma tweeted on Wednesday. In the past four months, police have arrested at least 50 people and summoned more than 100 for spreading fake news on social media. “People using social media should keep an eye on posts by others. In case they find anything offensive they should report it to the cyber cell or the detective department at Lalbazar,” Sharma told The Telegraph. The Telegraph had reported on Wednesday a study by health researchers in Bangladesh has identified India as the “topper” among five countries in spreading rumours and misleading information regarding the coronavirus on social media and online platforms. The other four countries in the top five are the US, China, Indonesia and Brazil. Rumours, stigma and conspiracy theories have circulated as infodemic waves between January and early April in these countries. The number of cases of “fake news” has gone up considerably after the outbreak of the pandemic, many officers said. “Half the cases (of fake news) are related to Covid-19. There have been several cases where information and incidents have been distorted to deliberately spread panic and unrest in society. At times the posts are unintentional, too,” an officer said. The police have come across cases where information about the body of a Covid-19 patient being dumped on the road by men wearing PPEs has been circulated on social media only to be found later that neither the patient had died of Covid-19 nor was the body dumped on the road, the officer said. Similar instances have been reported on social media where someone has posted the photograph and name of a person and identified him as a Covid-19 patient without any proof. This results in harassment of that person. A young woman was arrested in connection with this offence. A few weeks ago, a school teacher was arrested in New Alipore for posting false information that several people had tested positive for Covid-19 in some of the blocks in New Alipore, the police said. It had triggered panic among people in the neighbourhood. “Our social media cell has been keeping an eye on various social media platforms for necessary action. In most of the cases, it has been found that the person has circulated the information without realising it is false. In such cases we allow them to go after a warning,” an officer said. But in cases where it is found that a particular post has been circulated deliberately to spread communal tension, people involved are arrested, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Business||MNCs in the fray to run private trains||Multinationals Alstom, Bombardier and Siemens are among the 23 probable bidders to operate private trains in the country. A pre-bid meeting was held here on Wednesday, which was also attended by Indian companies GMR Infrastructure, Titagarh Wagons, PSUs Bharat Earth Movers Limited and BHEL along with the IRCTC. In the first meeting held on July 21, 16 firms were present. At the second pre-bid meeting, the companies put forth several queries, including on the eligibility criteria and the bidding process. The bidders also sought clarity on the procurement of trains and their fares. They had queries on operations and maintenance and the timing of trains and halts. The railways said it has reduced the Request for Qualification (RFQ) fee by one tenth for those entities participating in more than one project. Complete freedom will be given on the procurement of trains even as the restriction of three projects per bidder will be reduced and the leasing of trains will be permitted. In all, the railways is inviting 12 requests for qualification to operate 151 private trains. The first dozen private trains will roll out in the next two years and all the 151 trains will run by 2026-27. The contract will be for 35 years. The project involves private investment of Rs 30,000 crore. Analysts said the private train project is expected to boost the revenues of Indian Railways, which has been trying to look at ways to reduce losses. The railways recover just 57 per cent of costs through passenger fares, with the rest coming from freight subsidy. The railways had earlier said the operators shall have the freedom to decide on fares . The private entities will be selected through a two-stage competitive bidding process comprising Request for Qualification (RFQ) and Request for Proposal (RFP). The due date for opening of RFQ is September 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
13-08-2020||Business||Coal India wants rail tariff relief||Coal India has urged Indian Railways to offer it a 15 per cent freight concession to transport domestic coal for a distance of 701-1400 kilometres (km) from its mines. In June, the Railway Board had decided to grant a 20 per cent concession on freight price for a distance of more than 1400 km on the transportation of coal. The concession is on normal tariff rates, provided that after applying the concession, the freight price should not be less than the tariff rate for a distance up to 1400 km. This concession is valid from July 2020 to June 30, 2021. But Coal India officials on Wednesday said that there was a case for widening the scope of concession as only a handful of consumers in the power sector, which constitutes the bulk of the public sector miner’s offtake, are eligible to get the benefits. Of the 126 coal-based thermal power plants linked to Coal India, 14 plants located beyond 1400 km are eligible for freight concession at present. Moreover, these plants have supply contracts of only 42 million tonnes of coal per annum. Six non-power consumers who would benefit from the present concession  have annual coal contracts of 1.37 mt per annum. Once the concession is extended, it will boost Coal India’s offtake, which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, and also encourage import substitution. “Extension of freight concession to customers located in the range of 701-1400 km could result in substantial domestic coal lifted by them in place of coal sourced from abroad due to lesser cost of coal conveyance,” said a senior Coal India executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Gold prices break trend after Covid vaccine announcement, dollar gains||Gold prices fell on Wednesday after the announcement of the Covid vaccine by Russia and gains in the dollar. The safe haven asset has gained 33 per cent so far this calendar year. On Tuesday, spot prices of the precious metal fell below the $2000-per-ounce-mark and again came under pressure on Wednesday to fall below $1900. At the MCX, gold futures fell below the Rs 50,000 mark in early trades, though it recovered to close with gains of Rs 428 at Rs 52,357 per ten grams. In Calcutta, pure gold closed down Rs 2,860 at Rs 53,310. Analysts, however, feel that the prices may still be firm towards the medium term. “Concerns of a US-China tussle, a rapid increase in the virus and other uncertainties still hover, supporting the bullish story from a medium term perspective,’’ Navneet Damani of Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. According to Rahul Gupta of Emkay Global Financial Services, safe haven demand will boost gold prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||NMDC hikes iron ore price by Rs 300 ||NMDC, the country’s largest iron ore miner, has hiked the rates of the mineral by Rs 300 to Rs 2,950 a tonne with immediate effect. Iron ore is the key raw material used in steel making and, therefore, any revision in its prices has a direct impact on the prices of steel. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, NMDC said it has increased the price of lumps, or high-grade iron ore, by Rs 300 to Rs 2,950 per tonne, and that of iron ore fines, or inferior grade ore, by Rs 300 to Rs 2,660 a tonne. The revised prices exclude royalty, District Mineral Fund (DMF), National Mineral Exploration Trust (DMET), cess, forest permit fee and other taxes, the company added. It disclosed that the new rates are effective from August 12. The last revision, effective July 31, was announced on August 3, when NMDC had fixed the price of lumps at Rs 2,650 per tonne and of fines at Rs 2,360 a tonne. NMDC is also involved in the exploration of a wide range of minerals such as copper, rock phosphate, lime stone, dolomite and gypsum. On the BSE, its shares ended at Rs 94.35, a gain of 1.18 per cent over the last close. In a recent note, analysts at Motilal Oswal said that the price hikes by the company have been ahead of their estimates and this has been on the back of improving volumes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Modi to launch taxpayer charter today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a platform to honour the country’s honest taxpayers on Thursday. The “taxpayer charter” is expected to have statutory status and will empower citizens by ensuring time-bound services by the income tax department. The finance minister, the revenue secretary, the CBDT chief and the tax commissioners will be present at the launch. In the budget for 2020-21, unveiled on February 1, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said “we wish to enshrine in the statutes a ‘taxpayer charter’ through this budget. Our government would like to reassure taxpayers that we remain committed to taking measures so that our citizens are free from harassment of any kind”. She had said any tax system requires trust between taxpayers and the administration, which will be possible only when taxpayers’ rights are clearly enumerated. The charter will list out the fundamental rights of taxpayers and the basic standards of services that they should expect. The charter will aim to change the relationship between taxpayers and the tax department from being an enforcer to a facilitator. The department, on its part, will be expected to provide services that are fair and efficient. To provide for resolution of pending tax disputes, the income tax department has also brought out the Direct Tax “Vivad se Vishwas Act, 2020” under which declarations for settling disputes are being filed at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||UltraTech Cement to invest  Rs 1500cr||UltraTech Cement has lined up investment of Rs 1,500 crore in 2020-21 in multiple initiatives, chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said on Wednesday. The company is also planning to increase its annual capacity to 118 million tonnes from 114.8 million tonnes at present, he informed shareholders during a virtual annual general meeting. Birla, who heads the diversified conglomerate Aditya Birla Group, said periods of turmoil create champions, adding that UltraTech has the capacity, leadership across markets and a strong balance sheet to emerge as one. “Your company has planned total capex cash outlay of Rs 1,500 crore for a range of key initiatives,” he told shareholders. This will include spends on installing 66 MW of waste heat recovery systems, a 1.2 million tonnes per annum brownfield cement capacity addition in Bengal and Bihar, pending work for phase 2 of Bara grinding unit in Uttar Pradesh, coal block development in Madhya Pradesh, new ready mix concrete plants and capital expenditure for other plant maintenance, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||German lender Deutsche Bank to bring in Rs 2700cr ||German lender Deutsche Bank on Wednesday announced a capital infusion of Rs 2,700 crore into its India operations for expansion across segments. This is the second time in less than two years that the bank has infused money into its local operations of 17 branches after bringing in Rs 3,800 crore in early 2019. A bank statement said the fresh capital will be used to support the expansion of Deutsche Bank India across all of its businesses, including corporate banking, investment banking and international private banking, which have been consistently growing over the years. The bank’s chief country officer Kaushik Shaparia said the incremental capital injection should be seen as a strong validation of the lender’s confidence in the business model and potential in India. “It also demonstrates our intent to further deepen our presence here,” he said, adding that the recent months have thrown up opportunities to work ever more closely with clients and support them with services and advice in steering through the tough environment. The capital adequacy ratio for the bank, which has been present in India since 1980, stood at 14.93 per cent as of March 31, 2020, which will go up after the infusion. Total capital deployed by Deutsche Bank in its India branches has now increased to Rs 18,200 crore and the overall assets stood at Rs 1.2 lakh crore as of March 31, 2020, the statement said. With the Reserve Bank allowing the restructuring of loans that are facing stress because of the Covid-19 pandemic, non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) are likely to see an increase in their refinancing requirements, says a report. Last week, the RBI gave permission to lenders to go for a one-time restructuring of corporate and personal loans facing stress. “The RBI’s decision allowing lenders to restructure loans would increase their refinancing requirements, especially for NBFCs,” India Ratings and Research said in a report. “This is in view of their large contractual debt repayments, as scheduled cash inflow gets deferred, though the severity of the same would depend upon the proportion of loan portfolio restructured and terms of restructuring (i.e complete moratorium vs partial payments),” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||BPCL selloff hurdles||Global energy players are keen to pick up the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL, given the country’s projected fuel demand over the next few years. However, they are looking at clarity over fuel pricing and other issues and waiting for the travel restrictions to be lifted, analysts said. After the deadline for the submission of expressions of interest was extended for the third time, concerns have been raised over whether the interest of global investors was waning. “A combination of global and domestic factors are at play in the context of BPCL’s privatisation. Several global firms have recently announced commitments to reduce fossil fuel production and thereby carbon emissions. The pandemic has also restricted movement of people. Interested bidders would like to site visits and hold in-person meetings with management teams to evaluate such a large transaction,” said Dilip Khanna, partner, strategy and transactions, EY. K. Ravichandran, senior VP and energy analyst at Icra, said, “Once the pandemic-related restrictions are removed, there would be increased interest in the sector. One of the issues of concern for global investors would be pricing of fuel like petrol and diesel, and they could seek clarity on it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Opec sees steep decline in demand, recovery in 2021 uncertain||World oil demand will fall more steeply in 2020 than previously forecast because of the coronavirus and there are doubts about next year’s recovery, Opec forecast on Wednesday, potentially making it harder for the group and its allies to support the market. World oil demand will tumble 9.06 million barrels per day (bpd) this year, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said in a monthly report, more than the 8.95 million bpd decline expected a month ago. Oil prices have collapsed as the coronavirus curtailed travel and economic activity. While some countries have eased lockdowns, allowing demand to recover, fear of new outbreaks has kept a lid on prices and Opec expects this to persist. “Crude and product price developments in the second half of 2020 will continue to be impacted by concerns over a second wave of infections and higher global stocks,” Opec said in the report. Opec stuck to its forecast that in 2021 oil demand would rebound by 7 million bpd but said the outlook was subject to large uncertainties that might result in “a negative impact on petroleum consumption” such as demand for air travel, more fuel-efficient cars and more competition from other fuels. “Almost all forecasters expect jet fuel in 2021 to struggle making up for lost demand,” Opec said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Fuel demand slows down in July after picking up pace in May, June||India’s fuel demand is beginning to flatten after showing signs of returning to life as consumption dipped 11.7 per cent in July, official data showed. Fuel consumption, a barometer of economic activity in the country, had slumped over 45 per cent in April as the nationwide lockdown halted most vehicular traffic and shut industries. However, with the easing of lockdown restrictions, the demand picked up in May and June with month-on-month increase in consumption numbers. However, mini-lockdowns imposed by states to contain the spread of the coronavirus seemed to have stopped this recovery, with demand falling 3.5 per cent in July over the previous month. Fuel demand fell to 15.67 million tonnes (mt) in July, 11.7 per cent lower compared with 17.75 mt consumed in the same month a year ago, and 3.5 per cent lower than the June sales of 16.24 mt. Consumption of diesel, which accounts for about two-fifth of India’s overall fuel use, fell 19.25 per cent to 5.52mt in July from a year earlier, data released by the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell of the oil ministry showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Churn signals Indiabulls bank hope||Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited (IHFL) has appointed former RBI deputy governor Subhash Sheoratan Mundra as its non-executive chairman — a strategic move that many believe signals that the financial services entity has not abandoned its quest for a banking licence after being stonewalled by a vicious campaign last year to undermine its credentials. Mundra will replace Sameer Gehlaut, the founder of the Indiabulls group, who resigned as the executive chairman of IHFL with immediate effect. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges after market hours, Indiabulls Housing Finance said Gehlaut has been re-designated as the non-executive, non-independent director of the company. The company said Gehlaut resigned as he wanted to focus more on the group’s financial services firm — Indiabulls Ventures —which is into consumer lending that includes personal loans, asset reconstruction and the capital market business. Last October, the RBI had rejected a proposal to merge Indiabulls Housing Finance with troubled Tamil Nadu-based  Lakshmi Vilas Bank, following allegations that money worth thousands of crores were siphoned off by Gehlaut and the directors. Subsequently, the petitioner who had approached the Supreme Court alleging the misappropriation of funds withdrew the plea made against Gehlaut. At a board meeting on Wednesday, Gehlaut informed the board he has taken up the position of chief executive officer of Indiabulls Ventures Ltd. “Gehlaut proposed the name of Mundra for the position of non-executive chairman of the company. The board of directors of the company unanimously agreed with the suggestion made by Gehlaut and appointed Mundra as the non-executive chairman with immediate effect,” the company said. Gehlaut has been leading the company for over 20 years since its inception in January 2000. Observers who track IHFL believe there could much more to the appointment of Mundra: the company may still be preparing for a banking licence, albeit at a later date, even as it improves its corporate governance. Analysts said the appointment of the new chief could see the company taking several steps which include improving its asset quality. After  the IL&FS crisis, players such as Indiabulls Housing Finance have faced difficulties in accessing finance at attractive rates. Gehlaut’s resignation comes at a time both banks and non-banks are witnessing the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in the form of a fall in loan disbursals and a fear of a rise in bad loans once the moratorium given by the RBI ends this month. Amid such circumstances, analysts say, the presence of a seasoned banker such as Mundra is positive for the company. Mundra was the RBI deputy governor till July 2017. Earlier, he was the chairman and managing director of Bank of Baroda and executive director of Union Bank of India. “The company has taken significant strides over the years under Gehlaut, and the board appreciated his desire to engage in another phase of institution building,” Mundra said after his appointment. “Indiabulls Housing has a committed management team, and it has done a good job in navigating the present challenging times. I look forward to now working even more closely with the management team, especially with the confidence that the board and the management is committed to keep striving to deliver strong business growth with high standards of governance backed by strong risk management practices,’’ Mundra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||India||Father's plea to SC to confirm transfer of Sushant case to CBI||Sushant Singh Rajput's father on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to confirm the transfer his son's suicide case to the CBI and direct the Mumbai police to render all assistance to the central probe agency. Mumbai Police was "not investigating the matter properly", Krishna Kishore Singh alleged in his written submission to the apex court. The Bihar government and Rhea Chakraborty, against whom Krishna has filed an FIR in Patna for allegedly abetting Rajput's suicide, also filed their written submissions to the top court on the actress' plea seeking transfer of the FIR to Mumbai. Famous actor Raput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. In the submission, settled by senior lawyer Vikas Singh, Krishna referred to various judgements and said, it would be expedient in the interest of justice for this Court to confirm the reference to the CBI as justified and further direct Maharashtra Police at Mumbai to render all assistance to agency in the matter. He further said that he was certain that the Mumbai police was not investigating the matter properly and were continuing with inquest proceedings indefinitely, when clearly under S.174 CrPC the inquest report has to be prepared forthwith basically to determine the cause of the death and as to whether there were any suspicious circumstances surrounding the said cause or not... Bihar Police has the jurisdiction to probe his FIR, Krishna said, adding that the role of Mumbai Police was completely dubious as an inquest report should have been submitted forthwith, and even if it is to be assumed that the police was doing a preliminary inquiry in the matter, it cannot continue for more than seven days. He accused Mumbai Police of not investigating Sushant's prior messages or acknowledge the fact that he was in some kind of problem. "Mumbai police instead of investigating prior messages sent by the deceased's family on WhatsApp on February 19 and 25, 2020, has taken a stand that no written complaint was registered and thus no action whatsoever was taken in that regard by the Mumbai Police. Such inexplicable explanation is contrary to Section 154 (1) of CrPC which clearly states that any information (even if given orally) of cognizable offence ought to be considered for registration of FIR as held in", his submission said. Krishna alleged that Chakraborty was examined four days after the incident, giving her ample time to destruct the evidence and influence the witnesses. He also alleged that Rhea was hand in glove with an important witness, who even after registration of FIR shared e-mails with her. In its submission on Thursday, the Bihar government said that Mumbai Police neither registered an FIR on the actor's suicide nor did it extend any support to Patna Police for investigating the case on "account of political pressure". "It is apparent that it is on account of political pressure in the State of Maharashtra that neither the FIR has been registered by the Mumbai Police nor did they extend any cooperation to Bihar Police in discharging their obligation to conduct investigation expeditiously," said Bihar government, in its submissions filed through lawyer Keshav Mohan. Chakraborty however said that the transfer of investigation to the CBI at the behest of Bihar Police was without the state's jurisdiction in the case. The apex court had on August 11 reserved its order on Chakraborty's plea and asked the parties concerned to file their written submissions by Thursday. On August 11, the Bihar government told the Supreme Court that political clout has not allowed Mumbai Police to even register an FIR in the Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide case, even as the Maharashtra government maintained Bihar completely lacks jurisdiction in the matter. The FIR in Patna has been registered against Chakraborty and others for alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 306 (abetment of suicide), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
13-08-2020||India||PM unveils faceless tax regime, promises fairness ||In a major overhaul of tax administration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled faceless tax assessment and appeals to reduce the scope for corruption and overreach by officials, and said a taxpayers' charter is being implemented to ensure a free, fair and transparent tax environment. Launching the 'Transparent Taxation - Honouring The Honest Platform' through video conferencing, he said the taxpayer base at just 1.5 crore in India is very low and urged those who owe taxes to come forward and honestly pay their dues and contribute to nation-building. The taxpayers' charter and faceless assessment are the next phases of direct tax reforms aimed at easing compliance and rewarding honest taxpayers as the government looks to rebuild the pandemic-hit economy. While, faceless assessment that does not require the taxpayer to visit any office or meet any official, and taxpayers' charter will be implemented from Thursday, the faceless appeal will come into force from September 25, he said. "The tax system may be turning faceless but it promises fairness and fearlessness for taxpayers," he said. Modi said, till now the tax office in the city of residence was handling the scrutiny, appeal, and notices of an individual taxpayer. Now, a central computer will pick up tax returns for scrutiny based on risk parameters and mismatches and then will allot them randomly to a team of officers in any city. The scrutiny by these officers will be reviewed by officers at another randomly selected location. Notices, if any, will be sent only by centralised computer system, and taxpayer can respond to them electronically without the requirement of visiting a tax office or meeting any official. This, he said, will end the era of "jaan pehchan" (acquaintance) to get scrutiny or notices settled. The Prime Minister said taxpayers' charter provides for fair, courteous, and reasonable treatment while treating taxpayers as honest. It expects taxpayers to be honest and compliant and pay taxes in time. While the number of people filing income tax returns has increased by about 2.5 crore in the past few years, actual taxpayers at just 1.5 crore out of a population of 130 crore "is very very less," he said. "Those who are capable must voluntarily come forward and pay their dues and contribute to the development of the nation," he said. Modi said, economic reforms in the past were done under compulsions or pressure which did not yield desired results. "For us reforms mean reforms based on policy, reforms that are holistic and not piecemeal and one reform forming the base for other," he said. "Reform is a continuous process." The tax system needed fundamental and structural reform because it was brought in when India was under colonial rule, he said. "Compliance becomes difficult where there is complexity," he said adding laws should be less in number and should make taxpayers happy. "We brought in 'Vivaad Se Viswas' scheme so that maximum cases get resolved outside court. As a result, in a short time, about 3 lakh cases were resolved," Modi said. Listing taxation reforms undertaken by his government since 2014, Modi said the Goods and Services Tax amalgamated dozens of taxes, thresholds fixed for pursuing tax matters in different courts and a dispute resolution scheme brought in to reduce litigation. Also, tax rate has been reduced. "There is no tax on income up to Rs 5 lakh (for individuals). Tax slabs for income higher than Rs 5 lakh have also been reduced. India is now among the nations with lowest corporate tax," he said. "Attempt has been that the tax system should be seamless, painless, and faceless," he said. While seamless means tax administration does not complicate, painless means simple rules and technology. Three main features of the platform unveiled on Thursday are faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers' charter, he said adding the focus is on making the tax system "people-centric and public friendly." Four factors for changes in the taxation system are due to policy-driven governance, belief in people's honesty, the use of advanced technology, and efficiency in the bureaucracy, according to Modi. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while presenting the budget for 2020-21, had announced a 'taxpayers' charter' to empower citizens by ensuring time-bound services by the Income Tax department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
13-08-2020||India||Ram Janmabhoomi trust head tests positive||The head of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust in Ayodhya, who shared stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other VIPs during the groundbreaking ceremony for a Ram Temple last week, has tested positive for coronavirus. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was among the five people on the stage at the grand ceremony at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on August 5. The others on the stage were Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Governor Anandiben Patel and Mohan Bhagwat, chief of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP's ideological mentor. A statement from the chief minister's office said the CM had spoken to DM Mathura, Das' followers and Dr Trehan of Medanta Hospital. Adityanath requested for immediate medical attention towards Das' condition at Medanta, the statement said. It added that he has directed Mathura District Magistrate to provide all possible support and medical attention to the patient. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust was formed earlier in the year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced its formation on February 5. It was set up to oversee construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya. Days before the ceremony, a priest, Pradeep Das, and 14 policemen on duty in the Ram Janambhoomi complex had also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
13-08-2020||India||Delhi rains: Heaviest spell of the monsoon season ||Delhi witnessed the heaviest spell of rains this monsoon season on Thursday, which inundated low-lying areas and threw traffic out of gear. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Ayanagar weather station recorded 99.2 mm rainfall, the maximum in the city, till 8.30 am. The Palam and Ridge weather stations gauged 93.6 mm and 84.6 mm precipitation respectively. Light rains will continue over the next two to three days, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 68 mm rainfall, according to the IMD. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. Vehicles moved bumper to bumper during the morning rush hours, as the downpour led to heavy waterlogging at key road stretches. The Delhi Traffic Police reported an incident of a tree being uprooted near the high court, which led to traffic snarls. The Raja Garden and Mayapuri flyovers also witnessed heavy waterlogging. The incessant rains damaged a drain near the Khaira village T-point on the Dhansa road, where metro construction work is going on, the traffic police said. The affected 200-metre stretch of the road has been closed for traffic. Over 40 locations in north Delhi got inundated due to the downpour, including areas in Mukherjee Nagar, Fateh Puri, Burari, Rohini, Narela and West Patel Nagar, according to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). NDMC mentioned that waterlogging took place at 41 locations. Pictures and videos of vehicles and people wading through waist-deep water were widely shared on social media platforms. The downpour is expected to bring down the rain deficiency in the national capital. Till Wednesday evening, the city had recorded 72 per cent less rainfall than normal in August so far, the lowest in 10 years, according to the IMD. The shortage reduced to 14 per cent by Thursday morning. Overall, Delhi has recorded 35 per cent less rains in the monsoon season so far. Srivastava said the city witnessed "continuous rains overnight" and more rainfall is expected during the day. "The axis of monsoon remains close to Delhi-NCR. Also, there is a cyclonic circulation over southwest Uttar Pradesh. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal also fed moisture," he said. Earlier, the IMD had predicted one or two spells of heavy rains between Tuesday and Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||India records highest single-day spike in Covid cases||With a record single-day increase of 66,999 cases, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 23,96,637 on Thursday, while the number of patients who have recovered from the disease surged to 16,95,982, pushing the recovery rate to 70.77 per cent in the country, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 47,033 with 942 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The case fatality rate in the country has declined to 1.96 per cent. There are 6,53,622 active Covid-19 cases in the country presently, which account for 27.27 per cent of its total caseload. India crossed the 20-lakh mark in terms of Covid-19 cases on August 7. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 2,68,45,688 samples were tested in the country till August 12, including 8,30,391 on Wednesday, the highest number of tests performed in a day. Of the 942 fresh deaths, 344 were reported from Maharashtra, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 112 from Karnataka, 93 from Andhra Pradesh, 54 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 39 from Punjab, 18 from Gujarat, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 from Delhi and 11 each from Telangana and Rajasthan. Nine fatalities were reported from Odisha, eight from Jammu and Kashmir, six each from Assam and Kerala, five each from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Puducherry, four from Uttarakhand, three each in Bihar, Goa and Haryana and one case was recorded in Tripura. Of the total 47,033 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the highest number of 18,650, followed by Tamil Nadu (5,278), Delhi (4,153), Karnataka (3,510), Gujarat (2,713), Andhra Pradesh (2,296), Uttar Pradesh (2,230), West Bengal (2,203) and Madhya Pradesh (1,048). So far, 822 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 675 in Punjab, 665 in Telangana, 503 in Haryana, 498 in Jammu and Kashmir, 416 in Bihar, 305 in Odisha, 197 in Jharkhand, 161 in Assam, 140 in Uttarakhand and 126 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 109 Covid-19 deaths, Puducherry 96, Goa 89, Tripura 44, Chandigarh 26, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 21, Himachal Pradesh 18, Manipur 12, Ladakh nine, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The ministry stressed that over 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that a state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's condition unchanged, in coma||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged and he is deeply comatose, the Army's Research and Referral hospital said on Thursday. Doctors attending to him said Mukherjee has stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilator support. The former president was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was operated upon for removal of a clot in the brain. He also tested positive for Covid-19. "The condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning, He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support," a statement from the hospital said. With rumours doing the rounds, his son and former MP Abhijit Mukherjee said, "My father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive and haemodynamically stable." "Speculations and fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that media in India has become a factory of fake news," he said on Twitter. The former president's daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee tweeted, "Rumours about my father are false. Request, especially to the media, not to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital."  Pranab Mukherjee was the President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Bangalore’s sons protect temple||More than 100 Muslim youths formed a human chain to protect a Hanuman temple as mobs went on the rampage in nearby areas of Bangalore on Tuesday night following an offensive social media post. A few kilometres from the temple, three people died when police fired to quell arson and vandalism. In the middle of the mayhem, the youths guarded the temple for over three hours till the police had brought the situation under control past midnight. Hanif, one of the youths who stood guard, later said: “We are sons of this city and it is our responsibility to stand up when it matters. At least my friends and I had not done anything like this before last night, but I promise to stand up for what is right.” A. Nadeem, who had stepped out with his friends to buy dinner from a small restaurant near the scene of violence at Kaval Byrasandra in the city’s east earlier in the evening, told The Telegraph that he and his friends started getting messages about the arson attacks around 9pm. “We noticed around 10 people standing outside the Hanuman temple with hands locked in a human chain. We got the message and joined them,” Nadeem said. “I had no idea that the mob had torched the house of our MLA (the Congress’s Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy), which is very close to the temple. But once I saw the messages about the violence circulating, I informed more friends who joined us in the human chain,” Nadeem said. Although there was no one inside the temple, Nadeem and his friends thought it would be unwise to leave it without any protection. “All that’s needed is one twisted brain and a stone. So we stayed put till past midnight when the riot cops came out in large numbers in the area,” he added. Hanif echoed him and said they wanted to ensure nobody touched the temple. “Anything like that would have worsened the situation. That apart, we wanted to send a message of peace to everyone,” Hanif said. None among the attackers, however, came near the temple. “Some of the boys with us kept saying we should stand there even if we were attacked. But fortunately, none of the protesters came after us,” Hanif said. Nadeem and Hanif said they were not trying to claim credit for what was a team effort. “Just because we are talking to you doesn’t mean we were the ones behind the human chain. It was a team effort and each of the more than 100 people who joined hands was responsible for the idea,” Nadeem said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Communal attack on journalists||Three journalists from The Caravan magazine were assaulted by a crowd on Tuesday while investigating signs of fresh communal tension since August 5 in northeast Delhi, which witnessed riots in February. “On the afternoon of 11 August, three journalists with The Caravan — Shahid Tantray, Prabhjit Singh and a woman journalist — faced a brutal attack while reporting in the nation’s capital,” the magazine said in a statement. “The incident began while the journalists were taking photographs of saffron flags that had been put up in the area…. Some men approached them and told them to stop. One of the men, who was wearing a saffron kurta and had a bandage on his arm, identified himself as a ‘BJP general secretary’. He asked Tantray for his identity card.” The statement added: “The mob launched their attack upon realising that Tantray was Muslim. During her attempt to get away from the attack, the woman journalist faced sexual harassment from a middle-aged man who exposed his genitals to her.” The woman journalist, who had got separated from her colleagues, has told police that a group of young men surrounded her and began “making cheap and lewd comments and started saying ‘Dikhao, dikhao (Show, show)’.” As she walked away, “a middle-aged man in a dhoti and a white T-shirt, with a bald head and a slim ponytail, stood in front of me. He then opened his dhoti and exposed his genitals while looking at me.” On her way to the police station, she was hit on the “head, arms, chest, hips” by another group. The magazine said: “She was finally able to escape with the help of a police official, who took her to Bhajanpura police station. Before the mob found the woman journalist, it had continued its attack on the other two journalists. Tantray was abused with communal slurs…, threatened with murder, and repeatedly slapped and kicked.” The magazine added: “When Singh tried to intervene, the mob kicked him as well…. Two police officials who were present at the scene were unable to prevent the mob from attacking the journalists. Ultimately, more police officials arrived at the scene and they were able to take the two journalists to the Bhajanpura police station.” All three escaped with minor bruises. The Caravan statement said no FIRs had yet been registered on the journalists’ complaints. It said the journalists “were in the area for follow-up reporting in connection to an earlier story by Singh and Tantray on local women’s allegations of assault and sexual harassment at the hands of the Delhi police”. The office of the deputy commissioner of police (northeast Delhi) had tweeted on Tuesday: “Today afternoon some journalists were taking photographs and interviews in the communally sensitive area to which local people objected. Police acted swiftly to pacify the situation. Complaints filed by both sides and being enquired into.” On Wednesday, the police issued a rejoinder denying The Caravan’s report on alleged sexual harassment of women at Bhajanpura police station on August 8. On the assault on their reporter, the police PRO, deputy commissioner Eish Singhal, said in the rejoinder: “They were taking pictures which led to heated exchange of words between media persons and local people. Police personnel acted swiftly and brought media persons to the police station. “Taking pictures without consent may provoke those present and create law and order problems including communal problems. Journalists of Caravan and a lady of the locality had given cross-complaints which are being enquired into and appropriate legal action will be taken on conclusion of the enquiry.” The Press Clubs of India (Delhi) and Chandigarh have spoken out against the attack. The PCI has invited author Arundhati Roy and activist Prashant Bhushan to speak on this at the club on Thursday. “If journalists continue to be attacked in this fashion, the eyes and ears of society will be silenced,” the PCI’s office-bearers said in a statement. “We demand the following: 1. The immediate registration of a proper FIR, which the police have so far refused, and 2) a judicial probe to establish the obstacles being placed in the path of journalists reporting the spread of the communal virus since February this year in a communally sensitive part of Delhi. Such a probe should be set up by the elected government of Delhi.” The Chandigarh Press Club, of which Singh is a senior member, demanded the “arrest of the goons who attacked the journalists”. Club secretary-general Saurabh Duggal said he would be writing to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union home minister Amit Shah, who oversees the Delhi police. “Delhi authorities need to stop hesitating and launch a formal investigation into the attack on three journalists with The Caravan magazine, which occurred in broad daylight in India’s capital,” said Steven Butler, Committee to Protect Journalists -- Asia program coordinator, in Washington DC. “Police must ensure journalists are not targeted for their work, and should ensure that members of the press of all faiths can work freely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Biden picks Kamala; lotus pond guarded||Kamala Harris, an Indian-origin and African American senator, has been picked by Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic candidate for the US presidential elections later this year, to be his running mate. The choice represents the land of opportunity America has always promised to be before that goal began looking like a chimera under the Donald Trump White House. But Tuesday night’s development did not seem to sit easy with the Right wing in India, which did not display any of the effervescence that it reserves for those of Indian origin who do well elsewhere. While it was only natural that nobody in the Narendra Modi government would comment on something so internal to American politics, bhakt land too remained quiet against the backdrop of Harris’s inclusive politics and reputation for taking up civil rights issues. The lone exception was BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, who appreciated a report on her being picked by Biden with an introductory tweet that said: “First Indian and Asian woman to get the nomination as official VP candidate.” Madhav was promptly reminded by many that Harris identified herself more as “black” or African-American because of her Jamaican father. Harris has explained this in her political memoir, The Truths We Hold: An American Journey: “My mother understood very well that she was raising two black daughters. She knew that her adopted homeland would see Maya and me as black girls and she was determined to make sure we would grow into confident, proud black women.” Harris’s mother Shyamala Gopalan, a Tamil, was a breast-cancer scientist who had emigrated to the US to pursue a doctorate in nutrition and endocrinology at UC Berkeley. Those who commented across social media platforms after Harris’s name was announced seemed essentially to be urging the Indian diaspora in the US not to be taken in by the India part of her origin. They highlighted that she had been against India’s actions in Kashmir and the new citizenship regime -- though there is no record of her actually speaking out against the latter. On Kashmir, Harris, who had been a contender for the Democratic nomination for President before bowing out in support of Biden, is on record commenting not on the dilution of Article 370 but on the subsequent clampdown. “We have to remind the Kashmiris that they are not alone in the world. We are all watching. There is a need to intervene if the situation demands,” she had been quoted as saying by the US media in September last year. Harris was not the only Democratic contender for the presidential ticket to speak up for Kashmiris. Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, too, had raised the issue during their race for the nomination. Later in December, Harris spoke up in support of Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, who has been critical of New Delhi’s Kashmir policy, after India insisted that she be dropped from a Congressional delegation that was to meet external affairs minister S. Jaishankar in Washington. Reacting to the decision of the US lawmakers not to yield to the Indian demand to exclude Jayapal, Harris had tweeted: “It’s wrong for any foreign government to tell Congress what members are allowed in meetings on Capitol Hill. I stand with @RepJayapal and I’m glad her colleagues in the House did too.” If the Right wing in the Indian diaspora was busy running Harris down, the liberals and those opposed to the Hinduvta advocates in the US came out in her support. In a congratulatory message, Hindus for Human Rights said: “As beneficiaries of America’s welcome to immigrants and minorities, like your family, we stand ready to work with you to help reclaim America after the sad chapter of the last four years.... “Our organisation’s members are Hindus of conscience who take a firm stand against Hindu nationalism, both in India and in the US — which is as dangerous to Indian democracy as white nationalism is to American democracy.... So it is our earnest hope... you will also be actively engaged in reclaiming the traditional US-India relations.… As you are aware, all of these core values have been under great threat in both the largest democracies, under the pressure of the Trump-Modi camaraderie.” The Global Indian Progressive Alliance (GIPA) too came out with a statement in support of Harris that said: “A loss of Biden-Harris will further empower Hindutva-laden saffron supremacists within the Indian American community, and we simply cannot afford that with the trend of a global shift to extreme Right-wing leaders.” Asked how Harris’s choice as running mate would affect the Indian vote, which has traditionally been Democratic, Manish Madan, GIPA founder and professor of criminal justice at Stockton University, said the Hindutva-led saffron supremacist lobby would pressure the Biden-Harris campaign to mellow down its positions on the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Register of Citizens and the human rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “It is important for people to recognise that Biden-Harris have spoken up for the values that India as a country has long stood for (secular and pluralistic values) and, importantly, echo many progressive Indian American voices,” Madan said. Biden’s agenda for Muslim Americans on his campaign website mentions both Kashmir and the CAA. “In Kashmir, the Indian government should take all necessary steps to restore rights for all the people of Kashmir. Restrictions on dissent, such as preventing peaceful protests or shutting or slowing down the Internet, weaken democracy,” it says. Further, it says that Biden has been disappointed by the measures the government of India has taken with the implementation of the NRC and its aftermath in Assam and the signing of the CAA into law. “These measures are inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy,” the agenda says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||India on Russia vaccine site list||Two Russian entities have named India among several sites for planned large-scale efficacy trials and mass production of a candidate coronavirus vaccine that has been approved by Russian regulators without the crucial final round of tests. But health officials in New Delhi have signalled that India is not ready yet for the trials and the mass production. The Gamaleya National Centre that developed the vaccine and Russia’s sovereign wealth fund have said on a website on the vaccine that they plan to conduct the large-scale “Phase 3” clinical trials in Brazil, India, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The Gamaleya centre and the Russia Direct Investment Fund have also said they plan to “start mass production” of the candidate vaccine in other countries, including India, Brazil, Cuba, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Turkey. The plan is to ramp up production to 200 million doses by the end of 2020, including 30 million doses in Russia, they said. Russia’s approval of the candidate vaccine on Tuesday without the completion of efficacy trials has baffled researchers worldwide. They have stressed that vaccines should be approved only after rigorous clinical trials to assess safety and efficacy. Indian health officials and researchers on Wednesday said that the information available in the public domain about the Russian vaccine was not sufficient yet to build the confidence to proceed with large-scale trials in India. A senior scientist and member of a government expert panel tasked with formulating India’s strategies for developing Covid-19 vaccines told The Telegraph that he had no knowledge of a proposal for Phase 3 trials of the Russian vaccine in India. The panel, chaired by Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul and including representatives of the Union health ministry, the Indian Council of Medical Research and the states, met on Wednesday and advised the states “not to chart separate pathways of procurement” (of vaccines). A senior health official underlined that the Russian candidate had been approved even before the start of Phase 3 trials. The Gamaleya centre and Russian fund have said that the Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials that assess early safety and efficacy were completed on August 1, that is, 10 days before the Russian health ministry’s regulators approved the vaccine on August 11 for mass vaccination. They have said that Phase 3 clinical trials involving more than 2,000 people in Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and the UAE “will start on August 12”. A senior health official in India told this newspaper: “This vaccine has not even undergone Phase 3; this vaccine is not even mentioned in the World Health Organisation’s inventory of (candidate) vaccines against Covid-19.” A senior virologist said that Phase 3 studies were critical for safety and efficacy assessment, for Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials can only demonstrate early safety and the vaccine’s ability to produce an immune response. “Any protein injected into the body can produce an immune response. The key question is: does this antibody response protect the recipients from future infections?” said Sudanshu Vrati, executive director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana). “We need large-scale population studies to answer this question.” Phase 3 trials enrol two large groups of people. One group gets the candidate vaccine; the other does not. Such trials count the proportions of people who develop the infection among the vaccinated group and the non-vaccinated group. If significantly fewer vaccinated people develop the infection, the vaccine is said to be protective. “We should moderate our expectations -– we should not be too excited about a vaccine,” the health official said, stressing that even the WHO had iterated that the earliest a safe and effective vaccine could be available was early 2021. A WHO document on global Covid-19 vaccine efforts lists 28 candidates that have entered human clinical trials and 139 other vaccines under various phases of pre-clinical and laboratory development. India had in mid-July started early safety and efficacy trials of two home-grown candidate vaccines, and is about to start large-scale efficacy trials of a candidate developed by researchers at Oxford that has already undergone safety and efficacy trials in the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Army plans giving young Kashmiri militants choice to temporarily relocate to more peaceful parts of the country||India is considering offering young Kashmiri militants an escape from a life of violence by temporarily resettling them in more peaceful parts of the country, according to a top military commander in the Valley. Lieutenant Gen. B.S. Raju revealed the plan for a new scheme to offer a way out of militancy during a telephone interview from his headquarters in Srinagar. He said recommendations had been submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and that the plan, while not finalised, was in an advanced stage. “These are young boys who need to be taken care of for a period of time,” Raju said, adding that could involve temporarily settling them outside of Kashmir. Past efforts to persuade fighters to put down their guns have had mixed success. But Raju said the military had recommended the scheme to take a longer-term approach to rehabilitating ex-militants. “The bottom-line is that it will have a structure that will help and give confidence to the people who are opting to surrender,” Raju said. More than 50,000 people have died during more than three decades of insurgency. About 200,000 military and paramilitary troops are deployed in the Valley. Raju said militant attacks have dropped by nearly 40 per cent compared to last year. Last August, Modi changed the political landscape by taking away Jammu and Kashmir’s status as India’s only Muslim-majority state, splitting it into two Union Territories and removing the special privileges afforded to Kashmiris. Promising a concerted effort to develop the region economically, Modi said the move was needed to integrate Kashmir more fully with the rest of the country, but critics said it would further alienate Kashmiris. Since the start of the year, Indian security forces have killed around 135 militants, most of them recruited locally. The military estimates that there are currently around 180 militants operating with various groups active in the Valley, Raju said. Some 70 Kashmiris are reckoned to have been recruited by these groups since the start of the year, about a dozen less than during the same period a year ago. “We wish that this should drop further, and finally cease altogether,” Raju said. Currently most surrenders are conducted in line with a 2004 policy that provides a lump sum payout of Rs 150,000 ($2,000), a small monthly stipend, free vocational training and cash payments for weapons handed over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||From pit where ‘2 hungry dogs’ ate, a view of Kerala||When the starving Dalit schoolboy came to the local landlord’s house seeking food, a pit was dug at a corner of the courtyard in keeping with the practice of the times and rice gruel poured into a plantain leaf folded into it. By the time the boy began eating it, the upper caste landlord had released his hungry pet dog to share the gruel from the same pit. It was “a competition between two hungry dogs”, M. Kunhaman — the unfortunate schoolboy who has since turned into an eminent economist — writes in the partly autobiographical Ethir, released in June as an e-book. In the book, whose title roughly translates as “opposite” or “adversary”, the 70-year-old author has described the humiliation and misery suffered by Dalits in Kerala from a personal viewpoint. In doing so, he has held a mirror up to the state’s claims to a progressive legacy and questioned its Marxist rulers’ much-trumpeted land reforms, and the currently fashionable efforts to blend Marx with B.R. Ambedkar, whose ideas he sees as “poles apart”. “Kerala is always boasting that it has an egalitarian society with strong notions of social justice. But if a Dalit wishes to sit in the chief minister’s chair, he will have to be reborn as a bug,” Kunhaman writes. Kunhaman’s own life has been a long battle against discrimination, where every victory was followed by a fresh hurdle. When he overcame a series of obstacles to stand first in MA economics from Calicut University in 1974 — giving Kerala its first Dalit postgraduate topper since K.R. Narayanan, who rose to become President — it brought no happily-ever-after ending. “There was a felicitation (for Kunhaman) in Palakkad at which two senior Kerala ministers were chief guests. I reached the place borrowing money from a neighbour for the bus tickets. A gold medal was presented on the occasion but it was sold within three days to buy food and grocery items for the family,” he recalls in his book. This was followed by two wasted years chasing in vain after jobs — any kind of small-time government job. Even when he topped the written test for an economics lecturer’s post with Kerala University, he was denied on the pretext that the varsity had no “reserved post for Dalits”. A disappointed Kunhaman went off to earn a PhD at the Centre for Development Studies in Thiruvananthapuram, where the renowned economist K.N. Raj was his guide. Eventually, Kunhaman did partially conquer the Kerala University hurdle and taught there for several years before moving to the Tuljapur campus of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Maharashtra, where he says he found discrimination less prevalent. Today, many consider Kunhaman’s in-depth studies of land distribution and agrarian relations across the country to be unmatched. Kunhaman was born at Vadanamkurissi village in Palakkad district to landless Dalit farm workers Chorona and Ayyan, who belonged to the Panan community, the lowest among Kerala’s Dalits. He describes his early years as an unending battle against poverty, fear and an inferiority complex that left its fingerprints in the form of a lifelong lack of self-confidence. As a child, he would have to douse his hunger by collecting leftover food from local households. The thatched hut in which his family lived had just one kerosene lamp, and his night reading would be disrupted whenever his mother took it away to the kitchen to make rice gruel. Kunhaman’s fight against caste bias began when he was a Class III student. When the class teacher claimed that Dalit children had enrolled only for the free noon meal of uppuma — a wheat porridge served at Kerala’s government schools long before the current midday meal programme came into being — Kunhaman protested and gave up the meals. He starved every noon for the rest of his school years. It was on one such afternoon, when he found the hunger unbearable, did he apply to the local landlord and had to compete for his lunch with a dog. His book eloquently discusses Marxism, Naxalism, liberalism, capitalism and caste and scrutinises the legacy of Kerala’s “renaissance” — kicked off by spiritual leader Narayana Guru’s socio-cultural reforms in the late 19th century. It also carries his reminiscences about the Marxist theoretician and former chief minister E.M.S. Namboodiripad, of whom he has much good to say. “Despite his Brahmanical background, E.M.S. Namboodiripad had the openness to consider Dalits his equals. He used to come to our huts and was comfortable sitting on the floor smeared with cow-dung paste,” the book says. “On numerous occasions, I attended meetings chaired by EMS and criticised him and Marxist political philosophy. EMS never showed any intolerance. He once told me that he liked criticism and was not God that he should fear criticism.” But Kunhaman also mentions his disappointments with latter-day Marxist leaders, who repeatedly spoke of appointing him vice-chancellor of Kerala University or member of the Kerala State Planning Board but never honoured the assurances. He believes the upper castes plotted to keep him out. The Kerala planning board has had no Dalits for a long time; Kerala University has had no Dalit VC ever. “Former chief minister V.S. Achuthanandan and Kerala’s finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on many occasions assured me positions in the state hierarchy to utilise my expertise for the betterment of the poor .... But nothing happened,” Kunhaman writes. He believes that the Indian Marxists bear something of Brahmanical exclusivity within them and can therefore not represent Dalit interests. Kunhaman is therefore critical of the demands by Leftists and Ambedkarites for a joint platform: “Finding common ground between Marx and Ambedkar is a sheer waste of time. They are poles apart.” He says: “What we require is large-scale Dalit participation and involvement in all areas of administration and governance.... There must be more Dalits with radical intelligence and good scholastic capabilities.” For Dalit empowerment, Kunhaman advocates more control by the community over money and resources. “Dalits have to focus more on amassing wealth and controlling it wisely,” he writes. “In my opinion, the economic liberalisation has benefited at least a segment among the Dalits. New capitalist Dalits have emerged. The formation of the Dalit Chamber of Commerce is part of such liberation.” Kunhaman believes that Kerala’s vaunted land reforms of 1970, enacted by a CPI government with Congress backing, have failed to benefit the Dalits and tribal communities. “The land reforms have created a new set of oppressors. The working class got no benefit. Only democratic discourse can help empower the weak,” he writes. Ethir, published by the Kottayam-based DC Books, has already become a publishing sensation in Kerala. The book is to be launched in physical form sometime soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Bihar parties divided on poll timing ||Bihar is the first state scheduled to go to polls since the coronavirus pandemic hit, but the ruling and Opposition parties are divided on whether elections should be held now. The state has reported over 90,000 Covid cases and 465 deaths. It is also reeling under floods that have affected over 75 lakh people. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party Janata Dal United (JDU) has consistently stressed the need for holding the elections before the current Legislative Assembly’s tenure expires on November 29. Veteran politicians attribute the JDU’s stand to its fear of President’s rule if elections are not held on time. Power will move out of Nitish’s hands to the governor, and by proxy, to the Centre where ally BJP is at the helm. “Nobody can be trusted completely in politics. President’s rule will give an edge to the BJP. It will call the shots and control the administrative machinery in the state for the duration, and may emerge from the shadows of the JDU to become the senior partner in the alliance instead of its current status as a junior one,” a senior JDU leader, who has been with Nitish for around three decades, told The Telegraph on condition of anonymity. Asked why the party is insisting on holding polls on schedule amid the pandemic, JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi argued that if elections could be held in Sri Lanka, Singapore, South Korea, Rwanda, Belarus and parts of the US, why not Bihar. Asked if the JDU fears the possibility of President’s rule, Tyagi said: “Why should there be President’s rule? Neither is the law and order situation bad nor is there any emergency-like situation. If it is imposed in Bihar then there should be President’s rule in all the states in the country. We are facing natural calamities. Nothing can be done about them.” Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has been vociferous about its demand that the elections be deferred in view of the pandemic. It has appealed to the Election Commission to postpone the polls. “What if the elections turn out to be a super-spreader coronavirus event? We have written about this to the EC though holding elections is its prerogative. How will it protect so many officials and voters? How can we approach the households where people have become infected or have died? Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed his concerns about the Covid situation in Bihar,” RJD national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha said. Manoj skirted the issue of President’s rule, saying human lives were more important than holding elections. However, RJD sources said the party was not averse to President’s rule in the state for two reasons. It will weaken Nitish and also give RJD the time to regroup and strengthen itself if party chief Lalu Prasad is released on bail in November. Lalu’s presence would boost the morale of the Opposition in the state. He is currently serving time in Ranchi after being convicted by a CBI court in four out of six fodder scam cases relating to fraudulent withdrawals of over Rs 1,000 crore. He has been acquitted in one case, while another is still in the trial stage. “In October, Laluji will be completing half of the sentences in all the cases in which he has been convicted. There is a provision for bail in such a situation. We are waiting for the time and will file for bail,” RJD MLA and Lalu’s close confidant Bhola Yadav told The Telegraph. The Congress has also written to the Election Commission to defer the polls in the light of the pandemic and the floods. “This is not an appropriate time to hold elections in the state,” Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha said. The BJP appears nonchalant. “We respect the EC and will abide by whatever decision it takes,” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. BJP sources said the party would sweep the polls with the JDU if they are on time and will enjoy the fruits of power if any postponement leads to President’s rule. The approach road to a Rs 509-crore bridge over the Gandak river collapsed under pressure from floodwaters in Bihar’s Gopalganj district before its inauguration by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday, prompting the Opposition to allege corruption and question the hasty launch of projects. The Bangra Ghat Mahasetu has an 11km approach road in Gopalganj district and 8km in Muzaffarpur district. Nitish inaugurated it via videoconference along with several other projects. “A 30-metre breach in the approach road happened around 7km away from the bridge on the Gopalganj side on July 26. It was a result of seven breaches in the Gandak embankment,” road construction department principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena told The Telegraph. Meena said the main bridge and all smaller bridges and culverts were safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Police open fire on arsonists, 3 die in Bangalore||Three youths were killed when police fired at violent protesters who had indulged in widespread arson here in reaction to an offensive social media post and had refused to back off despite requests from minority community leaders. After Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s nephew P. Naveen made the Facebook post, thousands of protesters hit the streets in an eastern neighbourhood of Bangalore late on Tuesday night and torched the lawmaker’s house, a police station and hundreds of vehicles. The MLA distanced himself from his nephew. “He is my sister’s son, but my family has nothing to do with them. We have not been in touch with him for 10 years,” Murthy told reporters. The violence in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits saw youths attacking the police with stones and sticks. The rioting left more than 60 policemen, including deputy commissioner Bhimashankar Guled, injured. Pleas for peace by the Congress’s minority leaders fell on deaf ears. While Naveen was arrested late in the night for the derogatory post, close to 150 protesters had been picked up by Wednesday evening as several teams of policemen were deployed to trace those involved. The trouble started when some 15 youngsters gathered outside Pulakeshinagar MLA Murthy’s residence at Kaval Byrasandra around 9pm on Tuesday, but there was no inkling of the violence that would break out a couple of hours later. As news spread that Naveen had not been arrested, more people hit the streets and joined the protesters outside Murthy’s house. By 11pm, there were a few hundred protesters chanting slogans and seeking Naveen’s arrest. Murthy later told reporters that none was in the house at the time of the protest. The protesters vandalised the house before setting it on fire. They then torched the MLA’s brother’s under-construction house in the next compound and did not leave until riot police arrived about 40 minutes later. Around the same time, two other groups targeted the police stations at DJ Halli and KG Halli in the area. More than 1,000 people gathered outside DJ Halli police station and hurled stones before entering the compound where they set ablaze around 200 motorbikes seized for various offences. The group also set fire to the basement where vehicles were parked. Three protesters died when the police opened fire to disperse the mob. By then, rumours had spread that Naveen was under safe custody at KG Halli police station, prompting another large group of protesters to head there and burn down police vehicles. Congress MLAs Rizwan Arshad and Zameer Ahmed rushed to the area, hoping to calm down the protesters. But the leaders had to beat a retreat as the protesters were in no mood to relent. R. Kaleemullah of Swaraj Abhiyan, who was with the two Congress MLAs, later told The Telegraph most of the protesters were in their teens. “Many of them were young boys aged between 14 and early twenties. When I tried to send them away from DJ Halli police station, a few of them told me, ‘we are not afraid of dying’,” said Kaleemullah. “It was very clear whether they were under the influence of alcohol or drugs. They didn’t look normal and were not ready to listen to anyone,” he added. The entire area remained shut on Wednesday as the police declared prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 in the KG Halli and DJ Halli police station limits. Charred vehicles, shards of glass from broken windows, stones and bricks lay strewn on the deserted roads. Murthy later met revenue minister R. Ashok to seek police protection for his family. “I need protection from the government after this incident,” the MLA told the minister in front of reporters. Murthy said that for the past 25 years he had been living with his Muslim brethren but never faced such a problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Two police officers ‘stand out’ on excellence medal list||A police officer accused of shielding BJP politicians in the Delhi riot probe and another leading the National Investigation Agency’s Bhima-Koregaon inquiry that has cracked down on rights activists are among 121 cops who received the Union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation on Wednesday. Delhi deputy commissioner of police Rajesh Deo heads the special investigation team that has been accused of selectively targeting Muslim accused while probing the late-February communal violence that killed 53 people. Vikram Mukundra Khalate, NIA superintendent of police, leads the investigation into the Bhima-Koregaon case, which links a December 31, 2017, Ambedkarite event in Pune to an alleged Maoist plot to target the Prime Minister’s rallies. A fortnight ago, the NIA had arrested Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu M.T. in the case, where the accused include academics, lawyers, activists and litterateurs. Deo had also supervised the investigations into last winter’s violence at the Jamia Millia Islamia and Jawaharlal Nehru University. The probes have so far not nailed any of the policemen accused of thrashing Jamia students or the alleged ABVP-led goons who ran wild at JNU. In February this year, the Election Commission had passed strictures against Deo and barred him from Assembly poll duties for suggesting a link between the Aam Aadmi Party and a gunman who had fired in the air near Shaheen Bagh. Deo’s riot probe carries no reflection of the Delhi minority commission’s findings, which accuse Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and some other BJP politicians of “fanning communal sentiments” through incendiary speeches before the February violence. One of the panel’s key charges is that BJP politician Kapil Mishra, a former Delhi minister who had lost the February 8 Assembly polls, triggered the riots through a speech in Maujpur on February 23. The panel also found that the “violence followed an organised and systematic pattern” and was “selectively targeted towards the Muslim population”. It alleged the “police were complicit and abetted the attacks”. But the police probe says “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet indicating any role being played by” any prominent political leader in “instigating and/or participating in the riots”. Contacted, Deo declined comment on the minority panel’s fact-finding report. Asked why the police had not acted so far against the BJP politicians accused in the report of fanning communal sentiments before the February violence, he said: “I’m not aware of any such report.” Earlier this year, after Delhi youth Kapil Baisala had fired in the air near the anti-citizenship-act protest site in Shaheen Bagh, Deo had called a news conference to allege a link between him and the AAP. The Election Commission had then sent a notice to the police commissioner saying Deo’s statements “referring to a political party”, at a time investigations were “still going on”, could “adversely” affect the elections. Deo had said that images seized from Baisala’s phone had established that a year ago he and his father Gajendra Singh had joined the AAP. The claim was immediately lapped up by the BJP. Deo had also released to the media photos showing a man resembling Baisala with AAP leaders. Baisala’s father had denied that he or his son was involved with any political party. After the December 15 violence on the Jamia campus, leaked footage had shown uniformed police personnel mercilessly beating up youngsters in a reading room. In the chargesheet on the nearby street vandalism that had preceded the campus raid, however, the police claimed their objective in entering the campus had been to “safeguard the students” against outsiders who had barged in. The chargesheet also claimed that the students had suffered their injuries in a stampede and stone-throwing. No progress has been made in the probe into the mob attack at JNU, allegedly by ABVP-led goons. “The medal was constituted in 2018 with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise such excellence in investigation by investigating officers,” the Union home ministry said in a statement. Among the recipients are 21 women. The awardees include 15 personnel from the CBI, 10 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, 8 from Uttar Pradesh, and 7 each from Kerala and Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Plea for Covid mess probe ||Six former bureaucrats have petitioned the Supreme Court seeking a judicial probe into the Centre’s alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis that they say has caused a massive loss of lives and jobs and compromised citizens’ fundamental rights. They have demanded a commission of inquiry headed by a former apex court judge, with its members including experts from the fields of public health, epidemiology, medical science, law and the social sciences. “The nationwide lockdown that was announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on 24.03.2020 with merely four hours’ notice was arbitrary, irrational and without due consultation with experts or state governments,” the petition, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, says. “In spite of being the harshest and most restrictive lockdown in the world, it has failed to arrest the spread of the disease.... India is now the fourth worst-affected country.” The petition argues that the government’s response to the pandemic and its “deleterious impact on the lives and livelihoods of citizens is a definite matter of public importance and warrants the appointment of a commission (of inquiry)”. The joint petition moved by K.P. Fabian, M.G. Devasahayam, Meena Gupta, Somasundar Burra, Amit Bhaduri and Madhu Bhaduri is to be heard on Friday by the bench of Justices L. Nageshwar Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ravindra Bhat. It says the Centre’s handling of the pandemic has “led to a severe infraction of the fundamental rights of people” and seeks accountability from the government for these alleged lapses: The petition highlights these specific points: The government “failed to nip the problem in the bud by conducting effective screening and surveillance of international passengers coming into India as well as carrying out a public awareness campaign from January itself when India had very few cases of Covid-19”, the petition says. “Nearly six crore people between the ages of 20 and 39 lost their jobs in April itself and the livelihoods of 40 million migrant workers have been abruptly disrupted,” the petition says. “In the absence of adequate food and shelter provisions being provided by the respondent (government), these migrant workers have been left to fend for themselves, with many walking thousands of kilometres to return to their hometowns/villages.” The petition alleges that because of the lack of “advance planning or social security measures by the respondent, the lockdown has deprived these migrant workers, daily wage earners and other vulnerable people of their right to livelihood, which has been held to be a part of (the) right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution”. “Finally, the right to life of healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and other medical staff, has been compromised owing to the respondent’s inexplicable delay in scaling up the procurement of PPE,” the petition says. The petitioners have accused the Centre of ignoring the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority on February 4, which suggested that large gatherings be avoided. They have alleged that numerous large political gatherings took place after these guidelines were issued, including the government-sponsored event in Gujarat to welcome US President Donald Trump on February 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Consensus on gratuity time but not scope ||The government has agreed to reduce to one year the requirement of five years of continuous service to be eligible for gratuity but limited the scope to those employees with fixed-term contracts. Labour unions and the parliamentary standing committee on labour, however, have iterated the demand that the benefit be extended to all sections of employees, not only fixed-term workers whose employment ends with the lapse of the contract period and who are mostly low-ranked staff such as labourers, factory operators, helpers and drivers. An official in the labour ministry said the government was planning to insert a specific provision in the draft Industrial Relations Code to make it obligatory for employers to pay gratuity to those fixed-term employees who have completed a year of service. He said the government had informed the parliamentary standing committee on labour about the plan to reduce the ceiling. “As it is fixed-term employment, it is coming in a big way. We want the workers to get the gratuity also. So one year will be more appropriate,” the report of the committee on industrial code has quoted the labour secretary as saying. According to the Payment of Gratuity Act, gratuity is paid at the rate of 15 days’ wages for every year of service. Now, employees are eligible for gratuity only if they have worked for a minimum of five years continuously. The government’s decision has failed to satisfy the standing committee on labour and workers’ organisations. In its latest report on the Social Security Code, the standing committee headed by BJD parliamentarian Bhartruhari Mahtab has recommended extension of the benefit of the reduced ceiling to all types of employees. “The committee desires that the time limit of five years as provided for in the Code for payment of gratuity be reduced to continuous service of one year. Such provision be extended to all kinds of employees including contract labours, seasonal workers, piece rate workers and fixed-term employees and daily/monthly wage workers,” the report said. Mahtab told The Telegraph that social security has to be universal. Gratuity is a key component of social security and cannot be denied to sections of employees, he pointed out. “Our recommendations are for universalisation of social security. Gratuity is paid as part of full and comprehensive compensation to workers for the services rendered. Employments for a shorter duration are increasing. There is no logic for extending a relaxation in norms to only fixed-term employees and excluding the others,” the leader from Odisha said. The employment of contract workers is renewable. Workers in the unorganised sector, which makes up the vast majority of India’s workforce, have no contracts. All of them stand to lose out if the proposed relaxation is not extended to them. Shyam Sundar, a professor of human resource management at Xavier School of Management (XLRI), Jamshedpur, said the demand for a reduction of work tenure for gratuity was justified. “The practice of ‘gig’ (short-term and on-demand employment contracts) has been rising in the manufacturing and service sectors in India in recent years. Post-Covid, it will rise further, given the product market uncertainties. Also, gig might suit youths and female employees, which will increase their labour force participation. Therefore, the call for gratuity for employees with short tenures makes sense and is fair,” Sundar said. Mahtab, the MP, said the committee had recommended that if a company engages a worker on a fixed-term contract for more than two terms, it should be considered permanent appointment. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has also demanded that the reduced gratuity ceiling be applicable to all types of employees. “We want the employers to contribute a gratuity amount on a monthly basis. The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation should maintain a parallel gratuity account for all workers,” said Virjesh Upadhyay, the BMS general secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Pique tests Sachin Pilot rehabilitation  ||The political compromise struck with the Congress rebels hasn’t obliterated the bitterness generated over the past month, making it extremely difficult for the central leadership to immediately visualise any role for Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan. A senior leader told The Telegraph: “It is too early to predict what will happen, but rehabilitating Pilot as deputy chief minister or the state (Congress) chief looks very difficult now. No commitment has been given to him and the return is unconditional. We are aware of the unease and reservations among Congress workers and MLAs and that will be factored in whenever the three-member committee (set up to resolve the Rajasthan impasse) decides the future course.” The 100 MLAs who remained loyal to the party are said to be angry at what they perceive as casual handling of the crisis by the high command, wondering how a compromise could be reached without talking to both sides. They have asked general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pandey, and chief minister Ashok Gehlot to arrange for a meeting with the high command as no decision can be taken without hearing their version of the unseemly developments. Although a report will be submitted to the central leadership on every aspect of the crisis, the MLAs have demanded a personal meeting with Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi as the Pilot-led rebellion that not only shook the government but gave the Congress a bad name in the midst of the pandemic cannot be taken lightly. Many MLAs expressed anger on Tuesday night in front of Gehlot who requested them to move on now that a reconciliation has been reached after Pilot returned to the party fold. Talking to the media on Wednesday morning, Gehlot said: “I have told them forgive and forget. In the larger interest of the party and the country, we should accept those who have come back and focus on serving the people. After all, the primary task is to protect democracy, which is in peril. It is natural for the MLAs to be upset. It is not easy to keep the flock together for such a long time. They all had to be kept in hotels. It is remarkable that they stayed united.” The MLAs were on Wednesday brought back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer but not allowed to go home. They are back in Hotel Fairmont under strict security despite the crisis blowing over, indicating that Gehlot is not taking any chances and the suspicions have not evaporated. Although the MLAs belonging to the Pilot camp too have reached Jaipur, they did not join their colleagues at Fairmont Hotel. Even Pilot stayed at home, meeting his supporters there, instead of calling on the chief minister. They are unlikely to meet before the legislature party meeting that may happen on Thursday or the day after. Although central leaders believe the situation will become normal in a few days and hesitation is not unusual after such a bitter crisis, Rajasthan leaders have not taken kindly to the statements and interviews given by Pilot after the reconciliation. A leader told this newspaper over phone from Jaipur: “The high command should have taken care to warn these people against making fresh attacks on the chief minister. Pilot has laid the entire blame on the chief minister, accusing him of ordering an investigation by the SOG (special operations group) of Rajasthan police, as if what was being probed is of no significance.” The SOG probe had been ordered into allegations of horse-trading, based on audio tapes of purported conversations between a Union minister from the BJP and a Congress rebel. A central leader of the Congress, too, felt that Pilot could have avoided his candid talk and allowed the tensions to subside. The situation is still simmering and nobody in Rajasthan, neither Gehlot nor central observers Avinash Pandey, Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken, have spoken to Pilot so far. Sources said how to break the ice was an issue yet to be decided. The Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, who has been talking to Pilot, will reach Jaipur on Wednesday night and decide the strategy in consultation with the leaders already in Rajasthan. Interestingly, however, the rebel MLAs other than Pilot who have returned have begun meeting and talking to Gehlot, reaffirming their faith in his leadership. Some of them have even expressed regret and promised not to repeat their actions in the future. Pilot’s lieutenant Vishvendra Singh, who was sacked as minister and suspended from the party, went to the extent of saying the “respect for Gehlot in our hearts is intact” and iterated that they never spoke a word against him or the central leadership. The BJP in Rajasthan will move a motion of no confidence in the state assembly against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said on Thursday, reports PTI from New Delhi. Vasundhara Raje and other top Rajasthan BJP leaders met earlier today to plan for the session. It was the first meeting of BJP MLAs since the Congress rebel crisis broke out early July, pushing the Ashok Gehlot government to the verge of collapse. After the meeting, Kataria told reporters that the motion of no confidence will be moved in the assembly session which is beginning from Friday. On the other hand, Congress on Thursday revoked the suspension of Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, two MLAs who had rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot government. They were suspended from the party's primary membership last month over their alleged involvement in a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Unemployed mason killed in Sunderban tiger attack||A mason in his 40s who lost his job during the lockdown was mauled by a tiger in the Sunderbans when he ventured deep into the forest to catch crabs for a living. Haripada Mandal had set out on a small boat with several others from the Bali 2 area in Gosaba block near Pirkhali in the Sunderban Tiger Reserve early on Wednesday, a forest official said. The tiger attacked him from behind inside the forest where he had gone to catch fish and crabs, the official  said. The lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, which has left most fields and ponds inundated with saline water, have resulted in loss of livelihood for many people, according to foresters and people working for the welfare of those living in the Sunderbans. Even inexperienced groups have been venturing out in the forests in search of a living, an official said. His relatives have said Mandal used to work in Calcutta and adjoining areas. He had returned to the village as it was difficult to get work in the city once the lockdown started, a forest official said. Embankments in the Sunderbans delta — a Unesco World Heritage site — breached as the surge caused up by the cyclone flooded several kilometres of the islands. “Many migrant workers have returned to their villages after losing their usual means of livelihood during the lockdown. Several have fallen back on the forest and have taken to catching crabs and fish in order to make ends meet,” Sagnik Sengupta, a member of Stripes And Green Earth (SAGE), an NGO, said. Members of the NGO had visited several ranges in the Sunderbans, including the Pirkhali forest area, to distribute relief materials in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. Another forest official said the men had cast their nets in a shallow creek that flows through the Pirkhali  forest. The tiger attacked Mandal from behind and before the other men on the boat could realise what was happening, the animal had dragged him away. The tiger tried to drag him deeper into the forest when at least three men managed to hit it with axes and sticks. “They hit the tiger with sticks and after a few minutes the animal let go of Mandal’s neck,” the official said. Rajib Banerjee, the state’s forest minister, said the men had ventured deep into the forest when the tiger attacked them. “The men told our officials that they had gone to catch fish when the tiger attacked one of them,” Banerjee said. The group could not produce a fishing permit, a forest official said. “Their boat was moored inside the forest where they were not supposed to be,” the official said. The big cat count in the Sunderbans is close to 100 according to the latest Census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||August 28 off lockdown list||August 28 will not be a complete lockdown day in Bengal, a state government official has said, changing afresh the shutdown roster for the month. “Earlier, it was announced that the complete lockdown would be in place on August 27 (Thursday), August 28 (Friday) and August 31 (Monday). Since August 29 (Saturday) and August 30 (Sunday) are general holidays, it would have been a stretch of five days when everything, particularly banking operations, would have been closed. We responded to appeals made from various quarters. So, there will be no lockdown on August 28,”said the official. The number of the complete lockdown days in August has now come down to six from the original nine. The next full lockdown days for August will be on 20 (Thursday), 21 (Friday), 27 (Thursday) and 31 (Monday). The complete lockdown roster for August has undergone multiple changes because of national holidays and festivals. The original schedule for the month had nine complete lockdown days, which have now been lowered to six. The BJP questioned the changes. “If prolonged weekend is the reason, why did the government not consider this before announcing the complete lockdown days?” asked Rahul Sinha, a state BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||‘When will the saviour of life come?’||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, known for wielding the pen on burning issues, on Wednesday posted on social media a poem titled Phyakashey and Pale in Bengali and English, respectively, on Covid-19. Although the chief minister did not explicitly state that the poem had been written by her, senior leaders in her party acknowledged it was hers. PaleThe sky looks pale The clouds look grim. Smokes emanating from dirt and dust Have changed the world. “COVID War” has invaded. The human world is invaded by Frustrations of black terror  Breathing is devoid of trust. The face is deaf and dumb. Half of the face is Eclipsed. The lunar journey is tired by full eclipse. The public life is criss-crossed. Darkness at noon in the midst of daylight Volcanoes of terrible terror pervade the media - As if husk and chaff have been burnt. Beds are snow-covered. Environmental and bodily pollution converge. The pollution of sound remind of funeral ashes. When is its end? Nobody knows. When will the saviour of life come? There is no clarity. Waiting waits for waiting||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||3 cubs at Siliguri park||Shila, the Royal Bengal tigress at the popular Bengal Safari park on Siliguri outskirts, gave birth to triplets on Wednesday. The birth of three more cubs has increased the tiger population to seven at the popular open-air zoo. Dharamdeo Rai, the park’s director, confirmed the birth of the three cubs, but said their gender could not be determined as no one could go near Shila right now. He added that Shila had mated with Vivan, a tiger of the same park this May, and delivered the cubs after around 100 days of pregnancy. The cubs, sources said, were born between 4.45am and 7.20am. Since then, officials, vets and security guards are monitoring the health of the newborns who are in an enclosure with their mother. Back in 2018, the tigress had given birth to three cubs here. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had named the cubs Ika, Rika and Kika. Ika, however, developed an infection and died within the space of a few months. “This is why we are extra cautious this time (about the health of the cubs). Our team is keeping a close watch on the newborns and the tigress who so far appear to be doing well,” Rai said. A forester said they were elated over the second successful captive breeding of Royal Bengal Tigers within two years. “It is an achievement for us as tiger population is increasing here (at Bengal Safari). In due course, we hope the park gets recognition from the Centre under its national tiger conservation programme,” he said. The park, a crowd-puller before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, is spread over 297 hectares, and has enclosures for tigers, leopards, the Asiatic black bear, gharials (fish-eating crocodiles), rhino, different species of deer and an aviary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Fixed business hours for Burdwan shops||The East Burdwan district administration has ordered a staggered opening of shops and markets in Burdwan and Memari municipal areas to arrest the spike in Covid-19 cases in the district. East Burdwan reported 1,611 confirmed infections in all till Tuesday and a toll of eight since the onset of the pandemic. In an order issued on August 10, the administration specified fixed hours for the opening of markets and shops in Burdwan town. The order states that all wholesale fish and vegetable markets in Burdwan town would be open from 4am to 7am while retail vegetable, fish and meat shops would do business from 7am to 10.30am. The fruit markets and flower shops will be open from 7am to 11am. Grocery and other shops have longer operating hours, from 11am to 5pm. Hotels and restaurants will operate from noon to 9pm. The order has not gone down well with traders’ organisation Burdwan Zilla Babosayee Suraksha Samiti, which has called business hours too short to suit traders. The organisation has written to district magistrate Vijay Bharti requesting longer hours. “Our traders have already faced big losses during the three-month-long lockdown. We have requested the administration to allow shops to operate from 10am to 6pm,” said Bisweswar Choudhury, the association’s general secretary. The administration also fixed a schedule for Memari municipality. In Memari, all retail vegetable and fish markets will be open up to 11.30am. For other traders, business hours will be from 8am to 5pm. Hotels and restaurants in the town will be open from 10am to 2pm and from 6pm to 10pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||2,936 new Covid cases and 54 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 2,936 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths from the disease, besides 2,725 recoveries and 27,712 tests. The total number of patients in the state went past 1.04 lakh, of which over 76,000 were recoveries. The state’s recovery rate now is 72.96, which went up from 67.6 per cent in two weeks. The national rate now is 70.56. “Various measures, including some days of total lockdown put in place to get a grip on the outbreak, are beginning to yield results,” said a Bengal minister, adding that in two weeks since July 29, there were 39,000-odd new cases, but also 32,000-plus recoveries. “That is over 82 per cent. In the two-week period prior to this (July 15-29), there were 31,000 new cases and 23,000 recoveries, which was 74 per cent. The next two weeks will produce a much larger number of recoveries, in comparison to new cases,” he added. After two consecutive days of rise in recoveries lowering the number of active cases from the previous day, Bengal did see a spike in the total of active cases, to 26,003 on Wednesday, but by only 157. “Of the two biggest high-incidence districts, which contributed half the state’s Covid-19 cases, North 24-Parganas saw a fall in the total active case count for three successive days and improved from 5,774 on Sunday to 5,540 today (Wednesday),” said the minister. “The other one, Calcutta, saw a fall over two days and a rise of only 20 on Wednesday. The city’s total active cases improved from 7,041 on Sunday to 6,635 on Wednesday. This is remarkable,” he added. The numbers indicate improvement in Howrah and Hooghly as well, with South 24-Parganas being the last remaining of the five most high-incidence districts yet to show signs of a turnaround. The 27,712 tests recorded on Wednesday were another 24-hour high for the state, bettering the 27,015 of Tuesday. The total test count is almost 11.87 lakh now, at 13,188 per million people. The state reported 2,203 deaths, of which 999 were from Calcutta, including 19 recorded in 24 hours till 9am on Wednesday, and 512 from North 24-Parganas. Of the total, the government reported 1,958, or 88.9 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In two weeks, there have been 713 reported deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 676 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate now is 2.11, from 2.28 per cent two weeks ago. The national rate now is 1.96. Owing to the spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.79 per cent, which was 7.62 even two weeks ago. The state reported that 36.57 per cent of the total 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 83 dedicated hospitals were occupied as on Wednesday. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic has been provided to nearly 63,000 people, including 3,625 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||9-year-old’s kidnap ends in murder, cousin held||The nine-year-old son of a Trinamul panchayat member here, allegedly abducted for ransom on August 9, was found murdered near his village on Wednesday. Two men, one of whom is the victim’s cousin, were arrested for the kidnap and murder of the boy, police said. Police suspect he was strangled. According to the police, Umar Faruque, 9, the son of panchayat member in Malda’s Mothabari block Hafizul Islam, was abducted while he was playing in front of his house in Amlitala village. Hafizul and other family members combed the area for Umar but could not trace the boy, a Class IV student. The same night, they received an anonymous ransom call asking Hafizul to pay Rs 50 lakh, sources said. Hafizul, a labour contractor, had made some money in the past few years. On August 10, the family lodged a complaint with the police, which formed a special investigation team, but their search for the boy did not succeed. On Wednesday, some residents spotted the boy’s body near a bush in Chak-Pratappur village, some 3km from his home, and informed Hafizul’s family and the police. Police probe pointed to Rashidul Sheikh, Umar’s cousin, and Rashidul’s friend Ramzan Sheikh. Malda SP Alok Rajoria confirmed the arrests and said: “The boy has been murdered for money. We are trying to get more information.” Hundreds came to the boy’s house and demanded exemplary punishment for the accused. Trinamul MLA Sabina Yeasmin consoled the family. “The duo had planned to extort money from Hafizul. We suspect that when our team started investigating, the duo got nervous and killed the boy. The boy knew both and the duo feared that they would be identified if they released the boy,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Two jumbos electrocuted in Buxa Tiger Reserve||Two wild elephants were found electrocuted at the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Alipurduar on Wednesday, coincidentally observed as World Elephant Day. Foresters said two elephants came in touch with an electric pole that became lethal after a short-circuit at the Bhutri beat under the Hamiltanganj forest range of the BTR west division late on Tuesday night or before daybreak on Wednesday. The forest department filed a complaint against West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) with Kalchini police, said BTR field director Subhankar Sengupta. Forest guards out on patrolling found the two elephants apparently slumped motionless. Their posture was so unusual that the guards immediately alerted the range office. When a WBSEDCL team  disconnected the power line, the forest guards found the elephants — an adult female and a younger female — dead. A BTR official said an elephant herd had been moving in the area on Tuesday night. Two members of the herd came in contact with the live electric pole. “The short-circuit may have happened because of rain,” the forester said. “An electrical short circuit claimed the elephants’ lives. We have filed a complaint with the police. Those working in the power supply company will ensure that electric lines are checked in forest areas to avert such incidents,” said Sengupta. Animesh Bose, an environmentalist based in Siliguri, said he was shocked. “Five wildlife anti-electrocution cells were formed in North Bengal but all are inactive.” “There is simply no monitoring as to whether the areas through which wild elephants move are safe or not. That is why electrocution deaths are on the rise,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul pins hope on cops’ tribal outfit||Police in West Burdwan’s tribal-dominated areas have launched first-of-its-kind grassroots initiative for adivasi youths to address the problem of their alienation. The move stands out as local political leaders have been left out of the outreach programme that aims to improve the image of the Mamata Banerjee government. Police in Kanksa block inaugurated the Adibasi Unnayan Manch at the local police station on the occasion of World Tribal Day on Sunday. “The intention is to create a support system for tribal people in the area so that their needs and queries can be attended to without delay. The Manch will work primarily as an NGO backed by police personnel and civic volunteers,” said Abhishek Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (east). “Whether it be arranging an ambulance or clearing a doubt regarding a government scheme, this platform is here to help them,” added Gupta. Sources said the platform would function on a day-to-day basis over a WhatsApp group consisting of youths with smartphones as well as Kanksa police personnel and volunteers. “Once we are informed of a grievance through the group, we will get in touch with the local residents and respond immediately,” said Arnab Guha, inspector-in-charge of Kanksa police station. While the police are pitching it as a community initiative, sources in the Trinamul Congress said the aim was to reach out to the tribal community ahead of the next year’s Assembly polls. “The local politicians are discredited... It’s better to involve police in addressing the problems of tribal people,” said a Trinamul insider. The district police’s initiative in addressing tribal population’s grievances, ahead of a major election, has political reasons as Kanksa is home to over 67,000 voters spread across 89 villages. Traditionally supporters of the CPM, adivasis of Burdwan, along with those in neighbouring districts like Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram and West Midnapore, began shifting to Trinamul following its ascent to power in 2011. The situation, however, started changing and the relationship between Trinamul and tribal communities soured with rising reports of Trinamul leaders’ corruption and lavish lifestyles. The nadir for Trinamul reached during the 2018 rural polls when the BJP — on the back of aggressive ground campaigns by RSS branches — performed unexpectedly well. The 2019 Lok Sabha elections, said a source in Trinamul, were “the final wake-up call for the party” when the BJP did remarkably well in Bengal by bagging 18 seats and securing huge leads in the adivasi-dominated areas. “We cannot afford to ignore the rise of the BJP among the tribal communities... We are on the verge of being sunk in this area, and this initiative by the police will be the make-or-break factor for the 2021 Assembly elections,” said a local Trinamul functionary. “If people can feel they are being attended to, then it can undo some past damages,” the leader added. The similar model, sources said, would be rolled out in other tribal-dominated areas across Bengal. Nagendranath Murmu, 62, morol (head) of Adibasi Unnayan Manch in Kanksa, welcomed the move. “It is a good initiative where we can directly interact with the government and police officials. Let us see how it works now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea import plea sparks oversupply fear||A proposal by a national body of tea traders to import the produce for export has drawn flak from big and small growers in north Bengal as they think a portion of the commodity will be sold out in India where the tea industry has been plagued by the oversupply for the past five years. Two national forums of tea growers have fired off letters to Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal after they came to know that some tea traders were planning the import because of shortfall in the production in India, particularly in Bengal and Assam, in the past few months because of the lockdown and inclement weather. They have also quoted data of the Tea Board of India and pointed out that tea meant for re-export could leak into the domestic market and would eventually bring down the prices which have surged these days because of less supply. The Tea Board mentioned in one of its notifications on Tuesday that 60.35 million kilos of teas had been imported into India in the past three years and of them, only 23.43 million kilos had been re-exported. The rest 36.92 million kilos have been sold in the country. Viren Shah, chairman of the Federation of All India Tea Traders Association, however, has explained the logic for importing tea. “There has been a loss in tea production this year and prices of Indian tea have increased in the past few months. Last year, we could export around 250 million kilos of tea and to ensure that we retain the export markets, it is necessary that tea is offered at competitive prices in overseas markets. We can import tea by complying with all regulations and can use the same to develop our export front,” explained Shah. In India, importing tea from other countries draws a duty at the rate of 100 per cent if it is for domestic sale. But if tea is imported for export, the duty is nil. Tea imported from Nepal for domestic consumption attracts no duty. Vivek Goenka, chairman of the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA) — the apex body of tea planters in the country — has sent a letter to Goyal, mentioning that there had been accumulated surplus of 186 million kilos of tea in the country from 2013 till 2019. “The CCPA chairman has pointed out that if tea is imported, it can destabilise the industry and the prices. After many years, tea prices have shown a steady increase and if such prices sustain, it can largely help the industry,” said a representative of the Indian Tea Association, a constituent of CCPA. The Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers (Cista) is the other organisation which wrote to Goyal. In India, around 1.2 million workers are being employed in the tea sector. The country is one of the largest producers of tea in the world and consumes around 23 per cent of the global production, with an export share of 13 per cent. Added to the organised sector, there are over three lakh small tea growers who are also dependent on the industry. “There is a wrong contention that rise in tea prices can affect domestic consumers. In fact, it has been found that a rise of Rs 100 per kg means an increase of 20 paisa per a cup of tea. Also, this rise in prices can help in mitigating the cost of production and import of tea can affect the industry’s prospects,” said a tea planter in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||North East||Assam charts Clause 6 route||The Assam government on Wednesday said the Centre could act on the report of the home ministry-constituted committee on implementation of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord only after it has been discussed, debated and ratified by the state Assembly. “It is the responsibility of the Assam Assembly to define who is an Assamese. Twelve persons (referring to members of the Clause 6 committee) cannot take a call. It has made its recommendations but the final call will be that of the Assembly. After the recommendations have been discussed, debated and ratified by the Assembly, the Centre will act on its implementation. The Centre cannot act on its own,” cabinet minister and government spokesperson Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The All Assam Students’ Union, a signatory to the Assam Accord, had on Tuesday made public the Clause 6 committee report because the Centre was “sitting on it”. Clause 6 provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards “to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.” The committee had defined an Assamese as anyone who was living in the state from before January 1, 1951. Taking a dig at the “political” AASU, Sarma said a mechanism has to be devised to identify who were residing in the state before 1951. “Will we need to prepare a new register of 1951 population? What will happen to people who don’t have papers but have been there from before 1951?” he said. AASU president Dipanka Nath said finding people from 1951 would not be a problem because the government has already digitised the 1951 National Register of Citizens. Sarma said it would be better to leave the decisions to the next state Assembly members because “we are at the fag end of our tenure”. “We need to tread cautiously. The Clause 6 committee has given us two years’ time for the implementation of the recommendations. The committee has also said some of the recommendations are complex and need to be examined by a three-member committee. But I want to assure everyone that the government is committed to implementing Clause 6 recommendations,” Sarma said. Election to the 126-member Assembly is likely in 2021 April-May. The next Assembly session is on August 31. The day also saw two senior Congress leaders — former chief minister Tarun Gogoi and CLP leader Debabrata Saikia — hitting out at the BJP-led governments for not being sincere in implementing the Clause 6 committee report. Gogoi said the member-secretary of the committee, Satyendra Garg, a senior official of the Union home ministry, had not signed the report. “How can they implement Clause 6 without withdrawing the Citizenship Amendment Act? These are contradictory. It is another jumla of the BJP,” Gogoi said. Saikia said his observation last year that the BJP was “never sincere” about implementing Clause 6 has come true with AASU making public the committee’s report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
13-08-2020||North East||‘Trust deficit’ in Ravi casts cloud on Naga talks||The National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) has urged the Centre to look beyond R.N. Ravi as the interlocutor of the ongoing Naga peace talks as he had allegedly “twisted the Framework Agreement to justify his own narrative” on the pact. Asserting that the “most high-profile” peace process in Southeast Asia has reached “the tipping point” because of Ravi’s “vitriolic attack” on the Naga issue, the NSCN (I-M), in a no-holds-barred five-page statement on Tuesday night, accused Ravi of having “misled” the parliamentary standing committee on the steps taken to resolve the Naga issue. The outfit, in ceasefire with the Centre since 1997 to amicably resolve the Naga political issue, has made the accusations at a time its collective leadership is holding talks with Union home ministry officials in Delhi to remove hurdles delaying a final solution to the issue. Ravi, a signatory to the Framework Agreement on behalf of the Centre on August 3, 2015, is also in Delhi for the talks. The NSCN (I-M) said a line in the “modified” Framework Agreement circulated among 14 Naga tribes and organisations by Ravi states, “It is a matter of great satisfaction that dialogue between the Government of India and the NSCN has successfully concluded and we are confident it will provide for an enduring inclusive relationship of peaceful co-existence of two entities.” The outfit said the line should have read “it will provide for an enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence of the two entities.” It alleged that Ravi had removed the word “new”, which has become the point of conflict, delaying the peace process. “Significantly, the word ‘new’ is politically sensitive as it goes to define the meaning of peaceful co-existence of the two entities (two sovereign powers). “Further, ‘NEW relationship’ strongly indicates (it is) outside the purview of Indian Constitution. When ‘NEW’ is removed there is room for misinterpreting it as under Indian Constitution,” the outfit said in the statement. The NSCN (I-M) has also accused Ravi of lacking in transparency, using “unparliamentary words” with its negotiating team, creating the Naga National Political Groups as a third party in the ongoing peace process and misleading Naga tribes and organisations on the Framework Agreement, among others. “The issue is now in the court of the Government of India that should come out with an undertaking that the FA is still alive in its original form and to be handled by somebody other than R.N. Ravi, who is sensitive enough to understand and respect what has been achieved during the past 23 years,” the statement said. The allegations reflected the strained relationship between the NSCN (I-M) and Ravi, which came to the fore following the latter’s June 16 letter to chief minister Neiphiu Rio touching on the “grim law and order and rampant extortion” by “armed gangs” followed by his direction to profile government employees having links with underground elements. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “guiding and supervising signing of the historic Framework Agreement, the NSCN (I-M) said the “very doings of his representative Ravi” has cast a “huge trust deficit” as his role has come to be seen as nothing short of “disowning” the Framework Agreement. Efforts to contact Ravi proved futile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
13-08-2020||Opinion||Ill omen: Jimmy Lai in chains||Sir — The arrest of the media tycoon and founder of Apple Daily, Jimmy Lai, on charges of collusion with a foreign country — a vaguely defined crime under the new anti-sedition law adopted by Beijing — is alarming. Lai’s detention — he is a vocal critic of the Chinese Communist Party and has supported the democracy movement in Hong Kong — sends an ominous message about the future of the freedom of the press and citizens in the region. The global community must come together and ensure that the rights enjoyed by the residents of Hong Kong thus far are not completely decimated.Raya Sinha,Calcutta Colossal victory Sir — The overwhelming mandate given to the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna led by Mahinda Rajapaksa in the recent parliamentary elections in our neighbouring country is a reflection of the unwavering popularity of the strongman leader who recorded the highest number of individual preference votes in the electoral history of the country (“Rajapaksa to take oath today”, Aug 9). His victory, along with that of his brother, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, last year, is indicative of the rise of Sinhala-Buddhist nationalism in the island. The SLPP’s win has led to concerns that soon Sri Lanka might descend into authoritarianism. The electorate’s assertion of a majoritarian nationalist impulse is, however, not unique to Sri Lanka. It is true of many countries, including our own, where a government with a numerical superiority in Parliament and a weak and fractious Opposition has been able to undermine democracy and create a sense of insecurity among the minorities. With a two-thirds majority in the unicameral Parliament, the Rajapaksas can now amend the Constitution to restore presidential powers and simultaneously limit other institutions. As populist leaders, they are unlikely to face resistance if they militarize the country or crack down on dissent. Whether they will prioritize the pandemic, the revival of the economy and debt reduction remains to be seen. The Rajapaksa brothers have a contentious history with the Tamil population in the country. The civil war between the Sinhalese majority and Tamil minority — there have been concerns of grave human rights violations perpetrated on the latter — is a dark chapter in the history of the nation. The Rajapaksas, who held key administrative posts at the height of the civil war, have been under global scrutiny for their role in handling the crisis. It will also be interesting to see how Colombo manages its diplomatic relations with both New Delhi and Beijing who are currently at loggerheads with one another.G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It seems that the authoritative and staunch nationalist leader, Mahinda Rajapaksa, is once again back as the prime minister of Sri Lanka. Although Maithripala Sirisena and Ranil Wickremesinghe earlier joined hands to oust the strongman leader from power, this uneasy alliance proved to be short-lived, paving the way for the Rajapaksa brothers to return to power. The heinous terrorist attack on Easter last year was the final nail in the coffin which convinced ordinary Sri Lankans that there is an urgent need for a strong leader at the helm. The electoral victory of Gotabaya Rajapaksa as the president of Sri Lanka in 2019 was the first step towards the Rajapaksas reclaiming power. As the elder Rajapaksa brother assumes power as the prime minister of the country with a two-thirds majority, there is no doubt that the brothers will attempt to amend the Constitution to their benefit. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Tearful goodbye Sir — The article by Ruchir Joshi on Mumbai bidding goodbye to the Fiat taxi made me nostalgic (“City on wheels”, Aug 11). The piece instantly reminded me of my first taxi ride in the city in the late 1980s, when I went there with my parents during summer vacation. We boarded the taxi from Victoria Terminus and embarked upon an enjoyable ride of 15 to 20 minutes to the hotel. I remember that the interior of the vehicle was clean and the driver was extremely polite. It was, thus, wonderful to be reminded of that time and of Mumbai’s iconic kaali-peeli Fiat taxi. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — The Fiat taxis of Mumbai have always been an integral part of the larger economy of the city, which can justly boast about being the financial capital of India. As someone from Calcutta, I am amazed by the efficiency and resourcefulness of the residents of Mumbai every time I visit the city. Mumbai also has sprawling greenery and its efficient transportation facilities hold the city together. The iconic Fiat taxi, which is an enduring symbol of Mumbai, will be sorely missed. Anupam Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||Desert storm: Sachin Pilot's 'ghar wapsi'||It appears that the enfant terrible would be accommodated in the Congress’s fold in Rajasthan. Sachin Pilot, who had raised the banner of rebellion briefly against Ashok Gehlot’s government, may have resigned himself to a quiet return to the party but the question is whether he would be willing to don the garb of the proverbial prodigal son. The word is Mr Pilot’s ghar wapsi is an act of political pragmatism. The possibility of Mr Gehlot’s government surviving a test of numbers may have unnerved some of the ‘rebels’ who had sided with Mr Pilot: one of the principal dissenters is reported to have pledged his support and that of five other MLAs for Mr Gehlot. The developments have undoubtedly strengthened the grip of Mr Gehlot who demonstrated political spine and wisdom to neutralize a threat to his government. Would Mr Pilot be content to remain in the shadow of the chief minister? The answer is critical to the future of the Congress as a political force. Schisms and petty rivalries have been the bane of the Congress, enabling an ambitious, aggressive Bharatiya Janata Party to repeatedly engineer defections within the party and topple elected governments. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka are two recent examples. The Congress may have managed to cling on to power in Rajasthan but it needs to find a way to douse internal flames not only for its political survival but also to retain its credibility as a viable alternative to the BJP. There is also an urgent need to fill the leadership vacuum in the party to energize its cadre and, possibly, adopt strategies to contain the erosion. The BJP, having bagged Jyotiraditya Scindia and, with him, the throne in Madhya Pradesh, would be disappointed with the outcome in Rajasthan. ‘Operation Lotus’, evidently, does not bloom on every kind of political turf. Does Vasundhara Raje’s inertia also mean that the BJP is not without its own enfants terribles?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||Poor pickings: Agricultural infrastructure fund||The prime minister has announced, as part of continuing economic interventions to stimulate recovery from the recessionary trends, an agricultural infrastructure fund to the tune of one lakh crore spread over four years in the form of soft loans. These loans will have a 3 per cent interest subvention and a credit guarantee of up to two crore rupees. The initial tranche of Rs 10,000 crore has been released for this year, to be followed by additional tranches of Rs 30,000 crore each for the next three years. Eleven banks have signed up to be part of this lending process. The beneficiaries are expected to be primary agri-credit societies, farmer-producer organizations, start-ups and agri-tech businesses. The projects funded are supposed to improve post-harvest management of the distribution and storage network, such as cold chains, collection centres and warehousing facilities. It will reduce wastage and help farmers get a better price for their produce. The government anticipates that growth in these facilities will generate additional employment and enhance post-harvest value addition. There is little doubt that Indian agriculture lacks an efficient supply chain. The small farmer hardly ever benefits from fair prices at the first point of sale. When supplies are low, they cannot hold on to their produce because of the lack of storage facilities. If there is a good harvest, they try to sell as fast as possible expecting prices to fall further when sales gather momentum. In either case, they are deprived of the margin that markets eventually provide to the final sellers. The key question is whether this package will help the small and marginal farmers in the short run on the doubtful assumption that there will be many takers of these loans. There is an important issue that might prevent the poorest of the poor in agriculture from benefiting from this fund. Initially, when these additional services come into being, food prices will rise to take care of the costs of running modern technology-driven collection centres or cold chains. In other words, the average price of food will increase. Gradually, as wastage is reduced, the supply-side effect will come into play, and prices might soften. This will not benefit farmers directly unless they can ensure, through collective bargaining, a fair share of the new profits generated in the system. Such investments are more likely to be made by corporates and young, tech-savvy entrepreneurs. Poor farmers are incapable of handling these complex projects. They can neither turn into modern entrepreneurs, nor will they be able to extract a price advantage even if there is significant investment in these services. The fundamental issue of introducing a soil-conserving, productivity-enhancing, environment-friendly technology for the benefit of small and marginal farmers remains unaddressed. Hence the gains from growth in Indian agriculture will be confined to the corporate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||The crisis of language and its recovery||Does language shape thought, or does thought shape language? The answer, perhaps, is a bit of both. Without vocabulary, we cannot express ourselves in all the ways that make us human, just as phrases cannot be born without the vortex of imagination that produces, and is, in turn, reproduced from culture. To pronounce that language is in crisis is to imply the same about thought and culture. The nature of language is such that it is bound to be in a perpetual negotiation between the shifting sands of connotation and interpretation. What, however, makes the present moment distinct is how acute (yet largely unacknowledged) this struggle has become, reaching a stage where the distortion of language is commonplace. The primary hub of linguistic dysfunction is social media. In classical Greece, public discourse was shaped through oracular enunciation in a type of opinion leadership that was top-down, passing from the enlightened to the ordinary. In the nascent stages of the American republic, the printing press democratized informed debate, as is documented exquisitely in Neil Postman’s iconic text, Amusing Ourselves to Death. We are now living in another inflection point of language; the age of split-second semantics, a form of language that has become an inseparable component of the digital domain. Scrolling through social media makes it glaring how language is decontextualized. This is done by taking complex and elaborate concepts and reducing them into a single coinage for maximum emphasis of opinion and maximum dilution of insight. ‘Anti-national’, ‘urban Naxal’, ‘sickular’, ‘fascist’, among countless other phrases floating in social media, are deployed without any exposition of what such slippery terms are meant to convey. Since the peculiarities of algorithms sustain online echo chambers — where validation and virality, and not verification and veracity, take precedence — few take the pains to point out that in the absence of locating what ‘national’ is, abusing someone by tagging them as ‘anti-national’ makes no sense. Similarly, a grievous error is committed when every supporter of an autocratic, populist politician is branded ‘right-wing’. Words are thus weaponized as part of the face-offs between keyboard warriors. The aforementioned misuse of language on social media partly stems from the fact that as a society, we can no longer handle abstract words with any degree of sophistication. When it comes to substantiating the intangible or the metaphysical, a multitude of contrasting, (and often) contradictory inferences start jostling with each other. The fact that so much of our cultural currency is generated through social media means that every aspect of life is influenced by the medium. Political speeches, which have dissociated themselves from serious polemics, have been reduced to unadulterated mud-slinging. Even as they invoke ad hominem arguments, today’s politicians make no effort to maintain structural coherence or continuity, jumping from one insult to another while filling the interludes with flamboyant calls for nationalistic resurgence.  Realpolitik, therein, becomes couched in a language that employs artifice to say very little of real value. Language, therefore, becomes a deflector of attention rather than an agent of scrutiny and ideation that it was supposed to be in a robust democracy. What, then, is to be done to recover from the crisis of language? The first step is to accept that there is a crisis. Given the function of language and how it evolves in modern society, it is not possible to create a manifesto, as George Orwell did in his essay, “Politics and the English Language”, that can warrant or expect adherence. What can happen, however, is the cultivation of attitudes that begins to chip away at its problematic understanding. Such an attitude must be rooted in scepticism, in affording time and perspective to comprehending what a word really means and how it has been put to use historically. But this scepticism should not spill over into the censorious territory of political correctness where permissibility is policed under the garb of protecting free speech. A less demanding approach would be the adoption of levity — the ability to take ourselves less seriously or exercise words with caution. Levity would also connect directly with the physical world where politicians can introduce candour, humour and purpose to whatever they say knowing fully well that in speaking, they are only defending a policy or a point of view and not their selves. Ultimately, a resurgence of language relies on a resurgence of thought. We have surrendered a large part of our creative and intellectual capacities to the dictates of language that have been erected either as propaganda or as an outgrowth of linguistic irreverence. Once this acceptance takes place, there still may not be an immediate recovery of language, but we would have, at least, arrested a crisis that is fast eroding the bases of how we speak, write, and think.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||Slash and burn||A remarkable positive lesson of the Covid-19-induced lockdowns has been a better understanding of what our daily activities do to nature. It was like a controlled experiment in a laboratory: with the economy shut down for all practical purposes, there were blue skies, cleaner air and rivers, and greater visibility of animals moving out of forests with less fear as they checked out the world we share with them. Of course, economic lockdowns cannot be the cure for continuous environmental decay. However, it was a lesson that should remove doubts in the minds of those who still believe that humans are the masters of the universe and the rest of nature is at our service, to be used and exploited at will. Another important lesson that the pandemic is teaching us is the fact that we can all survive on much less than what we actually consume. Our material needs are often inessential and induced by the bombarding of corporate advertisements. Instead of consuming to live, we have begun living to consume. Consumption has become an end in itself. Two important conclusions can be drawn from the interrelated lessons. The first is that the obsession with economic growth measured by the aggregate statistic called gross domestic product is inadequate to indicate the well-being of the people and the planet they inhabit. Moreover, the usual activities of production and consumption inflict severe damage to the natural environment, polluting life-support systems like clean air, fresh water and fertile soil as well as exhausting non-renewable natural resources like oil and mineral ores. Hence, if there is a return to business-as-usual after the pandemic wanes, the systematic damage of the natural environment will continue. That can only jeopardize life on this planet, including human life, both for the present as well as for future generations. The second conclusion is that alternatives to an exclusive obsession with aggregate growth are possible, with more emphasis on a fairer distribution of existing resources and wealth, coupled with higher stress on creative pursuits and culture. John Stuart Mill described it in his prescription for a steady-State where a low growth-rate was accompanied by what he described as a cultivation of the “social graces”. Many thinkers are trying to imagine a world after Covid-19. Most believe that many things will have to change: how we work, how we travel, how we socialize, healthcare systems, the delivery of educational services and so on. Nations will have a chance to reset their economic priorities. Not that all nations will exercise that option. Many will return to business-as-usual with terrible long-term consequences. Business, politics, and even science have got enmeshed in a web of myopic greed. Tomorrow is just another new day to make money and dominate nature. The world, in the recent past, has witnessed the emergence of authoritarian leaders in many countries who believe that protecting the environment is a liberal conspiracy to reduce profits and economic development. India, too, has an option to change the course of economic development towards a more sustainable one. The nation had been one of the pioneers of an international movement for environmental protection and has a comprehensive set of legislations on different aspects of environmental conservation. It is another matter altogether that there has been a widening gap between the ground reality and the law. India was ranked 177 out of 180 nations measured by the Environmental Performance Index published by Yale University in 2018. India has marginally improved its rank to 168 in 2020. Most experts believe that India has to redouble its efforts at sustainable development. The Union government does not seem to share that view. A recent development in the law is a newly amended notification of the Environmental Impact Assessment 2020 replacing the earlier EIA of 2006. The EIA entails that any development project must get a clearance from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change to ensure that the project does not damage the natural environment beyond repair. The clearance was mandatory before any major development project could commence. There has been some amount of dilution in the reading and the interpretation of the EIA notification since 2006. Business lobbies have complained about the clearance, claiming that it takes too long to prepare the documents. Then the government took an even longer time to give the clearance. Perhaps in response to these complaints, the National Democratic Alliance government has come up with the amended version, which will set the environmental management clock back. Two basic principles guide environmental management. Since nature is a shared resource belonging to everybody, changes brought about by large projects need to be understood by the people — the beneficiaries as well as by those adversely affected by the damage caused by building the artefacts of the project. Hence people’s participation in decision-making is of utmost importance. Many of the benefits and the damages are uncertain. In such a situation, the precautionary principle of risk management is adopted which suggests that in the presence of prima facie evidence that an action can cause heavy environmental damage, it would be best not to adopt it. This is better than allowing the damage to occur, and then trying to make repairs. Expert opinion is needed for these assessments. It reflects the philosophy of prevention being better than cure. The new EIA seems to violate both these principles. In a rush to attract new investments, the government has virtually done away with public consultation in the assessment process and also the use of expert opinion. Even reports of violations of environmental laws made by affected parties can now be ignored by the government. Penalties in the form of remedial action can be levied by a government agency or a regulator on the basis of a suo moto admission by the project developer that a law has been violated. It is not clear why developers would like to bring penalties upon themselves. There is a long list of industries exempt from EIA clearance altogether: coal, oil, methane and shale oil to name a few. All these can create heavy pollution and natural destruction. National parks, roads and highway construction have also been given a large leeway to encroach upon the environment. Ex-post facto clearances can be given by the government in such cases. The document is open to many ambiguities and different interpretations. This can only encourage opportunistic behaviour by business and government alike. In the last few years, more than 4,000 hectares of forest land have been diverted for coal-mining. In a grim finding, a World Bank study stated that almost 23 per cent of mortality among children under five is due to environmental factors — of which 12.6 per cent of children pass away due to concerns with water supply, sanitation and hygiene while indoor air pollution claims 9.8 per cent of the children. Unsurprisingly, the report noted that the damage caused by environmental degradation affects the poor population more. Rich and powerful businessmen will be happy with the new EIA notification. The poor will hardly know what its implications are to their lives. It will improve the ease of doing business, but it will also cause irreparable harm to the nation’s future. The obsessive engagement with GDP is an erroneous understanding of what constitutes economic and social well-being at best and is a supreme act of anthropogenic arrogance at the worst. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhoni tests Covid negative: Sources||Mahendra Singh Dhoni, former Team India skipper and long-standing captain as well as mentor of Chennai Super Kings (CSK), is believed to have cleared his Covid-19 test, sources in the state health department hinted on Thursday. Dhoni’s samples were collected by a private hospital in Ranchi — Gurunanak hospital and research centre -- on Wednesday afternoon. Dr Pooja Sahai, a pathologist associated with the Covid-19 lab of the hospital, last night said the report was submitted to the government as per the norms without elaborating any further. A source in Ranchi civil surgeon’s office on Thursday evening claimed that the 39-year-old cricketer tested negative. “His reports are negative but they haven’t been uploaded to the ICMR’s Covid-19 portal as per the norms,” he said, requesting anonymity. Ranchi civil surgeon V.B. Prasad and state health secretary Nitin Kulkarni declined to comment. Ahead of this year’s Indian Premier League which is scheduled to be held in the UAE from September 19, Dhoni got himself tested before flying to Chennai to join his team. The team is likely to head to Dubai on August 21. In the past five days, 116 people have been cured of Covid-19 in Bokaro. Of the 523 persons who tested positive for the coronavirus since March, 352 of have been cured while four died. Those who died included elderly patients with co-morbidity. Currently, there are 171 active cases in the district. Barring a few symptomatic patients, the majority of them are stable. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh on Thursday appealed to residents not to panic and follow Covid-19 protocols. There has been a spike in positive cases since June. Delays in the reporting of test results, which have affected contact tracing, are said to be the main reason behind the spurt. The district health department has said the majority of positive cases are asymptomatic. On Thursday, 35 fresh cases surfaced in the district. Twenty-seven people were released from Bokaro General Hospital, district Covid-19 care centre and Zaika Resort Isolation Centre. At least 43 patients were released from the Covid-19 centre on August 9. Another 31 patients were released on August 11. On Wednesday, 27 patients were released. Singh said the situation was under control. Testing has been ramped up. There were 541 samples collected and sent for examination on Wednesday, of which 357 were sent to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, Dhanbad. District epidemiologist Pawan Srivastava said: “Efforts are on to increase the number of tests. The rise in the number of positive cases is a concern, but more people are getting cured. Our teams are visiting containment zones for sample collection. At sadar hospital, many people are coming for tests themselves.” The Garhwa deputy commissioner, who is also the chairman of the district disaster management authority, has decided to demarcate three communities as containment zones under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act. Rajesh Kumar Pathak in his order has prohibited the entry and exit of people at Jatpura, Tikar Ward 11 and Ward 8. Pathak has instructed the health department to complete the survey of houses in containment zones. Downloading the Arogya Setu app has been made mandatory for residents. Pathak has appealed to all the people living in the containment zones to stay home. Shops falling under the containment zones and private and public institutions will remain closed with immediate effect. Essential items and medicines will be supplied to the residents. The demand to restore the jobs of those who were laid off by Vedanta group’s Electrosteel Steels Ltd (ESL) during the Covid-19 lockdown is growing stronger. Chandankyari MLA and former revenue minister Amar Bauri met deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh on Wednesday and requested him to take necessary steps to restore the jobs. ESL should provide other basic amenities to people residing in peripheral areas of the plant, Bauri said. Around 700 workers were fired by ESL during the lockdown. After intervention by the district administration, ESL has started reinstating them back, but in phases. On July 31, many of the retrenched workers had met the deputy commissioner. They had pleaded with Singh for help in getting their jobs back. Based on their complaint, Singh had asked the labour department to conduct an inquiry and submit a report on the issue. On August 7, labour superintendent, Bokaro, Harender Kumar Singh wrote a letter to chief executive officer, ESL, Pankaj Malhan asking him to clarify the company’s stand. On August 8, ESL’s chief people officer S. Venkataraman submitted a reply to the labour department, which was sent to the deputy commissioner on Thursday. An official said: “ESL’s letter mentioned that as per company’s commitment, of the balance 629 workers, the company had engaged more than 437 contract workers through its contractors between June and July. ESL stated that there were a few Covid-19 cases reported among its employees. So, it is following the necessary protocols. As per its commitment, ESL tried to call back all the balance 192 contract workmen by July. “The employees have been called in batches starting from July 26 with a plan to make them join by August 1. But due to the Covid-19 cases, we advised them to continue to stay at home by protecting their 15 days’ wage,” the letter stated. The head of corporate communication, Vedanta ESL, Shilpi Shukla, has not commented on the issue. Bauri said he had handed a nine-point demand letter to the deputy commissioner requesting him to ensure that ESL restores all jobs. “I have demanded health and educational facilities for children of local residents, especially those who have given land for construction of companies in Siyaljori of Chandankyari block. A quality hospital and school should be constructed. Local unemployed youths should be given priority in small and big contracts. The ESL management should provide a list of welfare work done under CSR,” said Bauri. Two workers were injured when a sack full of crackers slipped from their hands and burst at a warehouse in Bazaar Samiti of Chas on Thursday. SDP, Chas, Bhagwan Das said police visited the spot and inquired into the matter. The incident occurred when a sack of “potato” crackers slipped from a worker’s hands, fell on the ground and burst. Two workers, Sanjay Sharma and Badal Lal Yadav, were hurt. Yadav suffered serious injuries. After the incident, both the injured were admitted to a private hospital in Chas. Das said an investigation was on to ascertain whether the cracker warehouse had a licence. A large quantity of firecrackers has been seized from the warehouse. Sharma told the police that the incident occurred when the crackers were being loaded onto a truck. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheshwaram on Thursday carried out a site inspection of the shuttered FCI hospital in Sindri at the instance of deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. The visit was to explore the possibility of revival of the hospital as per a proposal of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL) in association with Associated Cement Company (ACC). Talking to media, he said: “As the condition of the hospital building is poor, there is no scope for the immediate launch of any Covid-19 treatment centre here; however, after repairs it can be used for treatment of non-Covid-19 patients in two-three months.” The 205-bed hospital established in the early 1950s was one of biggest hospitals of the region with all kinds of facilities, including OPD and emergency. The Dhanbad district administration will felicitate 22 frontline “coronavirus warriors” -- including nurses, lab technicians, ward boys, ambulance drivers, hospital sweepers -- engaged in the handling of dead Covid-19 patients during the Independence Day parade at Golf Ground. At the event, three persons who beat Covid-19, including the first person of district to recover, Md Allauddin; the youngest person who defeated the coronavirus, Ritwi Chaurasia (four months old); and cancer-affected 77-year-old Paramjit Kaur will also be felicitated. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the Intermediate science, arts and commerce toppers will also be felicitated at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||State scholarship for tribal students to study abroad||The state government is planning a special scholarship scheme which will allow meritorious tribal students to pursue higher studies in top foreign universities, sources from the chief minister's office (CMO) in Ranchi said on Thursday. The scheme is likely to be announced during the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday. The state government hasn’t released any official communication as yet. “The scheme may also cover meritorious students belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Other Backward Caste (OBC) categories,” the chief minister's aide said. A special secretary ranked official in the Department of Welfare said that the CMO has asked the department to work on a scholarship scheme for meritorious tribal students from the state. However, according to him, the scheme is at a nascent stage as the welfare department is still working on the scholarship amount and other details. “It would be too early to comment on the scholarship and the benefits that it will offer to students of the tribal community,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The Hemant Soren-led UPA coalition in Jharkhand has been vocal about prioritising tribal development in the state. Addressing an event on the occasion of International Day of the World's Indigenous People in Ranchi recently, Hemant had said that holistic growth and development of the tribal community should be prioritised. This scholarship scheme for foreign education is likely to help tribal students get 100 per cent scholarship for pursuing higher studies in 30 renowned universities, including Oxford University and Harvard University, sources from the CMO shared. The government already runs scholarship programmes for class 10 pass tribal, SC and OBC students. Students willing to pursue engineering and medical courses are encouraged to avail existing scholarship schemes. The chief minister will hoist the national flag at 9am on Saturday at Ranchi's Morhabadi Ground and also address a gathering of limited guests. He is likely to talk about the scheme during the event. Preserving tribal rights and developing the community were among the major agendas of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) during the 2019 elections. Since taking charge as the CM, Hemant has spoken about tribal uplift in almost all of his public addresses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Fresh SOPs ask govt officers not to use car ACs||All government officials have been told not to use their car air conditioners while travelling to work in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the instruction included in a fresh set of SOPs issued by the state health department on Thursday. All deputy commissioners have also been asked to ensure the presence of a minimum workforce at their official residences. Notably, over 2,500 police personnel and roughly over 1,500 government employees have so far tested positive for the coronavirus in the last month. On Wednesday, eight forest department officials tested positive in Simdega after they took part in a birthday bash hosted by one of them at his residence earlier this week. As per Thursday’s SOP, all officials were directed to keep a minimum workforce at their office/official residence. “There have been instances when officials/security posted at the office and official residences have tested positive for Covid-19. This led to the spread of the virus among family members of the official. Hence, it is now mandated to review the requirement of workforce/helpers/assistants at office/official residences,” read the order signed by state health secretary Nitin Kulkarni. The SOPs also stated that those deputed permanently official residences stay in the barracks. “However, keeping social distancing norms (six feet) in mind, it is possible that barracks get overcrowded. Hence, it is advised to cut down on manpower to ensure social distancing within the barracks round-the-clock,” the order noted, adding that all visitors to government offices or at official residences must be registered. “Most importantly, to curb the spread of the virus, avoid using air conditioners in vehicles during official movement and keep the windows open,” the SOP read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Graffiti 'in blood' baffles police in Daltonganj||The appearance of graffiti, with the letters PUBG painted apparently with human blood, on the railing of a bridge on Thursday has baffled police here, prompting SDPO Sandip Kumar Gupta to send samples scraped off the cement surface for testing. “The letters, PUBG, were written with blood. I went there and saw it myself. The colour suggests it is human blood and not of any animal,” he said. “We will have it tested,” he added. PUBG, or PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, is an online, multiplayer action-shooter which became one of the most popular smartphone games in India. The game involves a group of 100 players stranded on an island, from where only one person (or a group, if you decide to team-up) makes it out alive, emerging as the winner. Players land without weapons but can pick up a variety of guns, bombs, blades, camouflage clothing and various other equipment along the way to outdo their opponents. The Union government was considering prohibiting PUBG Mobile owned by tech giant Tencent Games, along with other China-backed apps, according to a report by NDTV. Gupta said police had spoken to local residents, but none of them had seen anyone. He said the bridge over river Amanat, barely 5km from the town, was a part of NH-75. “There is traffic here at all times of the day and night,” he said, adding that it was strange no one saw anything. “It looks as though the word, PUB G, was written with a lot of effort. No brush was used,” he said. There was blood on the edge of the road too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Road between Shramik Chowk to Katras More in bad shape||The condition of the 6km stretch of the Jharia-Dhanbad road between Shramik Chowk to Katras More in Dhanbad has turned from bad to worse, as potholes are inviting accidents and leading to traffic jams on a regular basis. Worse, is the scenario of the 100m stretch between Shramik Chowk to Bank More overbridge and another 200m stretch near Bastacola between Aina Kothi and RSP College, as large number of potholes have developed at both the places due to water logging during the recent spell of monsoon rains. The potholes on the narrow stretch under the railway overbridge near Shramik Chowk are overflowing with water from the adjoining drain. The poor condition of the Bastacola stretch has been caused due to a leakage from the underground water supply pipeline of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), and due to an improperly slated road built by contractor Balkrishna Bhalotia. The 6km stretch of the road between Bank More to Katras More had been fourlaned and strengthened by the state road construction department at a cost of around Rs 44.83 crore in 2015-16. Ownership of the stretch between Shramik Chowk to Bank More Flyover is disputed as State Highway Authority of Jharkhand, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and state Road Construction Department are holding each other responsible for the repair of the road. “We are working on a project worth Rs 80 crore for the straightening of the 40km road from Bank More to the Purulia Border, part of NH-218, including the 6 km stretch of Bank More to Katras More. The proposal has already been sent to the state’s chief engineer of national highways for approval,” said Amrendra Saha, executive engineer of the road construction department. Regarding the stretch between Shramik Chowk to Gaya Bridge, a senior officer of the department said, “Though we handed over the road to National Highway Authority of India way back in 2016, we had carried out temporary repairs during the last year on humanitarian grounds and will repair the road again tonight temporarily.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Agriculture dept begins deliberations on farm loan waivers||The state agriculture department has also begun efforts to roll out a Rs 2,000 crore farm loan waiver scheme, among the key announcements in the Jharkhand Budget presented by the Hemant Soren government soon after coming to power seven months ago. On Thursday afternoon, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh held a meeting with officials to work out details of the scheme expected to benefit around 5 lakh small and marginal farmers. Agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique said the meeting was aimed at chalking out modalities of the loan waiver plan. “Today’s meet was the first in line with the government’s vision to implement the scheme. It will take some time before a formal roll out is possible as we want to ensure everything is fool- proof before implementation,” he said. The agriculture secretary ruled out the possibility of a formal announcement on the scheme’s rollout at this year’s Independence Day programme. Earlier, Patralekh flagged off a consignment of over 1 tonne vegetables for Dubai, a first of its kind initiative undertaken by the state government to send locally cultivated horticultural produce to overseas markets. The consignment comprising close to a dozen varieties of green vegetables was sent to Calcutta via road. From there it is expected to be sent to Dubai by air cargo. Secretary of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Ranchi division, Abhishek Anand said they had tied up with All Seasons Farm Fresh, a private agency with offices in Jamshedpur and Mumbai, for this initiative. “Vegetables which were sent today (Thursday) included 300kg bitter gourd, 50kg ladies finger, 150kg bottle gourd, 50kg French beans, 100 kg coccinia grandis (kundru), 100kg long beans, among others. After procuring directly from farmers, we packaged them for overseas market,” he said. Anand said they were planning to export a similar consignment to Singapore next month, modalities for which were being worked out. Minister Patralekh said his department was also working out an export policy for agricultural produce which would be launched in the next few months. “Providing the right price and market to farmers is one of our election promises,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Brace for heavy rain this I-Day||It is likely to be a wet Independence Day this year. For IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued a red alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall (between 64.5mm to 115mm) over Jharkhand on August 15 and August 16 due to the impact of a low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal. The intensity of rain will be more in southern and western Jharkhand covering the three districts of Kolhan (East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan), Simdega, Gumla, Khunti and Lohardaga. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said, "Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal off Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts, a low-pressure area has formed over North West Bay of Bengal. This would result in heavy to very heavy rainfall over isolated places in Jharkhand on August 15 and 16. Heavy rain is also expected in northern parts of Jharkhand on August 17." Kotal said a north-south trough, extending 3.1km above sea level from north Bihar to west central Bay of Bengal across Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal, had merged with the cyclonic system. This would give further momentum to the rainfall activity. On Thursday, the monsoon trough at mean sea level passed through Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum. Meteorological data suggest that southwest monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall was recorded at Latehar at 87.8 mm. Koderma, Daltonganj and Godda recorded moderate rainfall. Weathermen at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta also predicted heavy showers in Jharkhand on August 15 and 16. " The low-pressure area has formed over north west Bay of Bengal off Odisha and West Bengal coasts. It will trigger heavy rainfall in Jharkhand this weekend," said a duty officer at the Calcutta weather office. Weatherman said the downpour will help in bringing down the rain deficit in Jharkhand which was currently at 14 per cent. So far, Jharkhand has received 565.3 mm rain against a normal of 655.4 mm, leading to a deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid pushes tribal long distance runner into despair ||24-year-old long distance runner Arjun Tudu no longer looks at his medals and trophies with pride, as unemployment has pushed him into despair. The youth has won senior national championships but the state government has done little to look at his exploits, leave aside offering him employment. Arjun, a tribal who lives at suburban Nagadih in Jamshedpur, is forced to work as a daily wager to sustain his family. He is married and lives with his two brothers, their families and aunt. Arjun somehow manages to make ends meet thanks to Tata Steel sports wing’s monthly allowance of Rs 8,000. He trains at JRD Tata Sports Complex and the steel major, keeping in mind Arjun’s talent, is offering him dietary support. “I am jobless for more than five years now. The allowance from Tata Steel is not enough for my family’s survival. I am the sole breadwinner in my family since my younger siblings are also jobless. I have been working as a daily wager for some years but that engagement is not regular owing to the Covid-induced situation. I am very frustrated and hate to look at my accomplishments,” said Arjun. Arjun lost his mother when he was young. His father remarried and lives separately, leaving his three sons to fend for themselves. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Arjun said he used to get work as a daily wager before the nationwide lockdown. “I used to get a daily wage of Rs 280 earlier when work was regular but the lockdown has now snatched that little earning. Don’t know what to do,” he said, cursing the virus. Arjun used to manage the expenses of his family by competing and winning prize money in marathons organized by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur, Calcutta and Bhubaneswar. But these events look a non-starter thanks to Covid, and pressure is building for the young athlete. “I started athletics at the age of 14 with dreams of making a career out of it. I have donned Jharkhand jerseys in over 10 junior and senior national meets. I have won silver in the Federation Cup (Under-20)  National Meet in 2015, besides claiming two bronze medals at the East Zone event in 2017 . I also represented Jharkhand in the 35th National Games in Kerala. But my feats were not enough to land me a job,” Arjun rued. To make matters worse, his application for a direct employment in a government job under the sports quota was also rejected recently. His application to the government for a cash award for claiming medals has also not found any takers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Tatas back Dhanbad’s Covid fight with 10 ventilators||Dhanbad district administration's effort to beef up Covid treatment facilities by adding new treatment centres with adequate infrastructure received a boost on Thursday with Tata Sons supporting the efforts of deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. GM of Tata Steel Jharia Division Sanjay Rajoria presented 10 ventilators to the district administration on behalf of Tata Sons at the district collectorate in the presence of, among others, Tata Steel Jharia Division Head (administration) Gopal Nath Jha. Singh said they received 18 ventilators from the state government earlier, while Tata Sons provided 10 more on Thursday. “These ventilators would be used to treat Covid patients. These would be installed at the Dedicated Covid Hospital at Jagjivan Nagar, the Dedicated Covid Health Centre at PMCH Cath Lab, the Dedicated Covid Health Centre at Sadar Hospital, besides the Dedicate Covid Health Centre at Tata Central Hospital in Jamadoba,” he said. Singh said the district administration was trying to increase the number of beds for Covid patients to 1,000, but that the immediate target was 700. “We have sufficient workforce as per the requirement of treatment centres so there is no need to panic,” he said. Tata Steel GM of Jharia Division Rajoria said they had provided 3,500 face shields for the policemen working on the frontlines to SSP Akhilesh B Verior on August 6. Dhanbad district witnessed a sea change in Covid treatment facilities over the last month when there was only the 100-bed dedicated hospital at Jagjivan Nagar. Since then, five other dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC), meant for treatment of asymptomatic patients, have been established at PMCH Cath Lab (100 beds), Sadar Hospital (50 beds), Tata Central Hospital (25 beds), Nirsa Polytechnic (100 beds) and Bhuli Regional Hospital (50) beds. Efforts are underway to set up another Covid health centre at Zonal Railway Training Institute. A dialysis centre meant exclusively for Covid patients was inaugurated on Wednesday. The deputy commissioner has also augmented the workforce so that Covid testing can be ramped up significantly, from 500-600 per day to about 1,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Sohrai and Kohbar masks show up in Hazaribagh markets||Masks with Sohrai and Kohbar painting designs are now available in Hazaribagh markets, as the coronavirus pandemic has rendered the facemask an essential commodity which is in great demand. Various kinds of designer face masks are now available, and people young and old are spoilt for choice. Sohrai and Kohbar paintings are indigenous art forms also known as the wall paintings of Hazaribagh. Kohbar ("koh" means cave and "bar" means married couple), is generally associated with marriages, whereas sohrai celebrates harvest and fertility. Sohrai is a harvest festival celebrated in Jharkhand as well as in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and West Bengal Artists use natural resources such as red, black, yellow and white soil, cow dung, coal and powdered leaves, to make the colours. They bring the soil from Barkagaon, around 65km from Hazaribagh, where the tradition has been kept alive, thanks to a few villagers. Anirudh Upadhyay whose NGO Maatimay has taken this initiative to replicate the indigenous art on the masks. Anirudh had made a film on the two art forms in 2016. “I became emotionally connected to these art forms. I decided to make these paintings on the three layered cotton masks to popularise it among people,” he added.  Upadhyay said the NGO team is clocking in eight to ten hours daily to paint the Sohrai and Kohbar masks. Anjali Mishra, Anamika Upadhyay, Prabha Singh, Naveen Upadhyay, Aman Upadhyay, Sejal Singh and few others are part of the team. “The team is making 100 to 150 masks daily,” Anirudh said. One such mask costs Rs. 50 and they are trying to sell the mask on various online platforms, especially Amazon. He said they will make it available in the shops of Hazaribagh city soon. “It’s the best way to let people know about these paintings, originally of Barkagaon,” he added.  Former union minister of state for civil aviation, Jayant sinha also praised Anirudh’s efforts and his team and said these ancient art forms of Hazaribagh are reaching people through these masks. “An ancient culture is reaching to houses in this way,” Sinha said. Local people appreciated Maatimay’s initiative and said it was a good way to spread awareness of their history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-335
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: State reports highest recoveries in a day||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported highest number of Covid recoveries in a day so far as over 1500 patients were discharged from hospital after testing negative for the viral infection and showing no symptoms associated to it, health officials said. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday late evening, as many as 1567 patients, including 285 in Godda and 274 in Dhanbad, recovered in 24 hours, taking the Covid recovery rate in state above 60 per cent. However, the Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 20,000 mark on Wednesday as 679 more people tested positive for virus, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 119 and 117 fresh cases of infection respectively, while the number of recoveries stood at 156 in Ranchi and 111 in East Singhbhum, government data stated. East Singhbhum, which has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in state so far, reported five of eight deaths in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As per government figures, the district alone accounts for 78 of state's 202 Covid casualties. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, has reported 3799 cases of infection so far, while the tally in East Singhbhum stands at 3182. Of the 20,257 cases of Covid infection in state, at least 12,197 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 60.21 per cent. However, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand is still lower than the national average of 69.34 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 4.08 lakh people and tested around 4.02 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers collected swab samples of 7138 people and tested 6272 of them, stated the NHM bulletin. The Covid tally has crossed the 1000 mark only in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Giridih. The remaining 20 districts in Jharkhand have reported cases in triple digits so far. However, over 900 cases have surfaced in Hazaribag and more than 850 in Palamu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vegetables going places||Vegetables grown in Jharkhand will now find overseas markets with the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee under the agriculture department tying up with a private agency for export of the produce. The first lot of nearly 2 tonnes of green vegetables will fly by air cargo from Calcutta airport to countries like Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates on Thursday evening. “This would be the first lot of green vegetables from Jharkhand which would be exported by the state government through the private agency (All Seasons Farm Fresh). Nearly 500 farmers from Jamshedpur and Ranchi will benefit in the first phase. Producers need to form a Farmers Progressive Organisation (FPO) and get registered with the nearest Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee in order to have their produce exported overseas. We plan to send cargo to other countries like Singapore in the next phase apart from western Asia,” said APMC Ranchi marketing secretary Abhishek Anand. There are 28 such APMCs functional in 24 districts of the state. State agriculture minister and Congress leader Badal Patralekh termed it as a fulfilment of their electoral promise to increase farmers’ income. “The APMC will take care of all quality testing and protocols required for export through the private agency right from permission from the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (Apeda), packaging protocols, custom supervision, poisoning testing, etc. Farmers will get income credited to their bank account directly through e-NAM (National Agriculture Market), a pan-India online trading platform for agricultural commodities, as soon as their products are purchased abroad. Based on market surveys, the farmers will stand to increase their income by nearly three times through the initiative. It will go a long way in bringing smiles back to the faces of farmers amid the Covid pandemic,” said Patralekh. All Seasons Farm Fresh, with its office in Jamshedpur, has a licence under the Importer Exporter Code (IEC) of the Union commerce and industry ministry and is a member of Apeda. The agency also possesses unified license from e-NAM. “In the second phase, we will be roping in more farmers from districts like Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Gumla, Dhanbad, Dumka, etc. The farmers would not have to spend a single penny and only form a FPO. “The APMCs will extend technical support for export and also help in quality checks of their products so that it meets international marketing standards,” the minister said. State agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddiqui that the government will soon have an agri-export policy in place to facilitate export of agriculture products. “We are working on an agri-export policy and hope to have it ready within a few months which will help farmers in networking and market linkage and other necessary help for export of their products. At the moment, the vegetables are being exported through APMCs,” said Siddiqui.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
13-08-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding van rams into electric pole in Hazaribagh, shutting off power supply||A speeding van hit a pole-mounted transformer in Hazaribagh on Wednesday evening, shutting down power supply to nearby areas. The accident took place at Bargada Chowk on Hazaribagh-Katkamsandi road, 17km from the town, Witnesses said the driver lost control of the vehicle, resulting in the mishap. The driver, whom the police suspect could have been drunk, managed to flee from the spot. Katkamsandi police said the driver would be traced soon on the basis of the registration number of the van. A coal-laden vehicle hit seven cattle at Budhna Ghati on the busy Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road, killing five on the spot and resulting in a traffic snarl. The villagers have demanded Rs 35,000 for each animal killed and asked for measures to prevent speeding. A 25-year-old woman and her son were killed when a goods train ran over them in Palamau on Wednesday in what appeared to be a suicide. Her two other children, who had also been brought to the tracks, survived. Bishrampur subdivisional police officer Surjit Kumar said Priyanka Devi of Sabouna village had taken her three children — all in the age group of 18 months to five years — to the tracks between 8am and 9am on Wednesday and began waiting for a train. While Priyanka and her five-year-old son sat on the tracks, her daughter and other son lay on the sleepers. The goods train that killed the woman and her son was on its way from Daltonganj. The survivors were taken to Palamu Medical College from where they were referred to Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. Priyanka's husband works at a chemical factory in Rehla. She was upset over daily quarrels at home, police said. A combined team of three assault units of Jharkhand Jaguar and Palamau police early on Wednesday seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition from cadres of Tirteeay Sammelan Prastuti Committee (TSPC), a splinter group of Maoists, after an exchange of fire on the border of the district and Chatra. Palamau superintendent of police Ajay Linda said the combined team found one regular Insas rifle, one 9mm CMG, one Springfield American rifle, one handgun, seven magazines, 334 rounds of fire, eight cell phones, one solar plate, two pouches, 10 bags, three pairs of shoes, two Aadhar cards and one notebook. The TSPC contingent involved in the exchange of fire was led by zonal commander Shashikant, alias Aarif. He and other rebels were on their way to extract levy from some contractors. Linda said the operation was carried out after a tip-off of a meeting of TSPC cadres. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday wrote to the chairman and managing director of BCCL, P.M. Prasad, recommending action against two doctors and five nurses of the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar and dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the company's regional hospital in Bhuli over alleged dereliction of duty. Singh in his letter also called for explanation from BCCL chief medical superintendent A.K. Gupta for mismanagement at both facilities. Singh pointed out that Dr Vineeta Verma, Dr Tuhina Alok and nurses Vimla Kumari, Sumita Dutta, Asha Ahmad, Bindu Kumari and Indu Kumari remained either absent from duty or arrived late, severely affecting the treatment of patients. He demanded disciplinary action against them, including salary deductions. "If the doctors and nurses fail to mend their ways, severe action would be taken against them as per the Sections 51 and 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005," said Singh. An electric crematorium in Hazaribagh's Khirgaon will be revived by the municipal corporation, which wants to run it on LPG. The crematorium, inaugurated by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha in 2017 and constructed at a cost of Rs 1.81 crore, was lying unused. The new municipal commissioner, Madhavi Mishra, took the initiative to revive the crematorium and contacted an agency which suggested it be run on LPG. The facility had developed a snag soon after being inaugurated. Despite this, the electricity department had sent a bill of Rs 10 lakh to local authorities. The need to revive the crematorium was felt due to the pandemic with local residents clamouring for the safe disposal of dead bodies. At the next board meeting of the municipal corporation, the fund allocation for the conversion of the crematorium into a LPG-run facility will be discussed, officials said. A resident of Dhanbad's Brindawan Colony under the Saraidhela police station tried to commit suicide by consuming muscle relaxants. His family members admitted him to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital after informing the police. He is being treated at the hospital's critical care unit. The police have found a suicide note at his home in which he claimed that his wife had an extramarital relation, leading to regular quarrels. Saraidhela police, led by officer in charge A. Murmu, has launched an investigation into the case. A truck carrying pipes to Barhi caught fire on the busy Ranchi-Patna highway near Vinay Line Hotel in Hazaribagh wildlife sanctuary area in Ichak, around 17km from the town. The incident took place at 7 in the evening on Wednesday. The driver of the vehicle managed to jump out of the vehicle. Traffic on the highway was impacted. The Livelihood and Entrepreneurship Promotion Society (LESPS) will help set up 200 grassroots enterprises at the panchayat level in Bokaro. The president of the society, Sangram Singh, said they intend to help unemployed youth in villages to become self-employed by setting up grassroots-level industries. The society's first project is going to be launched at Gopalpur panchayat under Chas block on August, 16. “The migrant workers who had arrived from other states during the lockdown will be grassroots entrepreneurs, starting from muri (puffed grain) production to other small profitable ventures. Instead of starting big ventures, our focus is to engage unemployed migrant workers in small projects so that they can start earning their livelihood soon,” said Singh. An experiential learning programme through a webinar was organised by Pentecostal Assembly School, Bokaro, for commerce students on “The impact of Covid-19 on business and trade". Four guests were invited. They shared valuable insights with the students on how businesses are impacted due to the pandemic. The regional manager of State Bank of India, Hazaribagh, Ranjita Sharan Singh, highlighted the functioning of the banking sector during the pandemic. She also made the students aware about the policies and norms initiated to overcome the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-336
