14-08-2020||Calcutta||And the winners are...||Rhea Sen Age: 17 Sunrise Point, Action Area II Some new words which got added to our repertoire in the recent past have not been very happy ones. “Lockdown”, “containment”, “quarantine” all perpetrate a fear of bondage, of captivity in our normal lives. We have even coined a term such as “the New Normal” to console ourselves. If I ask myself, ‘Am I happy? Am I free?’ the answer is a big no. Although lockdown and Covid-19 have generated a fair share of laughter and given us fodder for humour in social media but the irony is not hidden. We have laughed at the poor guy waiting for his daily tea and made him into a social hero. Masking and unmasking have also given us memes to tickle our funny bone but yet we are still slaves to this ailment which has taken the world by storm. We blew conch shells, beat upon drums and utensils, lit candles to bring back the hope of regaining our freedom but alas, we are still down in the doldrums of coronavirus. A little microscopic organism has enslaved us. On this eve of Independence Day, I urge my countrymen to understand and adopt the true path to freedom. Let us be responsible to ourselves, our families and friends and to the world around us. If we apply our logical minds beyond candles and conch shells, the path is clear for us to see. The path defined by science, paved by doctors and health workers and a destination being identified by our researchers. As we wait for the miracle vaccine, let us all be aware, let us help each other to find that freedom where we will wake up one day as free souls. Untouched by fear, unmarred by mask and untethered by the chains of social distance, we will regain our freedom. What does this freedom actually stand for, is it only our ability to walk around, visit people, go on trips? It is much larger and more encompassing than that. It means freedom from economic downturn, it means work for daily wage earners, it means business for shops who do not have online selling facility, it means students on the other side of digital divide can start their education, it means less anxiety for our parents who live in fear of job cuts, it means lot of families can go home and meet their loved ones and it means peace to a lot of stressed minds. As we approach Independence Day, I pray to the almighty to give us patience to bear, give us reason to believe and hope to live for that new sunrise. A sunrise that will bring health, happiness and prosperity to the world. Into that heaven of freedom my father let just not my country but this world awake. Adrija Basak Age: 14 Rail Vihar, Action Area I, New Town What is a person without his freedom? He is like music without notes or art without feeling. Freedom has always been mankind’s greatest wish. Every person works for his freedom, from dependence, from a cage or from restrictions of society. How many of the most celebrated figures in our history were harbingers of freedom? Freedom truly is the most fundamental requirement for a person to be healthy, happy and to reach their full potential. In a world which is growing and shrinking at the same time, where each person seems to have a fabricated life, where the world is available to us at our fingertips, this freedom has only grown in value. The emergence of the Covid-19 virus seems to have put a stop to social activity and the simple freedom of going out without danger. So many of the things that we had taken for granted like strolls in the park, going out with friends, a weekend outing, a long vacation and of course, travelling, are now lost to us. A world like this seems to be a gray world indeed. But, have we really lost all our freedom? I believe that we have not. Freedom is in the choice we make to not go outside unnecessarily, to protect ourselves and those we love. Freedom is in the way we choose to help and stand by others in a time like this. Freedom comes from having the power within ourselves to do something to help ourselves and others. We must try to keep ourselves safe by repeated handwashing and going out only when required. There is a certain kind of quiet freedom in following rules, in knowing that what I am doing is for the good of everybody, even when it seems inconsequential. Let us not look at rules as restrictions but as the choices we make to protect others. Freedom comes from the mind. It may seem that we are physically in a cage, but if we truly believe that we are free in our hearts and in our minds, then there is nothing and no one between ourselves and freedom. This can be done by keeping our thoughts clear from negativity. When a person is surrounded by news of Covid-19 cases and the rising death-toll, there is a feeling of hopelessness and imminent danger. To prevent this, the best thing we can do is to turn off the news channels and focus on something positive, like learning a new skill or spending more time with family. We should and we must try to help the elderly people we know, both by providing mental support and also by helping them in their required shopping. Let us focus on improving ourselves, on being a better person and a good citizen. During a trying time like this, our freedom is in our hearts and our souls and we ourselves hold the key to freedom from Covid-19. So, let us work towards a brighter, better and healthier tomorrow, by choosing to follow rules, washing our hands, staying inside, maintaining social distancing and keeping our minds free and healthy. After all, freedom is in the little things in life, in the small steps we take and the conscious choices we make every day. Urjani Shah Age: 7 Anahita Housing Complex, Action Area II B, New Town My parents took me out for a drive and I saw a strange sight. I saw unmasked grown-ups enjoying their ice-cream and phuchkas. They were standing in closed groups and chatting away. Do they know how many people have fallen sick or died today? I have been thinking how my family’s and my lives have changed since Covid-19 came. My mother stopped going to office and started working from home. It was fun at first but then she started nagging me for studying more and more. She is always running after me with her sanitiser. What I miss most is my school, my loving teachers, my class friends, the games we play in our huge playground, the computer lab and the school itself. Though we are having online classes, they are not fun at all. Voices break and my teachers sound like a machine. By the way, do you know I could not have a proper birthday party? So I have been wondering about what to do to get through this situation! Papa says this is the “New Normal”. I asked him what that means, he said that the world has changed since March 2020, when the virus came to visit the world. 7.32 lakh people have died in the world and 44 thousand Indians are dead. So I asked Papa how do we defeat this virus? Then Ma told us that until the vaccine comes we are all unsafe. So I told myself that I will have to fight Corona myself. What can I do? Ma told me this morning that Covid-19 is spreading fast in the poor countries because they do not have clean water to wash their hands, so I have decided not to play with water but to keep on washing hands without Ma having to tell me. Secondly, I will not touch unclean surfaces or unsanitised things. Next, I will never ever forget to wear a mask before going out. Every time I go outside, I will stay six feet away from everybody. I will never ask my parents to take me out to crowded places. Most importantly, I will eat the right food which will give me immunity. Lastly, I will request all my friends to follow SMS i.e. Sanitisation, Mask and Social distancing. I pray to God to give us courage to fight the war against Covid-19. I have faith that we can someday win this war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Dance & chant online for deity||Every participant of Gulabi Gang performed enthusiastically for their Rathayatra programme but a mother-daughter duo performed twice. Mousumi and Amisha Saha’s phone blared the song Kanha so jah zara but their screens blacked out. None of the others, tuned from their houses over video call, could catch a glimpse.  “If time permits, we shall ask the duo to give a repeat performance,” said the moderator Mahua De Sarkar. Gulabi Gang, a group by ladies from DB Block, usually celebrate Rathayatra at their community hall. “Every year, women take the lead in organising the procession and we celebrate the festival in a grand way. This year we found out alternative means of celebration,” said member Sonali Basak. The show had begun with the Rinku Banerjee blowing the conchshell and chanting mangalacharan.  Sampurna Das and Sambit Das, both tots, danced to Jagannath vandana. Lakshmimoni Sen logged in from Bangalore, chanting Vishnu sahasranaam. Priyanka Niyogi presented Sabdam in Bharatanatyam and Indrani Basak, logged in from Delhi, spoke on the history and significance of the chariot festival focusing on the Rathayatra of Mahesh, as depicted by Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay in the novel Radharani. Panchojonyo, comprising members Mahua De Sarkar, Basak, Chandrani Mukherjee, Mou Dubey and Anjana Banerjee, presented Dashabatar Mahatwo, depicting the 10 incarnations of lord Vishnu. This piece was brought to life with the chorus chanting of the Upanishad sloka Om Purnamadah Purnamidam accompanied by dance performed by Mukherjee and Basak, depicting each avatar. Other members chanted slokas on the avatars with their description in Sanskrit and Bengali. “This event gives us a sense of freedom in the present suffocating environment and we are rejuvenated,” said Dubey.   “We members are active because of such events and are also getting tech-savvy,” added Anjana Banerjee. Child artiste Sharanya Mitra danced to Woh Kisna hai, Ishani Das danced to Jai Narayan vandana with Odissi steps while her sister Jhupan sang along. “We equate Narayana with Jagannath and we paid tribute through the song. I’m especially happy that I could involve my four-and-a-half year old daughter Sampurna in the show and teach her about the lord.” And finally, at long last, mother-daughter Mousumi and Amisha got a chance to once again dance to a song from Baahubali 2. This time there was no interruption. Bharati Kanjilal If you want to get a programme featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001 or e-mail to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Four out of 99 found positive in New Town rapid antibody test camp||A rapid test camp was organised by New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum on August 1 at a fishery association building, near Axis Mall. A total of 99 residents were tested to check whether they had already developed Covid-19 antibodies. Of them, four came positive, indicating they had got infected in the past and recovered on their own. Two results were inconclusive. The others came negative.. According to a health department official, while positive results in a Rapid Antibody Test are confirmed, those who come negative but have symptoms of Covid-19 have to go for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. “Many health workers and social workers wanted to get themselves tested. Even people with slight sore throat are panicking. So we thought of holding this camp,” said Samir Gupta, joint convenor of the forum||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Footpaths to be fixed, not roads||You may be having a tough time negotiating potholes on your way to the market but for now it’s — not the streets but — the footpaths that are being repaired. Sidewalks being worked upon include main thoroughfares including the First Avenue that connects Salt Lake to Ultadanga, the Seventh Cross Road that leads from the Karunamoyee intersection to the Tank 8 Island as well as the roads inside several blocks of the township. But the work has come as surprise to residents who feel that it’s the roads that are crying for repairs. A CJ Block resident said that she was taken aback when several labourers started uprooting kerbstones in front of her house. According to Swati Choudhury, the stretch of pavement in front of her house had no broken stretches but the workers told her that the older kerbstones and paver blocks had to be removed as they would lay new ones in their place. “I was taken shocked. They had dug up a perfect pavement just because they wanted to replace the paver blocks. When I told them that they should repair the innumerable ditches that dot the roads they said that they were there to just carry out pavement repairs,” said Choudhury. A civic engineer said that pavement repairs would be carried out in AB, AC, CJ, and CK blocks. He said the tender for the pavement repairs had been called for before the pandemic struck and work started a few days back. When asked why no road repairs were being carried out despite the rains leaving crater-ridden streets across the township, the engineer said that they had not called for the tenders of the road repairs yet. Tapas Chatterjee, deputy mayor and the mayoral council member in charge of roads, said they had conducted a survey of the damaged roads in the township and would carry out patchwork repairs for the time being. “The top layer of the roads has got washed away by the rains in several places. We are drawing up a list of the roads that need repairs and will make do with patchwork for the time being. Once the rains are over we will carry out extensive repairs,” said Chatterjee. He also added that the pavement repairs were long overdue and that work had started in phases. “We will repair all roads and sidewalks before the pujas,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Freedom from Corona||Gopi Agarwal How I got it: I have no idea. Mine was the first case in Salt Lake but no one I had interacted with got Covid around that time. Family status: No one else at home got sick, but my son, driver and cook were sent to New Town’s quarantine centre as a precaution. My daughter has had a major surgery so she was allowed to stay home, along with my wife. My Covid battle: I got fever on the evening of junta curfew, on March 22. I took medicines but started maintaining a distance from my family members, just in case. When my fever persisted even after a week, my doctor asked me to get admitted to a hospital and get tested for Covid. My stay at the hospital was a stay in hell. Doctors and nurses never came close to me. They would enquire my health standing at the door. Only one person came to collect blood samples and he was so inexperienced that my blood wouldspill on the floor. Still I was charged Rs 1,20,000 for PPEs. I had to scream and shout before they gave me fresh clothes, the room had no TV, they didn’t let me keep my phone and I had no access to a toilet. I was asked to squat on the floor and use the bed pan as a toilet! The food quality was so poor that I lost 15kg in my week’s stay there. But at the time this was the only nearby hospital that was admitting Covid patients and I had no choice. What’s most insensitive is that a WhatsApp message had started doing the rounds in the middle that I had passed away. Relatives had started calling up my wife to console her. Current condition: I’m fine now and have resumed going to my factory. Since my recovery, over a 100 people have called me for Covid-related advice. I pulled through but there are many others who are in a worse state than me. I have also made a donation to the councillor to help Covid warriors. Manasi Bhakta How I got it: Probably from my husband, Dibakar. He was a kidney patient and needed hospitalisation. On the morning of June 22, I set off in an ambulance, with his head on my lap, only to be refused by five or six hospitals. His condition was critical but every place asked us to show his Covid report first. At 8pm, a government hospital took him in and collected his swab samples. But it was too late. My husband died in two hours. The next day his Covid report arrived. It was positive. Family status: I sat on the staircase of the hospital the whole night, crying, all alone. My daughter is in college, son in Class VI. I couldn’t muster the courage to tell them what had happened. I told relatives but not one of them came over, scared of getting infected. The cops posted around the hospital hailed a taxi for me in the morning to go home. Soon my daughter and I tested positive. We had to be hospitalised. My son tested negative but no relatives agreed to shelter him. He was sent to a quarantine home. My Covid battle: I would inhale as hard as I could but it still felt like the oxygen wasn’t going in. My throat felt like there was cough clogging it and any form of movement would drain all the energy out of me. It took me two weeks to recover. Current condition: Health-wise I am better but Covid has pushed me into a lot of difficulties. I used to be a homemaker who barely left the house but I now have to find a source of income, manage the home and raise the children. So scared are our relatives that they still haven’t come to meet us. Some have got Covid themselves now and are calling me up for advice. Still, the situation is teaching me to be strong. My husband was a poet and two of his books have gone to print now. I’m waiting for them to release. Ranjit Chakraborty Got it from: I don’t know but it all started when a 95-year-old resident, who broke his leg after a fall, was rushed to the hospital and tested positive. He died of a heart attack the next day but Kuntala Patnaik, president of Saptadweepa, the NGO that runs the home, got the health department to conduct tests for all 43 of us at Bairag and Pushparghya, their second home at HB Block. I tested positive. Family status: Ten residents of our homes tested positive and we were shocked. None of us had been going out. I, along with another male boarder were moved to New Town’s Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) immediately. Another lady and a 90-year-old man were coming the next day but the man expired in the car itself. Our home has single rooms with attached bathrooms so the other six boarders stayed back. They weren’t keen on moving to a different facility. My Covid battle: We have been hearing horror stories of other hospitals but CNCI was so good that I got half-cured just entering the compound. It was cleaner than one’s house, doctors and nursing staff were caring and checked our parameters whenever we asked. Food was good and we were allowed to keep our mobile phones. Some staff members even went and bought toiletries for us when we requested them to. The lady from our home was very scared — both at having contracted Covid and at being in a new place. I asked the patient in her neighbouring bed to ensure she ate her meals. Current condition: I recovered after a week and have resumed normal life. I’m not going out. Sourav Mundhra How I got it: Cannot trace the source Family status: I got fever but my doctor said it was viral. Nonetheless they were organising a Covid test in CK-CL community hall and so my father and I decided to get tested. When both of us tested positive we decided to get everyone at home tested. Out of the 11 family members and one staff at home tested, eight had Covid. My Covid battle: Those of us who got infected stayed on the second floor of our house and the rest stayed on the ground floor. Besides a member of staff, this comprised my two sisters (one of whom is in school) and my nine-month old daughter. Our eight-year-old son was upstairs with us. My wife and I were both in quarantine upstairs and we were worried about how the baby would manage without her mother but my sisters took up the responsibility and she had no problem. Food was being sent by relatives, received by the ground floor folks and our share was being left upstairs for us to receive. We washed our own utensils and clothes. The quarantine period would have been difficult to spend had I been alone but with seven people around it was life as usual. We spent time praying, singing bhajans, doing yoga, cleaning the house, on our phones and TV sets and looking after one another. We ate a lot of fresh fruits, inhaled steam and gurgled to prevent our condition from aggravating. The elderly members of my joint family have co-morbidities but luckily, we only had mild symptoms. Almost every day I would wake up to phone calls from panicked friends and relatives asking about the virus. I kept telling them to get tested if they felt they had symptoms so treatment could start before it was too late. Our doctor had a big role in calming us down too. One needs much mental support at a time like this. Current condition: We stayed in quarantine for 20 days before leaving the house. Now all are fine. Neha Sharma How I got it: Both my husband and I were attending office. Though my office — the Liluah workshop of the Eastern Railways — is in a highly affected area, I suspect I caught the virus from my husband Dhritiman Sarkar. Being with the Bidhannagar Commissionerate, he was on duty at the airport during the Vande Bharat mission. On one occasion, there was a brawl and he had to contain unruly passengers. Within two days of the incident, he was down with fever. Family status: Husband and security guard tested positive as well. My Covid battle: The first few days after my husband got fever, I was going to office and he was resting at home. But after a couple of days, I too developed sudden chill and cough. On July 3, three of us went for tests at Apollo hospital. I was unable to even sit by then. Once we tested positive, we received a call from NKDA. Since all of us were within 32 years of age, we opted for home isolation. We were prescribed a course of antibiotics and vitamins. Our temperature veered around 100F. On the third or fourth day, we lost the sense of taste and smell. Along with cough, I also experienced some breathing discomfort, neither of which my husband did. I kept checking my SpO2 on a pulse oximeter, doing breathing exercises and taking cough syrup. All through, our security guard and I were cooking at home while a policeman deposited the supplies we needed with the complex guard downstairs. Sometimes we ordered outside food when we needed a break. After four days, we stopped taking Paracetamol to check if the fever would relapse. It did not. Though according to the current medical protocol, testing is not needed once 14 days are over, we still went for tests. This time, I was the only one who came positive. Though I was told it was likely to be a false positive, I still took a re-test after three days, on July 22. This time it was negative. Current condition: I rejoined work on July 27. Ankit Nahata How I got it: My father had a heart attack on May 23 and had to be hospitalised for angioplasty. He had to be taken for check-up on June 3. I got infected either that day or on June 6, when we had a family gathering. Family status: Six out of our family of seven got infected. Only my mother tested negative. My Covid battle: On June 7, my father had fever. The doctor insisted on a Covid test. He could not believe when the report came positive as there was no case yet in either Rosedale or Uniworld City opposite us. He had to be hospitalised because of his health condition. The rest of us — my wife, brother, his wife and their one-and- half year old daughter- stayed home. Our apartment was sealed. We had mild fever. We received a lot of help from our residents’ association. We just had to call the facility manager to get what we needed. We gurgled with turmeric powder and drank hot milk with turmeric powder to boost immunity. Arnab Roy, the NKDA doctor, helped us a lot as did our house physician Amit Dey. A relative gave us a kada, which was a solvent to relax the throat. On June 23, my father came back from hospital. Our association staff members greeted us with flowers on July 2 when our period of isolation ended. Current condition: I am back to work. Last week, I donated plasma at Calcutta Medical College. I was told I was only the 25th person to volunteer this. They did a range of screening tests, including the Covid antibody test and asked me to come again after a week. It felt good to do this. Even now, I am asked by NKDA health team to call up and speak to Covid patients, which I happily do. Debanjan Kundu How I got it: I was on duty in the radiation oncology department of RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. I must have got exposed there. Family status: My mother tested negative. My Covid battle: In the first week of July, I developed headache, fever and body ache. There was no respiratory distress. After four or five days, I lost sense of taste and smell. That persisted for three to four weeks. Once I received the report by email, I isolated myself at home for 17 days after giving an undertaking to the local authorities. An NKDA team disinfected the house. Fear was there as one’s condition can deteriorate quickly. This is not like influenza in that even mild Covid-19 can be severe. The kind of lethargy and weakness it causes is unlike in any viral illness. Our complex had a protocol in place in case a resident tested positive. That protocol was put in place and we had no trouble sourcing groceries and medicines. Current condition: I came out of isolation on the third week of July and joined duty at the hospital on the same day. I am back to full strength now. I have also volunteered to help at the Covid care centre that my apartment complex has created for residents who are unable to self-isolate at home. Of course, there is still risk of infection in future. Nazish Pervez Khan How I got it: Probably from my husband. He runs a medicine shop and got fever. But he recovered in three days. Family status: After my husband, next was my daughter and then son but they all recovered in two or three days. I have diabetes, high blood pressure and asthma. When I got fever, it persisted for eight days. My Covid battle: The doctor we consult wasn’t willing to check fever patients but he agreed to meet me over video call. He prescribed tests for malaria, dengue and the like but I asked him to add Covid to the list. I wasn’t scared of getting Covid. What I was scared of is the treatment I may get at the hospital. We have a relative who was admitted at a top hospital in the early days of Covid’s spreading. He was on the ventilator and was footing bills of Rs 1 lakh a day but the nurses were throwing medicines at him for fear of contracted Covid themselves. Once my report came out, I was moved to a nursing home as far off as Kidderpore as we had heard service was compassionate. And it was. I was put on oxygen immediately and it continued for the next nine days. I have never felt so sick in my life and thought I would die. I am very religious and offered namaz even with my oxygen mask on but on some days I would be so out of breath I couldn’t even utter the prayer. I didn’t want to use a bed pan as I wanted to be clean for namaz and would insist that the nurses escort me to the toilet. On one such day, I fainted. Current condition: I was in quarantine for some days even after coming home. I would stay in a room and my food would be kept outside. Now I am better. Amal Kumar Maiti How I got it: I had gone to my brother’s house in New Town for some work where an associate had come. The next day that person got fever and the day after, I fell sick. Family status: My wife and elder daughter, who has come from Bangalore for the lockdown, tested positive. My younger daughter, school-going son and domestic help were spared. My Covid battle: Initially the three of us who tested positive were living separately from the others within our flat. While my wife and daughter recovered fairly easily, my fever persisted. Doctors advised tests but no pathology lab would agree to run tests for a Covid patient. My younger daughter Pallabi learnt from her doctor friends that AMRI Hospital has tied up with Monotel and that patients with mild symptoms staying at the Sector V hotel would have their tests done from the hospital. My wife and I checked in for about a week. While hotels usually mean a relaxed holiday, this experience was a new one. An entire floor there was dedicated to Covid patients and a nurse, who had a room there and checked our parameters thrice a day. Doctors came for rounds too. Current condition: Though weak, we have all recovered and I plan to join work soon. The doctor has asked us to exercise by walking on the terrace to maintain immunity. Jaydeb Ray How I got it: I am a doctor at Calcutta National Medical College & Hospital. In fact, I’m an anaesthetist and my work involves touching the mouths and faces of patients. However, I was careful and none of my patients had tested positive. The other possibility was a fish market near the “loha pool” bridge between New Town and Sector V that I would visit. But no one at the market got Covid either. Family status: My daughters were looking after me but luckily, they tested negative. My Covid battle: Being a doctor I thought I had an understanding of Covid-19 but the experience was worse than I could imagine. It began with fever that lasted eight days. I was weak and couldn’t sleep a wink at night. I even blacked out once and had a fall while returning from the washroom. The hospital I work at is not handling Covid patients so I went to another private hospital to get tested and then shifted to the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. The environment in a Covid hospital is not for the weak-hearted. You’re shunned to a corner, no one comes to you, food is kept on a trolley at the door... I never even saw a nurse’s face and junior doctors would maintain a distance of about five feet from me. Only one senior doctor would come up close and we build a rapport. My strength was down to zero and the only thing that kept me going was mental strength. No drug can work like will power and that is what one needs to recover from Covid. Current condition: I lost 10kg in those 14 days. Now my trousers cannot be worn without belts and my colleagues at the hospital cannot recognise me! I joined work in end-June and am mostly on tele-medicine duty now. Subhajit Sarkar How I got it: The irony is that I was in China, working and meeting people, when Covid-19 was peaking there and had emerged unscathed. Months later, I got sick here in India where I was maintaining lockdown. In the four months here, I left the house only seven times, that too with face shield and N95 mask. We didn’t socialise with anyone outside, would sanitise the house almost to a level of paranoia… I am in the merchant navy and had to undergo a medical test before joining duty. That was when I tested positive. Family status: I live with my wife and baby, who sticks to me like a magnet all the time. It’s very lucky that she, or anyone else, didn’t get it. My Covid battle: NKDA called me and gave me the option of institutional quarantine at the expense of the government but I chose to stay home, in a room with an attached bath. I have two paramedical licences — from Indian and the European Union and am also the medical officer on board my ship —so I knew I could handle it. I had mild symptoms — only headache and a bad stomach, but then the latter may have been from over-eating! My wife Olga is Ukrainian but she makes delicious Indian food. She would serve me lots, thinking it would improve my immunity and I would try to down it all as all my leftovers would have to be dumped in the biohazard bin otherwise. Olga has a medical condition due to which she can’t go out alone. Luckily two friends brought us groceries. Isolation was no big deal for me as I’m used to it on the ship. I watched movies, worked out, looked out of the window…the toughest part was staying positive. Covid is now the most feared disease after cancer. People would call me up every day, asking if I had got fever. It was as if they were waiting for me to get sick. Such conversations end up scaring you more. I wouldn’t pray much before this but when I got Covid, I prayed. Current condition: I recovered in end-June and was immediately called to join the ship as there is a major supply chain crisis around the world now. I had to fly to Mumbai but since Calcutta-Mumbai flights are suspended, had to change flights in Varanasi. I stayed in quarantine in Mumbai for a week, tested again and then flew to Paris (India and France have a diplomatic bubble allowing flights) and then Egypt, from where I joined my ship. We are now sailing around the dreaded pirate den of Somalia. If we stop working, the world will come to a standstill. Simple things like medicines won’t be available. So after recovering from Covid, I have become a Covid warrior! Debasish Banerjee How I got it: Tough to say. I was attending office and even went to Hasnabad for Amphan relief distribution. On June 30, I went to the court in Mayukh Bhavan. On July 3, I developed mild fever at night. Family status: My wife had fever for just an hour the day before. My daughter had fever from the same day as me, going as high as 102°F. My Covid battle: All three of us got tested on July 6 and received Covid-positive reports the day after. By then, my wife and daughter did not have any more symptoms. From July 9, my condition deteriorated, with oxygen saturation level falling to 91 per cent. I felt pressure in the chest and was vomiting. Though I could manage a bed at Peerless Hospital, we had trouble getting an ambulance. My friend from Paschimbanga Bigyan Mancha Basab Basak of FE Block offered to drive me but I declined. Finally, an ambulance came from the hospital. Most people were supportive. Since my wife and daughter were confined at home, neighbours brought them supplies. Since the ATM was out of bounds, familiar rickshaw-pullers offered cash to tide us over. The ward assistant too offered help as did my office colleagues. Rajarshi Roy, our local doctor, refused to take fees. I had heard doctors rarely visit Covid wards. But at Peerless, they regularly came and spoke to me. Facebook messages from neighbours also cheered me. I was there for 14 days, from July 11. For 11 days, I was on oxygen support. The last three days they took me off oxygen and kept me under observation. The bill was not exorbitant. Current condition: I have still not joined office as I have a patch in my lungs and am on follow-up treatment. My daughter, 22, has decided to donate plasma at AMRI, Dhakuria. Ramaprasad Paul How I got it: Tough to say. I say in jest: Chin theke holo. Family status: My 72-year-old wife Ratna too tested positive. My Covid battle: I felt feverish on June 29. The next day I had cough. We got blood tests done for typhoid and dengue. When my cough increased and there was no let up in fever we went for a Covid-19 test on July 9. The report came on July Our apartment was sealed by NKDA the day after. My son stays in Mumbai and my daughter in the US. Yet within hours, they arranged for two oxygen cylinders, a thermal gun and a pulse oximeter delivered at our doorstep. My temperature was shooting up to 104°F and I had to take paracetamol every few hours. My son would consult with our doctor Joydip Pande even at 2am and procured the medicine FabiFlu within weeks of its launch in Mumbai. When our oxygen saturation level dropped, we would take oxygen for 15 minutes and check again after three hours. Since our blood pressure was fluctuating, we were asked to speak less for a few days. My temperature decreased after four days of the antibiotic course. From July 13 to 28, we sanitised the common areas of the building daily at our own cost. Yet the security guards and our driver were stopped from coming to our floor. Neighbours stopped calling us, as if the virus would pass through the phone line! Mind you, I am the president of the residents’ association. Current condition: I say I am back half way from Dhapa (crematorium)! saltlake@abpmail.co||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University seal on entry norm||Presidency University this year will admit students based on their board marks, the admissions committee of the institute decided on Thursday. The committee decided that the merit lists for all subjects, except statistics and economics, would be prepared based on marks in the Class X and Class XII board exams, an official said. Students aspiring to study economics and statistics honours will be admitted based on their plus-II board marks. “Due to the prevailing COVID-19 impacted situation, difficulties in conducting an admission test were discussed…. All members unanimously decided to prepare a merit list... based on marks obtained by a candidate in her/his Madhyamik/equivalent (10th standard) and Higher Secondary/ equivalent (10+2 standard) examinations,” reads a resolution of the admissions committee. Registrar Debajyoti Konar said the eligibility criteria would be announced soon. Vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said they wanted to keep as many screening layers as possible. “The teachers had proposed that the secondary exams marks be considered,” Lohia said. For physics honours, the marks in math and the average marks in physical science and life science in Madhyamik or marks in the science group in equivalent exams will be added to the aggregate and the marks in math in the plus-II exams. For chemistry honours, the average marks of physical science and life science in Madhyamik or marks in the science group in equivalent exams will be added to the marks in chemistry, math and English in the plus-II exams. The Bengal HS council could not hold tests in physics and chemistry because of the pandemic. Each student had the best marks in the other papers awarded to the two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||NUJS students seek fee relief||Students of the National University of Juridical Sciences have appealed to the authorities to waive some fees because they are attending online classes and not using some of the facilities. The students have demanded reduction of fees for the July-December semester to be charged for exams, students’ welfare, moot courts, hostel and study materials, an official of the law school said. A fourth-year student said the fee for the current semester of his batch was around Rs 1.6 lakh. A student of the batch will have to pay around Rs 46,000 less if the authorities accept the demand. “Almost every student is facing a financial crisis because of the pandemic. Reduction of Rs 46,000 will be of great relief to us,” the fourth-year student said. “If the students’ demands are accepted, the fees for the current semester will reduce by Rs 46,000 to Rs 51,000, depending on the batches,” an official said. Vice-chancellor N.K. Chakrabarti said: “The appeal is under consideration. The matter will be placed in the next meeting of the executive council (August 22). We will be in a position to say whether the fees can be reduced or not after the meeting.” An official said the authorities were in favour of granting relief to the students. “But all their demands cannot be accepted. The entire hostel fee can’t be waived off. The hostels are closed but each employee is being paid the full salary.” The authorities plan to offer uniform relief to all batches, the official said. “As of now there is no plan to offer any relief to the incoming batch,” he said. The institute’s five-year LLB course costs around Rs 15 lakh, including tuition, hostel and other fees, according to the existing fee structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Pet cat goes missing from home in Alipore||Max, the Maine Coon, from Alipore has left home and maybe moving around with cats beneath his status. The cat, one of the largest domesticated species in the world, has not returned home in the past week and its owners have launched a search on social media. The two-and-a-half year-old was last heard responding to a mating call on Friday night when his owners thought he was still inside their Alipore Road bungalow. It was only in the morning when Max did not turn up for breakfast, Sonali Lakhotia realised he was missing. “My husband and I were watching TV in our room when we last heard Max responding to a mating call. You cannot miss his baritone meow. I had thought like other days, he must be somewhere inside the house,” Sonali said. The next morning, when Max did not make his mandatory appearance at her room where he would usually cry trying to grab her attention towards his breakfast time, she realised he was missing. Nothing has been the same for Sonali and her family since then. Her daughter Mahi, 10, and son Viraj, 8, consider the cat their friend. Main Coon is a domesticated breed known for their size and elegance, Max’s vet Aparajita Chakraborty Roy said. “They are big house cats with no wild streaks in them. They are extremely friendly and would get into anyone’s lap without any protest. They are equally majestic, too, and their body language will make it clear they are loyal to their owners.” Max, however, is “rare,” she said. Unlike other male cats that usually lack the protective instinct for kittens, Max had rescued a stray kitten and brought him home. The Lakhotias have adopted him, too, and named him Chewy. Max spends a considerable time of the day sleeping. He is most active in the afternoon when he strolls out in the lawn and lazes under the trees or at times even walks outside the bungalow. The past one-and-a-half month has been different, though. “We were worried about the infection spreading through animals. So, we decided to restrict his movements inside the bungalow. He was not allowed to step out on the lawn. At times we took him out for a walk, just like a pet dog,” Sonali said. Sonali and husband Sidharth have been looking around for Max in the neighbourhood without any result. The family has posted an emotional appeal on social media with Max’s photograph, requesting people to report if they spot him. Max, who had pancreatic problems, has only hepatic diet. The fact he will not eat anything else outside has left the Lakhotias more worried. “Domestic cats take a long time to adjust to new surroundings. Even if someone has taken Max, he will not be able to adjust to the new home. He will stop eating and drinking water. It will lead to gradual dehydration and gas formation in his stomach and may trigger health issues,” Max’s vet Chakraborty Roy said. The family had adopted two-month-old Max after losing two Labradors and a cat in a row years ago. “We can just request people to return him. He is too docile to even protest if someone overpowered him. Whenever he picked fights with stray cats, he invariably returned home scratched. He doesn’t stand a chance for resistance. Please return him,” Sonali appealed through Metro. The lockdown and the scare of Covid-19 have hit pets, too. A few weeks ago, Shabby, a Labrador, had slipped out of the window of her owner’s car when she was taken out for a ride after weeks of confinement at their Phoolbagan home. She was found with the help of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cancer hospital issues appeal for blood||The Thakurpukur cancer hospital has appealed for blood saying the country is “not as Independent” as it was last year and people should come forward to help fellow citizens with blood. Hospitals like the one in Thakurpukur are suffering from severe shortage of blood because of the Covid pandemic. People are wary of donating blood in this situation and camps are few because of the distancing norms announced as a precaution against Covid-19. As a result, many blood banks are running dry. Arnab Gupta, the director of Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre & Research Institute, in Thakurpukur, made a social media post on Wednesday: “As we approach Independence Day, we realise that we are not as Independent as were last year. Along with the Corona pandemic where many people have fallen victims, what we are now seeing all over Bengal and many parts of India, is the severe scarcity of blood. We would request you to kindly come forward and save your fellow countrymen, especially children by donating blood. Many are afflicted with cancer, thalassaemia and now dengue. You may contact any local blood bank/hospital. That’s the best way to pay tribute to our freedom fight-ers and to Mother India….Of course one has to be fit to donate.” The blood crisis at his institute is delaying cancer treatment, Gupta told The Telegraph. The hospital caters to many underprivileged people, including children, who are treated at reduced costs or the hospital arranges for funds for them through sponsors to make treatment available to them. Many of the patients come from districts and it is even more difficult for them to arrange for blood. “Our average monthly blood collection used to be 600 units before the lockdown, which could just meet our requirements. Now the collection is less than 200 units per month, resulting in a huge shortfall. Availability in other blood banks is scarce, too,” said Gupta. The reserves are constantly depleting and on Thursday, the institute had just seven units of B-positive and two units of A-positive in its blood bank. This newspaper had on Monday reported that a sharp drop in the number of blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic had resulted in a crisis in availability of blood in Calcutta as well as the rest of Bengal. Last Sunday, long queues were seen in front of counters of several blood banks in the city. Most people in the queues were told by blood bank officials that there was no guarantee they would get blood even after waiting for hours. Ever since the pandemic started, the number of blood donation camps has been decreasing. The situation worsened as time passed, according to officials of multiple blood banks. Blood bank officials say almost all banks are supplying blood only if those in need bring donors. Gupta said that in the Thakurpukur hospital, the blood was separated into three components — RBC, platelet and plasma. The treatment in the hospital, he said, includes surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. “For any major cancer surgery, we need to have a back-up of blood, in the absence of which treatment is being postponed. Blood parameters have to be corrected for anybody who has low haemoglobin and low platelet for any further treatment. And blood is required for that,” said Gupta. “Children with blood cancer are more susceptible because there is a chance of internal bleeding with low platelet count,” he said. Gupta suggested that blood donation camps could be organised with small groups of people and by maintaining the distancing norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta teens fight cyber sexual peril||A group of students has started an online campaign to create awareness against trafficking and to stand up for human rights at a time when traditional ways of trafficking is going the online way. The students, from Classes IX to XII, have undergone a three-week training by NGO International Justice Mission, Calcutta, to encourage youngsters to speak up against human trafficking. The idea is to reach students through their peers at a time when the pandemic has forced every activity to be online and “spotters” are using the cyber space to track and trap students online and solicit sexual services for clients. The student leadership programme was held for four students each from La Martiniere for Girls, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, The Heritage School, Delhi Public School Megacity, South City International School, Sri Sri Academy and The Newtown School. Trafficking and child sexual abuse is not limited to those from slums or the lower-end of society, an official of the NGO said. Even children from the upper middle class or higher social strata or from broken families are vulnerable targets, the official said. “We have to tell kids about the dangers. Children are unaware of these dangers and the social protection they have in schools or at homes is not there in the online space,” Sisir Thanikal, the NGO’s community engagement head, said. “So, we need to talk about it freely… that anybody and everybody is vulnerable and has to be careful.” The perpetrators have adapted themselves to the online space, Thanikal said. “They enter platforms or groups of youngsters and befriend them with a false identity and seek salacious videos or photographs and blackmail them with those. They are generally asked to enter a private group online and perform or links are sent to clients and perpetrators get paid.” Students get to know of the dangers of the online world through value education classes but it is more acceptable when it comes from their peers, Rupkatha Sarkar, the head of La Martiniere for Girls, said. “In the current times when students are using the Net prolifically they must be aware of cyber security and bullying and of the kind of networking that happens online and that they can become victims unknowingly,” Sarkar said. “They need to know whom to befriend on the Net, the limits they need to set and how much exposure they can allow.” Young students take this online world to be real but it is filled with people with fake identities. “The perpetrators make students feel comfortable and win their confidence so that they share videos of themselves. Often, students are trapped online because they are misled by romance and excitement,” Agnes Toppo, the NGO’s senior coordinator for community engagement, said. “The current trend has shifted online with most young people holding a social media account.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||College applications to be free, says Partha Chatterjee||Universities and colleges across the state cannot charge undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses, the higher education department announced on Thursday. Applicants cannot be charged for scanning/uploading documents for online admission to undergraduate courses, the department said. While most colleges charge a student Rs 200 as application fee for a course, there are some that charge Rs 900. A candidate can apply for multiple subjects. Till last year, an applicant had to pay separately for each course, a department official said. “Now, be it a single application or multiple applications, a college cannot charge the candidate.” Candidates cannot be charged for applying in multiple colleges as well, the official said. While submitting applications, candidates visit cyber cafes to get their Plus II mark sheets and other documents scanned. Cafe operators charge them for the service. By saying no applicant can be charged for scanning/uploading documents, the department has advised colleges to develop facilities to offer such services free, another official said. “This year the state joint examinations board has created 17,000 common service centres to help BTech aspirants take part in online counselling free. Colleges can approach the board so that undergraduate aspirants can use these centres to upload their documents free of cost,” he said. The decision has been taken in view of the hardship students and their families are going through during the pandemic, education minister Partha Chatterjee said. Colleges have been outsourcing their admission portals to various agencies since the government introduced the online admission system in 2016. From receiving applications and offering payment gateways for services to accepting documents and preparing the merit list, everything is done by these agencies. Whatever colleges earn by way of application fees and uploading documents, a part of it is shared with the agencies, a principal said. Those who have already applied will now seek a refund, another principal said. The department had on July 16 issued the notification to start the undergraduate admission process. “Calcutta University had uploaded the admission notification on July 24 but hadn’t said anything on the fees,” a principal said. “We have to pay the agency that is managing the admission portal. The department should support us as it has waived the fees.” “Let the colleges appeal. We will then take the call,” a department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||BSF seizes Keel-billed toucans at Bongaon border||The BSF seized a pair of Keel-billed toucans near the Angrail border outpost in Bongaon, North 24-Parganas, on Thursday, an officer said. Officers at the outpost along the India-Bangladesh border had received information that “foreign and expensive” birds  would be moved to Bangladesh, S.S. Guleria, DIG, BSF (South Bengal Frontier) said. Two men dropped a pack age near Halderpara village on  seeing a BSF tea. “Wee took the birds...  they have been handed  over to Alipore zoo,” Guleria  said. A pair of the birds will cost  around Rs 15-18 lakh, a bird lover said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Medieval traditions unite Bengal and Scotland||In the medieval societies of Bengal and Scotland, kings and priestly classes developed a way of recording transfer of property ownership in strikingly parallel terms using related vocabulary and philosophical concepts. In Bengal, land gifts were recorded in Sanskrit etched in copper plates and stone inscriptions. In Scotland, it was recorded in charter parchments in Latin. In both societies, it was the king who made the donations of land to the priestly class. John Reuben Davies, a research scholar at Glasgow University, came to Calcutta in 2011 and was surprised to find in Asiatic Society copper plates from the Pala era in Bengal (10th to 12th century CE) that had close similarities with parchment charters from Scotland belonging to the same period. Charters are written records of transfer of property. While the copper plates had the Sanskrit word “danam” inscribed in them, the parchment charters bear the word “donum” in Latin. Both of giving as a gift is ‘danam’. Latin, the same Indo-European root, provides the noun ‘donum’, a gift, indicate a gift of land from the king to the priestly class for eternity. “In Sanskrit, the word for the method and the verb ‘dono’, I give as a gift,” said Davies. “The concept of transferring ownership of property by giving as a gift is at the heart of property records both from Bengal and Scotland. And both in Bengal and Scotland, a word that has the same origin in Sanskrit and Latin was used to describe the transaction and give it legal force. So in two early medieval societies, 6,000 miles apart with no known contemporary connections or influences, had evolved an almost exactly similar way of recording transfer of property in strikingly parallel terms and using directly related vocabulary and philosophical concepts.” Davies made the statement during a recent online lecture as part of the Stories of World Culture, an Indian Museum’s virtual initiative during the pandemic. Davies and retired Calcutta University professor Swapna Bhattacharya, who has worked on Indian copper plates and European charters, collaborated and co-edited a book on these findings, Copper, Parchment and Stone: Studies in the Sources of Land Holding and Lordship in Early Medieval Bengal and Medieval Scotland, published by the Centre of Scottish and Celtic Studies of Glasgow University. Glasgow University has decided to include the findings of Davies and Bhattacharya in the first-year undergraduate and postgraduate syllabus. Classes on the topic will start next year. Regarding its inclusion in the history course, Joanna Tucker, a history lecturer at Glasgow University, said in a WhatsApp message to Metro: “The digitisation of texts and the surge in availability of digital resources have partly (and paradoxically) led to a new appreciation of the ‘physicality’ of our manuscript sources…. One recent publication (Davies, 2019) compares Indian and Scottish gifts of property in parchment charters and in copper and stone inscriptions. This provides a way to show our students that recent work in the field of medieval Scottish history has been taking a global perspective….” Davies found further similarities like properties could be owned outright forever. A very similar conceptual, linguistic and textual framework evolved to guarantee the conveyance and ownership of property. The king was the supreme authenticating authority, provided he is the legitimate heir proved by the publication of his genealogy in copper, stone or parchments that he could govern and guarantee the rights of his subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Flag sales drop||Not many shops in the twin townships will be decked up with Tricolour flags and badges this week. Like everything else, the pandemic has taken a toll on the Independence Day shopping list. “Remember how hawkers would run up to cars at traffic signals and sell miniature flags around August 15? They are selling masks now,” says Sarman Pandit of Modern Decoration Centre in CA Market. “These small time hawkers would buy flags from us before but this year none of them have showed up.” Students Corner, a stationery shop in GD Market, will not have a single Tricolour flag, badge or wristband on sale this year. “I am unwell and I don’t have the manpower to go buy these memorabilia from Burrabazar. Other stationery items are delivered to us by companies but such seasonal products have to be picked up in person,” says Bappa Sarkar, who runs the store. Another stationery shop in GD Market — Loknath Stores — has some paper printouts of the tricolour and table flags. “One or two customers have asked for flags on straws — that cost Rs 3 to 5 — but that’s it,” says Ajit Kundu. “Neither is there demand this year nor do we have much to offer.” Sri Guru Bhandar in IA Market will display flags, badges and tricolour wristbands from today. “But we haven’t bought anything afresh. We are simply selling leftovers from last year,” says Rishiraj Ghosh, who runs the store. “In other years, nearby hotels and hospitals would come buy merchandise to decorate their premises but this year one can hardly expect them. The bulk of buyers would be students using the items for programmes at school. Even that won’t be happening this year.” Nonetheless they are stocked with Rs 10 badges of India’s flag and map and Rs 10 synthetic wrist bands. The price of cotton flags begins from Rs 25 and the largest 6ft silk flags cost Rs 220. IA Market traders will themselves be hoisting the Tricolour on Saturday with a flag from this store. At New Town Gift Gallery in Eden Shop, Nasirul Islam says they have about 10 per cent stock of what they had last year. “And it is all last year’s leftovers taken out of cold storage. Students and offices from the nearby DLF building would be our main customers but now schools are shut and offices are operating from home so we haven’t bought anything new,” says Islam. Prasenjit Pal had gone to Needs, a miscellaneous store in Baisakhi, to buy drawing books for his three-year-old when he got attracted to an inflatable Tricolour. “My son has an online Independence Day programme from his playschool this year. They haven’t really asked him to get any flags but this inflatable one looks cute and I’m taking one home for him.” The Baisakhi store has a good collection of Independence Day merchandise — ribbons, paper hats with ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ written, paper flags, badges…. “We have the works but sales are low,” Nitai Chandra Debnath shakes his head. “In other years, customers buy big flags as well as small ones to place in cars and on bikes. This year the saving grace is this inflatable flag that is a novelty and hence being picked up by some. It costs between Rs 30 and 40.” Srimaa, a clothing store in CK Market, has a mannequin with a tricolour sash over a kurta. “We went and bought 30 to 40 such satin scarves before Independence Day. They are quite popular for dances and other stage programmes and even if they don’t sell this week, I’m sure they will sell off and on around the year,” says Tamosha Mukherjee. The scarves cost Rs 50. Even though retails sales may be modest, Modern Decoration Centre in CA Market says they have been contacted by offices in New Town to decorate their premises. “We shall do so with tricolour balloons, ribbons and flags. We’ve got to make the best of the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Green body glare on garbage||The National Green Tribunal has recently warned Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), New Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and the environment department of “civil imprisonment, withholding of the salary of concerned personnel, payment of penalty” if the agencies fail to comply its orders regarding waste management in East Calcutta Wetlands, an wetland of international repute. The order was passed on July 28 in response to a petition filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta in 2019, alleging illegal dumping of solid waste in Mollar Bheri over a long period within the wetlands area, seriously impacting the ecosystem. The wetlands are considered the kidneys of Calcutta and its fringe areas for their ability to naturally filter the waste water. A senior BMC official admitted to the delay but claimed that they had been trying hard to comply with the tribunal directive. The tribunal pointed out that the action of the civic body was not adequate on the basis of its submitted affidavit while pointing out that the NDITA, the NKDA and the environment department had not even submitted the affidavit despite the tribunal’s order. Petitioner Datta earlier pointed out with photographic evidence that all these agencies failed to protect the wetland area from waste contamination. “We have noted the action taken by the BMC… however we do not find the actions to be adequate in terms of its speed and no tangible result found tangible,” observed the principal bench of the tribunal constituted of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda. The bench also pointed out that the civic body had failed to stick to the timeline fixed by itself regarding proper solid waste management, including removal of legacy waste besides the Mollar Bheri (wetlands) located within East Calcutta Wetlands where Salt Lake and fringe urban local bodies have been disposing solid waste for a number of years. A Calcutta high court directive in the early 1990s prohibited the change of land use character in the East Calcutta Wetlands. The Ramsar ratification in the early 2000s came as a formal acknowledgement of its status as a wetlands of international importance; and finally the 2016 wetlands norms of the union government bar any change of land use within the wetlands including disposal of solid waste. Datta complained that the waste and its run off have been polluting the wetlands which, apart from impacting the wetland ecology, also affects the livelihoods of thousands depending on the ecosystem. During the last hearing on video, the bench expressed displeasure that its earlier orders have not been carried out by BMC, along with NDITA, NKDA and state environment department; the last three, according to the bench, did not even submit the affidavit. “We make it clear that failure to comply with the direction even during the extended period shall entail issuance of coercive orders which would include civil imprisonment, withholding of the salary of concerned personnel, payment of penalty, environmental compensation etc,” reads the order. “Our first two tenders about removing the legacy waste from Mollar Bheri have to be cancelled and now we are in process of a third tender which will be opened in mid-August,” said Debasish Ghosh, commissioner of BMC. Ghosh however claimed that they were now disposing of the waste in Dhapa and also shared that the process of shifting the legacy waste to the Dhapa area had started following the norm of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The next hearing is listed on September 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Business||System of faceless tax appeals will come into force from Sept 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a transparent tax platform and said the system of faceless tax appeals would come into force from September 25. Modi also rolled out a taxpayers’ charter, which outlines the rights and responsibilities of both the tax officers and taxpayers. Analysts said the charter had laid out the principles only and must be supplemented by administrative orders. The Centre has been pushing for a system to break down the interface between the tax officials and taxpayers. It has already started the system of faceless tax scrutiny — and the latest measures mark a step forward. Mukesh Butani, managing partner at BMR Legal Advocates, said, “The tax statutes need an amendment to curtail the discretionary powers of the field officials because that has predominantly contributed to the current situation. The faceless assessment and appeal scheme shall act as a restriction on individual discretion, which in my view has caused the most damage with regard to harassment.” The issue of alleged tax harassment by officers gained much attention after V.G. Siddharta, the founder of Cafe Coffee Day, committed suicide and left behind a note accusing the tax authorities of persecuting him. Under the faceless appeal  system, the appeals will be randomly allotted to any officer in the country. The identification of the officers deciding the appeal will remain unknown, and  the taxpayer will not be required to visit the income tax office or the officer. The appellate decision will be team-based and reviewed. The exceptions to the  system include serious frauds, major tax evasion, sensitive and search matters. The system also excludes international taxation and the Black Money Act and the Benami Property Transactions Act. Noted tax advocate Narayan Jain said “faceless assessments and appeals will remove the necessity of the personal appearance of taxpayers or their representatives. However, officials need to be fair and objective and decide the matters judiciously”. Sudhir Kapadia, national tax leader at EY India, said, “As an immediate relief, it would be highly desirable if the CBDT instructs the release of all pending refunds to companies as quite a few companies are left with no choice but to consider approaching courts to expedite their refunds in this pandemic-induced stressful business environment.” The income tax department has issued refunds worth Rs 71,229 crore in over 21.24 lakh cases till July 11, the finance ministry has said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has issued income tax refunds of Rs 24,603 crore in 19.79 lakh cases to individual taxpayers and corporate tax refunds of Rs 46,626 crore in 1.45 lakh cases to companies and all refund-related cleaning up of tax demands is being taken up on priority and is likely to be completed by August 31, the finance ministry has said. . Through the charter document, the government has committed the following to the taxpayers: To provide fair, courteous and reasonable treatment; Treat taxpayer as honest; To provide mechanism for appeal and review; To provide complete and accurate information; To provide timely decisions; To collect the correct amount of tax; To respect privacy of taxpayers; To maintain confidentiality; To hold its authorities accountable; To enable representative of choice; To provide mechanism to lodge complaint; To provide a fair and just system; To publish service standards and report periodically; and  To reduce cost of compliance. The taxpayer charter also highlights the obligations of the taxpayer like To be honest and compliant; To be informed; To keep accurate records; To know what your representative does on your behalf; To respond in time; and To pay in time. “The rights provided to the taxpayers through this charter intends to bring more clarity and provide good practices to the administration against providing stringent requirements in the income tax legislation with detailed mechanisms and processes to deal with breach of legal right. It may nevertheless be possible for taxpayers to seek its implementation contending that it ought to be binding on the administrating officers,” Kumarmanglam Vijay, partner, J. Sagar Associates, said. Shailesh Kumar, Partner, Nangia & Co LLP said “the Taxpayer's Charter in its present form intends to bring qualitative change in the way Income Tax department functions and two administrative orders limiting interaction between tax officials and taxpayers has been issued immediately after release of Taxpayer's Charter. We can see similar administrative orders in coming days to further streamline the processes and to improve taxpayers' experience with the income tax department. The same may include fixing timelines on completion of proceedings, processing various applications filed by taxpayers, issuance of refunds in addition to timelines already prescribed in the Income tax act. Presently, the Taxpayer's Charter is more on principle and setting the overall theme, which will be supplemented by administrative orders to be issued by the CBDT in times to come,” he added. Jain also said that under section 115BBE, aggregate tax is as much as 78 per cent from assessment year 2017-18. During demonetisation in December 2016 the rate was increased from 30 per cent to 75 per cent plus education cess. He demanded that the rate should be brought back to 30 per cent. The tax rates and Tax laws have to be fair and reasonable to ensure proper tax compliance, added Jain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Retail inflation simmers at 6.93%||India’s retail inflation rose to 6.93 per cent  in July on higher food prices, remaining above the RBI’s medium-term target for the 10th straight month, according to government data released on Thursday. July’s figure was higher than the 6.23 per cent recorded in June. Food prices soared because of supply-side disruptions caused by the coronavirus lockdown. They rose 9.62 per cent compared with a jump of 8.72  per cent in June. The steady rise in coronavirus cases has disrupted the supply chain as lockdowns continue at regional levels. Fearing a sharp rise in inflation, the RBI last week kept interest rates on hold, after reducing the repo rate by a total of 115 basis points since February. The RBI has set its medium term inflation target at 4 per cent. The economy is expected to contract more than 4.5 per cent in the current fiscal year, but some analysts do not expect the central bank to cut rates further this year. “Given the distortions in supply chains and transportation, I don’t expect a rate cut in the remaining part of 2020,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, economist at L&T Financial Holdings. M. Govinda Rao, chief economic adviser of Brickwork Ratings, said: “CPI inflation rose in July despite fewer supply-side constraints following the relaxation of lockdown. We expect food inflation to soften in the coming months with easing supply constraints and better monsoon so far. However, the core inflation may remain at elevated levels as the demand picks up, but capacity utilisation does not increase.” Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist, India Ratings said: “MPC will watch inflation trajectory very carefully before taking decisions on rate cuts.” “The evolving trends suggest that the CPI inflation may remain appreciably above 6 per cent in August 2020, which would be the last inflation print available before the next MPC review. Accordingly, the likelihood that the MPC would persist with a pause in its October 2020 meeting has climbed sharply, with a final rate cut likely to be deferred to the December 2020 or February 2021 meeting,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of ICRA, said. Monsoon rains are expected to be 104 per cent of the long-term average in August and September, indicating bumper harvests and helping to alleviate some of the damage caused by the pandemic. However, hopes rest on the monsoon spread which are expected to be 104 per cent of a long-term average in August and September, indicating bumper harvests and helping to alleviate some of the economic damage caused by the pandemic. The government suspended the release of CPI inflation headline numbers for April and May due to insufficient data during the lockdown. The RBI kept interest rates on hold last week after reducing the repo rate by a total of 115 basis points since February - despite a recent rise in retail consumer prices - but said it would ensure inflation remains within target. It is for the second consecutive month that the retail inflation has been above the RBI's comfort level. The government has mandated the central bank to restrict the inflation at 4 percent (+, - 2 per cent). The central bank mainly factors in retail inflation while arriving at its bi-monthly monetary policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||H-1B visa: exemptions to ease travel restrictions||The US state department on Wednesday released a set of exemptions that will ease travel restrictions that were clamped on H-1B visa holders in June though there were some lingering concerns over certain caveats in the guidance note. In a proclamation issued two months ago, President Donald Trump suspended work visas across H-1B, L and J categories, sparking concern in the country’s technology industry. The latest guidance note says healthcare professionals and researchers travelling on a request supported by a US government agency or an entity to meet critical US foreign policy objectives will be allowed to travel to the US on these visas. The government has also allowed travel by applicants seeking to resume ongoing employment in the United States in the same position with the same employer and visa classification. Travel by technical specialists, senior-level managers and other workers whose travel is necessary to facilitate the economic recovery of the United States has also been permitted. Industry body Nasscom said it was cautiously optimistic about the exemptions but added that the guidelines still allow a lot of leeway in its interpretation. “The exceptions include potential exemptions for technology workers on H-1B/L-1 visas providing critical infrastructure services, a key ask by Nasscom and the Indian tech industry,” Nasscom said in a statement on Thursday. The association noted that it also includes exceptions for H-1B/L-1 visa-holders who would be returning to the US in the same position with the same employer and visa classification. Nasscom said it has consistently raised the importance of visa holders working in the tech sector, particularly those who would be delivering services designated essential as per the DHS CISA ‘Guidance on the Essential Critical Infrastructure Workforce’. It raised the importance of particularly those who would be returning to the US in the same position with the same employer and visa classification. Nasscom welcomed the move saying this will help US businesses access talent critical to the economic recovery phase in the post-COVID world. “However, we remain ‘cautiously optimistic’ as caveats in the DoS guidance about seniority, unique and significant contributions and/or other factors that go along with the exceptions still allow a lot of leeway in interpretation of the new guidance. The impact can only be gauged in course of time,” it added. Nasscom emphasised that this is a step in the right direction and encouraged the implementing agencies to ensure that American businesses’ access to critical talent is not hampered. US President Donald Trump, in his June proclamation, had banned the entry into the US of workers in several key non-immigrant visa categories, including the H-1B, arguing that they eat into American jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Royal Dutch Shell ready to board Nayara||Rosneft-backed Nayara Energy has received a major boost in its petrochemical plans with Royal Dutch Shell likely to buy a 50 per cent stake in the proposed project. Nayara, formerly Essar Oil, operates a 20-million-tonne refinery at Vadinar in Gujarat apart from a network of 5,700 retail fuel outlets. In January 2019, the company had announced that it is working on a milestone development programme for its Vadinar refinery and that the first stage involves a foray into the Indian petrochemical market. It had then disclosed that the first phase of the programme includes construction of units to provide for production of up to 450,000 tonnes of polypropylene per annum. The project is to be completed in 2022. The preliminary cumulative investments for the first phase was put at $850 million. Nayara had then said that the programme will be funded through internal accruals and bank financing. Subsequently, there were reports that it was looking to expand the capacity of the Vadinar refinery and set up a petrochemical complex with a capacity of around 10.75 lakh tonnes. On Wednesday, Reuters had reported that Royal Dutch Shell is planning to buy a 50 per cent stake in the proposed petrochemical project of Nayara. Quoting sources, the report said that the petrochemical joint venture between the two entities was discussed at the meeting of the board of directors of Nayara in November and December last year. The entire project, which will be completed in five years, will have a 1.8-million-tonne ethylene cracker and linked downstream units and the total cost would be around $9 billion. At present, Nayara owns and operates India’s second largest single site refinery at Vadinar. The refinery has a Nelson complexity of 11.8, which is among the highest globally which enables it to process the toughest of the crudes. Observers said that the interest shown by Shell in Nayara’s petrochemical complex reflects the potential of the Indian market and bodes well for domestic giant Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL). RIL has been betting aggressively on petrochemicals. In November last year, it confirmed plans to invest Rs 70,000 crore to establish a crude oil-to-chemicals complex at the company’s Jamnagar facility. It also commissioned a refinery off-gas cracker in January 2019 at the same site with 1.5-million-tonnes ethylene capacity. Though the industry is now facing challenging conditions amid the Covid-19 pandemic, analysts do not expect the present situation to last longer. Industry leader RIL has been betting aggressively on petrochemicals. In November last year, it confirmed plans to invest Rs 70,000 crore to establish a crude oil-to-chemicals (COTC) complex at the company’s Jamnagar facility. It also commissioned a refinery off-gas cracker in January 2019 at the same site with 1.5-million-tonnes ethylene capacity. RIL is spinning off its oil-to-chemical business into a separate subsidiary in which it will induct strategic partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Titagarh Wagons in private train bid||Titagarh Wagons is open to opportunities to diversify which are emerging from Indian Railways’ move to invite private players to operate passenger train services. The city-based rolling stock maker plans to keep its options open both as a supplier of rolling stock as well as explore strategic alliances to expand business in the services space as an operator. According to Umesh Chowdhary, vice-chairman and managing director of Titagarh Wagons, the decision of the railways to invite private operators and improve the services in the passenger segment is a move that was long overdue as the freight sector already has seen private participation. “Globally, we have seen that railways provide infrastructure and trains are operated by different players. This decision of Indian Railways will revolutionise the passenger movement,” Chowdhary told The Telegraph. He added that private operators will bring in competition and efficiency and further improve the passenger experience. “At present, we are primarily a rolling stock manufacturer. It is an opportunity for us in many ways — whether as an operator or as a rolling stock manufacturer. It is too early to predict how this will take shape, but we are keeping our options open,” said Chowdhary. Titagarh Wagons is among the 23 companies that have expressed interest in operating private trains as a service provider. Alstom, BEML, Bharat Forge, Bhel, Bombardier and  GMR are among the other operators who have shown interest. Railways in July had said that it is seeking private participation in operation of passenger train services in over 109 origin-destination pairs of routes through introduction of 151 modern rakes that will be in addition to the existing trains operated on the network. A first of its kind initiative, the project is estimated to attract a private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore. Tenders are expected to be finalised by March 2021 and trains are expected to operate from March 2023, Railways had said in a statement. The private operators have to pay a haulage charge for using railway infrastructure and there are likely to be penalties for delay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Limit on core investment companies||The RBI on Thursday tightened its rules on core investment companies (CICs) when it curtailed the number of layers of such entities in a group and directed them to make more disclosures. The RBI accepted the proposals of a panel under former corporate affairs secretary Tapan Ray, which had submitted its report in November 2018. A CIC is a non-banking finance company (NBFC) which carries on the business of the acquisition of shares and securities and holds not less than 90 per cent of its net assets in the form of investment in equity shares, preference shares, bonds, debentures, debt or loans in group companies. The Tapan Ray-panel had observed that the Companies’ Act 2013 restricted the group structure to a maximum of three layers, with one CIC at the top which could hold investments in step-down entities. However, NBFCs were exempted from this provision, which facilitated the proliferation of multiple layers of CICs in a group with cross-holdings. The RBI said the number of layers of CICs in a group should now be restricted to two, irrespective of the extent of direct or indirect holding or control exercised by a CIC in the other CIC. The RBI also strengthened the risk management at CICs as it looked to curb excessive leveraging. It said parent CIC in the group or CIC with the largest asset size, if there is no identifiable parent CIC in the group, will form a Group Risk Management Committee. The RBI added that if a CIC makes any direct or indirect equity investment in another CIC, it will be deemed as a layer for the investing CIC. In cases where there are more than two layers in a group, the apex bank said that they will have time till March 2023 to reorganise their business structure and adhere to this guideline. The RBI also strengthened the risk management at CICs as it looked to curb excessive leveraging. It said parent CIC in the group or CIC with the largest asset size, if there is no identifiable parent CIC in the group, will form a "Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC)".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Tata Steel deep in red||Tata Steel on Thursday reported a sharply higher loss than anticipated by analysts for the quarter ended June 30 as the Covid-19 pandemic hit demand. The steel major posted a consolidated loss of Rs 4,609 crore compared with a net profit of Rs 695 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting Tata Steel to post a net loss of around Rs 2,400 crore. The loss came as total revenues slid to Rs 24,288.51 crore from Rs 35,947.11 crore in the year-ago period. The effect of coronavirus and the resulting global lockdown was reflected in its operations with production falling to 4.93 million tonnes from 6.34 million tonnes in the same period of the previous year. Tata Steel disclosed that the average steel realisations in India were lower because of the Covid-19 impact during the quarter and about Rs 2,000 crore of costs were under-absorbed because of the lower volumes. The performance of Tata Steel Europe was also affected because of the overall weakness in economic activities in Europe and a sharp drop in spreads. Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) on Thursday reported nearly doubling of net profit in the June quarter after inventory gains offset a decline in refining margins and fuel sales. The standalone net profit in April-June stood at Rs 2,076.17 crore compared with Rs 1,075.12 crore a year back. The company earned $0.39 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel compared with a gross refining margin $2.81 a barrel a year ago in the same period of the previous year. Fuel sales in the quarter that saw economic activity coming to a halt due to nationwide COVID-19 lockdown slipped to 7.53 million tonnes when compared to 11.11 million tonnes sales last year. The company disclosed that to preserve cash flows and focus on disciplined capital allocation, it has curtailed growth capex for this year and the focus is primarily on safety environment and sustenance capital expenditure. “During the quarter, we re-calibrated our operations and our sales across geographies in line with underlying regulatory and market conditions..Economic activity is gradually recovering. In India, we have ramped-up our capacity utilizations to 90 per cent levels with total sales in June exceeding 2019-20 average monthly sales. We are further ramping up capacity utilization and increasing domestic sales which will lead to an improvement in our margins in coming quarters’’, V Narendran, CEO & Managing Director, Tata Steel said. Tata Steel disclosed that given the heightened economic uncertainty, it has  ramped up the liquidity buffer to Rs 20,144 crore which will be deployed to deleverage as business conditions normalize. “Tata Steel responded very swiftly to the pandemic in April and despite the national lock down in India, the company remained focus on its cash flow management to generate a free cash flow quarter and maintained its net debt at the March 2020 level. This was achieved through cross functional co-ordination and cash war room initiatives covering fixed cost reduction, working capital management through better inventory management, focus on debtors, working with suppliers and other initiatives. This enabled the company to generate free cash flow of Rs 700 crore post capex and other obligations’’, Koushik Chatterjee, Executive Director and CFO, Tata Steel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||India||Bhushan guilty of contempt, Supreme Court explains why||The Supreme Court has come down heavily on activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, ruling that he had damaged “the dignity and authority of the institution” by two tweets and was therefore guilty of contempt. The court will announce its sentence on August 20. The bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, said one tweet referring to the Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on a Harley Davidson motorbike damaged the reputation of both the court and the chief justice. It added: “Fearless and impartial courts of justice are the bulwark of a healthy democracy and the confidence in them cannot be permitted to be impaired by malicious attacks.” Unusually, there was no indication about who had written the 108-page judgement delivered by the three-judge bench. The court also ripped into Bhushan’s second tweet which had criticised the role of the last four chief justices of India and accused them of weakening democracy by their actions. The tweet, the judges said, “give an impression, that the Supreme Court has a particular role in the destruction of democracy in the last six years and that the last four CJIs had a more particular role in the same.” Bhushan’s lawyer Dushyant Dave argued during the hearing that both tweets were made in good faith and with a view to upholding the reputation of the judiciary. Dave declined to comment on the judgement, saying: “I won’t speak on it now.” During the hearing, Dave had gone at length into the reasons why Bhushan was concerned about the court’s reputation such as sexual harassment charges against former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi and the manner in which the hearing on the charges against him had been carried out. Dave also argued that the comments about the judges had been in relation to their personal capacities and not against the court itself and therefore could not be treated as contempt of court. On this assertion, the court commented: “The tweet has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of Indian democracy. The tweet clearly tends to give an impression that the Supreme Court……has in the last six years played a vital role in destruction of the Indian democracy. There is no manner of doubt that the tweet tends to shake the public confidence in the institution of the judiciary.” On the tweet about Bobde on the motorcycle, the judges said: “The impression that the said part of the tweet attempts to give to a layman is, that the CJI is riding a 50 lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur without a mask or helmet, at a time when he has kept the SC in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice.” The court added: “In our considered view, the said tweet undermines the dignity and authority of the institution of the Supreme Court of India and the CJI and directly affronts the majesty of the law.” It added: “Making such (a) wild allegation, thereby giving an impression that the CJI is enjoying riding an expensive bike while he keeps the SC in lockdown mode and thereby denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice, is undoubtedly false, malicious and scandalous.” The court also argued that if Supreme Court judges were not protected from attack there might be “a possibility of the judges getting an impression that they may not stand protected from malicious attacks, when the Supreme Court has failed to protect itself from malicious insinuations, cannot be ruled out.” Turning down Dave’s request for magnanimity, the judges said: “Magnanimity cannot be stretched to such an extent, which may amount to weakness in dealing with a malicious, scurrilous, calculated 104 attack on the very foundation of the institution of the judiciary and thereby damaging the very foundation of the democracy.” After giving short shrift to the key arguments, the three judges, in their judgement, also shot down a plea that the correct procedure for taking up a contempt case had not been followed and that it had to be routed via the attorney general. The court rejected this argument outright, saying that the court had full powers to take up the case suo motu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Shah tests negative, to stay at home for a while||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus, on Friday said he has tested negative. Shah, 55, also said that on the advice of the doctors, he will be in home isolation for the next few days. "Today, my corona test report has come and it is negative. I thank God and also express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who wished for my recovery and gave strength to my family. I will be in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors," he tweeted in Hindi. He also thanked the doctors and paramedical staff of Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon, where he was admitted, for giving him treatment and in helping him fight the coronavirus infection. On August 2, Shah himself said on Twitter that he had tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Over 4,000 invited for Red Fort I-Day event||Over 4,000 people including diplomats, officials and media personnel have been invited for the Independence Day ceremony at the Red Fort and it is being organised maintaining a balance between dignity of the event and factoring in Covid-19 protocols, the defence ministry said Friday. It said the seating arrangement has been made under the guiding principle of Do Gaz ki Doori (maintaining distance of two yards) between any two guests, adding that members of the guard of honour have been under quarantine. "With an eye on safety, NCC (National Cadet Corps) cadets have been invited to witness the event (instead of young school children) and they will be seated at Gyanpath," it noted. All invitees have been requested to wear masks, it said, adding that an adequate number of masks are being kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. "Similarly, availability of hand sanitizers at pre-defined locations has been done. Display boards are placed discreetly to attract the attention of invitees," the ministry said. In order to facilitate people's seamless movement and to avoid crowding, seating enclosures and walkways have been laid with wooden flooring and carpeting. Additional door frame metal detectors with adequately spaced markings have been provided to avoid queuing and to ensure smooth passage for all the invitees, it mentioned. "Most of the parking areas have been brick lined and paved in order to ensure smooth entry and exit of vehicles to the maximum feasible extent," it said. Thermal screening at all entry points for the invitees has been planned, it mentioned. It said a thorough sanitization of the premises inside and outside the Red Fort is being carried out on a regular basis. The ministry said the participation is only through invitation and those who do not have formal invites should "refrain from coming to the venue". "About 4000 plus invites have been issued to officials, diplomats, members of public, media etc," it added. Ceremonial drills, it said, have also factored in due social distancing norms as well as other precautionary measures. The ministry said, "Adequate medical booths along with Ambulances stationed at four locations, one near the Rampart, one in Madhavdas Park and two in 15 August Park, to cater to any attendee who is detected having any symptoms related to Covid-19 during entry." Meanwhile, India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed 24 lakh on Friday after 64,553 more people tested positive and the recoveries rose to over 17 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot wins vote of confidence ||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot won the vote of confidence in the state Assembly after a month of political turmoil in the ruling goverment following the sudden rebellion by Sachin Pilot and his loyalist MLAs. Rajasthan Parliamentary Affair Minister Shanti Dhariwal on Friday moved a motion of confidence in Rajasthan Assembly. Replying to the debate on the motion, Dhariwal blamed the Centre for trying to "topple" the governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Goa, using money and power, but said a similar attempt in Rajasthan would not succeed. Referring to Akbar, he said the Mughal emperor had to taste defeat in Mewar of Rajasthan during his quest to expand his empire. Similarly, BJP's attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government were defeated, he added. BJP's plan to move a no confidence motion against the Ashok Gehlot-led government was nipped to the bud with the Congress deciding to use the confidence motion as a counter strategy. In a House of 200, the Congress party has 107 MLAs and the support of Independents and allies. The BJP has 72 members. Sachin Pilot's seating in the Assembly caused much speculation and jeers among the opposition on Friday. Pilot was seen seated far across from the CM Ashok Gehlot, right next to the opposition benches. When asked about it, the former deputy CM quipped, ""When I came to the house and found that my seat had been changed, I was wondering why. When I sat there (pointing to the government benches), I was safe. Now I am next to the opposition. Then I realized I have been sent to the sarhad (border). That is because only the bravest and most powerful warrior is sent to the border".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Bangalore riots: 60 more arrested||Bangalore police have arrested 60 more persons in connection with Tuesday night riots in parts of the city, official sources said on Friday. "Continuing arrests in D J Halli and K G Halli case, another 60 accused arrested, including Kaleem Pasha. Total number of arrests is now 206," official sources said. Kaleem Pasha, husband of BBMP Nagavara Corporator Irshaad Begum, and is said to have instigated the rioters, they said. The BJP took a dig at the opposition Congress following the arrest. "Kalim Pasha, husband of @INCKarnataka corporator arrested. 4 senior functionaries of SDPI arrested. Still State Cong leaders trying to shift blame. Not condemning riots. Eyes only on upcoming BBMP elections. #CongressAgainstDalits (sic)," BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh tweeted. The role of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) behind the mob violence in parts of Bangalore has come to light and investigation will go deep into it and their connections, Home Minister Basavaraj Bomai had said on Thursday. Three persons were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D J Halli and adjoining areas on Tuesday night over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshi Nagar MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. The MLAs residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by rioters, who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and those of his sister. Meanwhile, officials said, most of the arrested who are at Parappana Agrahara Central prisons are being sent to Ballari central jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Bhushan guilty of contempt: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday held activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said it would hear on August 20 the arguments on quantum of sentence to be awarded to Bhushan in the matter. A contemnor can be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both. The apex court had on August 5 reserved its verdict in the matter after Bhushan had defended his tweets, saying they were against the judges regarding their conduct in their personal capacity and they did not obstruct administration of justice. On July 22, the top court had issued a show cause notice to Bhushan after initiating the criminal contempt against him after taking note of a petition. While referring to the tweets by Bhushan, the apex court had earlier said these statements are prima facie capable of "undermining the dignity and authority" of the institution of the Supreme Court in general and the office of Chief Justice of India in particular, in the eyes of the public at large. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Bhushan in the matter, had said the two tweets were not against the institution. Bhushan has made immense contribution to the development of jurisprudence and there are at least 50 judgments to his credit , Dave had said, adding that the court has appreciated his contributions in cases like 2G scam, coal block allocation and in mining matters. Referring to the ADM Jabalpur case on suspension of fundamental rights during the Emergency, the senior advocate had said that even extremely uncharitable remarks against the judges were made and no contempt proceedings were made out. In a 142-page reply affidavit filed in the matter, Bhushan had stood by his two tweets and had said the expression of opinion, however outspoken, disagreeable or unpalatable to some , cannot constitute contempt of court. Bhushan, in the affidavit, has referred to several apex court judgements, speeches of former and serving judges on contempt of court and the stifling of dissent in a democracy and his views on judicial actions in some cases. Preventing citizens from demanding accountability and reforms and advocating for the same by generating public opinion is not a ''reasonable restriction'', the affidavit had said, adding that the Article 129 cannot be pressed into service to stifle bonafide criticism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Terrorists open fire at a police convoy in Srinagar, 2 killed||A convoy of Jammu and Kashmir policemen was attacked by terrorists on the outskirts of Srinagar this morning resulting in the death of two, police said. The incident took place at Nowgam, on the outskirts of Srinagar city. Three police personnel were injured in the attack, two of whom died during treatment at the hospital, police said. "Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon police party near Nowgam Bypass. 3 police personnel injured. They were shifted to hospital for treatment where two among them attained martyrdom. Area cordoned off. Further details shall follow," tweeted the Kashmir Zone police. The attack comes despite security being on high alert in the wake of Independence Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Lab plan for returned students ||The government is considering the possibility of allowing students pursuing research in foreign universities who have had to return to India during the pandemic to use laboratories in institutions funded by the Centre for the time being. The education ministry discussed the subject at a meeting with the heads of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) two weeks ago. A “Stay in India and Study in India Committee” set up to suggest measures to tide the education sector over its pandemic-induced problems is looking into the proposal on the research scholars. “The committee is examining a proposal to allow research scholars enrolled in foreign universities in the US, Europe and elsewhere to do their work at the labs of centrally funded institutions in India,” AICTE chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe, a member of the committee, told The Telegraph. Sahasrabudhe added: “They are unable to go back (to their universities abroad) due to the Covid-19 outbreak. They should be able to avail themselves of the facilities (here) till they go back.” All educational institutions are closed at least till August 31. Sudhir Kumar Sopory, former vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said the research scholars’ foreign supervisors have to first agree to such an arrangement. “This is possible. But the supervisors of the students in the foreign universities should have trust in the research work their understudies would be doing in Indian institutions. It can be done through collaboration,” Sopory said. He said several labs in India were of international standards and offered facilities similar to those in foreign institutions. Sachin Maheswari, dean of Delhi University’s faculty of technology, and Rajani Ranjan Singh, faculty member at Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University in Lucknow, doubted whether such an arrangement would work. “This will be feasible to a limited extent. It will depend on the scope to accommodate (the research scholars from foreign universities) and the willingness of the lab-in-charge to share equipment (with them),” Maheswari said. Singh underlined that research scholars have to make a security deposit to ensure there is no mishandling of equipment, and that the materials required for research are expensive. Singh said professors in India would also have to agree to guide these research scholars from foreign universities for a limited period. Sahasrabudhe, the AICTE chairman, said the modalities were being worked out. The Stay in India and Study in India Committee is to also suggest measures to address the needs of students aspiring to go abroad. Nearly six lakh Indian students are pursuing higher studies abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Key plea challenging constitutional validity of contempt provision withdrawn||Veteran journalists Arun Shourie and N. Ram and lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Thursday withdrew their Supreme Court petition that had challenged the constitutional validity of the provision that criminalises contempt for “scandalising” the court. The bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, who is scheduled to retire in the first week of September, allowed the withdrawal plea but made it clear the petitioners should not return to the Supreme Court with the petition after some time. They have the liberty to approach an “appropriate forum”, the court said. The bench is already hearing two contempt cases against Bhushan and is scheduled to pronounce on Friday the judgment in one of the cases that deals with two tweets by the lawyer. The plea filed by Shourie, Ram and Bhushan was originally listed before another bench, of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and K.M. Joseph. The petition was later listed before the bench headed by Justice Mishra as the two contempt cases against Bhushan were already pending before it. The bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari was to hear the petition of Shourie and the two others on Thursday. Senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan, representing the petitioners, said he was withdrawing the petition since the bench already had a lot of other matters to deal with. Dhavan initially sought permission to withdraw the petition with the liberty “to file it at a later stage”. Citing the other cases before the bench, he said: “I do not want this matter to get entangled with the others or vice versa.” Justice Mishra said: “We are allowing withdrawal but not permitting you to file the matter before us again.” Dhavan said the petitioner would approach Delhi High Court at a later stage. Dhavan cited the letter that the advocate-on-record for the petitioners, Kamini Jaiswal, had sent to the apex court registrar on Wednesday seeking permission to withdraw the petition. “I have been instructed by the petitioners to request for withdrawal of the instant writ petition with liberty to file the same or similar petition in future before an appropriate forum. Therefore, I would be requesting the hon’ble court to allow the petitioners to withdraw the above writ petition with the aforesaid liberty,” the letter said. The petition had sought the quashing of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, as violative of Articles 19 (freedom of speech) and 14 (equality) of the Constitution. The section defines what constitutes criminal contempt and lays down what “scandalises or tends to scandalise, or lowers or tends to lower” the authority of a court. The section invites a maximum punishment of six months in jail. There is another form of contempt — civil — which deals with wilful disobedience to any judgment, decree, direction, order, writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Record tests and spike; fall in fatality rate||India on Thursday recorded 66,999 new patients with the coronavirus disease, a new single-day high, after testing a record 830,391 samples the previous day and a further fall in case fatality rate to 1.96 per cent. However, the number of Covid-19 patients under active medical supervision at home or in hospitals increased by 9,674 from 643,498 on Wednesday to 653,622 on Thursday, with the highest single-day recoveries at 56,383. The Union health ministry said the case fatality rate — the proportion of mortality among laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 patients — had “further regressed” to 1.96 per cent from 1.99 per cent earlier this week, a steady decline from 3.3 per cent in mid-June. The new cases have raised the total number of lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections to 2,396,637, of whom 1,695,982 patients have recovered and 47,033 have died, including 942 deaths over the past 24 hours. Public health specialists say India’s epidemic appears to be progressing exactly as had been expected, displaying steady growth as the virus continues to spread among the vast majority of the population still susceptible to the infection. “Neither record high new cases nor record high recoveries should surprise anyone,” said Oommen John, a public health expert at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “This is a very infectious virus, but the vast majority of infected patients either remain asymptomatic or show mild symptoms.” The health ministry said the week-wise average daily samples tested had increased sharply over the past month from around 230,000 samples in early July to more than 630,000 samples in the week ended August 11. Health officials have pointed out that such a dramatic rise in the number of daily samples tested has been possible through the rapid expansion of testing capacity — from only one lab in January to over 1,400 now. The health ministry also said on Thursday that it had delivered over 30 million N95 masks, 12.8 million personal protection equipment kits and 22,533 “made-in-India” ventilators to states and Union Territories and central institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
14-08-2020||India||Barn fuels gunfight queries||A largely intact barn stands in a secluded spot surrounded by an ocean of apple orchards in this village, asking silent questions about the army’s claim of a “gunfight” at the site in which it killed three young men last month. The army says the trio were unidentified militants who had fired at its soldiers from inside the barn. But a few families in Rajouri, Jammu division, say the slain youths were three missing cousins who had travelled to Kashmir to work as labourers but were killed in a staged encounter. A police team led by a deputy superintendent left for Rajouri on Thursday to collect DNA samples from members of these families so they can be matched with the samples taken from the slain youths. Mohammad Yosef, the distraught father of the “missing” Ibrar Ahmad, 25, said he and his son were the only males in the family who lacked an army background. He wondered how the army could kill a man from a family full of serving and retired soldiers. “Seven people from my family are soldiers or former soldiers. My brother, Hawaldar Bashir Ahmad, is a Kargil war veteran. Another of my brothers is a retired honorary captain. Five other relatives are in the army,” Yosef told The Telegraph over the phone. “I challenge the army to prove they (the slain youths) were militants. I have faith in the government and hope the guilty will be punished.” Yosef said his son, father of a two-year-old boy, used to work as a labourer in Kuwait but could not go back to the Gulf because of the pandemic. The alleged gunfight took place in the early hours of July 18 at the barn, built recently by Jamnagri resident Mohammad Yousuf Bhat to store his apples. Two days earlier, two men from Rajouri — Ibrar Ahmad, 17, and his brother-in-law and namesake, 25 — had left for Chowgam in Shopian to work as labourers. One of their relatives, Imtiyaz, 22, was already working as an apple-orchard labourer in Chowgam, 8km from Jamnagri, and they meant to join him. The families last spoke with them on July 17 evening. By the next day, the phones had stopped ringing. Questions over the army’s version had surfaced soon after the “encounter” but no one came forward to claim the bodies for three weeks. The families of the “missing” men from Rajouri, living across the Pir Panjal mountains around 130km away, were continuing their search. It was on August 10 that the families stumbled upon social media pictures of the three “dead militants” and confirmed they were their missing children. The barn bears hardly any signs of a gunfight. It’s not only almost intact but has only a handful of bullet marks. In most encounters — routine in the Valley — the houses where militants take shelter are riddled with bullets before being blown apart by shells and explosives. Local people said the roof of the barn had been stacked with hay and caught fire. They said they saw soldiers removing tin sheets from the roof in the morning. The barn stands deep inside the orchards, with the closest habitation being Seer Mohalla, home to 25 Gujjar families some 200 metres away. Mohammad Ashraf, an orchardist and a member of one of these families, said he had heard gunshots at 2.30am on July 18. “For the next few hours, there was no firing. Around 6 in the morning, more firing followed. Around 7am, the army knocked on our doors and asked us to accompany them and confirm whether the slain youths were local militants,” Ashraf said. “We saw three bodies lying on the ground. We told them that we didn’t know them. We had suspicions (about the army account) as they (the dead youths) were wearing ordinary clothes and looked like labourers.” Ashraf said he was surprised not to find any cordon around the village. During all encounters, the security forces seal the area off to prevent the militants escaping. “None of us had seen any soldiers in our village while the gunfire was going on,” Ashraf said. Police sources said they had misgivings about the encounter and arrived at the site in the morning to find the media already assembled several hundred metres from the spot. Normally, the army, police and the paramilitary forces carry out anti-militant operations together. A police handout on July 18 said the operation had been carried out by 62 Rashtriya Rifles, with the police and the CRPF joining later. Farida Banu, a landlady in Chowgam, confirmed that the three “missing” men had rented an accommodation from her on July 17 afternoon for Rs 1,600 a month. Farida said the three had bought the essentials to run the kitchen. She said she did not find them at their lodgings the next morning. “The door was closed from the inside but nobody answered our knocks. We peeped through the window, which was open, and found nobody inside,” she said. Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said the police were investigating the families’ claims. He said they were also checking the call details of the three “missing” youths, from the phone numbers provided by the families, to ascertain whether they were in touch with militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
14-08-2020||India||Debate over toxic debates||The death of Congress spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi on Wednesday has triggered a discussion in the party on the perils of participating in TV news channel debates that it feels are designed to divert attention from matters of grave concern and camouflage the Narendra Modi government’s failures. Tyagi, 52, is said to have felt extreme unease during a debate on Wednesday afternoon on the Bangalore violence and fell unconscious soon after. He passed away within half an hour after suffering a cardiac arrest. The Congress has launched an online campaign against the perceived agenda and conduct of a section of TV channels and BJP spokespersons. The Congress had for a while stopped sending representatives to TV debates, and Rahul Gandhi has begun addressing the public directly through social media because of the blatant bias of the news channels. During Wednesday’s debate, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had repeatedly called Tyagi “Jaichand”, a medieval king whose name is synonymous with the word “traitor”, and said that applying a tilak on the forehead did not make one a Hindu. For several hours the hashtag “Arrest Sambit Patra” trended on Twitter after Tyagi’s death. Although it is far-fetched to hold Patra or the anchor of the programme responsible for the tragedy, the Congress believes this should trigger a discussion on the quality and intent of talk shows telecast daily on most news channels. Veteran Congress leader Ahmed Patel initiated the discourse with a blunt tweet: “It is high time TV channel owners, editors and anchors introspect on how some in the industry have reduced news debates to a meaningless, poisonous and potentially fatal activity. At times words can have the same impact as bullets.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Till when (will) toxic debates and poisonous spokespersons continue to kill the language of restraint and dignity? Till when (will) this business of TRP be sustained by such debates? Till when (will) the poison to divide Hindus and Muslims consume the soul of this nation?” The party also posted several messages on its website, including one that said: “What a truly nationalist media should have normalised: Holding the government accountable. What did they normalise: Hate, lynchings, name-calling, personal attacks, sensationalism.” Many Congress spokespersons posted videos to bring on record the discriminatory attitude of some television anchors who make no effort to hide their intent of helping the Narendra Modi government. Gourav Vallabh, a Congress spokesperson, said: “I can understand what pressure Tyagi felt during the debate. Our patience and grit are tested daily. To begin with, the title of the debates is chosen mischievously to send out a divisive message, to create animosity in society. The title declares the BJP victorious even before the debate.” Vallabh added: “The panel is carefully chosen — one BJP spokesperson, one RSS man, one expert with BJP links and one Congress spokesperson. When the debate starts, only the Congress spokesperson is questioned while the BJP spokespersons are protected by the anchors. We are abused and insulted, vulgar language is used against top leaders, baseless allegations are made. We hardly get time to respond; when we speak, we are either muted or the volume is reduced. Tricks like taking a break or technical disruption are also deployed.” Alleging that the topics of the debates are chosen also to fit into the larger agenda, Vallabh asked: “Have you heard any debate on the attempts to dilute environmental laws or the new education policy in the past 15 days?” Another Congress spokesperson, Supriya Shrinate, said: “We cannot avoid discussing the nature of debates on TV channels anymore. The poison spread in the public sphere has to end. Most TV debates are abuses, personal attacks, meaningless talk and character assassination. The greatest responsibility lies on the anchors and editors to ensure vulgar language and irrelevant talk are avoided and discussions become meaningful and decent.” Party spokesperson Akhilesh Pratap Singh said: “TV studios have become dens of churning poison. Anchors habitually spit poison and execute the BJP’s agenda instead of giving news. Creating disaffection among communities is their main purpose. Media owners should introspect and kick out anchors doing this on a regular basis.” Senior spokesperson Mohan Prakash weighed in: “I have seen two-three generations of BJP spokespersons and TV anchors but never experienced such toxic debates and vulgar language. In my view, the standard has been lowered because of the influence of the top leadership, the hostile language spoken by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah on political rivals. It is not that these spokespersons do not have an adequate vocabulary. The abusive and threatening tenor is by choice.” Former information and broadcasting minister Manish Tewari, also a Congress spokesperson for long, said: “Acerbic and obnoxious questions are thrown at the Congress by anchors and fellow panelists. What is happening is not structured discussion but looks like WWF (the American wrestling show now called WWE). Rajiv’s death should be a trigger for revisiting the debate formats on TV. For how long will the public space be vitiated for TRPs? I request the I&B ministry to cancel the licences of channels that violate the licensing code and regulation acts.” Asked for the reasons behind the Congress’s aggressive campaign, party media secretary Pranav Jha explained: “TV debates over the last seven-eight years or so have become unabashedly coloured, biased. Their aim appears to not inform but damn individuals, the Opposition, and polarise people by deliberately rousing baser, negative emotions. Is the vulgar tamasha done to enhance TRP or to further the BJP’s divisive agenda? Are the vicious debates organised on the instructions of the powers that be? I have seen our spokespersons angry and frustrated so many times because of the naked bias of the anchors.” Jha added: “Have we, as the audience, become so frivolous and mean as to tolerate this toxicity? It’s time that the people take the lead and boycott such TV shows! Look at the orchestrated plan — all the TV channels were discussing the Bangalore violence yesterday and asking ‘why are the Gandhis silent’? Doesn’t it clearly indicate the sinister agenda and how TV channels have become the ruling party’s mouthpiece?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
14-08-2020||India||Cloud on online NEET, foreign centres ||The National Testing Agency, which conducts NEET for undergraduate medical courses, on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it would not be possible to allocate overseas centres or hold online exams for students based abroad in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This implies that aspirants will have to take the exam, scheduled on September 13, in the offline mode unless the apex court decides otherwise. On July 29, the Supreme Court had issued a notice to the NTA, the Centre and the Medical Council of India on a plea by around 4,000 students from Singapore, the Gulf and West Asian countries seeking the allocation of overseas centres for the NEET medical undergraduate exam or its postponement until the Covid-19 crisis blows over. In its affidavit, the NTA submitted that upon receiving representations from a large number of foreign students for setting up overseas centres, it had sought the views of the MCI. However, it said the MCI, in a letter dated May 21, had clarified “that as the examination is conducted through Multiple Choice Questions in paper book format given to all candidates and, uniformity has to be maintained for all candidates, therefore, NEET (UG) examination should not be conducted in online mode by respondent no. 2 (NTA) for candidates abroad”. Citing its earlier stand in Kerala High Court, the NTA submitted that “the manner as to how examinations have to be conducted is a policy decision and, is, purely within the domain of the examining body, viz. MCI and whether centres for conducting such examination should be provided in foreign countries is in the province of MCI to decide”. “MCI has taken its decision and, there is nothing on record which shows that the said decision of MCI is arbitrary or illegal particularly in the light of the fact that NEET (UG) is a uniform entrance examination and, to maintain uniformity for all candidates, it has to be conducted at the same time, on the same day, throughout India. It was for this reason that the said examination cannot be conducted in online mode.” On why the exam cannot be conducted abroad, the NTA said: “NEET (UG) has to be conducted in single shift at the same time, on the same day to maintain uniformity and, further, the question papers and other exam materials are to be transported from NTA headquarters to a large number of examination centres in various cities, which would require meticulous planning for safe and secure delivery of the same at the examination centres on time.” The NTA has also rejected the argument of foreign students that exam centres had been set up in some cities abroad for JEE (Main) 2020. The agency said the two were not comparable. “No parity can be drawn between JEE (Main), which is for a non-medical course, and NEET (UG) which is for a medical course. The number of seats in engineering colleges in comparison to the number of seats in medical colleges within the country is much more.… Thus medical seats attract stiffer competition compared to engineering seats,” the NTA said, pointing out that more than 15 lakh students vie for the NEET every year. “It is respectfully submitted that around 15 lakh candidates appear for NEET (UG) every year and 15,97,426 candidates have registered for NEET (UG) 2020, whereas about 8 lakh candidates appear for JEE (Main). Since there are a large number of candidates (more than 15 lakh), it is not feasible to conduct NEET (UG) 2020 in online mode in single shift for all candidates, in order to maintain the same difficulty level. “Therefore, there is no discrimination between the candidates of NEET (UG) and JEE (Main) nor there is any violation of the fundamental rights of the candidates of NEET (UG) as claimed in the writ petition,” it added. Around 4,000-odd overseas medical aspirants had pleaded that if they were not allowed to compete with their counterparts in India, it would be a violation of their fundamental right to equality guaranteed under Article 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
14-08-2020||India||Gehlot to Pilot: Our own are our own||Sachin Pilot on Thursday visited Ashok Gehlot’s residence and the two leaders shook hands, following which the Rajasthan chief minister said “apne toh apne hi hote hain (our own are our own after all)”. This was the first time Gehlot and Pilot met after the month-long acrimony ended. After the meeting, Gehlot urged the party’s legislators to forget the unpleasant chapter and forge solidarities afresh to serve the people of Rajasthan. The chief minister will move a motion of confidence in the Assembly on Friday. The survival of the government appears no longer in doubt after the return of the 19 disgruntled MLAs. Gehlot said the grievances of each MLA would be addressed and he was ready to meet all of them individually. Later, a smiling Gehlot and Pilot appeared before the media for a formal photo-op. The Congress also revoked the suspension of two senior MLAs — Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh — who had been accused of plotting the fall of the Gehlot government. The Congress will, however, find it difficult to withdraw the police case against them. The BJP has decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Gehlot government on Friday in what is being viewed as a symbolic move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
14-08-2020||India||Temple trust priest tests Covid-19 positive||Nritya Gopal Das, the chief of the trust set up to build the Ram temple, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, eight days after he had shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. The 82-year-old chairman of the Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had travelled to Mathura to participate in a Krishna Janmashtami programme on Wednesday when he complained of a sore throat, breathlessness and other Covid-19 symptoms at night. On the instructions of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Nritya Gopal Das has been shifted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, where Union home minister Amit Shah too is being treated for the novel coronavirus infection. At the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya on August 5, Nritya Gopal Das had been seen in close proximity of Modi at least thrice — once when the Prime Minister had greeted him at the beginning by touching his folded hands, again when Modi was laying the foundation stone of the temple and yet again when the Prime Minister had bent down to speak to a seated Nritya Gopal Das while leaving. On none of these occasions had Nritya Gopal Das been wearing a mask. Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said the process of identifying those who had come in contact with Nritya Gopal Das in the recent past had started. Other than Modi, who launched a tax drive on Thursday, the others who had been seen near Nritya Gopal Das at the August 5 event included Adityanath, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, temple trust general secretary Champat Rai and Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel. Sanjeev Yadav, the chief medical officer of Mathura, said Nritya Gopal Das’s throat swab sample had been sent for examination on Wednesday night itself and the report came positive on Thursday. If Nritya Gopal Das developed the sore throat and breathlessness — symptoms of Covid-19 — on Wednesday, experts believe it is unlikely that he was infectious eight days ago. Although the gestation — the period during which a person is infected, but does not show any symptoms — for Covid-19 is up to 14 days, researchers have estimated that infected people can spread it to others only two or three days before their symptoms emerge. It is unclear when Nritya Gopal Das himself became infected because in rare instances, a person might develop symptoms within two days of becoming infected and on average patients might develop symptoms between 5 and 7 days after becoming infected. Nritya Gopal Das lives in Ayodhya, where he is the Mahant of the Maniram Chhawani temple. He visits Mathura during Krishna Janmashtami. Chief minister Adityanath said he had asked administrative officers to make every arrangement for the treatment of Nritya Gopal Das, the oldest surviving Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader who had been among those at the forefront of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the 1990s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
14-08-2020||India||Rs 1-lakh Covid fine proposal||The Odisha government on Thursday sent a proposal to governor Ganeshi Lal to promulgate an ordinance to make the law governing Covid-19 guidelines more stringent. The proposed ordinance will empower the government to impose a penalty of up to Rs 1 lakh on people violating Covid guidelines. Additional chief secretary in charge of health, P.K. Mohapatra, told The Telegraph, “A proposal to this effect was passed by the cabinet on Wednesday. As the Assembly is not in session, we forwarded a proposal to the governor on Thursday based on the cabinet’s decision. Once it is signed, the ordinance will be promulgated.” Sources said under the ordinance, the government will be empowered to impose fines up to Rs 1 lakh on those violating social distancing norms and organising marriage functions in violation of rules. “We are noticing that people are inviting even 1,000 people for marriage functions. We want to curb such practices. Earlier, the fine was only up to Rs 10,000. We want to enhance the fine in public interest,” said a senior official. He said a detailed notification will be issued after the ordinance comes into force. According to the law, a maximum of 50 people can be invited to a marriage function and they need to maintain social distancing norms and wear masks. Last month, a businessman in Berhampur had arranged a marriage function for his son inviting more than 1,000 guests in alleged violation of the norms. Under the proposed new law, the maximum punishment stipulated for such offences is two years. According to the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment Ordinance) 2020, anybody who disobeys any regulation or order made under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, is liable for imprisonment up to two years. After the new ordinance is promulgated, the violator will be liable for imprisonment up to two years or a fine of Rs 1 lakh or both, sources said. On the imposition of fine for not wearing masks, Mohapatra said, “We don’t want to follow Jharkhand which has imposed a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh for not wearing masks. In Odisha, the first two violations will attract a fine of Rs 1,000 and any further violation will be punishable with a fine of Rs 5,000. Earlier, this fine ranged between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000. It has already been implemented since August 1,” said the official. Sources said the government was forced to take the ordinance route to make the regulations stricter as people have been found wilfully disobeying Covid-19 guidelines. “Even the chief minister (Naveen Patnaik) is making repeated pleas to people to observe the laws,” the official said. Meanwhile, the coronavirus tally in the state reached 52,653 with the detection of 1,981 new cases on Thursday while 314 people have died due to the infection. The state, which plans to conduct 50,000 tests per day, conducted 40,711 tests on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
14-08-2020||West Bengal||How insured Covid-19 patients are left uncovered||A sizeable portion of the private hospital bills of insured Covid-19 patients who have not taken a virus-specific policy is now made up of “non-medical” expenses like the cost of PPE kits, facemasks, gloves and hand-sanitisers that are not covered by the insurance agencies. The patients, therefore, have to pay out of their own pockets for these articles, whether used by themselves or by the doctors and hospital staff involved in their treatment. Public health experts and hospital officials said these should be treated as medical expenses for the duration of the Covid-19 crisis, but insurance company representatives showed little enthusiasm for the idea. After an elderly Covid-19 patient died recently at a private hospital in Calcutta, the insurance agency approved payment for only Rs 107,032 against a bill for Rs 203,846, leaving the patient’s son to shell out Rs 96,814. At another hospital, a woman who was discharged on Wednesday was billed Rs 151,926 but the insurer paid only Rs 88,627. The non-medical expenses that the insurer refused to cover included the cost not just of the PPE kits, gloves, facemasks and hand-sanitisers but also of the injection syringes and cotton used. The insurer contended it was merely following the guidelines of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA). Many healthcare institutes have, therefore, welcomed Saturday’s advisory by Bengal’s regulator for private hospitals that allows them to demand an advance deposit of up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is lower. The hospitals say that these deposits are a protection for them, because many patients decline to pay the sums that the insurers refuse to cover. Some insurance companies said they were paying for PPE kits in accordance with the ceiling fixed by the state government, which is Rs 1,000 per patient per day, but others said they were not covering this at all. This has led to thousands of people in Calcutta buying a new Corona Kavach insurance policy, announced by the IRDA and sold by all health insurers, which promises to cover most of these non-medical expenses. Launched in July, the policy also pays a fixed amount for ambulances. “In one month, between July 10 and August 10, we have sold 16,000 Corona Kavach policies. Barely a couple of claims from such policies have been submitted till date,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (media), of the National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. He said another general health insurance policy launched in April had had barely 200 buyers till now. Most of those buying the Corona Kavach policy have, however, had another health insurance policy for years. “Instead of selling a new policy, the insurance companies should think of the thousands of their customers who have already been paying premiums for many years. The relatives of many Covid-19 patients are calling us every day to find out why PPE and other protective equipment have not been included in the insurance approval lists,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We have spoken to the insurance companies many times but they only tell us these items cannot be included in the admissible list.” Pradip Tondon, CEO of Belle Vue Clinic, said: “We have urged the insurance companies to be more flexible in these times and not to go by the rules so strictly. The unpaid amount is often causing disputes between the hospitals and patients.” In normal times, many insured patients undergo surgeries and procedures under specific insurance packages agreed between the hospital and the insurer, which leaves little room for dispute. An official at a private hospital said 40 per cent of insurance patients are admitted under such packages. But in the case of medical treatment whose course and requirements are unpredictable, and which therefore do not lend themselves to pre-specified packages, the insurers often refuse to pay a substantial portion of the bill. A large percentage of the items whose cost these companies refused to reimburse tend to be consumable items. Covid-19 falls under the head of diseases whose treatment requirements are indefinite. “So, there is no definite package and hence the inadmissible amount (the sum the insurer refuses to pay) is high,” an official with an insurance company said. While private hospitals blamed the patients’ woes over their bills on the insurers’ reluctance to cover the non-medical expenses, insurance officials put the blame back on the hospitals. An insurance official said the problem was that if consumable items were included in the approved list, some hospitals would indulge in “unethical business” — because it is impossible to monitor, for instance, how many gloves or facemasks were actually used. An official with another insurance company said the government should increase its scrutiny of private hospitals’ bills. “When private hospitals charge exorbitantly, we scrutinise the bill and if some amounts are not justified, we refuse to reimburse them,” said Dipayan Saha, medical officer, HDFC ERGO, a private insurance company. “But that amount then becomes the burden of a patient. We are bound by the rules and can’t do anything. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission should find a mechanism to randomly scrutinise private hospitals’ bills.” Saha said his company was reimbursing the cost of PPE kits and doctors’ visits in accordance with the state government’s rates. Public health experts said that both the insurance companies and private hospitals needed to be more humane. “The insurance companies and hospitals should work towards making life less miserable for the Covid-19 patients, many of whom have lost their incomes. We have to be more humane in these difficult times and not think of protocols and profits,” said Dr Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan lockdown adds to Indian traders' woes||The Bhutan government has decided to start relaxing the nationwide lockdown, prompting loud cheers among traders on the Indian side of the border. The neighbouring country’s move signals that cross-border trade, which had come to a grinding halt since August 11 when it clamped a total lockdown amid a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, will resume. In Bhutan, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) announced on August 31 — after 21 days of lockdown — that the government would initiate the unlock process from September 1 in three phases over 10 days, that is, till September 10. Curbs will continue in Phuentsholing, Gelephu, Sandrupjonkhar and Samtse, near the Indian border. “As of now, only a few trucks carrying petro fuels are entering Bhutan. There has been an improvement in the Covid situation in Bhutan and we hope unlocking will soon start in Phuentsholing that has been marked as a red zone,” said Rakesh Pandey, secretary, Jaigaon Hardware & Electrical Goods Merchants’ Association. “This would bring some respite for us as we can resume supplying goods to the country. There has been a decline in supplies in the hospitality sector as tourist movement stopped. But even then, supplies that the Bhutanese population need can at least help us survive.” Ramashankar Gupta, secretary of Jaigaon Merchants’ Association, pointed that easing of Bhutan lockdown could help them in another way. “Because of the lockdown, we could not deposit Bhutanese currency we have with us in the banks in Bhutan. Many of us are sitting with hordes of Bhutanese notes and cannot use them to make payments (in India). Now that there are indications of relaxation, we feel we can get over this problem,” said Gupta. According to trade statistics of Bhutan, goods worth over Rs 8,000 crore are traded between the countries in a year, and if electricity is included, the sum is over Rs 9,000 crore. “Of the total imports of Bhutan, 84 per cent is sent from India, and 74 per cent of Bhutan’s total exports are sent to India. This indicates the mutual dependence of both the nations,” said a trade expert. The release issued by the PMO in Bhutan states: “We will strengthen vigilance along our borders and ensure augmented safety for trading interactions. Special and additional measures will be introduced in the high risk areas to protect the community. Additional tier of protection to avoid spillage of the disease from high risk to lesser risk communities will be ensured.” Travel trade stakeholders are keeping fingers crossed. “We don’t know what is in store for us in this year,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association. The Tourism Council of Bhutan says over 2.3 lakh Indians had been to Bhutan last year. This is 73 per cent of the total number of tourists who visited the country from other nations, says the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Barrackpore boils as TMC and BJP clash||Recent political violence between Trinamul and BJP in several pockets of Barrackpore parliamentary constituency has unleashed panic among residents. Since July first week, at least 14 incidents of political violence occurred in pockets such as Kankinara, Bhatpara, Naihati, Halisahar and Bijpur. In most cases, goons enjoying political patronage of both parties attack rivals and their leaders with bombs and rods, and open fire indiscriminately to terrorise common people, reviving memories of violence that erupted in the belt after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls where BJP’ Arjun Singh won. A Naihati resident called ‘living here” a nightmare.  “Bombs are hurled frequently and we can barely catch our sleep,” he said. While both the Trinamul and the BJP blame each other for the violence, police find themselves helpless because of the Covid situation. Acknowledging the recent spate of violence, Ajay Kumar Thakur, DC (zone 1) of Barrackpore commissionerate said: “The bail provision because of the Covid situation is seriously hampering our work. If goons get bail for reasons not related to law, the police become helpless. Many of the goons out on bail are now involved in crime. It has become difficult for the police to control political violence.” Trinamul’s bête noire, the BJP MP Arjun Singh, however, blamed the “partisan” police for violence. “Peace will stay elusive if police and goons are synonymous. In Barrackpore, the police have turned into Trinamul stooges,” Singh said. The Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency turned volatile since May 23 last year. At least seven lives were lost in the violent turf war between the Trinamul and the BJP, which was rejuvenated by Singh joining the BJP and his poll victory. The region has a strong presence of Hindi-speaking people who mostly work in the jute mills. Singh said: “The Trinamul chief (Mamata Banerjee)’s retaliatory mood has led to violence in the area. She is angry with the people of Barrackpore for voting for the BJP. People have understood her true colours and are organising themselves to retaliate.” Trinamul’s Bhatpara Assembly committee convenor Somnath Shyam acknowledged the incidents of political violence but said his party had little role in it. “Arjun Singh has managed to establish a reign of terror in the belt. It is his men who are involved in 99 per cent of the cases whereas our people might have one per cent involvement,” Shyam said. Skirting the issue of political rivalry, DC (zone 1) of Barrackpore commissionerate Thakur said it had become tough to “identify the goons who often come on motorcycles and escape after hurling bombs”. “We are trying our best to nab the goons by installing CCTV cameras in the vulnerable areas. The process will take some time,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP puts march over Covid protocols ||Bengal BJP doesn’t appear to practise what Prime Minister Narendra Modi preaches on social distancing amid the pandemic. At a time of curbs on mass gatherings to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the BJP on Thursday gathered some 1,000 workers, led by state-level leaders like Sayantan Basu and Raju Banerjee, to observe Black Day in Durgapur by marching towards the municipal corporation office. Opposition parties in Durgapur observe August 13 as Black Day since 2018 to protest the 2017 municipal corporation election that they allege were “massively rigged” by goons brought in by Trinamul that won all the 43 seats. During Thursday’s Black Day march, BJP leaders and workers rubbed shoulders with each other, some of them spotted without masks. Basu, the BJP’s state general secretary, called the eventa “spontaneous participation of common people” to oust the Trinamul from Durgapur and the state. On whether the party flouted Covid-19 protocol during the protest, he didn’t reply. BJP president in West Burdwan Lakshman Ghorui admitted social distancing had not been maintained properly. “We didn’t expect such a massive gathering,” he said. “ We urged people not to come out in large numbers but they came to protest against the anti-democratic ways of the Trinamul,” said Ghorui. The CPM’s protest near the civic body building saw 500 workers holding party flags and maintaining social distance. In Durgapur town, 544 people have tested positive for Covid and five of them have died since March. Durgapur SDO Anirban Koley said they would take legal action against those who violated Covid-19 protocol. “Any kind of mass gathering has been banned by the government now. We will take legal action,” said Koley. The political programme started around 12.30pm in front of the civic office building at City Centre and continued for an hour. However local residents questioned the BJP leaders for violating Covid protocol at a time when Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were holding virtual rallies to avoid mass gathering. “Is this a time to hold such a massive gathering? Who will take responsibility if the Covid-19 situation deteriorated in the town after such a large political programme,” asked Sanjay De, a local resident. As has been the practice since 2018, on Thursday. The party staged an hour-long protest with workers maintaining mandatory social distancing norms. The CPM’s part flag protest saw a gathering of around 500 people who stood at distance holding black flags. “We maintained proper social distancing during our programme. Such mass protests cannot be held virtually,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, CPM district secretariat member. Criticising the BJP, Rakhi Tiwari, mayor-in-council member in charge of health at Durgapur Municipal Corporation and Trinamul leader, said: “A political party running the Union government behaved irresponsibly. The mass gathering was held at a time when the Covid-19 situation in Durgapur town had started to improve.” Durgapur SDO Anirban Koley said they would take legal action against those who violated Covid-19 protocol. “Any kind of mass gathering has been banned by the government now. We will take legal action,” said Koley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Jaldapara National Park footfall same as Kaziranga National Park||A study by forest departments of three states about visitors in three prominent wildlife destinations revealed that though Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar, Bengal’s largest habitat of one-horned rhinos, is smaller than Kaziranga National Park in Assam and the Corbett Tiger Reserve in Uttarakhand, its footfall is more or less the same as Kaziranga’s. The footfall per square kilometre is also the highest in Jaldapara compared to the other two reserves. Bengal’s forest department sources said that in the 2017-2018 fiscal, 1.77 lakh tourists visited the 216sqkm Jaldapara park. “The number of visitors who went to Jaldapara in 2017-18 was around the same as that of Kaziranga, a larger rhino habitat spread over 859sqkm,” said a senior forester. Though the number of visitors at Corbett, which is spread over 1,318sqkm, was 2.84 lakh during 2017-18, footfall concentration was the highest in Jaldapara. While the number of visitors per sqkm was 206.55 in Kaziranga and 215.47 in Corbett, it was 820.63 in Jaldapara, the study says. Seen as one of the few remaining grassland ecosystems of the country, the Jaldapara park in Bengal has been thriving since the mid-1980s. In 1985, there were 14 one-horned rhinos in Jaldapara. In 2019, there were 237. “This success has led to a surge in visitors in Jaldapara,” Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist based in Siliguri. “But comparative figures (of Corbett and Kaziranga) indicate the pressure of visitors in Jaldapara, and alternative habitats for rhinos and other wild animals must come up.” Senior forest officials said there were plans to promote more wildlife destinations in the region. The rhino population is going up in Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri and a third rhino habitat has been planned at Patlakhawa in Cooch Behar, foresters said. “We plan to introduce tigers in Buxa Tiger Reserve. The Bengal Safari near Siliguri has become popular. The idea is to ensure that the pressure of visitors does not mount in Jaldapara,” said Kumar Vimal, the Jaldapara DFO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Arrest over false job offer at Indian Oil's Haldia plant||A 45-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday evening for allegedly defrauding a Haldia engineering graduate of Rs 11.3 lakh by promising him a job at the Indian Oil Corporation’s local refinery. Police arrested Tanmay Middya from his home at Durgachowk in East Midnapore on the basis of a complaint filed by Soumya Pal, a resident of Sutahata. “Over the past one year, Middya had taken money from me in instalments. But since the beginning of July, began to suspect that his claims were hollow,” said Soumya. “Finally in August, I demanded that he return the money. So, he gave me a few postdated cheques that later bounced,” added Soumya. The engineering graduate said he had finished paying the amount Middya had demanded to get him a job at the IOC refinery in Haldia earlier this year. “Since then, I had been repeatedly asking him for an update on the job.” “Starting April, I went to his house every week and asked him what was happening. He kept avoiding me. Ultimately, he threatened me with violence if I went back to his house,” said Soumya, adding that Middya had disappeared for a few days after the cheques had bounced. Additional superintendent of police (Haldia) Partha Ghosh said Middya had been arrested on charges of making fraudulent claims and misappropriating funds. “We are investigating whether others were involved in the job racket,” Ghosh added. Haldia IOC officials said on Thursday that one could get a job at the plant only through internal examinations. “Please don’t fall prey to claims of securing one a job at the plant,” said an IOC official. Middya was produced in a court here on Thursday and remanded in police custody for 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Murder probe leads cops to SIM card racket||The investigation into the abduction and killing of a nine-year-old has led police in Malda to bust a racket involved in collecting mobile SIM cards against forged documents. Three persons, who are suspected to be associated with the racket, have been arrested and searches are on to nab some others. On August 9, Umar Faruque, son of Trinamul panchayat member Hafijul Islam, had been kidnapped from near his house at Amlitala village under Mothabari police station of the district. Soon after the boy went missing, his father received an anonymous call which asked him to pay Rs 50 lakh as ransom for his son’s release. The lifeless body of the boy was found on Wednesday. While probing the case, the police found out that the SIM card from which the ransom call had been made had been procured with forged documents. “Rashidul Sheikh, the boy’s cousin and his friend Ramzan Sheikh, who were arrested in connection with the kidnap and the killing, admitted that they had taken the help of a racket providing SIM cards against fake documents,” said a police officer. “We grilled some traders who sell SIM cards and they admitted that issuing SIM against forged documents was common. We suspect a racket supplies SIM cards to people involved in criminal activities at higher prices. So far, three persons, who are suspected to be members of such a racket, have been arrested and search is on to find some more,” said an officer of Mothabari police station. Those arrested have been identified as Abu Bakkar Siddique, Sayem Islam and Noor Taslim. An investigator said on Thursday that all the five had been produced in a court and remanded in police custody for seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||2,997 new Covid infections, dip in active cases in Calcutta||Bengal on Thursday saw 2,997 new Covid19 infections, the highest in a day, and 56 deaths. The state also tested 30,032 people, the highest in a day so far, and clocked a recovery rate of 73.25 per cent, above the national rate of 70.97. In all, the state has over 1.07 lakh cases, of which nearly 79,000 are recoveries and 2,259 are deaths. A minister pointed to a dip in active cases in highincidence districts Calcutta and North 24Parganas. Of the new infections, though 666 cases were from Calcutta and 582 from North 24Parganas, they reported 687 and 683 recoveries and their tally of active cases fell. “On Sunday, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases and North 24Parganas 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,598 and North 24Parganas 5,427,” the minister said. The minister said that they had crossed the 30,000 milestone in daily testing. “This is quite an achievement. We will now push for 40,000,” he said. “We also crossed the 12 lakh tests milestone (12,16,955 on Thursday), covering the latest lakh in just four days. The next target is covering the next lakh in three days,” he added. Bengal’s testspermillion count is now 13,522, which was 9,927 even at the beginning of August. After achieving the first lakh on May 19, Bengal went past 12 lakh in 86 days. In the 13 days of August, Bengal conducted nearly 3.24 lakh tests. Of the total 2,259 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,015, with 16 on Thursday. North 24Parganas 524 deaths, 12 of them on Thursday. The state government reported 2,005, or 88.8 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In August alone, there have so far been 678 reported deaths of Covid19 infected people, of which 637 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.1, but lagged behind the national rate of 1.95 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.33 per cent. The state reported 35.8 per cent occupancy in the 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid19 in the 84 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, beside 15.92 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic has been given to over 66,000 people, including 3,720 in the 24hour window till Thursday 9am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks all hospitals to transfer Covid patients only after condition stabilises||The Bengal government has asked all hospitals and nursing homes to set up isolation wards for suspected Covid-19 patients and make sure that their condition is stabilised before transferring them to medical facilities dedicated to treat the disease. The advisory has been issued after it was found that a number of patients were dying while on transit to dedicated Covid hospitals from medical facilities where they had been initially admitted. “All hospitals/nursing homes should not discharge Covid positive patients requiring medical attention without assured admission in Covid hospital,” reads the health department’s advisory issued on Wednesday. Sources said the health department had found that 30 to 35 per cent Covid deaths were taking place after hospitals were releasing critical patients as soon as they had tested positive for the disease. “There are 84 dedicated Covid hospitals in the state. All other hospitals, where patients are being admitted with other ailments but later found Covid positive, were releasing patients even if they remained critical,” said an official. As there is a rush to dedicated Covid hospitals, particularly in Calcutta, admission of patients was often getting delayed. “Many of the critical patients could not survive because of the delay and travel to dedicated hospitals. That is why the advisory was issued,” said an official. The department has explained how hospitals and nursing homes can stabilise Covid positive patients before referring them to dedicated hospitals. “Every hospital has been advised to arrange isolation ward for suspected Covid-19 patients and stabilise them before any transfer to the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals... A referral case summary should be attached during transfer out of the patients,” reads the advisory. Sources in the health department said there were complaints of some nursing homes and hospitals releasing critical Covid patients citing they did not have required infrastructure for treatment. There were also complaints of Covid patients being discharged even though they needed medical attention. The experts from the protocol monitoring team deputed by the health department found the allegations to be true after visiting some of the healthcare establishments. “According to the advisory, all nursing homes and hospitals would be forced to give primary health support to the positive patients and it would help in reducing the number of deaths,” said a source. “We have received reports that some people had died after they had returned home after being discharged by the hospitals,” said an official. “With this advisory, no hospital will be able to release Covid patients without securing admission to a dedicated hospital,” said an official. A bureaucrat said the model was successfully implemented in Delhi where daily death rate could be brought down to below 10 recently from over 100 daily a few weeks ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Student feared drowned in Kopai||A class XII student of Birbhum Zilla School in Santiniketan is feared to have drowned in river Kopai here when he and four friends went to take a dip and shoot a video clip on Thursday afternoon. Sources said , Mohammed Aman, 18, accompanied by three classmates and a college student came from Suri on motorcycles to shoot a video for a song sung by the college student. “The college student happens to be well-known locally as a singer and has performed in a popular reality show recently. He came to shoot a video for his song along with four friends. Unfortunately, the river had heavy current because of monsoon. As they got into the water to bathe, Aman was swept away,” said a police source. Police roped in professional divers to find the body but the divers were unsuccessful till evening. Aman’s mother Mohafuz Banu said all her calls to her son and his friends in the afternoon went unanswered. “I was informed from an unidentified number about what befell my son,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Fugitive with Covid in net after 11 days||Bhim Rai, the murder convict who tested Covid-19 positive and fled from an ambulance on August 2 while on way to a hospital in Kalimpong, was nabbed on Thursday evening near the Third Mile area under Senchal Wildlife Sanctuary, around 11km from Darjeeling. Rai had been sighted in the locality after his escape but residents did not catch him, fearing they would contract the infection. “On Thursday morning, a driver spotted Rai. As he tried to talk to Rai, he fled. The driver told us and we contacted the cops,” said a resident. Rai was caught by the police, forest guards, health staff and residents in the evening. “Some people asked him to accompany the health staff, but he was initially reluctant and pelted stones at us. In due course, his agitation subsided and he agreed to go to the hospital with health workers had worn PPE to avoid infection,” an eyewitness said. A Darjeeling police officer said Rai seemed to be very tired. “He was no longer in a position to run. He has been sent to the district hospital in Kalimpong,” the cop said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Error in compiling Covid tests leads to mix-up in identity||A 38-year-old police constable was told on August 10 that he was Covid positive but was addressed by a different name over the phone. A 65-year-old man from Hooghly’s Bhadreswar was called up around the same time and told that he had tested positive but was addressed by the cop’s name. Another person’s address was mistaken for the cop’s. The man is traceless as the centre where he gave his swab sample didn’t have his contact number and address. All three men are Covid positive. But the mix-up in names and addresses, it has emerged, was a result of errors in compiling Covid test reports by Hooghly district officials. The Telegraph accessed records that showed the name of the traceless person tagged alongside the cop’s address and phone number. The cop’s name was tagged with details of the Bhadreswar resident. The cop said he got calls from the state health department, local police and block level officials on August 10 and was addressed by a different name. When Arambagh SDO Nripendra Singh came to know about this, he sent a corrected report to the cop. “It was a mistake of the lab...might have happened at the level of the data entry operator. We corrected it immediately. I have told officials concerned to be aware about such errors,” said Singh. Officials are still trying to decipher how the two names got mixed up as each had given his swab sample at a different hospital. A senior official in Hooghly said if errors led to a mix-up of positive and negative results, it would have created a big mess. “People entering data should be more alert,” he said. Some officials also said that authorities collecting swab samples should keep an identity proof of each individual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Plan for Covid antigen test on Siliguri traders ||The administration has decided to conduct antigen tests on traders at five prominent markets in Siliguri to arrest the spread of Covid-19. Siliguri subdivisional officer Sumanta Sahay said on Thursday that the decision had been taken as several Covid cases had been reported from the markets. According to sources, the antigen tests would be conducted on traders at the regulated market (the  principal wholesale hub of fruits, vegetables and fish), Nayabazar (the wholesale market of grocery items), Bidhan Market and the markets in Champasari and Gurungbusty. On Thursday, the SDO held a meeting with members of the traders’ bodies at the five markets where he had disclosed the decision on the antigen tests. Officials of the Darjeeling district health department said they had started antigen tests in some urban and rural areas in the hills. The hill subdivisions of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Mirik have nine blocks. The decision, they said, has been taken as fresh Covid cases have been reported from the hills on a regular basis in the past two-three weeks. “Antigen tests have started in some blocks in the hills and   the municipal areas of Mirik and Kurseong. We are keeping a watch over the situation and if required, more areas would be identified for such tests,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||North East||Singer Zubeen abused, Cong cub suspended ||Popular Assam singer-composer Zubeen Garg, one of the leading faces of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests in the state, was on Wednesday night allegedly abused by a group of youths “with beer bottles in hand” following reports about his “growing proximity” to the BJP-led government. Zubeen, 48, in his FIR at Dispur police station said six youths stopped him at around 12.40am in the Ganesh Mandir area while he was on his way home. The six of them came out of a car, in violation of the ongoing Covid lockdown, beer bottles in hand. When he tried to defend himself against the verbal abuse, they “became aggressive and used unparliamentary language”. In his FIR, Zubeen also sought an inquiry into the incident. One of the youths involved in the incident is said to be the NSUI’s city unit vice-president Hirakjyoti Rajbongshi. Assam PCC president Ripun Bora told The Telegraph on Thursday that Rajbongshi has been suspended since his name came up during the investigation. “We cannot support such acts and want all the guilty to be punished,” Bora said. The verbal assault against Zubeen, who also has several Bollywood hits, including Ya Ali (Gangster) and Dil tu hi batta (Krrish 3), comes less than a week of the agriculture department announcing plans to make him a brand ambassador because as a youth icon he could attract the younger generation towards agri and allied activities. The move had triggered a backlash on social media because he was seen as “giving up” on a cause he had led from the front for months before the anti-CAA movement turned violent in December. Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, another leading anti-CAA face, was among those who criticised Zubeen for his growing proximity to the BJP-led government which supports the CAA, which many in the state see as a threat to the culture and identity of the state. When contacted, Zubeen’s wife, Garima Garg, a fashion designer, said he has not accepted any offer. “We met the agriculture department people because Zubeen wanted to do something for the agriculture sector but he has not accepted any brand ambassador offer. He is very upset with last night’s development,” she said. An aide of Zubeen told the media that although there was no physical assault on him, the youths taunted him with “letting Assam down” and for getting close to the ruling BJP. Support from Zubeen came from the government, the Opposition and AASU. Condemning the incident, government spokesperson Himanta Biswa Sarma said, “I don’t want to see Zubeen in the BJP or the Congress or in the government. Zubeen should concentrate on protecting the culture of Assam and earn laurels for the state. Let us keep him away from controversies and politics. Let Zubeen stay as Zubeen. We all have to protect Zubeen.” Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP, Pradyut Bordoloi, said Zubeen is “an emotional person but his intentions are honourable. If he has approached the government to do something for Assam, there is nothing wrong in it,” Bordoloi said. AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi, too, condemned the “attack on Zubeenda”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
14-08-2020||North East||Scheme-a-week plan for Assam before polls||With Assembly elections due in Assam next year, the BJP-led coalition government will announce a pro-people scheme every week till September 15. In response to the declaration, the Opposition Congress on Thursday sought a “fact sheet” of about 500 schemes launched by Dispur since 2016. The first scheme, launched on Wednesday, will see 17 lakh BPL families receive Rs 830 each a month through direct benefit transfer till such time that their economic condition improves. It will cost the exchequer Rs 210 crore a month. “The government of Assam has decided to provide Rs 830 per month to each of 17 lakh families under the ambitious Orunodoi scheme. The selection of beneficiaries will start from August 17, 2020. They will receive the amount on the first day of every month, starting from October, 2020,” cabinet minister and government spokesperson Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Sarma said he would not only announce a new scheme every week but also spell out how it will be implemented till September 15, which means an announcement of at least five more welfare schemes. Most of the schemes were announced in the 2020- 21 budget but the details were worked out recently, sources said. Political watchers said the government has gone into poll mode, since the announcement came a day after the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) not only released the report of a MHA-constituted committee on Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord but also blamed the government for sitting on the report for over five months. The move triggered reactions from the Congress, AIUDF and CPM, which have backed the AASU for releasing the report. After announcing the Orunodoi scheme, Sarma took a dig at the AASU for politicking over the report, saying it would be better for the next elected government to decide on the report as they were at the fag end of their tenure, and that only the Assembly could fix the definition of who is an Assamese. The next Assembly polls are likely in April-May next year. The BJP-led coalition came to power in 2016 by unseating the Congress. Dwelling on the Orunodoi scheme, Sarma said, “It will benefit between 15,000 to 17,000 families in each constituency. The assistance will also help many tide over the adverse impact of Covid pandemic.” Under the scheme, priority will be given to households with widows/divorcees/unmarried or separated women, specially abled women and specially abled household member. “It shall benefit all poor households whether they are covered under National Food Security Act (NFSA) or not. Also, the composite household income of the applicant should be less than Rs 2 lakh per annum,” Sarma said. Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi on Thursday dared Sarma to present a fact sheet or an action taken report by September 15 on the “at least 500 schemes” he must have launched as state finance minister since 2016. “Dressed in all kinds of spiritual attires, he must have launched bagful of schemes in the Assembly since 2016. People need to know the status of those schemes,” Bordoloi said. The MP also said that the BJP-led government is launching welfare schemes with an eye on the polls and because it has no money to launch development schemes. “They used to criticise us for our welfare schemes. They had stressed on vikas but are now doling out cash to woo people before the polls. People know what they are doing,” Bordoloi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
14-08-2020||Opinion||Days to remember: World Elephant Day||Sir — Many people wonder about the need for so many commemorative days — World Earth Day or Global Tiger Day, for instance — all through the year. However, going by the report by World Animal Protection on World Elephant Day — it was observed recently — they seem not just necessary but also inadequate. The report revealed that India is home to the second highest number of elephants used for tourism. Further, they are kept in dismal conditions at entertainment venues, with over 500 elephants being housed at only 21 venues. It is thus important to raise awareness about mankind’s exploitation of the natural world only for its greed.Prashanta Ghoshal,Calcutta Twisted tongues Sir — The recent incident in Chennai where an officer of the Central Industrial Security Force reportedly taunted the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader, Kanimozhi, at the airport by asking the parliamentarian if she was an Indian just because she said she did not know Hindi cannot be casually brushed aside as an unfortunate incident (“Kanimozhi question on Hindi”, Aug 10). It is clear that the question was meant to be sardonic and born out of arrogance. The caustic remark is an affront to all Indians who do not speak Hindi. The Centre’s repeated attempts to impose Hindi on non-Hindi speaking people, especially in the South, helps abet such incidents. Why else would an officer ask such a question to a non-Hindi speaking person in a non-Hindi speaking state? The errant officer should be taken to task for her insolent behaviour.Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Reading Kanimozhi’s tweet about the incident at the airport was not quite surprising. Students from the southern states of India are often subjected to humiliation for not speaking in Hindi in college and university campuses in North India. But the insult to the parliamentarian was striking because it happened in Chennai, where most people are expected to speak Tamil. Whatever may be the actual reason for the CISF officer refusing to communicate in a language that native air passengers could understand, to take upon oneself the authority to pronounce what language an Indian should speak was entirely uncalled for. The present political situation at the Centre gives a free rein to people like the CISF officer, who go about flaunting their prejudice and bigotry, caring little about how such behaviour alienates speakers of other Indian languages. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Soon after Kanimozhi posted the tweet about being harassed at the Chennai airport for not being able to communicate in Hindi, P. Chidambaram and H.D. Kumaraswamy, too, spoke up about the hurdles faced by non-Hindi speakers in India. This makes it clear that Hindi imposition has been a persistent problem. Unlike what many Hindi speakers might believe, Hindi is neither the “national language” nor the mother tongue of the majority. Even if it were so, it could not have been an excuse for bullying people who speak other languages. Perhaps the only way to fight Hindi imposition in the country is for non-Hindi speakers to learn their mother tongues better, and be more vocal against such bigotry. Noyonika Sen,Calcutta Sir — It is shocking that the incident involving Kanimozhi occurred at the Chennai airport. If such a blatant exhibition of language chauvinism can happen in Tamil Nadu, that too with a member of parliament, one can only imagine the plight of non-Hindi speaking persons in the Hindi heartland. This incident has brought to the fore the blatant attempts of Hindi imposition in states like Tamil Nadu. Should it not be mandatory for people who are posted at airports to learn the local language? The high-handedness of the security officer is one example why Tamil Nadu had needed anti-Hindi agitations in the past. It is time for all political parties, irrespective of their affiliations, to come together and take concrete steps to stop the imposition of Hindi in the state. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Empty promise Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has officially launched the agriculture infrastructure fund worth one lakh crore rupees (“Farm fund with a riddle”, Aug 10). While it is true that farmers across the country are suffering from the lack of infrastructure, such as warehouses, cold storage chains and all-weather road connectivity, this scheme is unlikely to meet their needs. First, the funds will be disbursed as loans. This is not the same as giving out money. Further, all facilities will be provided via farmer groups or corporate players, not directly to farmers. Is there any guarantee that the benefit will reach the underprivileged farmers, who need such help the most? The farm crisis in India is critical — a number of farmers commit suicide every year owing to their inability to pay back loans. Instead of resolving this problem, the government has delivered a new eyewash. The need of the hour is to let farmers have a greater say in determining the price of their produce or to transfer cash directly to their bank accounts. Tapomoy Ghosh, Katwa, West Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
14-08-2020||Opinion||Threadbare: All India Handloom, and Handicrafts Board||Uncovering the truth involves looking deep below the surface. The fact that the Union textiles ministry quietly scrapped the All India Handloom Board and the All India Handicrafts Board, and changed the status of eight textile research associations — these have now ceased to be “affiliated bodies” of the ministry — might have gone unnoticed had the Centre not decided to ‘celebrate’ National Handloom Day. The inherent contradiction between the Centre’s actions and rhetoric is too stark to ignore, more so because of the immense significance of the history of handloom in India. National Handloom Day is an occasion to commemorate the swadeshi movement; this indigenous craft was a central element in the vision of both M.K. Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru about India’s economic regeneration. What made the outlook of India’s founding fathers singular was that it seamlessly combined tradition with a modern sensibility. Gandhi’s vision of economic and moral autonomy through khadi was complemented by Nehru’s desire for the modern State to tap into India’s core expertise to usher in prosperity for its people. Deft management of the diverse handloom industry could have been the key to the affluence and autonomy of rural India. But this has not come to pass. Institutional myopia — every elected government is responsible — led to a decades-long decline of handloom; it may have now been dealt a death blow by the winding up of the advisory panels, which were the main fora for artisans to articulate their concerns and have a say in Central policy-making. That the handloom boards had been largely inert for over 10 years cannot be cited as a plausible reason for their closure. It amounts, yet again, to the State abdicating its responsibility towards keeping arenas for dialogue among artisans, policy-makers and the market robust. Significantly, it also raises serious questions about the prime minister’s clarion call of ‘atmanirbharta’. Narendra Modi’s government put forward its oft-used phrase, ‘minimum government, maximum governance’, as the reason for its abolition drive. This ‘excuse’, however, amounts to complicity. Handloom workers are beset with problems — poor infrastructure and funding, the iron grip of middlemen, the lack of income and the absence of dignity of labour are among them — and the benefits of patronage of government and market are rare. These inequalities can only be addressed by an effective assimilation of indigenous products and their creators with consumers. Resurrecting active regulatory institutions — handloom boards — would have been one way of protecting the interests of India’s artisans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
14-08-2020||Opinion||Girls too: Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005||The first step towards gender equality in Hindu inheritance was taken in the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005. The traditional Mitakshara system of succession to property in the Hindu undivided family was codified in the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, by which the heirs were male. The 2005 amendment made daughters coparceners too, equal to sons. Last Tuesday, the Supreme Court cleared the confusions that had arisen since then, caused by two opposing court rulings regarding the daughter’s inheritance if the father had died before the amendment. This time, the Supreme Court said that a daughter being a coparcener by birth, the father need not have been alive when the amendment was passed for her to inherit her share of ancestral property or of personal property, unless it had been willed otherwise. Also, the woman’s share would not revert to the male heirs after her death, as was the case before 2005 when the daughter was bequeathed property. The clarification is welcome, because it upholds the principle of equality in the Constitution and before the law. For ages, women have been left helplessly dependent on the kindness of men when deserted, widowed or unmarried. Gender bias in the law made easier the operations of misogyny in Indian society: it was common to cheat women of property, to turf them out of their homes, to send them off to Varanasi and, in some cases, go even further. The 2005 amendment shows how far the law has come since then. But the ideal may not always be easy to implement in real life. Apart from the fact that huge numbers of women are regularly deprived of their basic rights — from an equal share of nutrition to a dignified and violence-free life in their natal and marital homes — in spite of laws, other issues must be resolved as well. For example, the right to ancestral property must be seen in relation to the absolute right to streedhan, much of which is gifted by the parents — often in gold — during marriage, usually understood as a substitute for a share in ancestral property as well as insurance for the married daughter should things get difficult. The insistence on gender-equality in law is of overwhelming importance. Equality in society’s arrangements will depend on the nature and success of implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
14-08-2020||Opinion||Sight, oversight: Assam floods 2020||The prime minister, Narendra Modi, presided over a virtual “flood meeting” on August 10. He released 386 crore rupees for relief in Assam, where the deluge is an annual calamity that affects lakhs of people and renders thousands homeless. Coming amid the Covid-19 pandemic, this year has been exceptionally traumatic, leaving over 135 residents dead and more than 150 animals killed. My first experience of the floods in Assam was during summer in the late Seventies. My uncle, a tea planter, was travelling from the north bank of the Brahmaputra to Golaghat to meet his environmentalist friend, Robin Banerjee, and took us along. It was a long road trip and my aunt stopped at a roadside haat to pick up fresh produce, including bananas and vegetables. Shortly thereafter, we ran into floodwaters that grew increasingly difficult to navigate. The thought of turning back after coming so far incensed my uncle so much that he took the bunch of bananas and threw them into the swirling waters, laying the blame on the fruit that is considered an ill omen for journeys! Since then, I have followed the annual flood scenario with an acute sense of déjà vu and helplessness. Governments promise remedies but none work. Whatever happened to the highlands created at Kaziranga National Park to save the animals from drowning? The significant difference this year has been the global attention the floods have generated. England’s Premier League football team, Arsenal, took to Instagram to express solidarity with Assam, reeling under floods and Covid-19. “We are with you... Stay strong, Assam,” it said. Rivals, Chelsea FC, followed suit. “Our thoughts are with everyone affected by the floods in Assam,” the London club said in a Facebook post the next day. The actor, Adil Hussain, immediately took to Twitter to highlight the lack of concern shown towards the floods in Assam, his home state. “Arsenal FC stands with Assamese People. I don’t understand why, then, our Celebrities, Mainstream Media, Cricket Stars are not raising their voices in support of Assamese people! So disappointed with you all,” he tweeted. Tripura’s royal scion and former Congress leader, Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma, echoed his sentiments. “It’s unfortunate. We in the Northeast should become atmanirbhar,” he told me. The barbs galvanized a few into action, even as international attention grew. Teenaged Swedish climate activist, Greta Thunberg, donated one lakh euros (around Rs 8.7 crore) she had received for winning the Gulbenkian Prize for Humanity to flood relief efforts in India and Bangladesh. On July 28, the actor, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, and her husband and pop star, Nick Jonas, announced they had donated funds for Bihar and Assam flood relief and urged fans to extend support to the disaster-stricken states. Priyanka, who was brand ambassador for Assam from 2016 to 2019, said the state has been “devastated” by floods. “The rapidly rising water level has also flooded the Kaziranga National Park, one of the finest wildlife sanctuaries in the world... They need our attention and support... Nick and I have made a donation to each. Let us support them so they can continue to help those in need. #Assamfloods #PrayForAssam #AssamNeedsHelp,” Priyanka said in a statement. Prince William and his wife, Kate Middleton, too, expressed distress over the devastation in Kaziranga. In a letter to the park’s director, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge said they were heartbroken. The actor and producer, Anushka Sharma, and the skipper of the Indian cricket team, Virat Kohli, also pledged support to the people of flood-ravaged Assam and Bihar. The Dalai Lama, in a letter to Assam’s chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, expressed sadness over the floods. Modi has announced two lakh rupees for each flood death. Time for their customary aerial survey, perhaps, now that the waters are receding and Lord Ram has been propitiated? Or should that be virtual too?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
14-08-2020||Opinion||Etched on stone||It is rare for archaeologists to find themselves in the midst of a geopolitical storm. Yet this is what happened to the Archaeological Survey of India in the 1980s. Vietnam had intervened militarily in Cambodia in late 1978 to overthrow the Khmer Rouge whose leadership headed by Pol Pot had been responsible for a widespread genocide. Vietnam, thereafter, faced a Chinese invasion leading to a brief but intense border war between the two. In Cambodia, the new Vietnam-backed government was unable to secure recognition in the United Nations and from its Southeast Asian neighbours.  Cambodia had, in effect, become a small part of a larger geopolitical game between the United States of America and the Soviet Union with China and Vietnam, respectively, in alliance with each of the two adversaries. India was one of the few countries that recognized the new government. Pol Pot’s genocide and the upheaval that shook Cambodia through the 1970s had one very specific consequence, and this was for the temple complex of Angkor Wat. Khmer Rouge purges meant all trained Cambodian personnel, such as they were, who had worked in and maintained the site were killed or had left. A civil war meant that international experts had also left and the fact that the temple was in a war zone meant that the risk of physical destruction was ever present. Post-1979, the absence of international recognition meant most external assistance was ruled out. Under these circumstances, a request was made to India for assistance in the maintenance of Angkor Wat. For most in India this was no more than in the order of things. For those who had visited the Angkor temple complex or knew about it, it was natural that India should be undertaking its restoration. For the ASI embarking on the restoration was a landmark event — testimony to not only India’s international standing and to India-Cambodia relations but also a testimonial to its professional expertise in excavation, restoration and maintenance of Hindu, Buddhist and Islamic structures. In 1981, the ASI’s annual publication, Indian Archaeology:  A Review, had the majestic Angkor Wat on its cover. By 1986, an ASI team was at work and would continue for the next seven years. The ASI alone in Angkor Wat, as a result of an agreement between India and Cambodia, created, in the words of one observer, “an uproar in the small worlds of archeology and stone conservation”. The French were the most aggrieved. Angkor was their domain. A Frenchman had ‘discovered’ the complex in the mid-19th century and in the period thereafter French scholarship had set the pace and the standards for the history and the archaeology of Indo-China. They had been, after all, the colonial power and had overseen conservation and research in Angkor for over a century till the conflict in the 1970s forced them out. The École Française d’Extrême Orient or the EFFO had been at the centre of scholarship and conservation from the early 20th century and had maintained this premier position through the Japanese occupation in the 1940s and even after decolonization in the mid 1950s. Thus, the Indian presence and the absence of the French were taken badly and a barrage of criticism of the ASI followed over construction techniques. Most of it was misdirected and did not take into account the situation on the ground that a small team of archaeologists faced on account of the Khmer Rouge insurgency that had not fully died out, landmines and so on. In ASI reports of the period, we also find adverse comments on the errors made by French conservationists in the past and how these were now being set right by the Indian team. The ASI archaeologists on the ground in Cambodia saw the criticism as motivated — former colonials resentful of new actors and powers. They, in turn, claimed their own special relationship with Angkor: “India is emotionally attached to the monument. There is so much Indian inspiration.” Looking at the difficulties the archaeologists faced and the challenging environment they were in, a director-general of the ASI was to write: “It was a great adventure overseas, not unlike the ones undertaken by scholars, artists, merchants and princes who crossed the eastern seas in the early Christian era to trade spices, gems and ideas with their counterparts in Cambodia, Java, Bali and Siam.” The situation had other ironies. Indian scholarly interest in Southeast Asia from the second decade of the twentieth century had come about as awareness of French and Dutch archaeology and epigraphy in the region spread to India. Indians gradually became aware of the Buddhist and Hindu past of ancient Cambodia with many inscriptions in Sanskrit, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata as referral texts, as also a vast iconography and symbolism that related to India. Many Indian scholars saw these as ancient Indian colonies established by settlers and migrants. Others used the term, ‘colony’, but also spoke of evidence that suggested that this was a cultural zone rather than an arena of political domination or economic exploitation. Perhaps the existing scholarship -- both in India and elsewhere -- was only slowly advancing in the first half of the twentieth century to  identify a greater extent of local involvement and agency in this widespread use of Indian icons, language, scripts, mythology and so on. The term, ‘soft power’, was coined much later — towards the end of the 20th century. Yet it has an obvious relevance to India’s profound presence in Southeast Asia in the first millennium and later. But there were also even larger questions that interested scholars both in India and in France: how was it in an area so close to China that an Indian cultural, religious and intellectual spread was so visible? The New York Times reported in 1992 that the Indian presence in Cambodia has “sparked one of the angriest debates of modern art conservation. Depending on the expert [who is] asked the question, Angkor Wat is either being restored to a lost glory or is being irreversibly damaged.” While conservation methodology was one issue, there were even more substantive political factors at play. The 1980s was a time of great polarization in the world of high culture. The US withdrew from membership of the Unesco in 1984. The United Kingdom followed suit. Many issues arising from the Cold War were involved but former colonies asserting themselves in international platforms was also a factor. With the end of the Cold War geopolitics changed, once more. The listing of Angkor in the Unesco World Heritage list meant that the issue gradually resolved itself from the 1990s onwards. The French, Japanese and others slowly returned. In the initial years, older proprietary attitudes of the former colonials persisted. A report in The New York Times was to say, “The French don’t want the Japanese... and the Japanese certainly don’t want the French... And the French and the Japanese don’t want the Indians.” This gradually faded as Cambodian institutions came up and asserted themselves. The ASI, thus, remains in Angkor as another reminder of the millennia-old contacts between South Asia and the ancient Khmer. In geopolitical conflicts, the past will invariably figure in the present. The author is a former High Commissioner to Singapore and Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Artistic triumph for Dhanbad children at card-making workshop for Independence Day||As many as 40 youngsters from Dhanbad and other parts made Independence Day-themed cards as part of the annual 4th Creative Card Making workshop organized by the Institution for National Amity, led by Jharia-based private tutor Pinaki Roy. The number included around 20 children of coal pickers of underground fire affected areas of Jharia. The cards focussed on issues including the significance of observing social distancing norms and wearing masks, besides the need for special education among children of daily wage earners of underground fire affected areas. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Roy (50) who also runs free of cost tutorials for coal pickers under the banner of Coalfield Classes said 35 groups of children participated in the workshop held under the guidance of Sanjay Pandit, an art teacher and member of the Institution for National Amity. “They a submitted their cards made on themes like patriotism and other issues and most of the participants used the colours on the Indian tricolour as part of their work,” he said. "The size of these cards is 5x7inches. On the front page, participants have to design the theme and explain their theme on the last page" said Roy. “21-year-old Suman Kumari from Kendua , a BA first year student and daughter of a daily wage earner, made a card where Mother India can be seen fighting against the Covid pandemic. Another girl from a coal picker family, Sapna  Kumara (13), a Class VIII of Gujrati School Jharia, emphasised the educational development initiative of the government for children like her, who pick coal to support their families,” he said. A major part of the workshop was held online and paintings made have been displayed at his home in Jharia as part of a three-day exhibition from August 14 to 16. “Some paid tribute to the soldiers of the country who gave up their lives defending the borders of our country from aggressors,” said Roy, an alumnus of Vishva-Bharati University, Bolpur. Participants included Tulika Sharma (23) a student of LLB of Dhanbad Law College, and BIT-Mesra student, Bhavi Rathore (22). Roy said that some of the students who participated in the workshop live in other metropolitan cities, but are staying here due to lockdown “The aim of organizing the workshop since for the last four years on Independence Day is to develop creative thinking among school-going students and youth,"  said Roy, who also imparts free of cost English and Mathematics lessons to around 80 children of the underground fire-affected areas of Dhanbad regularly in Jharia and at Gansadih in Kendua.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant launches job scheme for urban poor||Chief minister Hemant Soren rolled out an employment guarantee scheme for urban unskilled workers on the eve of Independence Day on Friday, claiming that the MGNREGA-like initiative would initially benefit around five lakh poor families. Titled Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar) Yojna, the scheme aims to provide guaranteed work for 100 days (man days) a year within 15 days of receiving an application. “In case we fail to give a job within the stipulated period, we shall provide them unemployment allowance. The idea is to ensure no one lives or dies of hunger,” Hemant said while launching the scheme online from Project Building to reaffirm the state government’s commitment towards the wellbeing of labourers. As a symbolic gesture, the chief minister distributed job cards to five persons. Hemant said that while the lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic had brought everything to a halt, it also exposed several unknown realities about Jharkhand to him. “Honestly, we didn’t know the magnitude (of our workforce)… the number of our people working in other states as labourers, even though it was an open secret that many have been migrating to other cities in search of a livelihood for years. This is when we envisaged the scheme. The idea is to provide equal opportunities for our shramik brothers in urban areas,” the chief minister said. Hemant said that as per his government’s estimates, around 10 lakh labourers returned to Jharkhand after the lockdown using various modes of transport. He also pointed out how Jharkhand showed the way for other states while facilitating the return of migrant labourers. “Even before shramik trains had begun, we were the first to ask the Centre to allow us to run our own trains. While we later got permission, other states too followed on our footsteps. Jharkhand was the first to run a shramik special train which came from Telangana in May. Thereafter, we were also the first to fly our labourers via aerial routes from hard-hit areas like Andaman, Ladakh and so on,” he said. The state urban development department will be the nodal agency for executing the employment scheme. Secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said anyone who was above 18 and has been living in an area run by a civic body since April 1, 2015, was eligible to apply for a job. “That is the only criteria for applying for a job either through our portal (http://msy.jharkhand.gov.in) or through ward-level resource persons under respective civic body limits,” he said. Citing priority areas, Choubey said the first target would be to provide jobs under various projects undertaken by civic bodies. “In case jobs (man days) aren’t available there, then we will look at other sectors of urban development, followed by forest department and other wings of the government. Guaranteed job is our mandate in this scheme,” he promised, adding that every year the government would make special provisions for creating man days (jobs) and allocating funds in the state budget. Choubey said the scheme would help civic bodies that are starved of manpowered to undertake projects centred around daily city management and beautification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Special Vistara flight takes Dhoni to Chennai||Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Chennai Super Kings (CSK)’s long-standing captain and mentor left for Chennai in a special Vistara flight from Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International Airport on Friday afternoon ahead of the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020. The 39-year-old former India skipper, whose Covid test report was negative, was joined by another Ranchi cricketer, CSK teammate Monu Kumar, both of whom took the flight together, said Ranchi airport sources. Birsa Munda airport director Vinod Kumar confirmed that it was a special flight service for Mahi and his teammate. “A Vistara chartered flight came to Ranchi to fly out Dhoni and another cricketer today. They headed to Chennai,” Kumar told Telegraph Online. On Wednesday, a Covid lab associated with a city-based private hospital—Gurunank Hospital and Research Centre _ took Dhoni’s swab samples from his farmhouse on Ranchi Ring Road. The report was later submitted to the state health department as per ICMR’s Covid protocol. Although none of the officials in the state health department wished to comment on the test results, but Dhoni’s flight to Chennai indicated what sources close to the cricketer had told this website on Thursday. Other key CSK teammates also reached Chennai by special flights flown by the IPL franchise. A flight from Delhi reached Chennai with the team’s vice-captain Suresh Raina and other players, namely, Deepak Chahar, Piyush Chawla and Karn Sharma. As per mandatory Covid protocol, after reaching Chennai, CSK team members will begin training from August 15 for about a week, before heading to the UAE where this year’s IPL is scheduled to be held from next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Smoother ride between Dhanbad and Bokaro||Travelling between the twin towns of Dhanbad and Bokaro will be a smoother and faster experience within two months with the broadening and strengthening of the 33.89km Govindpur-Mahuda road being carried out by State Highway Authority of Jharkhand (SHAJ). The ongoing work, part of a Rs 179 crore project, is inching towards completion. The laying of bridges and culverts at three different places is pending for which work is in progress at a fast pace, done by Ranchi-based contractor, Ms Ram Kripal Construction. The roadwork is divided into two separate projects including one from Govindpur to Sharmik Chowk in Dhanbad and another from Birsa Chowk in Bank More to Mahuda near Bokaro. “Around 80% work of the road has already been completed and only some structural work related to construction of culverts near Matkuria in Dhanbad, Giljoria in Kusunda and on Katri river near Mahuda, is going on full swing as the laying of slabs has already been completed,” said Highway Engineer of SHAJ, Satyendra Narayan. “If everything goes as expected, we will be completing the project by next month's end or maximum within two months” said Narayan. When asked about the crucial stretch lying between Shramik Chowk near Dhanbad Railway station and Birsa Chowk at Bank More not being included in the project, Narayan said, “As the area belongs to the railways, we didn’t include it.” Earlier, the 52km Govindur-Mahuda road project, for which construction began way back in November 2017, was expected to be completed during May 2019. The work had been further extended for 16 months due to land hurdles. Land acquisition hurdles spread over different places at Gaydahra, Amaghata, Bhuiphore, Kolakusma, Steel Gate, Saraidhela, Police line, Hirapur, Naya Bazar, Bank More, Matkuria, Godhar, Kendua, Karkend, Putki, Kapuria and Mahuda, led to a delay in completion of the project. Delayed shifting of water supply pipelines of the Mineral Area Development Authority as well as the electric cables of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), also led to the delay in the completion of the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC head coach Owen Coyle may join squad in October||Owen Coyle will take charge of Jamshedpur FC only after the Indian Super League season VII fixture is released. The 54-year-old Coyle, who was appointed head coach of the Tata Steel-owned club on August 7, is presently at Langho, his village near Manchester in United Kingdom. The ISL fixture was supposed to be announced earlier this month but was postponed and is now likely to be declared in the last week of August. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said they will start preparations for the next season after the fixtures are released. “The ISL fixture is expected later this month. We’ll decide on our pre-seasons only after the schedule is declared,” he added. Talking about the possibility of Coyle joining the squad, Choudhari told The Telegraph Online, “He (Coyle) is presently in the UK and likely to join our men sometime in October. But things depend on when the ISL fixture is announced,”. Apart from the fixture, Coyle's travel to India will also depend on the resumption of commercial flights, which has been discontinued owing to the pandemic. “We expect the flights to resume operations next month. This way, the head coach will have no issues travelling to India,” a member of JFC’s team management said, requesting anonymity. Asked about the possible destinations for pre-season training, the member named Kerala or Goa. “Again, the ISL venue would be clear only after the fixture is announced. We  may conduct the pre-season in Jamshedpur if the 14-day quarantine protocol for players and support staff was relaxed,” he added. The Football Sports Development Limited (FSDL), organisers of the cash-rich tournament, had announced November 19 as the start of the glamourous event. However, nothing has been given in writing to the participating clubs, the JFC CEO informed. Choudhari said the squad was almost in place and they would like to announce the same later this month. Coyle played a stellar role in helping bottom-placed Chennaiyin FC reach the final of the ISL last season. He is expected to make a turnaround for JFC in the ensuing season, who has so far not made it to the play-offs in the three seasons it has played.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||On I-day, new logo unveiled to represent real Jharkhand||Jharkhand government on Friday launched a new state emblem which chief minister Hemant Soren said was in sync with true contours of the tribal heartland that is home to numerous flora and fauna, ethnicity and ethos. The ceremony to unveil the new logo, which replaces the one adopted on November 15, 2000 when Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar, was held at Aryabhatta auditorium in the presence of governor Droupadi Murmu, cabinet ministers and other officials. The new logo is primarily in green and has the national emblem at the centre with “Satyameva Jayate” etched below. The Ashoka emblem, representing cooperative federalism, is enclosed in concentric circles depicting the state’s culture and its abundant natural resources. The colour symbolises the greenery across the state which is blessed with natural beauty and is endowed with the raw materials required for the state to take a giant leap towards development and progress. The second ring showcases elephants in white colour hemmed in by a green border. The elephant, a vehicle of the kings, symbolises Jharkhand’s grand past, strength, collective wisdom and the resolve to move ahead as one, even as it removes impediments that stand between now and the envisaged future. The third inner ring depicts palash flowers, also known as flame of the forest, reflecting the natural beauty of Jharkhand. The fourth ring bears motifs of dance to celebrate art forms unique to the state. Soon after assuming power in January, Hemant had plans for a new state emblem. Thereafter, he appealed to people to send in ideas and designs. Commenting on the need for a new logo earlier, Hemant had said the existing logo did not reflect Jharkhand’s ethos adequately. “The new emblem is symbolises the abundant natural resources, vibrant and diverse culture, rich tribal heritage with innumerable tribes which give Jharkhand a special place in the nation. As the state continues to leap ahead towards a new future, it is imperative that it’s intent and vision, the renewed vigour and enthusiasm are properly reflected through the new emblem. “This Independence Day, the state government recognises and celebrates the rich heritage of the state by releasing a new logo.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid tally close to 4000||The Covid tally in Ranchi drew close to 4000 on Thursday as 629 people, including 78 from the capital testing positive for the virus in 24 hours, government data revealed. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday evening put Ranchi's Covid tally at 3996, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum, which accounts for the highest number of Covid casualties in state so far, reported 138 cases of infection on Thursday, taking the tally in the district to 3499, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the bulletin, Dhanbad continues to be the third worst-affected district in Jharkhand with 1383 cases. After Covid recoveries surpassed the number of fresh cases in the past three days, Jharkhand's Covid recovery rate crossed 60 per cent. However, on Thursday, the number of recoveries was a tad less than the fresh cases. As per government data, as many as 601 patients recovered from the infection on Thursday. The number of active Covid cases in Ranchi dropped to 1882 on Thursday as 178 patients recovered from the infection here and were discharged from hospital. At least 168 Covid patients recovered in East Singhbhum, bringing the count of active cases down to 1842 on Thursday, government data stated. Besides Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad, Giridih is the only district to report more than 1000 cases so far. These four districts account for more than 35 per cent of total cases reported in Jharkhand, figures compiled by the NHM state. The Covid toll in state reached 209 on Thursday as five patients – one each from Saraikela, Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro – lost their battle against the desease. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand is 0.99 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 2 per cent, claims state government. The government has so far collected swab samples of 4.17 lakh people and tested 4.11 lakh of them. As many as 20950 of the 4.11 lakh tested have been found infected by the virus, states government figure. As per NHM, their are 7728 active cases in Jharkhand, while 13013 patients have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
14-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant’s I-Day project ||Jharkhand will witness the launch of a 100-day employment scheme for urban unskilled workers along the lines of MGNREGA in the form of Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rojgar Manjuri for Kamgar) Yojana at Project Bhavan in Ranchi on Friday. The move is aimed at increasing the livelihood security of over 4 lakh urban poor residing under the jurisdiction of over 40 urban local bodies across 24 districts of the state. “Chief minister Hemant Soren will launch the project at Project Bhavan around 4pm,” state urban development authority director Amit Kumar said. Like MGNREGA, the scheme will also have a provision for unemployment allowance if any urban local body fails to provide work to job seekers within 15 days of registration. A worker will be entitled to one-fourth of the wage for the first 30 days of unemployment and half the wage in the second month. If the worker does not get a job for the third month, he will be entitled to an amount equal to the the basic minimum wage, officials in the state urban development department informed. “The job seekers will be given priority in the existing schemes. If they cannot be accommodated in the existing schemes, exclusive schemes will be created and urban local bodies will be given separate funds for this. There are lots of job opportunities in urban areas right from sanitation to development projects,” state urban development secretary Vinay Choubey said. Like labourers in MGNREGA, urban workers will be registered and provided job cards. A special website has been also been designed for purpose. The scheme will be implemented by the urban development and housing department through the state urban livelihood mission. “It was the idea of our chief minister (who also holds the urban development portfolio) to address the livelihood issues of migrant workers who came back during the pandemic. So far, MGNREGA was addressing the issues of workers in rural areas,” Choubey added. The chief minister is also scheduled to announce a full scholarship scheme for tribal, backward and minority students to help them pursue higher studies in reputed institutions during Independence Day function in Ranchi on August 15. “It will be meant for meritorious students hailing from the poor tribal, minority  and backward communities. The concept note is being finalised and the project would be announced by the chief minister tentatively on August 15,” state welfare minister Champai Soren said. According to sources in the welfare ministry, over 25 meritorious students selected by reputed overseas higher educational institutions can avail the benefit of these scholarship schemes provided they serve Jharkhand for a minimum of three years after completing the course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
