15-08-2020||Calcutta||Govt's nudge to authorities managing 'safe homes' for oxygen||The health department has told hospitals and the authorities managing “safe homes” to ensure adequate supply of oxygen, officials said. At the state-run MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge, for instance, the daily oxygen requirement was around 50,000 litres in the pre-Covid times. Now, the demand varies between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh litres. MR Bangur is a dedicated Covid hospital. At safe homes stay Covid patients with mild to moderate symptoms, who may suddenly need oxygen support. “When the coronavirus infects the lungs, it usually results in shortage of oxygen,” said pulmonologist Sumit Sengupta. “In order to make up for the shortage created by the viral infection, oxygen needs to be supplied from outside. It is not a treatment but support.” Health department officials said uninterrupted supply of oxygen was emerging as the most important “life-saving support” for many Covid-19 patients with lung infection. “We have asked hospitals and authorities of safe homes to make arrangements for uninterrupted flow of oxygen,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of the department of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital, who is leading the team of doctors for Covid-19 management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Mothers with Covid can breastfeed: Doctors||The Covid-19 pandemic has led to fear that breastfeeding mothers “might transmit” the virus to newborns, said doctors. The doctors asserted that the fear was unfounded and mothers who have symptoms of the disease or tested positive can continue to breastfeed their babies as long as they take some precautions like washing their hands frequently and wearing a mask while nursing babies. Breast milk is the best source of nutrition for babies and it is imperative that newborns are not denied the nutrition, they added. A city paediatrician said she came across multiple cases where the mothers who had tested positive for Covid-19 were scared to breastfeed their babies. “Doctors give a detailed explanation to mothers and they understand. But when they go home from hospital, family members separate the baby and the mother out of fear,” she said. Counselling of mothers and family members and awareness of the community play a key role in debunking myths, said experts. “There is nothing that suggests that the virus is transmitted through breast milk. Wearing a mask and washing hands regularly are two things that breastfeeding mothers should do regularly to ensure the safety of the newborns,” said Apurba Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health. Nurses in Covid wards are also facing resistance from family members in getting too close to their babies, said doctors. “All mothers should breastfeed their babies, irrespective of their Covid status. They should maintain respiratory hygiene. A mother should not be separated from her baby unless she is extremely ill,” said Neena Ghosh, a paediatrician associated with the Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratishthan. Some “Actions for breastfeeding mothers” on the WHO website are: ⚫Practice respiratory hygiene, including during feeding. If you have respiratory symptoms such as being short of breath, use a medical mask when near your child ⚫Wash your hands thoroughly with soap or sanitiser before and after contact with your child ⚫Routinely clean and disinfect any surfaces you touch “We have witnessed a 250 per cent rise in Indians consulting online for gynaecology since March and one of the most discussed topics was breastfeeding,” said a spokesperson of Practo, a digital healthcare platform. Arockia Virgin Fernando, a gynaecologist who consults on Practo, said: “The Covid-19 virus does not spread during the time of delivery and the only possibility it might infect a child is through air post-birth.” August 1 to 7 was the International Breastfeeding Week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||IIEST hostel asks graduating students to clear out belongings||IIEST, Shibpur, has asked its graduating students, who had left hostels in the third week of March because of the Covid pandemic, to take away their belongings by August 31. The students have been asked to share information such as which states they are from, whether their homes are in containment zones and how they will travel to the campus so that a schedule can be drawn up for them to take away their belongings from hostels safely, an official said. The students have to report to their respective hostels from 10am to 4pm and each will get maximum one hour to remove their items. An official of the institute said the students had been asked to fill in a Google form uploaded on the institute’s website to share the relevant information by August 17. “Until the hostels are cleared of the belongings, we cannot sanitise the buildings,” said Nirmalya Kumar Bhattacharyya, deputy registrar, academic. Asked why the institute wants to find out whether any student is coming from a containment zone, an official said the information would help them take additional precautions before letting him or her into the campus. A notice issued by Debabrata Mazumder, dean, students’ welfare, says: “They (the students) will send prior intimation about their arrival to the warden, with the copy to the chief warden and dean (students’ welfare). All the personal health safety measures including physical distancing will be complied by the concerned students”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Prized localities on city's new Covid containment zones list||Several areas in Ballygunge feature on the latest list of Covid containment zones published on Friday. Among the new additions are Queen’s Park, Rowland Road and Ballygunge Circular Road. Rainey Park and Hazra Road, which featured on the previous list, are there on Friday’s list as well. The list of containment zones is updated every three to four days. The latest list has 29 places. Of them, eight are in Ward 69, in the Ballygunge area. “Ward 69 has become a place of concern for us. Over 30 cases have been reported from the ward in the last few days. So, we felt that some of the places from where the cases have been reported should be turned into containment zones,” said Sandip Ranjan Bakshi, the coordinator of Borough VIII that covers Ballygunge. Bakshi said two adjacent buildings on Rowland Road — 14 Rowland Road and 14A Rowland Road — have been declared as containment zones. One more address on Rowland Road is on the list. The previous list — published on Monday — had only one address from Rowland Road. That has been removed from Friday’s list. “Officials of the civic health department are trying to find out if there is any particular source of infection on Rowland Road,” said Bakshi. The latest list for North 24-Parganas does not have any place from Salt Lake. Duttabad, on the fringes of Salt Lake, is a containment zone. A dozen areas in Dum Dum have been earmarked as containment zones. Those include places under two civic bodies - South Dum Dum Municipality and Dum Dum Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University application from August 18||Students keen on joining undergraduate courses at Jadavpur University can submit application forms online from August 18, officials of the institute said. The process was to start on Friday but the university was forced to defer it to update its admission portal in line with a government advisory that aspirants cannot be charged any application fee this year. The higher education department announced on Thursday evening that the universities and colleges across the state could not charge undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses because of the adverse impact of the Covid pandemic. The applicants cannot be charged for scanning/uploading documents as well, education minister Partha Chatterjee had said. JU used to charge an applicant Rs 100 for each subject. The portal for admissions to BA and BSc courses was supposed to be activated on August 14. A notice posted on the university’s website said: “In view of an order of the government of West Bengal, concerning waiving of payment of application fees, some technical aspects have to be modified on the admission portal. Accordingly the online application process for admission to BA and BSc courses will be started from August 18. Details of the application process will be available on and from August 18”. Application forms will have to be submitted by September 4, pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya said. At JU, a candidate can apply for multiple subjects. Till last year, an applicant had to pay separately for each course, an official of the university said. Now, be it one application or multiple applications, a candidate will not be charged anything, he said. Candidates cannot be charged for applying in multiple colleges as well, an official of the department said. JU had originally planned to activate the site on August 10 in keeping with a July 16 advisory of the state government. But the start had to be delayed to make the system ready for online payment. The education department has ordered that this year fees would have to be paid online or through designated banks. Candidates have been barred from paying the fees on the campus as a precaution against Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Airport business stalls and retiring rooms take off||There’s hardly any commercial activity at the city airport because of the pandemic but the revamped retiring rooms and dormitories in the terminal building are doing a roaring business. The number of flights has reduced drastically and so has the number of passengers. But a long time gap between connecting flights and the fear of getting infected with Covid-19 have ensured passengers in transit who would earlier spend the night at a relative’s place in Calcutta are now check-ing into these rooms and dormitories. The airport’s new terminal building has 23 rooms, each with two beds, and two 10-bed dormitories for men and women. “After flights resumed, the retiring rooms and dormitories are having an almost 80 per cent occupancy daily,” Kaushik Bhattacharya, airport director, said. “We had to reduce the capacity by 50 per cent in the dormitories to maintain safe distance between two beds. We sanitise the rooms after each passenger checks out.” The twin-bed rooms used to be given to two passengers; now, only one passenger or a family is allowed, Bhattacharya said. Mouyukh Roy, who works in Bangalore, was headed home to Silchar when he landed at the Calcutta airport on Friday morning. He arrived with his wife and daughter, who is little over a year old, by an Air India flight from Bangalore. They are scheduled to take a SpiceJet flight to Silchar on Saturday morning. “Earlier, whenever I went home or returned to work via Calcutta, the transit time was two to three hours. If we had to spend the night, we used to stay at a relative’s place,” Roy said. “But this time, we didn’t go to any relatives’ place because of Covid. We are worried for our daughter.” Roy said he was not aware of the accommodation facility at the airport. “The airport manager told me there is a facility that could be provided based on availability.” He paid around Rs 1,700 for staying the night. Another passenger said he was pleasantly surprised to see the cleanliness in the room he had taken. “We are used to seeing dirty washrooms at Calcutta airport. But the room and adjoining washroom are clean.” Almost 50 per cent of the standalone food and beverage counters, along with 75 per cent of the retail stores, have opened, an airport official said. “But these outlets do barely any business.” The food court and lounges are closed. Calcutta airport now has close to 110 flights arriving and taking off. Before the pandemic struck, the number was close to 500. The passenger count has gone down from the daily average of 60,000 to 14,000. But the retiring rooms and dormitories are always almost full. “On days of total lockdown, they are filled to capacity and we have to refuse many passengers,” an airport official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Insurance companies reject claims of mild Covid patients||Many Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms and admitted to private hospitals or satellite facilities are having their cashless insurance claims rejected because the insurance companies think they could have been treated at home. Insurance companies allege that many hospitals are admitting such patients because they need minimum treatment but the healthcare units can earn through diagnostic investigations. Public health experts and officials of various hospitals, however, said the purpose of taking out a medical insurance policy gets defeated if it is of no use during the pandemic. “As per the available documents/medical records, indication for the hospitalisation cannot be established hence cashless approval would not be possible at this juncture,” a Covid-19 patient who had been admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta received this message from the insurance company before he was discharged. The man was left with no option but to pay the entire amount from his pocket. In another case, a New Alipore resident alleged that his parents who had tested positive for Covid-19 were taken to Belle Vue Clinic for admission earlier this month. His father is 63 and mother, a diabetic, 61. “Belle Vue officials said that since my parents had mild symptoms, the cashless facility might be denied to them if they got admitted to the hospital.They suggested that my parents be admitted to the satellite facility run by Belle Vue,” said businessman Deepak Gupta. “A CT scan my father underwent before admission showed pneumonia. So, we got both admitted to the satellite centre. We were scared that if something happened to them at home and the doctor was not available over the phone, we might not be able to hospitalise them immediately,” he said. Later, the third-party administrator (TPA) said the claims were inadmissible. “The TPA told me I got my parents admitted only to get some investigations done. I told them that I could not have put their lives at risk by getting them admitted to hospital in this situation just to get some investigations done,” Gupta said. “The present claim is for treatment of Covid-19 positive. Patient is mainly admitted for investigation and observation purpose and treated with oral medicine and certificate given by treating doctor and discharge certificate revealed that it seems that present treatment is possible in an OPD basis or any institutional quarantine centre,” the TPA had written to Gupta. TPAs handle claims for insurance companies. Finally, Gupta had to pay Rs 2.25 lakh to get his parents discharged. He said he would file reimbursement claims with the insurance company.  The health ministry and state government have advised asymptomatic Covid patients or those with mild symptoms to stay at home or satellite facilities so that hospital beds remain free for patients with moderate or severe symptoms. “But there are many asymptomatic patients who don’t have isolation facilities at home. There are others who have family members with co-morbidities, and so they want to be admitted,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We have about 150 Covid patients at our hospitals, of whom around 35 are asymptomatic who have no home isolation facilities.” Officials of various private hospitals attributed refusals by insurance companies to confusion and mistrust. “Some insurance firms have issued clear guidelines for allowing cashless facilities for asymptomatic and mild symptom patients even if they are admitted at a satellite facility. Big insurance companies like National Insurance should come out with such clear guidelines, otherwise TPAs are confused over allowing claims,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. He said the hospital was frequently having patients whose cashless claims were rejected by insurance companies. Medica Superspecialty Hospital chairman Alok Roy said there were frequent problems over insurance claims for patients admitted at his hospital. Insurance companies said hospitals needed to have more transparency. “The advice for admission should be followed by an active line of treatment which is possible only in a hospital set-up. Otherwise, the claim might be inadmissible if it is only for quarantine or isolation. Hospitalisation should have a valid reason,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. An official of a private insurance company said there were homecare packages. “There are telemedicine and wellness cells of insurance agencies which support such patients (asymptomatic patients or ones with mild symptoms),” said Abhijit Banerjee, manager, claims department, Star Health Insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Taxi check reveals body in vegetable bag||Cops randomly checking vehicles near Science City early on Friday found a woman’s body in a sack stuffed with vegetables in a taxi’s boot. The taxi had two passengers, a man and a woman, apart from the driver when a police patrol from Pragati Maidan police station stopped the vehicle. The two have been identified as Malina Mandal, the prime accused, and Ajay Rang, a family friend, and the dead woman, Suja Mani Gayen, the police said. They apparently told cops they had killed the woman and that they were on their way to dispose of the body. Preliminary investigations showed Gayen was the mother-in-law of Mandal’s daughter, an officer of Pragati Maidan police station said. “It appears Mandal wanted to eliminate Gayen... she has said Gayen used to torture her daughter.” Mandal has said in her statement that she and her husband had thrashed Gayen, 60, with a bamboo stick before strangling her to death, the police said. Mandal, a resident of Arupota village in Chowbaga, is a vegetable vendor. She had chosen to hide the body in a sackful of vegetables, the police said. Gayen, a resident of Kabardanga in the Haridevpur area, was brought to Mandal’s home on some pretext. Mandal has claimed the motive behind the murder was the deceased woman’s torture against her daughter but cops are still to verify the claim. “We will question Mandal’s daughter to check the veracity of her mother’s claims. Even if the claims turn out to be true, it does not justify the killing,” an officer said. Mandal, her brother Basu Mandal, and Rang were arrested on charges of murder later on Friday. Her husband is still to be arrested. Investigations are on to find out if the taxi driver was involved in the crime, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Seized toucans in isolation at Alipore zoo||The pair of Keel-billed toucans that were seized by the BSF in Bongaon, North 24-Parganas, on Thursday are in quarantine at the Alipore zoo hospital. The birds are “traumatised and have not been eating properly”, a zoo official said. The birds were headed to Bangladesh when a BSF team had seized them in the forests near Halderpara village close to the Angrail border outpost, the BSF had said on Thursday. “The birds are quite big… they could barely move inside the cage they had been crammed in. There was no provision for water or food,” S.S. Guleria, DIG, BSF (South Bengal Frontier), said. “Our men gave them fresh water, some fruits and maize.” On Friday morning, vets checked on the birds at the zoo and served them an assortment of apples, pineapples, pomegranates and citrus fruits. The zoo has a toucan at present, director Ashish Kumar Samanta said. “After the completion of their quarantine they will be moved into one of the bigger enclosures. We are not going too close to them… we are leaving them undisturbed as they are quite traumatised… they haven’t eaten much.” Smugglers transport birds and animals in dismal conditions, a forest department official said. “Their welfare is the last thing on the mind of smugglers. They just want to transport them secretly.” The Keel-billed toucans are native to the rainforests of South America.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Business||Hindalco in the red after 18 quarters||Hindalco Industries has reported its first loss in 18 quarters as volumes fell after the coronavirus lockdown disrupted economic activities. Net loss of the billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s company stood at Rs 40 crore in the June quarter compared with a Rs 23-crore profit a year ago, according to an exchange filing on Friday. That’s the first loss since the third quarter of 2015-16. On a consolidated basis, the company posted a loss of Rs 709 crore for the quarter. It had posted a profit after tax (PAT) of Rs 1,063 crore in the April-June quarter a year ago. Hindalco said that “Q1 consolidated PAT for continuing businesses before tax-effected exceptional and special items stood at Rs 139 crore”. The Aditya Birla Group firm in a statement said  “on account of certain special items, including charitable contributions towards COVID relief, ex-gratia paid to employees for their contribution during COVID, and Aleris acquisition costs, the reported PAT was impacted”. Indian Bank on Friday posted the first result after amalgamation of Allahabad Bank in April. The Chennai-based lender reported a net profit of Rs 369 crore for the June quarter of 2020 against Rs 492 crore a year ago for the combined entity. On a standalone basis, however, net profit of Indian Bank was Rs 365 crore during the April-June quarter of 2019-20, reflecting a marginal rise. The bank’s net interest income grew 17 per cent to Rs 3,874 crore during the quarter against Rs 3,316 crore a year ago. Net interest margin was 2.83 per cent. “The key parameters of income, cost efficiency and profitability have improved both year on year and quarter on quarter. Asset quality has improved,” said Indian Bank chief executive Padmaja Chunduru. “The Bank has made upfront provisions in two accounts and also contingency provisions for Covid-19. The accounts under moratorium constitute above 23 per cent and there is very good progress being made on the collection front, month on month,” said Chunduru. “The amalgamation is going on track and we expect to complete it in the current financial year," she added. The bank is also looking to unlock value in two of its subsidiaries - Ind Bank Merchant Banking Services and Ind Bank Housing and will also explore the rationalisation of unviable and slow growth branches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||Auditor to GVK Power offers to quit||Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP wants to resign as the statutory auditors of GVK Power as it says the group is not providing them with the necessary information for audit of the financial statements for 2019-20. On August 13, the auditors had in a letter to the company’s audit committee said their decision to resign would be “effective immediately upon discharge of their obligations” under the Companies Act, 2013 read with Sebi circular in October 2019, GVK Power told  bourses on Friday. GVK Airport Holdings, a subsidiary of GVK Power, is the parent company of Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), holding more than 50 per cent stake. The other stakeholders in MIAL are Bidvest, ACSA and the Airports Authority of India. Earlier, Bidvest had entered into an agreement with the Adanis to sell its entire stake in the airport for Rs 1,248 crore. The Adanis had also offered to buy out ACSA at a similar price. However, its plans hit a roadblock. There have also been reports of the GVK group raising over Rs 7,500 crore from an investor. The auditors, who were appointed for a term of five years in September 2017, alleged that despite several communications to the audit committee and the management since July 3, with regard to audit of financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2020, which is under progress, necessary information was not provided to conclude the audit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||India returns to $4.83bn trade deficit in July||The country returned to a trade deficit of $4.83 billion in July, a month after a rare trade surplus in over 18 years, as imports increased, showing signs of a pick-up in business activity. Exports, contracting for the fifth straight month, slipped 10.21 per cent to $23.64 billion in July, on account of decline in the shipments of petroleum, leather and gems and jewellery items, according to government data released on Friday. The country’s imports, too, dipped 28.4 per cent to $28.47 billion in July, leaving a trade deficit of $4.83 billion compared with a shortfall of $13.43 billion a year ago. The outward shipments in July, however, recovered from a steeper decline of 60.28 per cent in April, 36.47 per cent in May, and 12.41 per cent in June. Fieo president Sharad Kumar Saraf said, “All this has been possible because of the start of business activities across the country and enquiries from almost all major economies which has helped to bring exports to almost 90 per cent of the July 2019 level.” The wholesale price-based inflation continued to remain in the negative zone for the fourth straight month at 0.58 per cent even as the prices of vegetables and other food items were costlier. WPI inflation in June was (-) 1.81 per cent, while for the month of May and April it was (-) 3.37 per cent and (-) 1.57 per cent, respectively. Retail inflation, however, rose to 6.93 per cent in July from 6.23 per cent in the preceding month. "The annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI (Wholesale Price Index), stood at (- 0.58 per cent) (provisional) for the month of July, 2020 as compared to 1.17 per cent during the corresponding month of the previous year," the commerce and industry ministry said in a statement. In contrast, the data released by the National Statistical Office on Thursday showed that retail inflation accelerated to 6.93% in July from 6.23% in the preceding month, with food inflation rising to 9.62% from the June level of 8.72%. Saraf, however, said the global revival and business sentiments still have not picked up, impacting the global supply chain. The government focus should be on FTAs and more of multilateral agreements to further revive our exports and take up competition coming from smaller countries like Vietnam, Bangladesh and Taiwan. Aditi Nayar, principal economist with ICRA said “the rare trade surplus seen in June 2020 predictability vanished with some recovery in merchandise imports in July 2020, which stamped out the further improvement in merchandise exports. This trend is likely to strengthen in the coming months, as demand for non-oil non-gold imports starts to normalise, gold imports gather steam around the festive/marriage months, and crude oil demand and prices stabilise at a moderate level.” “Merchandise imports had lagged the extent of recovery shown by many high frequency indicators in Q1 FY2021. With the imports of some diverse categories of goods recovering in July 2020 relative to the previous month, such as petroleum products, gold, project goods, electronic goods etc., domestic demand appears to be emanating from the lockdown-induced torpor,” she added. EEPC India chairman Mahesh Desai said “engineering exports are amongst a handful of sectors which managed to post a positive trend of 8.6 percent growth as global demand for essential metals and other related items have started to bounce back. However, with resurgence of cases in several parts of the world, it would be difficult to say whether the positive trend can be sustained going forward. “ The oil imports declined by 31.97 per cent to $ 6.53 billion in the month under review and gold imports grew by 4.17 per cent to $1.8 billion. During the April-July period, exports declined by 30.21 per cent to $74.96 billion, while imports fell 46.7 per cent to $ 88.91 billion. Trade deficit during the period stood at $13.95 billion. New Delhi: The wholesale price-based inflation continued to remain in the negative zone for the fourth straight month at 0.58 percent even as the prices of vegetables and other food items were costlier. WPI inflation in June was (-) 1.81 per cent, while for the month of May and April it was (-) 3.37 per cent and (-) 1.57 per cent respectively. "The annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI (Wholesale Price Index), stood at (- 0.58 per cent) (provisional) for the month of July, 2020 as compared to 1.17 per cent during the corresponding month of the previous year," the commerce and industry ministry said in a statement. In contrast, the data released by the National Statistical Office on Thursday showed that retail inflation accelerated to 6.93% in July from 6.23% in the preceding month, with food inflation rising to 9.62% from the June level of 8.72%. Inflation in food articles was at a four-month high level of 4.08 per cent in July, mainly due to sharp rise in vegetable prices. Inflation in vegetables stood at 8.20 per cent, against (-) 9.21 per cent in June. Pulses saw inflation of 10.24 per cent, while for potatoes it was 69.07 per cent in July. Protein rich items like egg, meat and fish saw hardening of prices with inflation at 5.27 per cent. However, onion prices softened and inflation fell 25.56 per cent, while in fruits it was (-) 3.03 per cent. Inflation in the fuel and power basket fell 9.84 per cent in July, compared to 13.60 per cent drop in the previous month. Manufactured products, however, witnessed inflation of 0.51 per cent in July, against 0.08 per cent in June. Analysts said the difference in weightage assigned to different goods/items that make up the two baskets. In CPI, food has a much higher weightage than in the wholesale basket. So, a rise in food prices will cause a bigger spike in the CPI basket than in the WPI one. Similarly, manufactured goods are given more weightage in the wholesale basket. Therefore, any movement in the price of such items will move the WPI more than it does the CPI. While WPI does not include services, the retail price index does, which impacts final numbers. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist with Care Ratings said weightage assigned to different components is one of the factors behind the varying trend between WPI and CPI. Another is that retail inflation takes into account services, which has gone up sharply and pushes up the CPI numbers. Retail margins higher for food due to more intermediaries. “One of the key reasons for subdued wholesale inflation is the depressed prices of manufactured items. Manufactured items have 64.2 % weight in the wholesale price index. The average inflation witnessed in the manufactured items during the past twelve months is -0.1% due to the weak demand conditions in the economy,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings said. He said “the wholesale and retail inflation though paint a contrasting picture and policy prescription, the nominal anchor for RBI is retail inflation. The retail inflation in combination with recent industrial production data makes the emerging scenario even more complex due to the divergence in trend. While the industrial production data may support further easing of policy rate, retail inflation breaching RBI’s upper band of 6% in seven out of the last eight months may suggest otherwise. Ind-Ra believes RBI will watch inflation trajectory very carefully and in the interim would continue with the accommodative policy stance but pause on further rate cuts.” The RBI in its policy review last week kept interest rates unchanged and said it sees an upside risk to inflation. The apex bank projected retail inflation to moderate in October-March period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||Flipkart to deliver alcohol in Bengal and Odisha||Walmart-owned Flipkart has teamed up with Diageo-backed HipBar to deliver alcohol in Bengal and Odisha. The development comes after Flipkart’s rival Amazon had in June received approval to deliver liquor in Bengal. Flipkart and Amazon’s interest in delivering alcohol in India marks a bold move to make inroads into an alcohol market that is worth $27.2 billion, according to estimates by IWSR Drinks Market Analysis. The local governments of Bengal and Odisha have said that Flipkart can be associated as a technology service provider of Diageo-backed HipBar, an Indian alcohol home delivery mobile application. Flipkart’s customers will  have access to HipBar’s application. HipBar will then deliver the order after collecting the products from retail outlets. Amazon.com on Friday launched an online pharmacy in Bangalore. The service, Amazon Pharmacy, has begun and will soon offer deliveries across the city, Amazon said. It offers both over-the-counter and prescription-based drugs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||Wider radar to stop tax dodge||In a move to widen the tax base and plug evasion, the government plans to bring transactions such as hotel bills over Rs 20,000, education fee of over Rs 1 lakh and purchase of jewellery, white goods, marble or painting over Rs 1 lakh under the scanner of the income tax department. The government has proposed to expand the list of reported transactions to include domestic business class air travel or foreign travel, cash deposit of Rs 10 lakh or more in non-current accounts, sale of foreign exchange above Rs 10 lakh, payment of property tax above Rs 20,000 per year, life insurance premium above Rs 50,000 and health insurance premium above Rs 20,000, mygov.in said in a tweet on Thursday which has been subsequently removed. As part of the multiple reforms to improve tax compliance, faceless assessment and the ease of filing returns, the government has proposed to reduce the threshold of various transactions for tax disclosure. Tax experts said to bring more transactions under the scanner would require an amendment of the Income Tax Act. Section 285A is an enabling section, which empowers the CBDT to prescribe various transactions for reporting to the I-T department. Noted tax advocate Narayan Jain said, “This has been done with the objective of widening the tax base but monetary limits need to be revisited and should be reasonably increased so that compliance becomes easier. In the case of financial transactions or payments above Rs 50,000 and up to Rs 2 lakh, furnishing of PAN should be enough.” “Taxpayers claim deduction for medical insurance  and life insurance premium. So, it may be illusory to cover the same for the purpose of reporting or for mentioning in Form 26AS. Again, in most of the cases, the property tax paid is  claimed as deduction for computing income from house property. The taxpayer charter assured of minimising compliance cost but these reporting measures are likely to substantially increase the compliance cost,” he added. The government has also proposed to deduct TDS at higher rates for those who do not file income tax returns. There is also a proposal for compulsory filing of ITR by those having bank transactions above Rs 30 lakh, all professionals and businesses having turnover of more than Rs 50 lakh and payment of rent above Rs 40,000. More transactional categories in the reporting imply an enhanced flow of information to tax authorities, but will put the onus on taxpayers to comply voluntarily. When implemented, it will also be reflected in Form 26AS, the consolidated annual statement showing tax deductions/ collections and advance tax against an individual’s PAN.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
15-08-2020||Business||DoT claims on Reliance Communications contested||State Bank of India, the lead banker of the committee of creditors which is overseeing the bankruptcy resolution process at Reliance Communications (R-Com), has virtually tried to repudiate the Centre’s claim to roughly Rs 25,000 crore worth of unpaid telecom licence fee dues of the former Anil Ambani-owned company. Creditor banks had steered R-Com into the insolvency process in May 2019, ostensibly giving it a cloak of protection against operational creditors, including the department of telecom (DoT). The DoT has been pressing hard to realise Rs 1.47 lakh crore in pending telecom dues from 15 mobile telephony licence holders, many of whom have already hit the wall and no longer offer services. On Friday, Harish Salve, lead counsel for R-Com’s committee of creditors, argued that the telecom company’s financial creditors like the banks and financial institutions had the first claim to any payout by the telecom company under the terms of the insolvency process. Operational creditors like DoT would simply have to wait. Salve told the court that the CoC had “complete autonomy to decide who gets how much”. In several IBC cases, operational creditors have received next to nothing as the financial creditors pounced on the assets of the bankrupt firms. “Operational creditors (like DoT) cannot be paid on a par with the financial creditors,” Salve told the court during the hearing. Salve went on to add that SBI believed that the spectrum that had been leased to R-Com for 20 years had to be treated as an asset of the telecom companies — a line of argument that the Centre has consistently challenged on the grounds of Constitutional privileges that confer rights to all resources in the country, including radio waves on the sovereign. The R-Com spectrum has been farmed out to Reliance Jio under a spectrum sharing deal in 2016. The apex court bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah wanted to know the details of the spectrum sharing pact and asked why Jio could not be asked to pay the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) related telecom dues on behalf of R-Com. “Jio needs to explain why we should not catch hold of you to pay the AGR dues. By sharing R-Com revenue, you (Jio) have gained revenue... this is revenue sharing. If Jio is using public assets like spectrum, why should Jio not be liable to pay the AGR dues.” “We want details of spectrum sharing agreements entered into by all insolvent companies. We want to know who is using the spectrum of the insolvent companies,” the bench said while adjourning the matter till August 17 (Monday). The bench asked the DoT to submit the documents certifying all spectrum sharing arrangements. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who appeared for the resolution professional appointed to look after the day-to-day affairs at R-Com, said the government had been informed about the spectrum sharing agreement in 2016 and relevant fees paid. “When the sovereign right is transferred to the telco for using spectrum, can the dues arising become subservient to the dues claimed by secured creditors?” Justice Mishra observed. “There is a need to ensure that the IBC is not misused by companies to escape liabilities,” the bench said. We can lay down the law if required for the IBC process. Dues arising out of the use of natural, public resources cannot be (treated as) merely operational dues, a matter of public money,” Justice Mishra observed. On July 2, the apex court had agreed to consider a staggered payment schedule for the long-pending AGR dues of the telecom companies. But before it passed its verdict, the court had sought clarity on the insolvency claims made by R-COm, Videcom and Shyam Sistema Teleservices. The court wanted the other insolvent telecom companies like Aircel and Shyam Sistema to also come out with details of their spectrum sharing agreements, if any, with other players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
15-08-2020||India|| 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' forms crux of PM's I-Day speech||'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' was the centrepiece of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Independence Day address as he presented a broad outline for spurring India's growth in diverse sectors and asserted that the coronavirus pandemic cannot halt the country's march towards self-reliance. In his seventh straight Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Red Fort on Saturday, Modi also delivered a warning to India's hostile neighbours saying the armed forces have given a befitting reply to those who challenged the country's sovereignty "from LoC to LAC" in their own language. The prime minister made a host of new announcements, including the launch of a national digital health mission under which health IDs will be given to everyone and connecting all six lakh villages with optical fibres in 1,000 days, and promised the holding of assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir after the delimitation exercise is over. In a reference to the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, Modi said: "Respect for India's sovereignty is supreme for us and the world has seen in Ladakh what our brave jawans can do to maintain this resolve. I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort." "From LoC to LAC, anyone who casts an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces of the country have responded to them in the same language," Modi said. The prime minister's comments came in the midst of India's festering border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and rising incidents of ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. The country is fighting terrorism as well as expansionism with determination, Modi said in remarks aimed at Pakistan and China. Dressed in his customary 'kurta pyjama' and safa, the prime minister, in his nearly 90-minute address, dwelt at length on his 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign as he gave a call for reducing imports and pushing exports of finished products in place raw material, saying the country will have to move forward with the mantra of 'Make in India' as well as 'Make for World'. 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' is no longer merely a word but has become a mantra and captured people's imagination, he said. Modi also touched upon the much-anticipated issue of vaccine for Covid-19 and said three vaccines are in various phases of trials in the country. He said that a roadmap is ready to innoculate all citizens in the shortest possible time with their mass production after scientists give a green signal. Modi also listed out a number of reform measures undertaken by his government which resulted in a record Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the country last year. The prime minister said India's policies, processes and products should be the best in the world and only then the idea of "shresth Bharat" (best India) will be realised. On foreign policy issues, Modi said today neighbours are not only those with whom India shares its geographical boundaries but also those with whom "our hearts meet". While talking about the need for overall economic growth and making the country self reliant, Modi, at the same time, said humanity must retain a central role in this process. The prime minister began his address by paying tributes to freedom fighters and security forces while also remembering Aurobindo Ghose, a freedom fighter and spiritual philosopher whose birth anniversary falls today. Hailing 'corona warriors', including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitation workers who have been continuously fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the country will achieve victory over coronavirus with the resolve of its over 130 crore citizens. In the midst of coronavirus pandemic, Indians have resolved to become self-reliant, the prime minister said, adding this is not a word but a mantra for all people. Speaking of self-reliant India, he said many concerns are raised about it and acknowledged the challenges ahead, but asserted that there are "crores of solutions" offered by the country's citizens to "lakhs of challenges". Vocal for local should be the mantra of India, he said. He said his government has freed farmers of their constraints, and they can now trade their products freely on their terms. India's freedom struggle, he said, became a challenge to forces of expansionism while attempts were made for hundreds of years by various rulers to root out India's culture and traditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||I-Day: the nation celebrates||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Vijayan and ministers at crash site in quarantine||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and several ministers on Friday went into self-quarantine after at least 20 rescue officials with whom they had interacted in the aftermath of the plane crash at Calicut International Airport a week ago tested positive for Covid-19. Other than Vijayan, 75, those who have quarantined themselves at home are health minister K.K. Shailaja, agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, transport minister A.K. Saseendran, ports minister Kadannapalli Ramachandran, higher education minister K.T. Jaleel, excise minister T.P. Ramakrishnan, local administration minister A.C. Moideen and Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. The security and personal staff of these dignitaries have also proceeded into quarantine. Vijayan, Shailaja, Moideen and Jaleel have tested negative for the coronavirus but will still remain in quarantine. P.K. Kunhalikutty, the Lok Sabha MP of Malappuram and IUML leader who had visited the crash site on Saturday, has also isolated himself. The area where the accident took place is a corona containment zone. Apart from the ministers, those who had visited the accident spot last Saturday and interacted with the officials who had taken part in the rescue operation and have now tested positive were governor Arid Mohammed Khan, Union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, junior Union minister of external affairs V. Muraleedharan and Kerala chief secretary Vishwas Mehta. The leader of the Opposition, Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress, had gone to the site on Sunday along with several leaders of his party. It was not immediately clear if the Congress leaders would also quarantine themselves. Among the over 20 officials who have tested positive for Covid-19 are Malappuram district police superintendent U. Abdul Karim, collector K. Gopalakrishnan, assistant collector Vishnu Raj, sub-collector Anju KS and assistant collector Vishnu Raj. While Karim tested positive on Thursday, the others were detected infected with the novel coronavirus on Friday. The infected officials had been present at the crash site last Friday (August 7) and had also gone to the hospitals where the injured had been taken. All the 20-odd officials were already in quarantine when their tests returned positive. Health minister Shailaja had asked all those who were part of the mission to isolate themselves. Kerala director-general of police Loknath Behera has also gone into self-quarantine as he had met both Gopalakrishnan and Karim on August 8. The Malappuram district health department has ordered all the media personnel who were at the accident site to isolate themselves. District police chief Karim’s gunman tested positive for the virus in the immediate aftermath of the accident. One of the passengers on the Air India Express flight from Dubai that had overshot the tabletop runway and plummeted 60ft, killing the two pilots and 16 passengers, had been corona-positive and was being brought under precautions as part of the Vande Bharat repatriation mission. The rest of the 190 passengers and crew had escaped with injuries, mainly due to the prompt intervention of local people who had rushed to the spot before rescue teams arrived and pulled them out of the wreckage. The district collector, district police chief and the sub-collector had been among those who were on the ground during the rescue and relief work. Malappuram district has been reporting about 200 cases daily on an average for the past several days. Junaid Mukkood, one of the 15 locals who were the first to reach the accident site and began rescuing the passengers and crew from the aircraft that had broken into two pieces, said on Friday that they were waiting for their test results. “The health department took swab samples from many of us today morning. Since they are doing the RT-PCR test, we will have to wait for two to three days for the results to be declared,” Mukkood told The Telegraph. All the local people who had participated in the rescue have been in home quarantine. “I don’t have any symptoms. But let’s wait for the result,” Mukkood said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||RBI shock for Centre||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has decided to transfer Rs 57,128 crore as dividend to the Centre for 2019-20, which is substantially lower than the record payout of Rs 1.76 lakh crore last year. The sharp moderation in the sum compounds the problems for the Centre at a time when it is grappling with a parlous treasury resulting from poor tax collections after  the outbreak of Covid-19. The country’s fiscal deficit has already widened to Rs 6.62 lakh crore, or 83.2 per cent of the budget estimates, in the first quarter of this fiscal. In the 2020-21 Union budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had budgeted for a dividend payout of Rs 89,649 crore from the RBI and state-owned banks. The surplus transfer from the central bank had been pegged at Rs 60,000 crore. The decision to transfer over Rs 57,000 crore was taken at the 584th meeting of the Central Board of the RBI, chaired by governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday. The dividend payout had snowballed into a huge controversy in 2018 and led to sharp differences between then RBI governor Urjit Patel and the Narendra Modi government over the size of the central bank’s balance sheet. It eventually led to the resignation of Patel and the appointment of a committee headed by former RBI governor Bimal Jalan to decide on the economic capital framework of the RBI. The panel’s recommendations had been accepted before the massive payout last year. The RBI earns its profits from trading in currencies and government bonds as well as printing notes and coins. Traditionally, the RBI used to set aside a part of these earnings to meet its operational and contingency fund requirements before transferring the rest to the government in the form of dividend. The RBI’s reserves consist of two parts: the first is a contingent reserve buffer (CRB) that the Bimal Jalan committee described as “realised equity”, and the second is a notional fund called the currency and gold revaluation account (CGRA) that represents the unrealised revaluation gains arising from exchange rate movements and the rise in gold prices. The Jalan committee had recommended that the Centre had no right to dip into the CGRA fund. It also said the RBI could retain between 5.5 and 6.5 per cent of its balance sheet size in the CRB fund and transfer any excess to the Centre as dividend. The CRB, which the Jalan panel termed a “rainy day” fund, is a specific provision that the RBI maintains to meet unexpected and unforeseen contingencies, including depreciation in the value of securities, risks arising out of monetary or exchange rate policy operations, systemic risks and any other risks. In 2018-19, the CRB fund stood at 6.8 per cent of the balance sheet corpus. So, the central bank decided to cap the size of this fund at the minimum mandated level of 5.5 per cent and transferred an excess risk provision as a one-time outgo of Rs 52,637 crore to the Centre. In addition, the RBI transferred a surplus of Rs 123,350 crore from its balance sheet. A part of the payment had been made in the form of an interim dividend of Rs 28,000 crore on March 28, 2019 -- with the rest being transferred in August that year. The RBI has a financial year that ends on June 30. The details of the latest RBI transfer will be known when the central bank comes out with its annual report for 2019-20 sometime later this month. Ananth Narayan, senior India analyst at the Observatory Group, said in a note in June that in the year ending June 2019, the RBI had kept its realised equity at the minimum level of 5.5 per cent and transferred the rest to the government. “Since then, the RBI’s balance sheet has expanded by 29 per cent. To maintain realised equity at 5.5 per cent of the balance sheet, it would have to retain about Rs 65,000 crore of earnings when it closes its books in June 2020.… The overall balance sheet has expanded 29 per cent over the past year, from Rs 41 trillion to Rs 53 trillion (around 26 per cent of the GDP). This is on the back of an increase in holdings of foreign currency assets, a revaluation gain in the value of foreign currency assets, an increase in holdings of government bonds, and an increase in rupee advances to Indian banks,” Narayan said in the note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||‘Complex’, not simple like PM’s China claim||The Indian foreign ministry on Friday reaffirmed that the disengagement process with China was a “complex” process that would take time, again raising questions about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s earlier contention that no one had entered or was occupying Indian territory. Responding to questions, ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said “some progress had been earlier made” on the broad principles of disengagement agreed between the two militaries and the special representatives. “I must add that translating these principles on the ground is a complex process that requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC,” he said. “While we would like the ongoing disengagement process to be completed at the earliest... achieving this requires agreed actions on both sides.” Srivastava said: “We therefore expect the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation.” After the July 14-15 military talks, too, the foreign ministry had described the disengagement process as “complex”. Srivastava did not specify where “some progress had been earlier made”. Reports say the Chinese have stayed put in territory they have occupied in the Depsang Plains and the Pangong Lake. Nor did Srivastava respond specifically to the reiteration by the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, that the “onus is not on China”. “The Indian side crossed the LAC for provocation and attacked the Chinese border troops,” Sun wrote in his embassy’s magazine, China-India Review. Srivastava repeated India’s contention that resolving the border issue was essential to the development of the bilateral relationship. China insists the two should be delinked. In Beijing, Indian ambassador Vikram Misri met Major General Ci Guowei, director of the office of International Military Cooperation of the Central Military Commission, and briefed him on India’s stand on the border situation. Earlier this week, Misri had similarly briefed Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the office of the Communist Party of China’s central committee foreign affairs commission. Srivastava did not say why Misri had met these two officials and what they had discussed, but said more meetings were likely. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police has told the government that Indian and Chinese troops have had multiple clashes in May-June — apart from the May 5 and June 15 face-offs — and both sides suffered injuries in these, sources said. So far, the army has admitted only two clashes: the June 15 fight that killed 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley and the May 5 stones-and-fists battle near the Pangong Lake that left several from either army injured. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the China frontier; the army remains behind it. The latest revelation comes in a recent ITBP letter to the Union home ministry in which it recommended the President’s gallantry medals, awarded on the eve of Independence Day, for 21 of its personnel, the sources said. The letter said these 21 had fought the Chinese at various patrolling points in May-June. The sources would not reveal how many clashes took place and on which dates. However, the ITBP received no gallantry medal on Friday. At least 290 of its personnel have already been awarded the director-general’s commendation rolls and insignia for incidents related to China. The ITBP also issued a public statement on Friday describing how its personnel had fought off advancing Chinese troops, but mentioned no dates. “ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear,” the statement said. “Even when the ITBP troops fought whole night, they received minimum casualties.... At places, they gave determined standoff about 17 to 20 hours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Neither scared, nor silent: An explosion of outrage ||If the Supreme Court decision to hold lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for two tweets was meant to have a chilling effect and scare people in general and lawyers in particular into silence, it drew the exact opposite response on Friday. The floodgates burst open. Within hours, the two tweets that had offended the court — one on the Chief Justice posing on a Harley-Davidson and the other on the role of the judiciary in the past six years — were dug out and re-posted by many not just in support of Bhushan but in a show of defiance. As in the protests against the citizenship law, it was not the political class but the ordinary citizen who took the lead in voicing outrage at a judgment that many saw as an attempt by the apex court of the land to place itself above scrutiny. Many of these ordinary citizens were lawyers who are well aware of the risks they run in confronting the Supreme Court, but as one of them put it: “This is an attack on all lawyers.” The irony of the verdict coming on the eve of Independence Day wasn’t lost on people either. Historian S. Irfan Habib tweeted: “…I don’t think even the British ever punished dissenting or even critical voices of lawyers, poets, writers and intellectuals this way.” Another historian, Ramachandra Guha, said: “Through this act, the Supreme Court has let itself down, and has let the Republic down too. A dark day for Indian democracy.” Salman Anees Soz, son of former Union minister Saifuddin Soz, brought up the Supreme Court’s recent decision to dismiss a case against his father’s year-long house arrest because the Centre said he was not in detention. “The Supreme Court of India finds a citizen’s criticism contemptible but remains silent when the government brazenly lies to it. As a citizen, I find this situation contemptible,” he tweeted. Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi waded in with a reminder: “When talking of contempt, can we forget that the criminal contempt case regarding Babri Masjid has been pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court for nearly 28 years?” Pune-based political scientist Suhas Palshikar said: “One may not agree with everything said in a tweet but that surely doesn’t deserve a 105-page essay resulting in a pronouncement of ‘guilty of contempt’.”But the BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya pulled out an old tweet of Bhushan’s where he had favoured contempt proceedings against a judge and gave the lawyer’s critics — he has many on both sides of the political divide — something to talk about. The general mood though could be summed up in two tweets. One simply posted an old Hindi film song: “Jo tumko ho pasand, wahi baat kahenge. Tum din ko agar raat kaho, raat kahenge. I will say only what you want to hear. If you say it is night when it is day, I will say it is night.” Another quoted Shakespeare: “And speak I will. I am no child, no babe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Bhushan guilty, iron hand needed: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday convicted advocate Prashant Bhushan of “criminal contempt”, terming two of his tweets on the judiciary “malicious”, “scurrilous” and scandalous and accusing him of an offence that needed dealing with “an iron hand”. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari will pronounce the sentence on August 20 after hearing Bhushan. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt is jail for six months or a fine or both. The minimum fine is Rs 1,000 but there is no upper limit. One of Bhushan’s tweets had been about Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on a Harley-Davidson motorbike and the other had alleged that democracy had been destroyed under the past four CJIs in the last six years “even without a formal Emergency”. The court said the tweets had eroded public confidence in the judiciary and could not be construed as coming under a citizen’s fundamental right to free speech and expression, guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. Justice Mishra, who authored the judgment, said: “He (Bhushan) has expressed his opinion that the Supreme Court has played a substantial role in allowing the destruction of democracy and further admitted that (a part of one of the tweets) is regarding the role of the last four Chief Justices in particular in allowing it.” The court said: “It is common knowledge that the emergency era has been considered as the blackest era in the history of Indian democracy. The impression which the said tweet tends to give to an ordinary citizen is that when the historians in future look back, the impression they will get is that in the last six years democracy has been destroyed in India without even a formal emergency and that the Supreme Court had a particular role in the said destruction and the last four Chief Justices of India had a more particular role in the said destruction.” The court noted: “There cannot be any manner of doubt that the said tweet is directed against the Supreme Court…. The top court added: “It is clear that the criticism is against the entire Supreme Court and the last four CJIs. The criticism is not against a particular judge but the institution of the Supreme Court and the institution of the Chief Justice of India….” The court said the tweet had reached “millions of people” and “such a huge extent of publication would also be one of the factors that requires to be taken into consideration while considering the question of good faith”. The court broke down Bhushan’s tweet about Justice Bobde on a Harley-Davidson bike into two parts and interpreted them separately. Referring to the part where Bhushan had written that the “CJI rides a (Rs) 50 lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without a mask or helmet”, the court observed: “This part of the tweet could be said to be a criticism made against the CJI as an individual and not against the CJI as CJI.” On the part where Bhushan had written that “at a time when he keeps the SC in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental rights to access justice”, the court said: “Undisputedly, the said part of the statement criticises the CJI in his capacity as the Chief Justice of India, i.e. the Administrative Head of the judiciary of the country. “The said tweet is capable of giving an impression to a layman that the CJI is enjoying his ride on a motorbike worth Rs 50 lakh belonging to a BJP leader at a time when he has kept the Supreme Court in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice.” The bench said the claim that the Supreme Court was in lockdown was “factually incorrect even to the knowledge of” Bhushan himself. The bench underlined that the court had not been functioning physically to avoid gatherings during the pandemic, but had been operating via videoconferencing. The court said its benches had sat 879 times online between March 23 and August 4 and heard 12,748 matters. “Making such wild allegation thereby giving an impression that the CJI is enjoying riding an expensive bike while he keeps the SC in lockdown mode and thereby denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice is undoubtedly false, malicious and scandalous,” the court said. The bench said the Indian judiciary is not only one of the pillars on which democracy stands but is the central pillar and bedrock of the rule of law. “An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand. The tweet has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of the Indian democracy,” it said. “The tweet clearly tends to give an impression that the Supreme Court, which is a highest constitutional court in the country, has in the last six years played a vital role in the destruction of the Indian democracy. There is no manner of doubt that the tweet tends to shake the public confidence in the institution of judiciary.” Justice Mishra said there was no doubt that the court was required to be magnanimous in the face of criticism. However, such magnanimity cannot be stretched to an extent that may amount to weakness in dealing with a malicious, scurrilous, calculated and damaging attack on the very foundation of the judiciary, he added. “If such an attack is not dealt with with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations. Fearless and impartial courts of justice are the bulwark of a healthy democracy and the confidence in them cannot be permitted to be impaired by malicious attacks upon them,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||What I have learned since last year||The Jamia Millia Islamia student who shielded a journalist from police lathis The India I have learnt through my textbooks is entirely different from the India that I am facing now. I always believed in the unity and diversity of India as a country. But the condition of the minorities is pathetic and it’s getting worse day by day. I am looking forward to an India in which everyone should be able to live by asserting their identity and believe in  an India which is inclusive of all different ideologies. Though I don’t have hope in this government I have hopes in the citizens of this country. She used the traditional kolam to protest against the CAA The main thing I learnt about the state is how vicious it can become.  The kind of harassment we faced only reminded us of what we are fighting for and against whom. Our futures are at stake, our values are on trial. I am confident we will win. But the only sad part is that our fight is no longer only with the government, it’s with the hate mindset of our societies. She wore an abaya and hijab and held a placard that read: “Mr Modi, I am Indulekha, identify me by my dress?” The secular foundations of India are currently under tremendous stress. Contemporary India, as many would argue, looks more saffron in its ideological makeup than at any other point since Independence. Let us hope for a future when the Chakra will lead our nation, and not the Saffron, White or Green. Creative producer who juggled her job and multiple protests in Mumbai, where she also distributed food and water I did not follow politics until 2014, and last December was the first time I took part in any public demonstration... I learnt that I liked being a part of a movement bigger than myself. I learnt that I could be passionate and driven. I just needed to find in life where to direct that passion and drive — and for a brief moment, that was directed towards the protests and the demand for  change…. We need to peacefully demand the kind of change that we deserve. Hailing from Bathinda, he volunteered at the langar at Shaheen Bagh I can’t say that things will get any better now. Look at Safoora Zargar (a pregnant student who spent more than two months in jail)… The people of India must think about whether this new nationalism the government is talking about will fill our stomachs or get us better education or hospitals.  All I know is that it is those who struggle that are remembered and not those who grow old in anonymity by not doing anything for the country. She was at the forefront of the women-led vigil against the citizenship thrust at Park Circus Maidan I learnt that I was seriously unaware about my country and my inner potential. I loved the discovery of the secular ethos of my country and my countrymen from the way they came out on the streets to protest against the CAA-NPR-NRC. It was sacred because they were on the streets for one of the basic rights — ‘right to life’. The rage, the logic and the confidence of the protesters also made me realise things about myself. I learned that I could be on the streets for days and can withstand the cold night without any roof. In the wake of the Covid-19 curbs, me and some like-minded people have been running a digital campaign against the CAA-NPR-NRC. We face non-stop trolling but the days of struggle on the streets have instilled courage in us. We are not scared. We know that we can give a tough competition to anyone in power because we, the people, are the real authority. The principal of Bishop’s College, Caleb was at many a rally Calcuttasaw against the new citizenship regime The past year has made me feel fearful of whether my rights as a person following a minority faith in this country will be respected. It has also been a year where one has watched with despair the growth of majoritarianism at the expense of true democracy and human rights (Kashmir comes immediately to mind). I feel we have gone backwards in many ways and it will only take a long and sustained struggle to recover the secular and democratic way of life that once we Indians enjoyed. Part of the anti-CAA protests in Chennai I have learnt to judge this country not by the actions of violent and hateful people, but by the vast majority that toils and gets by while maintaining their dignity against great odds. The government, I realise, has become a disaster that ordinary people have to confront and manage. I am certainly hopeful. India has survived much hate, and while there are many that would like to kill the idea of India with their hate, there are far more that live the idea of an inclusive India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Trust vote won, Gehlot blames Modi and Shah||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday laid the entire blame for the recent political instability in the state on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, stressing their dubious record while glossing over the rifts within the Congress that had triggered the crisis. Gehlot, who won the confidence motion by a voice vote in the Assembly after Opposition members desisted from demanding a division, contested BJP leaders’ allegation that the state had suffered for over a month amid the pandemic only because of intra-Congress feuding. Senior BJP leaders Gulab Chand Kataria, Satish Punia and Rajendra Rathore accused the chief minister of weaving a false narrative by blaming them and the central government for the turmoil. Gehlot, however, stuck to his tactic of attacking the BJP and minimising any reference to Sachin Pilot and his group of rebels, the compromise engineered by the high command having tied his hands. He asked the state BJP leaders to worry about the “two-man rule in the country” and warned them about their own fate if democracy failed to survive. The crisis was “a conspiracy by your high command”, he told Kataria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||NIA grills two Delhi University teachers||Two teachers of colleges under Delhi University were questioned by the National Investigation Agency on Friday in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence, days after the NIA acted against two other teachers of DU. While Prem Kumar Vijayan, who teaches English at Hindu College, and Rakesh Ranjan, who teaches economics at Shri Ram College of Commerce, were being questioned, groups of students and teachers condemned the “RSS-BJP regime’s increasing use of repressive laws and manipulation of investigation and judicial processes to eliminate critical thinking and democratic opposition”. Vijayan told The Telegraph that he was questioned from 3.30pm while Ranjan was quizzed from 11.30am. “They were civil and offered me food. They wanted to know my role in Bhima-Koregaon and the defence committee (on jailed professor G.N. Saibaba. I had no role in Koregaon. They asked me details of all social media and other accounts I have online. I was told that I could be called again,” Vijayan said. Earlier, the NIA had arrested DU teacher Hany Babu M.T. in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case and professor Apoorvanand Jha over the Delhi riots in February. Vijayan, Ranjan and Hany Babu are part of the Committee for the Defence and Release of G.N. Saibaba, a disabled former DU teacher serving a life sentence for links with Maoists. Several students and teachers of Hindu College have circulated a public plea demanding an immediate end to the use of state agencies to “harass our Professor P.K. Vijayan”, the release of all political prisoners “wrongfully arrested” in the Bhima-Koregaon case, the arrest of the known perpetrators of “anti-Dalit violence” and the repeal of all “draconian laws such as UAPA, NSA, AFSPA and sedition used to criminalise mass movements”. Students and alumni of SRCC are circulating a statement in solidarity with Ranjan: “Even the Indian State had to recognise his excellence when he was felicitated with the Distinguished Teacher Award in 2009. Only 7 teachers have been awarded this prestigious label in DU Economics by the President of India. We offer our full support to him. We are in complete opposition to this kind of legalised harassment in the garb of ‘investigation’. This is not what our professor deserves. This is not what our democracy deserves.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Why there is still a spring in the step||Hum laaye hain toofan se kashti nikaal ke Iss desh ko rakhna mere bachchon sambhal ke. We have brought the boat home through the storm, Treasure this country and keep it safe, my children. This Independence Day comes in the middle of a pandemic that has seen millions of Indians stripped of livelihood and dignity and forced into breadlines. The endless march of the poorest, often barefoot and hungry, carrying children and the elderly, away from the big cities was a spectacle that would shame and shiver anyone. Too many died on the way, 16 at one go, their rotis and chappals strewn by the railway tracks where their sundered bodies lay, cut to pieces by trains that would not ferry them. India had not experienced such heartbreak in the more than 70 years of her existence. This Independence Day comes also amid the sadness of witnessing the foundation of a temple being laid on the ruins of a mosque, brought down by a criminal act, in a country where the Constitution promises that all religions are equal. Thugs had demolished the mosque, the Supreme Court ruled that a temple would be built in its place and the Prime Minister played the master of ceremonies. This wasn’t the India we had set out to build in that midnight hour when we awoke to life and freedom as the world slept. Yet, amid the despair, there is a spring in the step of this Independence Day that had gone missing for some years as hate spread its tentacles. There is a glimmer of hope that will not be snuffed out. Not by the grim news from the economy, which gets grimmer by the day. Not by the fear of a ravenous China gobbling our land. Not by the friendless foreign policy hole that India seems to have dug itself into. Not by the lies told by the government. Not even by the sorry figure that our institutions and media continue to cut every day, crawling because they have no spine to stand up. “Iss desh ko rakhna mere bachchon sambhal ke,” the song exhorted. An appeal from the generation that won us August 15, 1947, to the generations after — keep India safe. It’s an appeal the children took to heart this year, stepping up to grasp the baton. The students rose in protest not against the lack of jobs and opportunities for themselves, although they have good reason to, with unemployment at a 45-year high. They came out for the idea of India that a new citizenship matrix — othering one religion — had threatened to destroy. They came out against hate. Abandoning fear of reprisal, they erupted in protest after spontaneous protest across the country. On December 19, four days after the girls and boys at Jamia were attacked for protesting against a discriminatory law, India answered to the call of “We the people. Hum Bharat ke Log”. Streets across cities filled up with people of all ages, classes, religions and every walk of life. “Hum kya Chahein?” Corporation Street in Calcutta asked. “Azadi,” August Kranti Maidan in Mumbai answered. “NRC se Azadi, CAA se Azadi, RSS se Azadi.” As these protests rippled across the country, in a corner of Delhi called Shaheen Bagh, Gandhi came alive. Civil disobedience and non-violence went from being phrases that we read in history books to a living demonstration in front of us. What unfolded is unlike anything most of us have seen before. The only parallel to this organic uprising of ordinary people from disparate backgrounds, from every religion, from every corner of the country and from all age groups — newborns in their mothers’ laps to a 94-year-old who had been at August Kranti Maidan on the date that gave the ground in Bombay its name, August 8, 1942 — would be the Independence movement. The peaceful protests, of which Shaheen Bagh became the unwavering symbol, were a celebration of India by the people of India. There were songs, speeches, poetry, art workshops and readings of the Constitution. If this is heartening, the very visible Muslim participation is uplifting, because they came as Indians and Muslims, not shy to wear the skullcap as they held aloft the Tricolour, taking on for the first time all those who had over the years told them to go to Pakistan. Religion has nothing to do with nationality. Yet, for years, one community had been asked repeatedly to prove its loyalty or leave the country. With the CAA and the NRC going beyond the taunts and emerging as a real threat to their Indian identity, a line was crossed and a dam burst. India’s Muslims, who had kept their grief on Babri Masjid to themselves, came out in ceaseless waves. “We are Indian by choice, not by chance,” one popular poster proudly proclaimed. It was this conspicuous presence that the Prime Minister tried to use to pit Indian against Indian when he said the protesters could be identified by their clothes. But Indulekha and countless other young women gave a resounding reply, donning the hijab although it wasn’t a garment that represented their faith. Hijab and bindi became a familiar combination at protests across cities. Carol singers, men and women, turned out in skullcaps and hijab to celebrate Christmas in a church. A group of Sikhs ran a langar for the protesters at Shaheen Bagh. People from all communities joined every day. Then the pandemic sprang upon us and cut short the protests. The police emerged from the shadows and clapped into jails many of those who had spoken up for their own rights and for the rights of others. The courts took their time. Yet this cannot wipe out the message from the kolam on the Chennai street to the skullcap: “You are not alone. I have your back.” Starting this past December, a generation that grew up in the post-Babri-demolition India led a fight for the all-inclusive India that Mahatma Gandhi had fought for, and fought in a manner that would have made him proud.  The visuals of girls of Jamia ferociously protecting a fellow student from police lathis, throwing a ring around him, will be an abiding image. Protests rise and they ebb. That is their nature. But they rise again. And again. As they did from 1857 to 1947. Those that are trying to impose their majoritarian writ upon the country today can use brute power as well as the British did, of this there is no doubt. But Jallianwala Bagh did not stop India’s march to freedom. Nor did the repeated imprisoning of the top leaders of the movement or the hangings of so many young freedom fighters. Last August, who would have thought that ordinary Indians would be out on the streets fighting hate? In these past years, when every effort had been made to diminish Gandhi, who would have thought that a generation that has grown up in an age of strident Hindutva would bring alive his life’s lessons in a renewed struggle for the same idea of India that was the kernel of the Independence movement? The Dandi March of 1930 is possibly the most electrifying campaign of that movement. Even Gandhi’s staunchest supporters had confessed to being bewildered when he conceived of it, wondering why he was choosing salt of all things to protest about. But talking about the 24-day march later, Jawaharlal Nehru was to say: “It seemed as though a spring had been suddenly released.” It lit the spark that culminated, several more movements, jail terms and 17 years later, in the day when Nehru would speak of India’s tryst with destiny. The salt tax law did not get repealed. But Independence did come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Forum slams Sikkim move on power project||The Affected Citizens of Teesta (ACT) has expressed “shock and disappointment” over the way the Sikkim government has sought to power NHPC’s proposed Teesta Stage IV project at Dzongu in North Sikkim by appointing an expert panel. The ACT noted that the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha had all along been opposed to the project to honour the sentiments of the local Lepcha people. Gyatso Lepcha, ACT secretary, said the appointment was even more shocking because the matter was sub-judice. “There is a writ petition pending before the honourable High Court of Sikkim challenging the social impact assessment on the power project. Despite the matter being sub-judice, it seems the government is hell-bent on doing the bidding of the NHPC,” he told The Telegraph on phone. Dzongu is considered to be the natural habitat and reserve of the Lepchas, who are acknowledged as the original inhabitants of the Himalayan state. The ACT is fundamentally opposed to the power project in the area, and has been at the forefront of the long-drawn protest campaign. Lepcha accused the SKM of going back on its words. “We hope and trust the government will not repeat the mistake of the previous government. The SKM had promised so much in terms of sustainable development of Sikkim, but surely this is not what it meant by sustainable development,” he said. He sought the help of all environmental organisations, civil society, universities, and others to save the last stretch of the Teesta river that has not been exploited for commercial purpose and, equally, the land which is indigenous to the Lepchas. The Lepchas as a community have been opposed to the project since the time it was conceptualised in the early years of the 21st century. Famously, in the latter part of the last decade, two Lepcha youths from Dzongu had sat on a hunger strike from June 22, 2007 to September 27, 2009 against the project. Officials in the power department pleaded ignorance on the issue of the appointment of the expert panel. Jacob Khaling, who is both the spokesman for the SKM and political secretary to chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay), did not take calls from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Web-series by students for virtual tour of campus||Students of Gargi Memorial Institute of Technology, which is a part of the JIS Group, have made a 30-episode web series to inform the admission aspirants more about the 10-year-old institute and the facilities offered on its Baruipur campus. The web-series, focusing on various aspects of campus life, was made so that aspiring students and their parents can get to know about the institute even without visiting it, said Bodhisattva Banerjee, vice-chairman of the private engineering institute. “The pandemic has restricted movement of people... So, the web series is part of an attempt to give a virtual tour of the campus,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Gautam Deb warns action over illegal structures at Bidhan Market ||An alleged attempt by some traders of Bidhan Market here to build new shops illegally has drawn criticism from state tourism minister Gautam Deb who has decided to take steps against them. Bidhan Market is the largest retail hub in the city with over 3,800 shops and several makeshift stalls. The land on which the market is situated is owned by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) and most traders do not have ownership claim on the plot. “I have come to know about some illegal constructions at the market. We will not allow encroachment of land and have asked the district magistrate of Darjeeling and the chief executive officer of the SJDA to remove all such constructions. The drive will be carried out after Independence Day and I will be present there,” the minister said here on Friday. “We have sympathy for the traders whose businesses have been affected during the pandemic. But that does not mean somebody will encroach on the land and set up unauthorised shops. We plan to revamp the entire market and the state has sanctioned Rs 50 crore for it in 2012. We are still sticking to the plan and no unlawful construction will be allowed at the market,” added Deb. While the minister sounded agitated over the alleged constructions, representatives of the traders’ association at the market have denied it. “No illegal structure has been built at the market. We always keep a close watch on the entire market area to prevent such practices,” said Bapi Saha, secretary, Bidhan Market Byabsayi Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre push for Bengal on to confer land rights Darjeeling hills residents||A senior official of the Union ministry of rural development has sent a letter to the principal secretary of the land and land reforms department of Bengal, asking him to take necessary steps for conferring land rights on people living in the Darjeeling hills. The letter was sent by G.L. Gupta, a joint director in the land resources department of the ministry. Land rights have been the longstanding demand of the hill residents. “As land is a state subject, the official has sent the letter to the principal secretary of the department concerned. He has sought appropriate action with regard to conferment of land ownership rights and also mentioned that the issue has been raised in the Parliament by Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, and the state government should send a reply to the MP on the issue,” said a source in the state government. In the Darjeeling hills and at some places in the foothills like Alipurduar, most of the residents, both urban and rural, do not have rights to their land. Time and again, the issue was raised by different political parties and political experts feel it would be raised again ahead of the Assembly polls next year. “As people in the Darjeeling hills and some areas of the Terai and the Dooars do not have the land rights, they are denied numerous facilities and schemes provided by state and central governments. It also leaves them vulnerable to eviction without compensation. That is why I had raised the issue in Parliament on July 18. It is high time that the state government takes necessary steps and resolve the issue,” said Bista. The move is seen as yet another attempt by the BJP to castle Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Govt ramps up Covid tests among women in Purulia||The district administration used Kanyashree Day on Friday to ramp up Covid-19 tests among women. The decision to have more Covid tests among women was taken after a survey revealed that the percentage of tests was far lower among women when compared to men. The district administration made a start on Friday by arranging for Covid tests for around 500 schoolgoing girls on the occasion of Kanyashree Day. Purulia has so far tested around 38,000 people and of them, 9,000 are women. However, the number of men who have tested positive for Covid stand at 1.35 per cent, while it is 1.05 per cent among women. On Friday, girls were called in small groups to the 20 Kanyashree Bhavan in the district and samples were collected for rapid antigen tests. Four girls were found positive during the rapid test and asked to be in home quarantine as they were asymptomatic. Officials said the number of girls found positive indicates there were many girls and women in rural areas who are living with Covid-19 but are yet to be tested. “We focused on the testing among women as they are the primary care givers in the families. If women are kept beyond the tests, it would be easier to spread the virus among the children and elderly persons. We have chalked out a plan to find out women with mild symptoms with help of these Kanyashree girls and do their tests. We would also do rapid tests among asymptomatic patients also,” said Rahul Majumdar, the Purulia district magistrate. Officials said Kanyashree girls were involved in campaigning against child marriage and various social stigmas in rural areas since the project was launched by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in 2012. “These Kanyashree girls can campaign at villages to increase awareness among women,” said an official. “It is crucial to get more women tested for Covid. Actually our goal is to find women with Covid-19 who remain untraced so far.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Independence Day tourist rush to Digha||Hoteliers in East Midnapore’s Digha and Mandarmani have a reason to smile after almost six months as tourists are back in decent numbers at the sea resorts to celebrate Independence Day. The outbreak of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown had taken their toll on the hospitality industry in the region. Hoteliers in East Midnapore feel Independence Day will kick off the flow of tourists to the region and the humble increase in footfall this weekend is giving them hope after a long lull. “About half of our hotels have stayed open since July in spite of having occupancy between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. That jumped to about 35 per cent this weekend. So, we are quite hopeful even though it’s a low number,” said a hotelier in Mandarmani. “We hope I-Day will set the stage for the rebound of tourist industry here. The virus is still a threat, but people seem to be getting used to living with it.” In Digha, hoteliers say almost all hotels that were open had received 50 per cent bookings for this weekend. In normal times, Independence Day usually contributes to a temporary 100 per cent hike in bookings on average. At the 108-key Sea Hawk hotel, 35 per cent rooms have been booked from Friday through Sunday. “Following the July 1 reopening, most hotels saw an unimpressive response. That is understandable because most tourists rely on trains to get here. But we are seeing people driving in because even they need a break from the virus,” said assistant manager of the hotel Debkumar Jana. In Mandarmani, where private vehicles are the mode of transport for most guests even in normal times, the 85-key hotel Sonar Bangla received 50 per cent bookings this weekend. “We are operating according to Covid protocol and are almost at full capacity. We hear smaller hotels are also receiving bookings, which is encouraging to hear. We desperately need it,” said manager Sirsendu Das. In Digha, hoteliers’ association joint secretary Dipra Das Chakraborty admitted that Digha did not have the advantage of private transport that a larger share of Mandarmani visitors had, but agreed “30 per cent occupancy was a blessing in such times”. “This is encouraging for our region’s economy and extremely vital,” said Digha-Sankarpur development authority vice-chairman Akhil Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||3,035 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged highest number of daily Covid-19 cases and tests at 3,035 and 31,317, respectively, as the total tally of patients went past 1.1 lakh, of whom over 81,000 had recovered and 2,319 died. Prior to this, the most number of cases were 2,997 recorded on Thursday. The previous figure of maximum tests had been 30,032, which were also reported on Thursday. The state also logged 2,572 recoveries and 60 deaths in a 24-hour period ending at 9am on Friday. Of the 3,035 new cases, 615 were reported from Calcutta and 606 from North 24-Parganas. But Calcutta and North 24-Parganas recorded recoveries at 635 and 546, respectively. Hence, total number of active cases fell again in the two districts. According to sources , the two most high-incidence districts have been showing signs of a turnaround because of a slew of measures to contain the outbreak. “On Sunday, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases, North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,557, while North 24-Parganas has 5,471. There has been a remarkable progress over the past five days. But these are still early signs,” said a Bengal minister. “The share of these two districts in the total active cases fell from 48.58 per cent to 44.79 in just five days. The recovery rate of these two districts put together has gone up from 70.58 to 75.06 per cent in the five days,” he added. Bengal’s recovery rate on Friday soared to 73.57, ahead of the national rate of 71.36 per cent. With substantial ramp-up in tests, the state nearly trebled its daily testing in a month from 11,388 to 31,317. The tests per million count was almost doubled from 7,221 to 13,870. The total test count has risen from 6.5 lakh to 12.48 lakh in a month. “Now, we are looking at the goal of 40,000 in daily testing,” said the minister. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.84 per cent, which was 5.3 a month ago. Of the total 2,319 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,036, with 21 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 540 deaths, 16 of them on Friday. The state government reported 2,057 deaths (88.7 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. In a month, there were deaths of 1,319 Covid-19 patients, of whom 1,242 had co-morbidity, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 2.1, still behind the national rate of 1.95 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.33. Of 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 84 dedicated hospitals, 35.58 per cent were occupied on Friday. Besides, 16.2 per cent of 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes were occupied. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 70,000, including 3,928, in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Internal security advisor probes BSF trouble near Bangladesh border||Rina Mitra, the principal advisor on internal security in Bengal, visited a village near the Bangladesh border in the Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district on Friday and spoke to residents to address their concerns following the death of a youth in BSF firing. During her visit to the Madhya Balabhut village, the retired IPS officer was accompanied by a clutch of senior civil and police officials. On August 9, Shahinur Haque, a 19-year-old youth, had died after a team of the Border Security Force (BSF) had opened fire at the village. A group of cattle smugglers had attacked the BSF team which made them fire gunshots, the BSF later said. The incident sparked protests against the BSF’s alleged highhandedness, following which minister Rabindranath Ghosh sought the chief minister’s intervention. Mitra spoke to the villagers and BSF officials. Before heading for the village, she had also held a meeting at the circuit house here, said sources. “The principal advisor collected all relevant information during her visit. She has also assured us that the matter will be looked into. We have told her how a section of the BSF personnel pose problems for residents,” said Ghosh. Political observers said Mitra had been sent to the village by the state to win the confidence of the people dwelling near the India-Bangladesh border. “Before Parliament elections last year, allegations had been levelled against some BSF personnel that they were trying to influence people to support the BJP in Cooch Behar. Now it seems Trinamul wants to send a message to the villagers,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Political rivals march together for school fee waiver in Durgapur||Leaders of the BJP, Trinamul Congress, CPM and the Congress walked together here on Friday in a rare show of solidarity with the Durgapur School Guardians’ Welfare Society demanding waiver of school fees. BJP West Burdwan district president Lakshman Ghorui, Trinamul leader and MLA Biswanath Padial, CPM MLA Santosh Deb Roy and Congress leader Debesh Chakraborty, along with activists of the four parties, walked in the silent march to submit a deputation to the subdivisional officer of Durgapur Anirban Koley around 12pm on Friday. However, none of the leaders, other than those of the CPM and the Congress, were seen interacting with each other. As photographers trained their cameras at the rally, Padial stepped behind the row of leaders to avoid being caught in the same frame with arch rivals. None of them also agreed to comment on the unusual show the town saw on Friday and said they had extended their support to the guardians as their protest was “justified”. “We have been supporting the guardians since they began their movement as their demand is justified. It is not a political platform or a political issue. It is a matter of humanity,” said Padial. He said it didn’t matter to him if other political parties extended their support or walked in the rally. The CPM and the Congress leaders also held similar views. “We have been with the guardians since the beginning. It will be wrong to drag politics into this. We are part of the movement because we feel the demand of the guardians is genuine,” CPM MLA Deb Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Birbhum police start probe into blast at Dubrajpur police station||Birbhum police have started a probe into a blast that injured a visitor inside the Dubrajpur police station on August 10. Police sources said the injured had been admitted to a private hospital and was undergoing treatment. Senior police officers said the explosion had taken place on August 10 morning, but they came to know about it late as it had not been reported immediately. “We came to know about an explosion inside the Dubrajpur police station. We are investigating the case to find out what actually happened there,” said Shyam Singh, district police chief. The sources said the explosion had taken place inside an almirah at the officers’ room. “We don’t keep any explosive in almirah and all seized items are stored at malkhana. We suspect a battery or condenser of a ceiling fan exploded,” said a police officer in Dubrajpur. The sources claimed it was an old building and the electrical wiring was also old.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Erosion leads to evacuation near Samserganj||An 800m stretch of the Ganga’s right bank here eroded early on Friday morning, forcing at least 10 families to vacate their homes and dismantle the houses from which bricks and fixtures were salvaged. An outpost of the Border Security Force’s 76th battalion outpost was also washed away, leaving a jawan missing for over half-an-hour. Residents of Samserganj’s Dhanghora were awaken around 1am on Friday to thrashing sounds and a cry of help from an adult male voice. “We heard a scream of ‘save me’ from near the zero point. A group of us responded but were initially hesitant because civilians are not allowed there,” said villager Barjahan Sheikh. “But soon, we realised the gravity of the situation and launched a search. We located the jawan half-an-hour later. Luckily, he knew swimming and could come out of the current,” Barjahan added. Residents of Dhanghora said the makeshift bamboo outpost with a 5ft height was usually manned by two jawans atop and two resting below during the night shift. Early on Friday, one of the resting jawans was washed away by the flood water that claimed a large stretch of the river bank. On Friday morning, at least 10 families, whose homes were within 150-200m of the damage, voluntarily demolished their homes, removed fixtures and moved out of the area with their belongings. Sources said at least 20 moored fishing boats carrying nets and other equipment had also been lost in the sudden erosion. “I lost all equipment for my livelihood. I docked around 8pm as usual last night and returned home. But it was a different scene this morning and all the boats were missing,” said fisherman Prabhash Halder. Samserganj block development officer Joyjit Chakraborty said engineers had been dispatched to the site on Friday morning and were surveying the area. “I will request the irrigation department to put in place safety measures in the area in order to prevent future erosion. I will survey the area on Friday evening,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||HC grants bail to journalist arrested for telecasting alleged TMC corruption||Calcutta High Court on Friday granted bail to a journalist, who had been arrested from his residence at Arambagh in Hooghly after telecasting news items on alleged corruption by Trinamul Congress leaders. State authorities, however, claimed that journalist Safiqul Islam had demanded money from a realtor and threatened to telecast news against him if the payment was not made. A division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Aniruddha Roy granted bail to Islam, who runs a web channel. The court also granted bail to the cameraman of the news portal, Suraj Ali Khan. Justice Jaymalya Bagchi had last week expressed concern over the alleged over-action of police and asked the director general of police to file a detailed report in three months on the arrests of the journalist, his wife and the cameraman. The wife had already been granted bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||State bid to speed up road work in north Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has taken up the responsibility of removing the hurdles the National Highways Authority of India has been facing in executing a major road project stuck for over 20 years in north Bengal. Nabanna has become proactive, sources said, because it realised the strategic importance of the road in the wake of changes in the Indo-China relationship in recent months. The project is the Bengal stretch of the East West Corridor — a 3,300km highway that would connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar of Assam. The principal deterrent has been the issue of land. While at some places, people are reluctant to part with their land, there are also some stretches where people who had earlier allowed acquisition of their land are demanding more compensation now. “It is difficult for NHAI to handle such a situation,” said a source. The chief minister, sources said, has passed a clear instruction to Gautam Deb, the state tourism minister, to take the initiative and help the NHAI so that they can finish the project. Multiple sources said the state government had become proactive because of the strategic importance of the road, particularly after the recent activities of the Chinese troops near the border, whether in Dokalam or in Ladakh. “Time and again, the need to have a four-lane highway to Northeast has been emphasised at different levels. It is for the same reason that the need to build bridges over rivers like the Teesta and doubling of railway tracks was raised,” said a retired army officer in Siliguri. However, though a new bridge has opened over the Teesta and the doubling of railway tracks is in progress, there are several stretches in north Bengal along the alignment of the corridor which are yet to be widened into a four-lane road. Deb confirmed that he had held a meeting with NHAI officials on Thursday where he took stock of the situation. “The project has finished in most of the stretches but it is yet to complete between Ghoshpukur and Salsalabari, which is a 153km-long.  There are certain land issues at places like Dhupguri (in Jalpaiguri district) and in two blocks of Alipurduar district which we have planned to sort out at the earliest so that work can be finished,” Deb said. Ghoshpukur is on NH31 and NH 27 (as the corridor has been named) and is on the outskirts of Siliguri ,while Salsalabari is near the Bengal-Assam border in Alipurduar. In north Bengal, the corridor that enters from Bihar and heads for Assam, moves over a stretch of 270km, of which over half has been four-laned so far. He also mentioned that work on a 10km-road that would bypass the Islampur town is in progress and would be operational by the end of this year. Islampur, a town in North Dinajpur district, is close to the Chicken’s Neck, that is, the stretch between the district and its neighbouring Darjeeling district where the width of India is slimmest, with Nepal in north and Bangladesh in the south. In recent months, this is the first time that the state has made a move to help NHAI, a central agency. “The chief minister has instructed me to work on the issue. The NHAI has also agreed to build service roads in some areas as was demanded by local people,” said Deb. A former bureaucrat of the state has welcomed the initiative. “It is good that the state government has realised the importance of the highway. Along with strategic issues, a four-lane highway moving through north Bengal will also expedite movement of goods and passenger traffic in the region,” he said. NHAI officials, when asked about the project’s status, said it would take some more years to finish it. “We are preparing a detailed project report of the Dhupguri-Falakata stretch and work has started between Falakata and Salsalabari. The work is also in progress in some other areas of the route. Altogether, we feel it would take another three to four years for us to finish the project,” said Sanjeev Sharma, a project director of NHAI posted in Siliguri. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||North East||Nagaland to host eclectic I-Day digital  concert||The Nagaland government’s musical arm, Task Force for Music and Arts (TaFMA), has decided to beat the Covid-19 blues with a live digital Independence Day celebration. The leading acts for Saturday’s concert, Indie-Pendence Rock, include the five-member Korean pop group MY.st. Through this, it intends to spread positivity and honour frontline corona warriors and independent artistes. TaFMA adviser Theja Meru told The Telegraph,  “This event on Facebook @tafmanagaland from 7pm on Saturday will highlight an interesting collection of artistes such as MY.st from South Korea and Uday Benegal (Indus Creed) from Mumbai.” The other performers of the evening include The Snake Charmer Archy Jay from Delhi, Vasu Dixit (Swarathma) from Bangalore and artistes from Nagaland such as ANTB (Alobo Naga and the band), Mar Jamir from Polar Lights and Koko, an upcoming singer. The concert is part of the government’s efforts to promote music as an industry. Since 2004 through TaFMA because of the huge talent pool the state. TaFMA has tied up with the A.R. Rahman Foundation, which is grooming 20 young musicians, and Russia’s V-Rox Festival to explore avenues and platforms for the exchange of music, art, and culture between the two countries. Trying to put things in perspective, Abu Metha, the adviser to chief minister, Neiphiu Rio, said the government strongly feels that the youth of the state and the Northeast have the “potential to write a new narrative” as far as our “soft power” is concerned, especially in music, arts, entertainment and the digital space. He said the official Independence Day celebrations will be digital, like the government-sponsored indie-rock event, to send out the message of national integration, promote art and music and also create platforms for talented youths during these challenging times. “Nagaland and the rest of the Northeast have a huge talent pool among its youth. Events like these give them the opportunity to shine and create a better appreciation of our country and its people to the global community. Our government is trying to facilitate this process,” Metha said. The idea for the online event, Meru said, came from the challenges faced by indie artistes due to the pandemic. “Since they (artistes) were going through a difficult time due to cancellation of many live shows, we wanted to do something for them, so we coined the Indie-Pendence Rock, and thought there is no better day to honour them than on a day like Independence Day,” Meru said. There are plans to turn it into a calendar event like the popular Hornbill Festival held in December, he added. The government feels tourism and music will have a big role to play in the state’s development. The Covid pandemic is helping it explore new avenues to engage with stakeholders. “Every crisis gives rise to new opportunities and with innovation and an out-of-the-box approach, we can convert crises into opportunities,” Metha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
15-08-2020||Opinion||Into the dark: A majoritarian India||Sir — As India celebrates another year of independence today, it must be asked whether our founding fathers had envisioned the kind of future for the nation’s citizens that the latter are living out now. Not only is India now ruled by an administration that is failing miserably to tackle a pandemic, but it is also witnessing growing majoritarianism and violence against women, Dalits and other minority communities. ‘New India’ is not the country that our freedom fighters had envisioned; is it too late for those of us who value the ideals of our Constitution to turn the tide?Vishakha Saraf,Calcutta Money games Sir — The report, “How insured patients are left uncovered” (Aug 14), was painful to read. In recent weeks, Covid-19 patients at multiple hospitals in Calcutta have been reported to be running up bills in the range of Rs 15-20 lakh, leaving their families drained of all their resources. The patients’ families have often pointed to the lack of transparency in the billing system and alleged that they were kept in the dark about the escalating cost of treatment. Even various doctors’ bodies have come down heavily on private hospitals for overcharging the patients. In response to a number of complaints of this nature, the Bengal government sent an advisory to hospitals stating that they cannot demand more than 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment or Rs 50,000, whichever is lesser at the time of admission. In spite of the guidelines, this week a patient was asked by a city hospital to deposit for Rs 3,00,000 as an advance payment. Being unable to do so, she died in an ambulance while waiting for treatment. Popular doctors’ bills were reported to have been reduced only after health regulators intervened. These heartless hospital administrations even ask for advance payment from patients covered by cashless insurance, which is in violation of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority’s guidelines. Given the current scenario, in which everyone is stressed out and many are under financial strain, private hospitals must follow the government’s guidelines, including taking consent letters from the family members of a patient in case a costly test is to be repeated. The hospitals should share the details of the bills with the patient’s kin on a daily basis — through WhatsApp, SMS or email — so that the final bill does not come as a shock to them. They should also hold video-conferences with the family, advising them on the course of treatment and the financial implications. There will be several instances of patients and their families approaching hospitals saying that they are unable to pay more than a certain amount. Hospital authorities should consider such proposals on humanitarian grounds and offer concessions in deserving cases.Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — It is a matter of great shame that patients afflicted with the coronavirus now also have to worry about going bankrupt in order to get the treatment required to get better. Reports about how hospital administrations are overcharging patients should make us hang our heads in shame; is this the manner in which citizens are to be treated in the middle of an unprecedented crisis such as the Covid-19 pandemic? How are ordinary people supposed to bear the costs of treatment when they are expected to pay out of their own pockets for items such as personal protective gear kits, face masks, gloves and hand sanitizers, none of which are covered by the insurance agencies?Malini Kamat,Calcutta Sir — It is appalling to note the manner in which ordinary people are having to run from pillar to post just to get their loved ones treated for Covid-19. The cost of treatment is proving to be far too much for a vast section of the population at a time when such medical care should be readily accessible to all. While it is true that hospitals are under immense pressure given the rising number of cases, it is their responsibility, and that of the government, to ensure that no patient has to die for the inability to pay. Jonaki Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
15-08-2020||Opinion||Borderline case: Claiming The Buddha||When a hold-all subject called geography, packed with fold mountains and sedimentary rocks, trade winds and cold currents, and the earth spinning on its tilted axis with all its climatic regions, rivers, forests, countries and cities, is inflicted on schoolchildren, they are seldom told that geography can also be history. The history need not be of the geological kind alone, or of the gradually rising Himalaya mountains and changing course of rivers, but also of shifting national borders and constantly updated maps. In this potent brew of geography and history, the past can come to haunt the present as much as the present tries to reclaim the past. Yet national pride runs along present borders; they mark a psychological and cultural domain that resents encroachment. That is how Nepal reacted to the remark of the Indian minister for external affairs, S. Jaishankar, that the two great Indians he could think of were Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi. The remark was perceived as part of the cultural oppression that the prime minister of Nepal, K.P. Sharma Oli, has been complaining of, while identifying Ram’s birthplace in Nepal. That had not gone down too well. However that may be, national pride in the appropriation of early religious, historical, mythical and cultural greats ignores issues such as the absence of nations and hence their borders at the times, real or speculative, referred to. The Indian ministry of foreign affairs hastened to clarify that Mr Jaishankar was referring to Nepal and India’s shared tradition of Buddhism; there was no doubt that Lumbini, where the prince, Siddhartha, was born, is in Nepal. In 2014, before relations between India and Nepal started to grow frosty, as it did in 2015, the Indian prime minister had referred to Nepal as the birthplace of the apostle of peace. A bit ironic now, as the two neighbours have grown somewhat abrasive since. Arguments about the exact location of the origins of Buddhism — why else would the Buddha’s birthplace matter apart from being a destination for believers and tourists? — could reach absurd proportions. Were the Buddha’s teachings curled up in his brain when he was born, or did they develop as he saw the ‘four sights’ outside the palace in Kapilavastu, or are they distilled from his enlightenment in Bodh Gaya? The debate can go on forever. But there is a much bigger question here. Why this need to patent a figure from the past with a geographical indicator, like Bordeaux wine, when the subject for discussion is Nepal’s unilateral decision to change its map to claim areas that India believes to be its own? That is no less a mixture of geography and history than the Buddha issue. Competing claims to national pride through a mendicant prince for whom there were no borders seem a little silly when the concern is a real-life map. After all, his greatness lay in not belonging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
15-08-2020||Opinion||Fitter ways: Workout solutions during Covid-19||With gymnasiums and fitness centres operating at limited capacity on account of social distancing guidelines, companies are trying to use creative methods to get people moving. According to the market research firm, OnePoll, 25 per cent of Americans plan to never go back to the gym. Moreover, the gym chains, Gold’s Gym and 24 Hour Fitness, were unable to keep up with the closures and filed for bankruptcy. As a result, digital exercise and at-home workout videos have popped up everywhere. Dumb-bells and Peloton bikes (which cost two grand) are also selling out online. This month, the spinning company, BYKlyn Cycle, is opening BYKlyn Yard, a pop-up outdoor studio complete with fake grass. Each class will be 45 minutes of high intensity cardio: battle hills, flats, sprints and intervals. The 18 bikes will be spread at least six feet apart at the pop-up, with masks available for all riders and staff. In Chicago, the fitness company, Studio Three, is taking over and repurposing a vacant parking lot in River North. It is a socially distanced workout space that can hold up to 50 people and offers services from relaxing meditation to intense strength training. The NFL team players have also resorted to creative measures to get their workout in. For instance, Matthew Slater from the New England Patriots mentioned in an interview that he realized he had workout weights right at home — his three children! So far the NFL season is on track to kick off next month in Kansas City. Cover up While the federal government of the United States of America is faltering in dealing with the coronavirus, the beloved food chain brands of the country have stepped up to do their part to help stop the spread. While there is no national mandate to wear a mask, companies such as Starbucks, Panera Bread, Chipotle and McDonald’s made it a requirement for customers entering their stores to wear a mask. Wearing a mask has become a matter of national political debate in the US. Anti-maskers believe that masks inhibit their breathing and a mandate to wear masks encroaches upon their freedom. This brings to mind the seat belt mandate that got passed after many years of legislative debates. The views opposing seat belts and masks are eerily similar — both claiming they have more negative effects than positive. Seat belts were also viewed as an obstruction to personal freedom. Since the lockdown and more than half of all states putting in place mandatory mask requirements, videos of mask-free supermarket customers flailing their arms have gone viral on the internet. One faction of anti-maskers commonly believe that while private companies can put in place mask regulations, the government should not. The digital media company, Vox, reported that members of a Facebook group circulated a list of stores with mask requirements, discussing boycotting those retailers or visiting to try to challenge the rules. People who oppose masks do so by citing the 14th Amendment of the US Constitution. “No states are allowed to make laws that take our freedoms and liberties away.”Great shock Shockwaves spread among moviegoers as Disney officially announced that it would not be releasing the heavily-anticipated movie, Mulan, in theatres. Instead, it will be released on Disney’s streaming platform, Disney+, which is available in the US. But it will not be available to all subscribers. One will have to pay $29.99 to watch the film at home by rental (on top of the $6.99 monthly subscription charge). Disney is conducting this experiment to see how much viewers are willing to dole out and forgo the movie-going experience. It also indicates how much Disney is relying on Disney+ for revenue at a time when its theme park and retail stores have suffered a blow on account of Covid-19. Disney spent $200 million in production and $100 million on marketing for Mulan. In early March, Disney had the red carpet rolled out in Los Angeles to launch its big theatrical release. Three days after the premiere, the pandemic caused the release to be shelved. Industry experts are speculating whether this move will prove the ‘video on demand’ model viable and put an end to the brick-and-mortar theatre industry. When movies are released at the box office, the revenue is shared between the movie theatre and the production house. But with a digital release on its own platform, Disney keeps it all.Momentous occasion In August, we not only celebrate India’s independence but also Indian culture and heritage in the US, although this time all the fun and festivities will be virtual. In Pennsylvania, the Lehigh Valley India Heritage Day was shifted online. The programme will open with a welcome note by the mayor of Allentown and remarks by US representative, Susan Wild. Both the Indian national anthem and the US national anthem will be performed. In New York City, to celebrate India’s Independence Day, Times Square will hoist the Indian flag (for the first time ever) while the Empire State Building will be lit up with the colours of the flag the day before. This has been organized by the Federation of Indian Associations of the tri-state regions of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The guest of honour at the event will be the consul general of India in New York, Randhir Jaiswal. The India Day Parade in Manhattan takes place every year with leading US politicians, Indian celebrities and members of the Indian-American community in attendance. However, owing to the pandemic, the parade has been cancelled this year and the virtual Independence Day celebration at Times Square will be live streamed.FOOTNOTE Mount Rushmore in South Dakota has the carved faces of four US presidents. Last week there was immense speculation that Donald Trump had asked for his face to be carved there too. While the president denies this, he did tweet saying he thinks it would be a good idea. The South Dakota governor, Kristi Noem, had reportedly greeted Trump on his recent visit to the state with a 1.2 metre replica of the monument that already included his face as a fifth part.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
15-08-2020||Opinion||Two anniversaries||On the 15th of August 2007 — the sixtieth anniversary of Indian Independence — I published an article in the Hindustan Times about how our country was doing. At that stage, there was much talk about India being an emerging superpower. China had already made its mark on the international stage; and it was apparently now our turn. The 21st century was to be an Asian Century, where the rest of the world would watch with wonder and admiration while China and India dominated the spheres of economics and politics much as the United States of America had in the 20th century and Great Britain had in the 19th century. These exultant anticipations of our imminent global greatness had two principal sets of cheerleaders: entrepreneurs in Mumbai and Bangalore and editors in New Delhi. The previous year, these groups had pooled their energies into hosting a splendid show at the World Economic Forum in Davos which boasted of India being the “World’s Fastest Growing Democracy”. The last word of this tagline was a sly dig at China; it signalled to American and European firms that their employees would find India a much more congenial place to live and work in while, at the same time, getting a handsome return on their investment as well. Entrepreneurs are by temperament optimistic, even utopian. On the other hand, historians are by temperament sceptical, even cynical. Drawing on this professional DNA, my article in the Hindustan Times on 15th August 2007 argued that our ambitions to dominate the world were unrealistic. There remained deep fault lines of caste, class and religion; our institutions were not quite as robust as the framers of the Constitution had imagined them to be, while widespread environmental degradation posed serious questions about the sustainability of economic development. The tale being told at Davos and beyond did not really reflect these realities on the ground. Our country was not, I concluded, about to become a superpower; rather, India “would muddle along in the middle, as it always had”. I knew that my entrepreneur friends would find my assessment dismayingly pessimistic. They did, at the time; but looking back at what I wrote thirteen years ago to the day, it seems I was, in fact, excessively optimistic. In the years prior to the 60th anniversary of Indian Independence, the economy was growing at a robust 8 per cent per annum. Before the pandemic began, it had already plummeted to 4 per cent per annum; and now it shall be resoundingly in the negative. Whatever the truth of the claim made in 2006 and 2007, for some years now we have not been the ‘world’s fastest growing democracy’. Moreover, the last word in that tagline also looks increasingly suspect now. Our economy no longer grows fast; and one cannot really describe India as a functioning democracy any more. I have in earlier columns described the systematic capture of public institutions by the party in power. Our civil service, our investigative agencies, the army, the Reserve Bank of India, the Election Commission, even to some extent the judiciary, are increasingly seen as partisan, acting on orders from the politicians who control them. The secretive electoral bonds have further vitiated the integrity of the democratic process; as have the buying and selling of legislators in different state assemblies. Meanwhile, large sections of the media have capitulated to Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party; the small part that remains brave and independent-minded is subject to intense harassment by the State. I once poked fun at those who, back in 2007, spoke grandly of India’s superpower ambitions. Truth be told, at the time I was a cheerleader for India itself. Not for its economy, but for other things. I had praised India’s democracy, cautiously; and its cultural and religious pluralism, exuberantly. That India then had a Sikh prime minister who had been sworn in by a Muslim president, that our currency notes carried their denomination in seventeen different languages, indeed seventeen different scripts — all this seemed to me an emphatic vindication of the ideals of the founders of the Republic. In retrospect, the electoral defeat of the BJP in 2004 and then again in 2009 made liberals like myself complacent about the future of Hindutva. For despite those defeats, Hindutva had not diminished either as a political force or as a powerful, and powerfully malign, idea. Powered by the charismatic personality of Modi, the BJP won a majority in the elections of 2014. Modi’s first term as prime minister will be chiefly remembered for the disastrous experiment with demonetization that set back the Indian economy by many years. The first year of his second term as prime minister will be remembered for the abolition of Article 370 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which together delivered a body blow to Indian pluralism. What other havoc Modi and his government may cause to our economy and our society in the years to follow remains to be seen. Back in August 2007, it was premature perhaps to speak of India as an emerging superpower. But there was nonetheless an ‘India Story’ of sorts; of a large, complex, heterogeneous territory that had somehow made itself into a single, unified nation-state; of a patriarchal and not-very-literate society that had somehow managed to successfully organize many iterations of the largest exercise of the democratic franchise in the history of the world; of a land scarred for centuries by famine and deprivation that had lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty while forging ahead in cutting-edge sectors such as information technology and biotechnology. Back in August 2007, crude boosterism and anticipations of global greatness were unwarranted; but a quiet, understated pride in our not insubstantial achievements since Independence perhaps was not. Now, in August 2020, there is no ‘India Story’ of any sort any more. Even before Covid-19 hit our shores, our economy was in a shambles. Our democracy was widely seen as corrupt and corroded. Our minorities were frightened and insecure. Even the entrepreneurs I know, who were once so hopeful and optimistic, were pervaded by a sense of doom and gloom. And now the pandemic has come along to further intensify our economic woes, our social cleavages, and our democratic deficits. It will take years to set the economy back on track; and whether the institutional fabric of our democracy and the pluralistic ethos of our society can ever recover from the damage done to them since 2014 is an open question. It is for future historians to fully and authoritatively document how our slide as a nation began, and to critically assess which individuals and institutions were responsible, and in what ways, for this decline. My own view is that the seeds of our fall were sown during the second term of Manmohan Singh, although the real damage has been done since Modi became prime minister. But what is not in dispute is this. On the sixtieth anniversary of Indian Independence, 15th August 2007, one could at least debate whether our country was a superpower in the making. Now, thirteen years later, such a debate would be farcical in the extreme. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hometown Ranchi, like others, caught off-guard||Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s sudden announcement that he as retiring from international cricket, although true to his character of spinning surprises, caught everyone off-guard in his hometown of Ranchi. Chief minister saluted the 39-year-old cricketer who led Team India to stellar heights, on twitter within minutes and appealed to BCCI to hold an exhibition match with Dhoni in Ranchi so that his fans in Jharkhand could watch him live, in person, for one last time. “He made Jharkhand proud with his contribution to the game, and gave his fans lots to cheer. He won’t be able to don blue jersey again, but I appeal to BCCI to hold one farewell match in Ranchi so that everyone can see him play in Team India jersey one last time,” Hemant tweeted. Chanchal Bhattacharjee, one of Dhoni’s childhood coaches and a veteran sports journalist said the news of his retirement was a bolt from the blue. “Not that we hadn’t anticipated his retirement, but the way he decided and made the announcement gave one goose bumps. Even at this age, his reflexes are very sound and in shape,” he said. “I had an inkling that he may call it a day the day after the T20 World Cup. Only yesterday, he left Ranchi to return to the 22 yards after a gap of about a year, fully confident. He even training hard. Today, he took the world by surprise,” Bhattacharya said. Adil Hussain, Dhoni’s former captain at Central Coalfields between 1998 and  2003, maintained that the uncertainty over the T20 World Cup, due to the coronavirus pandemic, may have forced him to call it a day. “No one ever gets to know what goes on in his mind. All through his career in Team India, his unconventional decisions made him the leader he became,” he said. In a glittering career spanning around 15 years since his debut in 2004, Dhoni spent most of the years leading India in all three formats of the game and became the only captain in history to win all ICC trophies. Under his captaincy, India won the 2007 ICC World Twenty20, 2016 Asia Cups, the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup and the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy. Bhattacharjee recalled that Dhoni’s explosive 148 vs Pakistan in Vishakapatnam, months after his debut in 2005, will by far remain the most cherished innings for him. “I think I would want to watch that innings again and again because this was the game where Dhoni was born as a star after failures in around four earlier innings,” said the coach. Hussain, however, rates Dhoni’s match-winning knock of 183 against Sri Lanka in the 2011 World Cup final as his standout innings. “Dhoni didn’t score much in the entire World Cup… but in the final, to promote himself up the order against in-form batsmen requires lots of guts and confidence. But he gambled, took the risk, and the rest is history,” said Hussain. Simat Lohani, Dhoni’s childhood friend and a close confidant, remarked, “India’s Kohinoor will no more glitter on the 22 yards. Throughout his tenure, he gave the entire nation, immense joy to watch the game.” Dhoni’s IPL franchisee Chennai Super Kings tweeted, “Truly bolt from the blue! Nandri (Thank You) very much #Thala (head of the gang) and #ChinnaThala! #WhistlePodu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid claims well-known doctor in steel city||As Covid-19 continued to spread in the steel city, the deadly virus claimed the life of a doctor, leaving the medical fraternity in shock. Dr MM Agrawal, a government doctor and resident of Golmuri died of Covid at the Tata Main Hospital on Friday night, along with eight others, including a 16-year-old boy, who died at the Covid ward in MGM Medical College Hospital. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon RN Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online said the nine were the highest number of deaths to have taken place on a single day in the district so far. 163 new cases were also detected, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the district to 3,541. "All those who are dying are coming with complaints of high fever and breathlessness. A majority of them had comorbidity.  We are doing our best to save the patients.  Moreover, a greater number of people are returning home having recovered from the disease. On Friday, 196 people returned home after recovering," Dr Jha said. While the number of Covid patients continues to grow significantly in the city, the district health department are making several patients stay at home despite testing coronavirus positive. One of them, a 45-year-old man and resident Sankosai in Mango said, "I tested positive after I consulted the district health department on Wednesday.  Prior to going to the health department, I was running a mild fever for the past four days. But even after I was tested positive, the health department officials asked me to remain in home quarantine and my house has also been sealed. Though two days have passed since then, there is no improvement in my condition.  The fever ensues.” District surveillance officer, Dr AK Lal said they are asymptomatic patients are being asked to stay at home in isolation. "Besides being asymptomatic, the patient must prove that he or she has sufficient space in one's house where the patient concerned can stay in isolation.  Such patients who are allowed to stay at home have to get connected to the Arogya Shetu App so that we may monitor his or her condition and provide the treatment accordingly," said Lal while talking to The Telegraph Online. Coronavirus has spread to almost all localities in the steel city, including in the posh Circuit House area in Bistupur. Similarly, those who are dying also come from all sections of people, including traders, doctors and students. Meanwhile, Dr Mrityunjay Singh, president, Jamshedpur unit of the Indian Medical Association said they lost a very good member. "Dr Agrawal was not only an amicable person, he was also the former treasurer of the association," said Dr Singh while talking to this website Another IMA member, Dr Nirmal Kumar said, “Despite the fear of getting infected, Dr Agrawal did not distance himself from attending to the patients who came to him for consultation and ultimately he himself got infected and finally died."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Four medical colleges to be renamed after freedom fighters||Four medical colleges, three of them newly launched, will be renamed after freedom fighters, chief minister Hemant Soren said while delivering his Independence Day address at a low-key function at the iconic Morabadi ground here on Saturday. Hemant said the idea behind renaming the medical colleges was to honour the contributions of all those who played a crucial role in the country’s freedom struggle. “Palamu Medical College will now be known as Mednirai Medical College, the one in Hazaribagh will be named Sheikh Bhikari Medical College and Hospital and the one in Dumka will be called Pholo-Jhano Medical College and Hospital. This apart, Patliputra Medical College (PMCH) in Dhanbad will henceforth be known as Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Medical College,” the chief minister said. The medical colleges in Palamau, Hazaribagh and Dumka were conceptualised and set up during the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das in 2019. In all, the three colleges offer 300 MBBS seats. The existing three medical colleges, in Ranchi (Rims), Dhanbad (PMCH) and Jamshedpur (MGMCH), together offer 280 seats. The total number of MBBS seats in Jharkhand is, therefore, 580. Hemant also reaffirmed his commitment to boost education and sports, stating that the government was working on upgrading about 5,000 schools with all-around facilities. “For players, we will soon come up with a sports policy wherein we will be making provisions for direct recruitments. The plan is in the final stages,” he said. The chief minister also said that the state government would soon launch CM Pashudhan Yojana to promote the rural economy by extending assistance, including financial incentives, to farmers engaged in animal husbandry. Modalities of the scheme are under making, he said. Hemant’s I-day address stressed on Jharkhand’s fight against the pandemic and the state government’s commitment towards its people and shramiks (workers).  On Friday, he rolled out a job guarantee scheme for unskilled workers of urban areas on the lines of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Scheme (MGNREG). On the occasion of Independence Day, Hemant felicitated 10 corona warriors. They are Dr Akhilesh Jha (government), Shama Parveen (community health officer), Uma Kabra (lab technician), Tara Tirkey (auxiliary nurse midwife), Samni Nag (sahiya), Ashok Rana (108 ambulance driver), Sukur Topp (ASI), Dilip Prasad (inspector), Parveen Akthar (anganwadi worker) and Paras Ram (cleanliness worker). In Dumka, state’s second capital, governor Droupadi Murmu unfurled the Tricolour as is customary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city celebrates I-Day, felicitates health workers||State health minister Banna Gupta unfurled the Tricolur at Gpal Maidan in Bistupur on Saturday to launch the 74th Indpendendence Day celebrations in stell city held amid strict adherence to Covid-19 norms. Among those present at the main function were East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior superintendent of police M Tamil Vannan and other senior district administrative officials. Soon after unfurling the national flag at 9.05am, the minister inspected the parade. The one-and-a-half hour function was marked by the felicitation of corona warriors, including officials and staff of three civic bodies - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, Mango Notified Area Committee, Jugsalai Municipality _ doctors and health workers of Tata Main Hospital and MGM Medical College and Hospital and the two Covid hospitalsn. They were handed over a certificate of appreciation and a memento. During the function the minister also flagged off anti-tobacco awareness campaign vehicle. The function was also live streamed on the Facebook page of PRD East Singhbhum. Tata Steel also celebrated the day at its Jamshedpur Works. Sanjiv Paul, vice-president (Safety, Health & Sustainability), Tata Steel unfurled the national flag. Addressing a small gathering, he said, “Independence Day has always been a day of great celebration, a social event marked by people getting together, congratulating each other for having upheld the values and principles that India’s freedom fighters held dear and resolving to work harder to strengthen that legacy and leaving behind an even stronger India. The ambience of fun, gaiety and general revelry, however is missing this year.  It’s not lost on any of us that we stand under our Tiranga today at a time which is unprecedented. Never in the history of independent India have we seen a crisis as grave.” Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL),  formerly Jusco, also organised a function on its premises at Bistupur to mark the day. Managing director of TSUISL Tarun Daga hoisted the national flag. Others, like Tata Motors and its ancillaries based at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district, also celebrated Independence Day, adhering to Covid protocols. Several educational institutions including Kerala Public School at Kadma and Kerala Samajam Model School in Golmuri organised small functions with limited participation to mark the day. Teachers and students of the school attended the function through online platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||On I-Day, Dhanbad honours Covid warriors ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city flying club gets DGCA nod for drone training||Local flight training institute Alchemist Aviation Private Limited got a nod from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for drone training, making it the first flying institute in the state to have received such an approval. Sources in the aviation industry said that so far, 10 institutes across the country have been given permission to conduct drone training. Confirming the development, director of Alchemist Aviation Private Limited, Mrinal Kanti Pal told The Telegraph Online that training for the first batch will commence in October this year. "Drones are the need of the hour and the industry is expanding rapidly, being applied to various fields like disaster management, weather forecast, geographic mapping, search and rescue, aerial photography, surveillance,  agriculture, and mining, to name a few,” said Pal. “Keeping this in mind we applied to the DGCA, the apex body which gives the nod for drone training," said Pal adding that the duration of course will be 10 days, including theory and practical lessons. According to Pal, the granting of permission is in line with the objectives of the ministry of civil aviation and the Union government's efforts to regularise and regulate drone operations in the country. The training institute will provide the right skills and guidance to those who aim to build a successful career in the UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) industry. The focus on drone training is also expected to give a boost to young drone entrepreneurs. The Sonari-based Alchemist Aviation has been providing commercial pilot training in Jamshedpur since 1996. The flying training institute has so far added more than 100 pilots to the aviation ecosystem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad's close shave ||Congress MLA from Barkagaon, Amba Prasad had a miraculous escape in a road accident on Ramgarh-Patratu road on Saturday morning, on her way to a flag hoisting event. Prasad’s bodyguard and driver are also safe. The incident took place close to Subhash Chowk on Patratu road in Ramgarh district, 57km away from Hazaribagh district headquarters. Prasad was going to Patratu, part of her Barkagaon constituency via Ramgarh on her Toyota Fortuner SUV. Near an army school close to the telephone exchange office, three buffaloes suddenly intercepted the escort vehicle, also an SUV, forcing the driver to apply the brakes all of a sudden. Due to this, Prasad’s vehicle, which was right behind, hit the escort car. Due to this, the front of Prasad's SUV was badly damaged. The escort SUV escaped damage during the mishap.  Prasad is part of the icon category of Fame India’s list of 50 best MLAs of the country. AJSU supremo and Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto is the only other legislator from Jharkhand to have made the list, in the special category. Prasad said she will keep working for the people of her constituency selflessly and never let them down. She said it was the support of all that she made it to the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||I-Day celebrations in Jharkhand||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
15-08-2020||Jharkhand||17 Covid patients discharged in Koderma||Seventeen patients were on Friday discharged from Covid-19 care wards in Koderma. Civil surgeon Abhay Bhushan Prasad underscored the significance of the day which saw 17 recoveries. Doctors, nurses and other paramedical staffers showered flower petals and clapped for all the 17 patients. Prasad said Covid-19 can be defeated with the co-operation of the people. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday met officials to assess preparations for the Covid-19 rapid antibody testing (RAT) drive scheduled for August16-17. The drive is being conducted as per a state government directive. Altogether 10,000 people will be tested. The testing of CISF, CRPF, JAP-3 and RPF personnel, besides employees of HURL, ACC, DVC, MPL and the railways, will also be conducted. Special camps will also be organised at Dhanbad, Jharia, Baghmara and Govindpur block. Singh added that a training of lab technicians for sample collection will be conducted on Saturday by five master trainers. Chatra deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha on Friday said work was on to set up a 10-bed ICU with ventilators at the sadar hospital’s burns unit even as the number of Covid-19 patients kept increasing in the district. Jha also spoke of a plan to establish a 500-bed Covid-19 care centre at the polytechnic college in Chatra town. “We had sent two doctors for training to Ranchi so that they can manage the ICU,” he added. Currently, a 150-bed Covid-19 care centre is already functional at the newly constructed subdivisonal office. Jha said there is a proposal to start three new Covid-19 care centres in the district, including one at Simaria subdivisional office with 90 beds and a community health centre in Itkhori with 100 beds. The third and the biggest will be set up at the ITI college with 500 beds, Jha said. The novel coronavirus seems to have smothered the sweet business in Daltonganj. Every Independence Day, sweet sellers would have bumper business selling to schools, colleges, institutions, government offices, NGOs, etc. Schoolchildren, teachers and officials would line up at sweet shops. However, this year, none of it can be seen. Basant Halwai, who has two sweet shops in Daltonganj, said: “The coronavirus has devastated our sweet business.” “Last year on Independence Day, I had orders for 50-60kg laddoo and 1,000 pieces of syrup-based sweets,” he added. “DAV School, Daltonganj, used to buy from us two quintal of sweets but this time we do not have any such order.” He said: “This time I have an order for only 200kg laddoo. No one is ready to buy syrup-based sweets because of the coronavirus.” Sudhir Shoundik, another sweet shop owner, said: “I have no order except for a few kilograms of laddoo. It is a real hard time.” Chandra Bhushan Sinha, principal of Holy Cross School, Daltonganj, said: “This year, only teachers and non-teaching staff are to attend the I-Day function. We will distribute small packets of sweets and snacks only among the attendees.” Microbiologists and lab technicians at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital, Dhanbad, on Friday abstained from work for some time to protest the selection of only five among them for felicitation as “Corona Warriors” during the Independence Day celebrations organised by the district administration at Golf Ground. The protesters accused the hospital authorities of bias while choosing names for the awards. Only five microbiologists and lab technicians were chosen for felicitation. The protesting employees relented and returned to work after the operator of the hospital’s manpower agency, Sujit Kumar, held talks with them. The Dhanbad district administration had on Thursday announced that it would felicitate 22 frontline Corona Warriors, as well as three Covid-19 patients who recovered. A team of Bokaro administration officials on Friday slapped fines on 14 shops for selling tobacco-based pan masala. The shops are in Sector 2 Nayamod and Ram Mandir Market area. Each shop was fined Rs 2,250. The sale of 11 tobacco-based pan masala brands is banned. Yet, shops were found selling them, said Rajesh Singh, deputy commissioner, Bokaro. The nodal officer of the district tobacco control programme, Dr N.P. Singh, said that despite the ban, some shopkeepers were buying pan masala from the Bengal border and selling it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-334
