16-08-2020||Calcutta||Salute to Covid fighters on Independence Day||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee stepped off the dais during the Independence Day parade on Red Road to  greet and felicitate 25 Calcuttans who have survived Covid-19 and returned to fight against the pandemic. The list includes doctors, nurses, lab technicians, ambulance drivers, resource teachers, block development officers, Asha workers, cleaning staff and police personnel. All the 25 people had got infected while on duty. Among them was hospital cleaner Manoj Kumar Ram from Beleghata ID hospital and Jitendra Hela from the School of Tropical Medicine. There were Asha workers Ratna Karmakar from the Nalmuri block primary health centre in South 24-Parganas and Sufiya Khatoon from the Biswanathpur block primary health centre at Deganga, North 24-Parganas. The list of doctors included Narayan Chattopadhyay from Howrah district hospital, Shabnam Banu and S.M. Ayaz Ahmed from Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and BDOs Kamrul Islam and Bipratim Basak from Minakhan (North 24-Parganas) and Kultali (South 24-Parganas). The list included ambulance driver Riyaz Gazi from Madhyamgram Municipality and laboratory technician Bani Kumar Patra from RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. Many personnel have been subjected to humiliation in their neighbourhoods, stigmatised for what they do and threatened. They have stuck on with their work despite the hardships. Unlike other years, the Independence Day parade was not opened to the public, keeping in mind the pandemic. The event was attended by a handful of dignitaries. At the beginning of the event, Mamata Banerjee came down from the dais and met the 25 Covid warriors on Red Road. “She spoke to each of them and greeted them for their courage for winning the Covid war and joining their office where they are again dedicated to fight Covid,” an officer present at the ceremony said. The chief minister had been praising and supporting the role of personnel who have risked their lives to serve others during this crisis. According to sociologist Upal Chakrabarti of Presidency University, the felicitation of 25-odd “Covid warriors” was not just a felicitation of a few individuals but it sends a larger message to society on the service rendered by the entire fraternity who are braving the pandemic to do their duty. “This is not just a positive message to all those who offered this service, which is no less than national service beyond political boundaries, but also a strong message that Covid is not about spreading panic but is a matter of management.” Around 50 members of the community had gathered at the mosque, wearing masks and maintaining social distance. A community scout band played the national anthem before the flag was hoisted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
16-08-2020||Calcutta||Bitcoin gang at work?  Probe on||The city police’s detective department is investigating if an organised gang is at work across Calcutta and neighbouring areas cheating people by promising them hefty returns from bitcoin investments. The investigation comes in the wake of the arrest of Sujan Rakshit from his office in Hazra on Friday. Rakshit was arrested for cheating Sayantan Bhanja of Rs 1.28 crore by making him invest in bitcoins, police said. In his complaint with the police, Bhanja has alleged that between January 2017 and March 2018 he had invested Rs 1.52 crore in Rakshit’s firm. He has said that Rakshit paid him Rs 24.22 lakh as returns from the investment to gain his trust. Of this amount Rakshit had returned Rs 3.5 lakh in two months in 2018. When the returns stopped from April 2018, Bhanja visited Rakshit’s Hazra office and found it to always locked, he has said in the complaint. He filed the complaint in December 2019 and the detective department’s special cell started investigating the matter. A team of officers froze two of Rakshit’s bank accounts in two private banks. But he remained untraceable. On Friday, officers learnt he had returned to his Hazra office. A team raided the office and arrested him. Rakshit has pleaded ignorance and said he has been framed. A city court has sent him to police custody till August 19, an officer said. “Bhanja had met Rakshit in the Baghajatin area in 2016. He had introduced himself to Bhanja as the CEO of an investment company,” a detective department officer said. “Bhanja was then looking for avenues to invest in order to expand his business.” In the course of the next few meetings, Rakshit told Bhanja about bitcoins. One of his executives even followed up the matter with Bhanja. Bhanja ended up paying Rs 1.52 crore, the police said. When he realised he had been cheated, he filed the complaint. In April, singer Anupam Roy had lodged a complaint with the police alleging he had received a mail where the sender claimed to have accessed his personal data and demanded payment in bitcoins to let go his personal data. The same month, two professionals, who were working from home and using an app to make video calls, had received ransomware threats demanding payment in bitcoins, an officer said. The complainants had said they received a specific link in their mails to buy bitcoins, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
16-08-2020||Calcutta||Time for all to speak out against fundamentalism||India completed 73 years as an Independent nation on August 15. With a total population of 138.13 crore as of August 7, 2020, which is 17.7 per cent of the world’s population, India is the largest democracy in the world. It is a fact that a third of the world’s poor live in India. In our country, 27.1 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line. The per capita income is $2,500, which is 1/13 of developed countries. India ranks 129 in the human development index in 2019. India faces, besides economic and political instability, frequent ethnic and communal outbursts, which have proved fatal to its overall development. India, the cradle of religions, is steeped in a sense of the sacred. We sense a cosmic worldview to life with rich cultural diversity expressed in art, architecture, music and the rich classical and folk traditions. But modern social media, IT and LPG (liberalisation, privatisation, globalisation) forces are posing a serious threat to its much-desired development. The glaring reality of the vast multitude of poor, the varied deprivation and dehumanisation, rampant corruption and injustice and the inevitable exclusion of the displaced, untouchable, women, indigenous and migrant communities confront India. The exploitation of our ecosystems further aggravates the plight of the poor. Democracy is a communications-intensive mode of governance in which individuals play a more direct role through “the power of citizen-to-citizen communications”, which benefits both themselves and their community. A successful society is one that gives opportunities to its citizens and promotes its capacities in equality so that citizens think, work, grow and develop in an atmosphere of freedom. The contentment of citizens is closely linked to the level of political and social empowerment they have. Where citizens control the agenda, stability and contentment is enhanced. Even though we have made some progress, government systems and administrative functioning have many weaknesses and inadequacies, which are proving quite a handicap in providing satisfactory deliverance of services to people. The present political system and the process require purification so that political will is strengthened to take necessary action against forces that generate corruption and sow the seeds of division, casteism, hatred and communal violence. There is a need for transparency and accountability at all levels. India’s legal and judicial systems are highly sophisticated and well developed. Despite that, it has not kept pace with the changing needs arising from increasing population, increase in number of laws, increase in industrial activities and other changes resulting in inordinate delays in disposal of cases. The present judicial system does not render speedy justice to people. A comprehensive review of the system is required. Secularism in India is different from the western concept of the state in confrontation with the Church. Indian secularism was born out of an experience, a painful process of national liberation struggles. The Fathers of our Constitution had reasons to introduce secularism in our country: fear of disorder arising from dangerous forces of political movements associated with militant Hindu nationalism, Muslim separatism, Hindu-Muslim communalism and so on. Nehru condemned casteism and communalism. He observed that communalism was fascism in India and favoured secularism. For him, secularism was necessarily a civilised behaviour. This was to transcend religious, cultural, caste differences and combat militant communalist forces. Human civilisation has brought into focus the significance of secular ideals, and there is a growing consciousness to support and nurture this type of societies. Today, almost all countries in the world have come to accept that secularism is sine quo non for democratic governance. To establish a peaceful and just society, secularist principles and democratic polity are indispensable. All true religions have an immense potential for tolerance. Each religious community claims that theirs is the most tolerant religion of our time. Their claim is true so long as they recognise other religions as different ways leading to the same goal. Tolerance is a normative value; yes, but it is not an answer to the fundamentalist danger to unity and integrity of our country. In today’s context, what we need is to affirm and perpetuate: rootedness of every believer in his/her religion; acceptance of the other and his/her religious belief and practice; and ongoing dialogues between different religions. These are the principles that will pave the way for a healthy atmosphere of respect, tolerance and acceptance of each other, of each religious tradition and enable us to live together as Indians in peace and harmony. There is an urgent need for spirituality that considers persons as subjects and not objects of history. A spirituality that considers men and women as sacred, unique, irreplaceable and irreducible human beings, free by nature and called to transcendence. A spirituality that is human and acceptable to all religions. It should recognise the cultural diversity, the uniqueness of national and local cultures and heritage. Steeped in the sense of the sacred, it should take a holistic approach to life that life is sacred and that all beings journey towards the cosmic unity. Spirituality plays a major role in building human communities based on peace and harmony. Spirituality liberates and empowers through a sense of shared purpose. Such a sense of purpose is a prerequisite for national unity and social cohesion. To lack a shared sense of purpose is to invite drift and division. Spirituality, with its regenerating power, holds the promise of a new beginning. Optimisation of the wholeness of humanity with a special focus on human development and well-being is the quintessential spiritual purpose. It is spirituality that sustains development in society. It is the soul of all human actions. It is a powerful tool, which could bring religions together to fight against the dangers of globalisation: materialism, egocentrism, consumerism, and destruction of the environment and the crises of family and neighbourhood ties. It is time now for all academics, thinkers, philosophers, theologians and the like to come out openly and speak out against the dangers of fundamentalism and its offshoots of disorder, and undo, with the weapon of their wisdom, all that has gone wrong. Politicians are not capable of doing this job. All that they normally seek is power and for more power, they justify any means. If the age of enlightenment and of science has brought changes in the west, our intervention at this juncture will definitely put the wheels of our country on the right track. What the German Bishop Niemoler said about the situation under Hitler might teach us something: “When Nazis put communists in the concentration camp, I did not protest because I was not a communist; when they persecuted the social democrats, I did not protest because I was not a social democrat; when they massacred the Jews, I did not protest because I was not a Jew; when they banned all political parties and trade unions, I did not protest because I was not one of them; when they came for me, there was no one to speak for me.” The author is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Kolkata||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
16-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency online form filing from August 18||Undergraduate aspirants at Presidency University can start submitting forms online from August 18. The process will go on till September 1. “Candidates will not be charged any application fee. They can apply for a maximum of two subjects,” registrar Debajyoti Konar said. Except for statistics and economics, the merit list for all subjects will be based on marks obtained in the secondary and higher secondary board exams. September 5 has been fixed as the tentative date for the publication of merit list and other lists. The admission notification uploaded on the university’s website on Saturday says how the subject-wise merit list will be drawn up factoring in the weightage from board marks. The admission notification contains two tables — one for the parameters and the other explaining the formula for preparing the academic score. The parameter for chemistry honours says average percentage of marks obtained in physical science and life science or the percentage of marks obtained in science in the Class X board exams and the percentage of marks obtained in chemistry, mathematics and English in the Plus II board exams will be factored in. The formula for preparing the score says from each of the four parameters, 25 per cent weightage will be taken to prepare the merit list. In physics honours, the percentage of marks obtained in mathematics, along with the average percentage of marks obtained in physical science and life science or the percentage of marks obtained in science will be considered from the Class X board results. “This will be added to the percentage of aggregate marks and that obtained in mathematics in the Plus II board exams. Here, too, from each of the four parameters, 25 per cent weightage will be taken to prepare the merit list,” a university official said. The teachers of the physics and chemistry departments had proposed in the previous meeting of the admission committee on the science that apart from factoring in Plus II board results, the scores in physical science and mathematics in Madhyamik be considered, given that the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education could not hold tests in the papers because of the pandemic. The students had the best marks in the papers they had written awarded to the ones they could not. In case of a tie, candidates will be judged considering their percentage of aggregate marks obtained in HS or equivalent exam at the first instance. If the tie persists, the process will be repeated considering the percentage of marks obtained by them in Madhyamik or equivalent 10th standard exam. “If the tie still exists, all such candidates will be placed in the same rank and considered for admission with a method called bunching effect,” Konar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
16-08-2020||Business||ICICI raises Rs 15000cr through QIP issue||ICICI Bank, the country’s second-largest private sector lender, on Saturday said it has raised Rs 15,000 crore through qualified institutional placement (QIP) after completing the allotment of equity shares under the offering. The proceeds from the issue will be used to strengthen the capital adequacy ratio of the bank and improve its competitive positioning or general corporate requirements. Investors were allocated 41.89 crore shares at an issue price of Rs 358 per share. “The issue price represents a 1.9 per cent premium to the floor price determined based on the pricing formula as prescribed under Regulation 176(1) of the Sebi ICDR Regulations and a discount of 1.5 per cent to the closing price of the bank’s equity shares on the BSE/NSE prior to the launch of the issue,” ICICI Bank said in a statement. Earlier this week, the bank had set a floor price at Rs 351.36 per share for the offering. The issue opened on August 10 and closed on August 14. Following the allotment of shares, the paid-up equity share capital of the bank has increased to Rs 13,790,821,242 consisting of 6,895,410,621 equity shares of face value Rs 2 each from Rs 12,952,832,416 consisting of 6,476,416,208 equity shares of face value Rs 2 each, ICICI Bank said. During the share sale, the Monetary Authority of Singapore picked up 4.6 crore shares, representing 11.06 per cent of the QIP size. Other prominent investors included Morgan Stanley Global Opportunity Fund and Societe Generale-ODI, picking up 7.31 per cent and 5.55 per cent, respectively. The equity issuance also witnessed healthy participation from global and domestic investors, including foreign portfolio investors, domestic mutual funds and insurance companies, the lender said. With the latest fund raise, ICICI Bank has joined a group of lenders, including the nation’s largest housing finance company HDFC, which raised more than Rs 14,000 crore last week. Others like Axis Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank have also raised capital as the system braces for a loan impairment impact because of the Covid-19 crisis. It is feared that the banking system could see a rise in bad loans during the second half of this fiscal as the relaxations given by the Reserve Bank of India come to an end. The central bank has also been asking lenders to beef up their capital in advance, expecting a rise in NPAs. ICICI Bank said that it is well-positioned to serve the market and benefit from the opportunities that would arise going forward. In these extraordinary times of the coronavirus pandemic, the bank will continue to strive to serve its customers and also emerge stronger as an institution, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
16-08-2020||Business||Not liable to pay Reliance Communications dues: Jio||Reliance Jio’s four-year-old telecom spectrum sharing deal with Reliance Communications (R-Com) is not connected to the latter’s past statutory dues that pertain to the period prior to 2016 when Jio wasn’t even in operation, sources close to the company said. A Supreme Court bench had on Friday sought to know why Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL) must not pay the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues of R-Com as it has been using the latter’s spectrum since 2016. A source, refusing to be quoted as the matter is sub-judice, said RJIL in April 2016 entered into a pact to share a part of the spectrum held by R-Com and its unit Reliance Telecom. The shared spectrum was limited to the 800MHz band and was strictly in accordance with the department of telecom’s (DoT) spectrum sharing guidelines. R-Com’s 2G, 3G and 4G spectrum in the 1,800 MHz band are not being shared. The AGR dues of R-Com and RTL are in no manner connected with this shared spectrum, the source said, adding that the AGR has been paid by both R-Com/RTL and RJIL on the revenue generated from the shared spectrum. The dues related to the 2G/3G business of R-Com/RTL which it was carrying out prior to 2016, the time when RJIL was not even operational, the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
16-08-2020||Business||Jaguar Land Rover bailout talks with UK government fails||Bailout talks between Jaguar Land Rover and Tata Steel with the UK government have ended, leaving both firms to rely on private financing to overcome the impact of coronavirus on business, the Financial Times reported on Friday. The report here said that talks for an emergency funding fell through as Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) did not qualify for taxpayer support. It is the luxury car unit of India’s Tata Motors and Tata Steel, both owned by Indian conglomerate Tata Group. The bailout plan, titled “Project Birch”, had been authorised by finance minister Rishi Sunak in May to rescue companies that are seen as strategically important, with the Treasury saying it may step in to support crucial businesses on a “last resort” basis after other options run out. The report, citing a source familiar with the matter, said that the funding scheme became infeasible for Tata as it imposed strict conditions on any lending. “Tata Steel remains in ongoing and constructive talks with the UK government on areas of potential support,” Tata Steel said in an emailed statement. The UK Treasury said it would not comment on individual companies. Tata Motors did not immediately respond to request for comment. Ongoing trade conflicts and Covid-19 has adversely impacted JLR vehicle sales in 2019-20, which contracted by 12 per cent year-on-year. A significant part of the volume decline occurred in the fourth quarter of 2019-20. JLR was able to improve its profitability during the year and reduce its cash outflows, compared with previous years despite a decrease in volumes through a host of structural initiatives to drive efficiencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
16-08-2020||Business||Top taxmen can order raids||Only the director-general of income tax (investigation) and the chief commissioner for income tax (TDS) can approve I-T raids and all communications from the department to the taxpayer, assessee and any third party will be in the name of the National e-Assessment Center (NeAC). In an order, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has said the officers posted in directorates of investigation and commissionerates of TDS, “only and exclusively” shall act as “income tax authority” for raids under section 133A of the Income Tax Act. “The competent authority for approval of such survey action u/s 133A of the Act shall henceforth be DGIT (Inv) for investigation wing and Pr. CCIT/CCIT (TDS) for TDS charges, as the case may be,” said the order. Noted tax expert Narayan Jain said: “The decision of the CBDT in taking away powers of survey for jurisdictional officers, the joint CITs and CITs is a step in the right direction. “In many cases, they used to conduct survey and obtain confession under pressure to meet collection targets. The survey powers of the investigating wing should be used sparingly and they must act in a fair manner. The TDS authorities have limited powers of survey and they should act within that. The TDS official cannot impound books of account or computer records.” Under section 133A of the Income Tax Act, an income-tax officer or any authorised inspector of income tax can enter any place within the limits of the area assigned to him, or any place occupied by a person who falls under an officer’s jurisdiction or at a location where business or profession is carried on, for tax surveys and raids. The officer concerned may also inspect books of account or other documents as he may require and which may be available at such a place. The issue of alleged tax harassment by officers gained much attention after V.G. Siddharta, the founder of Cafe Coffee Day, committed suicide and left behind a note accusing tax authorities of persecuting him. The income tax department has embarked on the journey of faceless tax administration. Further, the CBDT has notified the National e-Assessment Centre (NeAC) in Delhi and various Regional e-Assessment Centres (ReACs) across 20 cities in the country for implementation of the scheme. The CBDT has now given the detailed guidelines for the implementation of the scheme and role of residual charges. Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP, said: “This detailed internal guidance note by the CBDT has clarified that apart from assessment proceedings, a large number of other functions such as rectification proceedings, demand collection management, tax recovery proceedings, proceedings to give effect to appellate orders, etc. shall remain with the field officers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
16-08-2020||India||BJP and Congress lock heads over Facebook hate speech row||The Congress and BJP, on Sunday. locked heads over an article published in The Wall Street Journal that suggests Facebook has been lenient over allowing hate speeches posted by the ruling party members. The article cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders who claim that the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh, who made communally charged posts targeting Muslims. The article further noted that Das “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. Facebook has denied all allegations and said it was still reviewing whether it had to act against Singh. On Sunday evening, Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the article stands as an expose of the BJP fake news and hate speech propaganda. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted: "The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology would certainly wish to hear from @Facebook about these reports & what they propose to do about hate-speech in India.” Senior BJP leader and Union minister for electronics and information technology and communications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, launched a counter attack on Twitter and said that the Congress party had no locus standi to question the BJP. “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP and RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica and Facebook to weaponise data before the elections and now have the gall to question us?” Prasad tweeted. Cambridge Analytica's website said the company provided its services during the Bihar election in 2010 to a political party in India. The website of the Indian affiliate of Cambridge Analytica, Ovleno Business Intelligence (OBI), mentioned the BJP, Congress and the Janata Dal (United) of Nitish Kumar as clients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Tribute to Vajpayee on his second death anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and prime minister Narendra Modi were among several dignitaries who paid tributes to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday.  They were joined by several Union ministers and other leaders at 'Sadaiv Atal', the memorial to Vajpayee in the national capital, in paying respects to him. Modi said India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards the nation's progress. "Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards our nation's progress," Modi said, tweeting a nearly two-minute-long montage of old photos in memory of the former prime minister. The montage features photos and videos of Vajpayee taken during his long career in politics. NDTV reports Modi's voiceover playing in the video, as saying: "This country will never forget Atal ji's sacrifice. Under his leadership India held its head high as a nuclear power. As a politician, a Member of Parliament, a minister or Prime Minister, Atal ji has performed very well in many roles. Many great things can be said about Atal ji's life, and no one aspect is lesser than the other. His speeches used to be talked about. In future if some expert analysed his speeches, the strength in his silence would turn out many times stronger than his speeches. In parliament also, he would only say a few words. People would get the message from his silence..." Vajpayee, the first BJP prime minister, had passed away on this day in 2018.  A statesman and saffron stalwart, he was fondly remembered by other senior BJP leaders.  Home minister Amit Shah said the country for the first time saw "good governance" being implemented across the nation under Vajpayee.  The Modi government is striving for the welfare of the poor and good governance by keeping his ideas at the centre of its work, Shah added.  Defence minister Rajnath Singh said Vajpayee's tremendous contribution towards pubic life and India's development will always be cherished, and his vision for the country will continue to inspire coming generations. The Twitter handle of the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations tweeted a video of Vajpayee speaking at the UN General Assembly in 1997.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Covid-19: 63,490 fresh cases, recovery rate 71.91 per cent||India's Covid-19 tally increased to 25,89,682 with a single-day spike of 63,490 cases, while the total number of recoveries rose to 18,62,258 pushing the recovery rate to 71.91 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The death toll due to coronavirus infection climbed to 49,980 with 944 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.  India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11 when the country registered 53,601 new instances of the infection.  The case fatality rate has declined to 1.93 per cent.  There are 6,77,444 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently which comprise 26.16 per cent of the total caseload in the country.  India had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.  According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 2,93,09,703 samples have been tested up to August 15 with 7,46,608 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||‘Fitting reply’ on Prime Minister lips, not China ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India had from “LoC to LAC” given a fitting reply to those who had challenged its sovereignty, striking a note similar to his no-intrusion claim two months ago and again failing to name China. He also dwelt on the theme of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”, Jammu and Kashmir and the Ram temple during his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort. “From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), whenever India’s sovereignty has been challenged, our soldiers have answered in a language they (the enemy) understand,” Modi said. “The world can see what Indian soldiers can do to maintain this resolve.” Modi may have been alluding to the June 15 face-off in the Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh in which the Chinese killed 20 Indian soldiers. Four days after the clash, the Prime Minister had asserted that no one had entered Indian territory or captured any Indian post. The government later claimed he was referring to the post-June 15 situation, which would suggest that Indian soldiers had thrown out any possible intruders. Since then, Modi has remained silent as satellite imagery and unofficial accounts of ground-level assessments suggested the Chinese had ensconced themselves and built structures inside India-claimed lines at multiple locations in Ladakh. The foreign ministry has, however, several times referred to the “disengagement process” and described it as “complex” — the latest assertion coming on Friday — implying the Chinese were inside India-claimed territory. Sporting a saffron-and-white turban, Modi delivered his speech amid tight security and a guest list restricted by the Covid-19 outbreak. He seemed to be indirectly acknowledging the strains in relations with several neighbouring countries. “A neighbour isn’t just someone who shares a geographical boundary with us but those who share a bond of the heart — where the relationship is respected,” Modi said. He said that neighbourly ties were now linked to “security, progress and trust”. Modi claimed that India’s relations with the West Asian countries had never been so good. Reports have mentioned deep concern among West Asian governments about the Modi dispensation’s decisions on Jammu and Kashmir last year and its crackdown on anti-citizenship-act protesters. He devoted a sizeable part of his 86-minute address to his “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (Self-reliant India) campaign, on which he had spoken in detail several times earlier. In an address to the nation in May, the Prime Minister had proposed an economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore to make India “self-reliant” in the post-Covid world. This week his government declared a resolve to have more defence equipment manufactured in India. On Saturday, too, Modi tried to conjure the vision of a strong and prosperous India as a global manufacturing hub, saying the country needed to move beyond “Make in India” to add the fresh objective of “Make for the World”. He acknowledged the numerous challenges to becoming self-reliant in a competitive world but, playing the optimist amid the pervasive economic gloom, said there were many solutions too. Modi said: “I know there are lakhs of challenges but there are crores of solutions too. I’m confident that India will realise this dream. I’m confident of the abilities and potential of my compatriots. Once we decide, we do not rest till we achieve our goal.” Modi described how his government was building roads and other infrastructure along the LAC — the Chinese frontier — from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh to secure the country. The Prime Minister touched on the Ram temple and the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status but provided no new perspective. He said the “amicable” resolution of the decades-old Ayodhya dispute and the beginning of the temple’s construction were an “inspiration for the future”. He didn’t explain what he meant by “inspiration for the future” but stressed that the people’s conduct in peacefully accepting the Supreme Court verdict was “unprecedented”. Some hard-line Hindutva leaders have been making noises about reigniting the demand for temple construction in Mathura and Varanasi at sites where mosques now stand. Modi claimed the new Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir had seen a lot of development in the past one year and promised to hold elections there after completing the ongoing delimitation exercise. He said three candidate Covid-19 vaccines were going through various stages of clinical trials, and that the government was ready with a plan to make the vaccines available to the people once they cleared the tests. The Prime Minister also spoke on women’s empowerment and referred to his government’s efforts to make sanitary napkins available to the poor at Re 1 each through the Jan Ausadhi centres. He said a panel had been formed to determine what the minimum age of marriage should be for women, and mentioned the abolition of the instant triple talaq. Strength & Courage. Peace & Truth. Fertility & Growth. Life in Movement. My country stands for these values. I promise to do the same on this day of 15th August and forever. We don’t need anymore guidelines for being a true Indian, than these laid down by the colours of our Indian flag. Happy Independence Day to all. Jai Hind. Shah Rukh Khan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Oli, Modi sidestep thorns in phone call||Nepal Premier K.P. Sharma Oli sought to break the ice that had settled on bilateral relations with India over the past few months with a phone call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday afternoon that was described by both sides as a courtesy call on India’s Independence Day. The two Prime Ministers are said to have steered clear of the irritant that soured relations this summer after Kathmandu released a new Nepal map that included three areas that India claims — Kalapani, Lipu Lekh and Limpiyadhura —in retaliation to New Delhi’s inauguration of a new road via Lipu Lekh to Kailash Mansarovar. Nor, sources said, did Modi and Oli discuss scheduling a meeting of the foreign secretary mechanism to address the boundary issues. According to readouts issued by the two foreign ministries, the two Prime Ministers discussed the Covid-19 situation and Oli congratulated Modi on India’s election to the United Nations Security Council as a non-permanent member. The telephone conversation — the first in four months of strain — comes days before a scheduled meeting of the joint oversight mechanism set up in 2016 to review ongoing bilateral economic and development projects. Earlier in the day, Oli had tweeted an Independence Day greeting to Modi, which was duly acknowledged. “Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India,” Oli had tweeted. Modi replied: “Thank you PM @kpsharmaoli Ji for the Independence Day wishes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Appeal: Verdict lowers Supreme Court dignity, reverse it||Civil liberties organisations Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) have said the Supreme Court’s conviction of lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets has “lowered its own dignity in the eyes of the ordinary person” and that it would “be more damaging of the image” of the court. Bhushan was on Friday convicted of criminal contempt of court for two tweets, one of which spoke about the destruction of democracy while the other referred to the current Chief Justice of India. The CJAR has urged the apex court to reconsider its decision, saying the judiciary must “command respect” and not demand it. “By convicting Mr Bhushan for criminal contempt, we believe that the court has lowered its own dignity in the eyes of the ordinary person in India. Once hailed as one of the ‘most powerful constitutional courts’ in the world, it is unfortunate that the court is intolerant of even the most temperate and well-intentioned criticism,” a statement from the CJAR, whose members include former apex court judge Justice P.B. Sawant, said. “We call upon each and every sitting judge of the Hon’ble Supreme Court to reconsider this decision that has, more than anything, harmed the court’s own prestige and dignity in the eyes of the public.” The PUCL said Bhushan’s conviction would reinforce the view that the apex court “will not allow any public questioning or criticism of its functioning”, and would hurt its image more than Bhushan’s tweets could. The CJAR said that Bhushan, who is its convener, cannot be held guilty of contempt because the tweets were “expressions of his anguish and a bona fide criticism of the court and the Chief Justice of India”. It said Bhushan’s freedom of expression was protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and “cannot be stifled by such a conviction”. “When the functioning of the court has been disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic and important cases concerning the rights of millions are being adjourned for weeks and months, the haste with which the court has proceeded to hear and convict Mr Bhushan is unseemly and sends a message of stern consequence to those who choose to express themselves in manners that are not palatable to judges,” the CJAR said. “The judiciary commands respect and never demands it. It earns respect through its impartial and effective decisions and interpretation. The Supreme Court has enjoyed a hallowed status due to the work of progressive and thoughtful judges who have expanded human rights and defended liberty. Respect and dignity cannot be demanded from citizens on the threat of contempt. According to the CJAR, few dare speak up against the judiciary because of the swift retribution of contempt. “Criminal contempt to prop up the court’s dignity (as opposed to other forms of contempt), is an archaic, obsolete law, in long disuse in its country of origin and abolished in several other countries,” it said. “It is time to free ourselves from the yoke of this stifling law, to look deeply into its purpose, and ensure that it is not used to silence opinions that seek accountability and reforms in the functioning of the judiciary.” The PUCL’s statement said the court’s finding would only strengthen the view that like other democratic institutions in India, it was cracking down on dissent. “The SC (Supreme Court) too is unwilling to acknowledge serious issues about the way the judicial system is functioning and is acting in a manner which would silence democratic voices, using the draconian power of ‘contempt of court’,” said the statement, issued by Ravi Kiran Jain, national president of the PUCL, and D.V. Suresh, its national general secretary. “We would like to point out that Prashant Bhushan is not the first person to raise serious and critical questions about the administration of justice in the highest court of the land.” The reference was to the January 2018 news conference held by four Supreme Court judges — Justices J. Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan Lokur and Kurian Joseph — where they expressed their disagreement with then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra over the allotment of cases to benches and other matters. “In particular, the issues raised by the four senior judges are central to the independence of the judiciary: manner of deciding the roster and composition and strength of benches, integrity of judicial process, institutional integrity, transparency in appointment of judges, etc. They had clearly and openly indicated that these vital principles have not just been flouted but ethically compromised,” the PUCL said. Quoting the four judges, it said: “There have been instances where case(s) having far-reaching consequences for the nation and the institution had been assigned by the Chief Justices of this court selectively to the benches ‘of their preference’ without any rational basis for such assignment. “While the language and content of the tweets (by Bhushan) may not be agreeable or palatable, the fact remains that Prashant Bhushan was only articulating a widespread view amongst many sections of the public, raising questions about the response of the apex court. “The correctness of Prashant Bhushan’s views about the role of former CJIs may be debated, but the fact remains that many sections of society feel that the structures of democracy are being dismantled and destroyed before our very eyes and the constitutionally mandated institutions are failing to play their independent, monitoring role. “In such a situation the SC, to which people still look up with respect and hope, is increasingly being seen by people to be supportive of the State and unresponsive to democratic and constitutional concerns.” The PUCL described Bhushan as an “indefatigable fighter for constitutional values and the ordinary citizen” and said his conviction for the tweets would only reinforce the view that the “SC will not allow any public questioning or criticism of its functioning and is not averse to using contempt laws to silence voices seeking transparency and accountability of the judiciary”. “Ironically, it is this view which will be more damaging of the image of the SC rather than the import of the tweets of Prashant Bhushan,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Health ID with digital records||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced a national digital health mission he said would enable doctors to access their patients’ entire medical records and help people fix appointments with doctors and make payments through keyboard strikes. Some health experts applauded the announcement saying the mission’s components could benefit patients and healthcare institutions, but cautioned that implementing the plan could be even more challenging than Aadhaar was. “Every Indian will be given a health ID,” Modi said in his Independence Day speech. “This health ID will work like a health account of every Indian. This account will contain your details of every test, every disease, the doctors you visited, the medicines you took and the diagnosis.” Doctors and experts enthusiastic about the plan said standardised records and error-free data entry would be critical. They underlined that people across India have for years detected errors in their voter I-cards, driving licences, Aadhaar cards and other such documents. “The intent is good — this is the way forward,” said Vispi Jokhi, a senior orthopaedic surgeon and chief executive officer at Masina Hospital, Mumbai. “But the most important issue will be training to ensure (patients’) data is entered correctly. Remember: garbage in, garbage out.” Another doctor stressed that while lay people can identify errors in their voter cards and driving licences, they are likely to be oblivious to any errors in their medical records. Many healthcare institutions already face staff shortages and it is uncertain who will enter the data. Another important challenge will be to ensure that whoever enters the data, Jokhi said — whether a nurse, doctor or healthcare worker — views it as “an aid at work rather than a hindrance”. The mission will create databases of doctors and hospitals across India, senior officials with the National Health Authority, a government agency entrusted with rolling out the mission, said. “These core building blocks of the mission shall be owned, operated and maintained by the government,” said Indu Bhushan, the NHA’s chief executive officer, in a media release. “Private institutions will have an opportunity to integrate with these building blocks… but the core activities and verifications, such as the generation of the health ID or approval of a doctor or facility, will remain with the government.” A patient’s personal health records — including information about previous doctors’ consultations, diagnostic tests and prescriptions — will be maintained in a digital format but will be accessible only with the patient’s consent, the NHA officials said. “No doctor will be able to access the personal health records without the patient’s consent,” Praveen Gedam, the NHA’s additional CEO, told The Telegraph. The mission will begin this month in seven Union Territories — Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Puducherry, the Andaman and Nicobar islands, and Lakshadweep — Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said. The NHA has said the mission will be a voluntary healthcare programme, which means that people who lack the health ID will not be denied treatment. But enthusiasm for the idea among health experts appeared tempered by concerns at the slow adoption of the electronic medical records (EMR) by the country’s healthcare institutions, although the Union health ministry had notified standards for the EMR in 2013 and revised them in 2016. “Even (among) private hospitals, EMRs are rarely exchanged between hospitals,” a senior official in India’s ministry of electronics and information technology had written in a paper four years ago. “These (EMRs) remain in the same hospital… and there is no authentic report on the number of patients whose EMRs have been stored.” But many believe the health ID will facilitate the mission’s rollout. “A unique health ID will help link the dots,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “This vision could be operationalised when the health ID is cross-linked across existing health records that are lying... with different healthcare providers and different diagnostic laboratories.” But getting healthcare institutions to sign in and share data in a standardised EMR format would be a challenge, officials and health experts said. “The technical objectives of ensuring the standardisation of records and ensuring seamless access along with appropriate safeguards could make this even more challenging than was Aadhaar,” John said. The proposed databases of doctors and hospitals will allow patients to choose their providers online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Kashmir leaders skip Independence Day celebrations, greetings ||The Kashmir valley’s pro-India politicians on Saturday appeared to treat Independence Day with scorn, mostly staying away from the celebrations, skipping the customary greetings, and some even mocking the absence of celebrations here. The Valley wore a deserted look courtesy the customary general strike called on such occasions. Only a handful of people, mostly officials, participated in Independence Day events in Srinagar and the other districts. While public participation would be negligible in previous years too, the mainstream politicians would turn up with some of their supporters. But this year, most of the politicians did not just stay away but appeared unwilling to even greet people on the occasion — a sign of the anger at last year’s abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and special status. Mohammad Akbar Lone, National Conference Lok Sabha member from Baramulla, summed up the mood, saying he had stayed away from the celebrations because he no longer accepted August 15 as his Independence Day. “We don’t accept it as our Independence Day,” Lone told The Telegraph. Reminded that he and his party colleagues used to participate in such events in the past, he said he was talking about the situation “as on date”. “We did not go because the event is not ours.... It is natural (that people should feel this way after the scrapping of Article 370). The relations between them and us are bad,” Lone said. “We have no relations with them. How can we accept them and take them as our own? It cannot happen.” He added: “(This is) because we think what they have done to us is foolish. They even converted it (the state) into a UT (Union Territory). It is childish. They think they will overwhelm us with such measures but they can’t.” Lone said the government did not want the politicians at the events, either, and that they had not been allotted fuel for their official vehicles for the past two days. This newspaper checked the Twitter handles of nearly two dozen senior Valley politicians, including Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti (whose daughter operates her account with her permission) and Congress leaders such as Ghulam Nabi Azad and Ghulam Ahmad Mir. None had a word of salutation. Most of these politicians had been arrested during last year’s clampdown. Omar re-tweeted a report by the fact-checking website Alt News about some BJP leaders including Kapil Mishra, Kiron Kher and Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering sharing a “morphed” picture showing the Tricolour unfurled atop Srinagar’s clock tower. Some media outlets too showed the picture. Mehbooba’s Twitter handle was silent on Saturday, after taking a dig on Friday night at the judiciary for its alleged silence on Kashmir. “A defunct justice system would rather punish @pbhushan1 for stating the truth but doesn’t exhibit any sense of urgency & deliberately delays petitions challenging illegal abrogation of Article 370 & unlawful detention of people jailed since a year,” the tweet said. The Twitter account of Mehbooba’s People’s Democratic Party defiantly posted a recent picture showing Kashmir politicians in detention. “Politics has not ended in Kashmir, it has now started!” the PDP tweeted. The only prominent politician to greet the people was the separatist turned pro-India politician Sajad Lone, released recently after yearlong detention and house arrest. He too was critical of the Centre. “Happy Independence Day to all. Hope we stop customising independence. There cannot be a ‘one size fits all’ concept of independence. Independence is defined by it(s) vastness. By differentness not sameness,” Lone tweeted. Some made fun of the abysmal popular participation in the Independence Day events. “Is it a meme? Who did it,” wrote Naeem Akhtar, former minister and PDP politician, uploading a video of the city centre where the government had installed LCD screens for live telecast of the Prime Minister’s speech. Hardly anyone was there to watch it. Akhtar’s daughter Sheryyar Khanum sarcastically posted that there were “Jam-packed crowds in Naya Kashmir listening to Independence Day speech in Srinagar”. “Naya Kashmir” (New Kashmir) has been a favourite slogan with some BJP politicians since the scrapping of Article 370. Some politicians referred to Modi’s promise in his Independence Day speech about holding elections in Jammu and Kashmir after the ongoing delimitation process was complete. “Special gift for JK on I Day; Democracy must wait till complete Muslim political n administrative disempowerment — isn’t that what @PMOIndia meant in his address to nation. So the only political process — as some were seeking — would b filing representations before D Commission,” PDP spokesperson Firdous Tak said. Many politicians believe that the delimitation would grant more seats to Hindu-majority areas in Jammu to tilt the balance in the Assembly in Hindus’ favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Karnataka revives plan to ban Social Democratic Party of India ||The BJP has revived its plans to ban the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), an offshoot of the outlawed Students Islamic Organisation of India (Simi), whose footprints have been found in several instances of communal violence, including the recent arson and vandalism in Bangalore. The political wing of the Popular Front of India, which claims to be a social organisation but is seen as harbouring Right-wing tendencies, the SDPI had allegedly played a key role in the violence late on Tuesday in which an MLA’s house, two police stations and hundreds of vehicles were set ablaze in the Karnataka capital’s east, triggering police firing in which three persons died. More than 60 policemen were injured. “We will take the decision to ban both the SDPI and the PFI during our cabinet meeting on August 20,” Karnataka panchayati raj and rural development minister K.S. Eshwarappa told reporters in Shimoga on Friday. Both the PFI and the SDPI trace their roots to Simi, which was banned soon after the 9/11 attacks in the US. The PFI and the SDPI are active in Karnataka, Kerala and also Tamil Nadu. In January, the BJP government in Karnataka had tried to ban the SDPI during the anti-CAA protests. “The government is under pressure from various organisations to ban these groups whose leaders were behind the violence,” Eshwarappa said. A derogatory Facebook post by P. Naveen, nephew of local Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, had sparked the Bangalore violence. Revenue minister R. Ashoka said preliminary investigations had revealed that the SDPI had played a key role in fuelling the mob frenzy. “Their activists are also among those arrested. So the government has to take a call on the demand to ban them,” Ashoka said. Among those held for the violence is Congress councillor Irshad Begum’s husband Kaleem Pasha, who allegedly has links with the SDPI. None from the SDPI has commented on the Bangalore violence. The Dakshina Kannada district secretary of the CPM, Vasant Achari, questioned the logic behind banning these groups overlooking the fact that their rivals were Hindutva fundamentalists. “First of all, I don’t believe in banning any group. What happened after Simi was banned? They renamed themselves as PFI, SDPI and KFD (Karnataka Forum for Dignity). So they basically reappear with other names,” he told The Telegraph on Saturday. “Are those who are trying to ban them any less communal? Why are they leaving out the Hindutva groups like the Sree Rama Sene and the Bajrang Dal that’s been creating so much of trouble?” Achari asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Congress: Are we free to speak, ask, disagree?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis in his Independence Day speech on making the country self-reliant has not impressed the principal Opposition party Congress, which has focused instead on what it sees as an assault on the defining principles of democracy. Arguing that self-reliance has been an eternal quest that every government has worked for since the nation-building process began after Independence, Congress leaders insisted that the greatest necessity today is to protect the foundational principles such as equality, justice and freedom that have come under severe attack. The Congress also contrasted its role in the freedom struggle with the RSS-BJP’s “fake nationalism”, striking at the heart of the saffron camp’s nationalism plank and its tendency to brand any opposition as anti-national. As India celebrated its Independence Day, the Congress exhorted the people to take a vow to collectively save citizens’ fundamental rights and constitutional values. Rahul Gandhi’s tweet wishing the people on Independence Day indicated what was gnawing at the Congress’s mind: ‘“The only alternative to coexistence is co-destruction.’ Jawaharlal Nehru.” While the former Congress president has been relentlessly attacking Prime Minister Modi for the past few months over the economic mess and the Chinese intrusions, Saturday’s tweet betrays his worries about the impact of toxic communalism on the social fabric. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said in her Independence Day message: “It appears the government is standing against democracy, constitutional norms and established traditions. These are testing times for India’s democracy. Every Indian needs to introspect what freedom means. In today’s India, is there freedom to write, to speak, to ask questions, to disagree, to express opinion, to seek accountability?” After the flag-hoisting ceremony at the Congress headquarters, party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Is the government committed to protect our freedoms? Does this government have faith in democracy, does it respect the people’s mandate? We see encroachment on individual rights everywhere…. And a government that is planning to sell India’s 32 public sector units — from the railways to airports, from LIC to FCI, can they make us atmanirbhar (self-reliant)?” The Congress also launched a social media campaign to create awareness about the freedom movement and the foundational values of Indian democracy. A video series called Dharohar (Legacy) was unveiled by Rahul, stressing how freedom was achieved through great struggle and sacrifice; and the social, political and constitutional values that evolved during the course of the greatest movement to create a modern nation-state. Through the campaign, the Congress is seeking to remind the younger generation, which has been fed the propaganda that nothing happened before Modi’s arrival on the national scene in 2014, of its glorious legacy. The Congress’s failure to counter that narrative, which also helped the RSS-BJP to usurp the nationalist plank, has been one of the key reasons for its continued electoral decline. Modi returned with a bigger mandate in 2019 primarily riding on the tension with Pakistan, with the Balakot air strike bolstering the BJP’s nationalist pitch. The Congress is finally waking up to confront the BJP on this critical factor. It has asserted that only the “fake nationalism” of the RSS brand can describe as unpatriotic raising questions on fundamental issues such as the economy, jobs, people’s welfare and territorial integrity. Many Congress spokespersons posted videos saying the time had come to expose the RSS-BJP’s “fake nationalism” and wondered who gave them the authority to issue certificates of patriotism. While the Congress ran a social media campaign on the BJP’s “fake nationalism” on the eve of Independence Day, Rahul sought to drag the Prime Minister back to the Chinese incursions, arguing that India would have to pay a heavy price for Modi’s lack of courage. The Congress leader tweeted on Friday night: “The Government of India is scared to face up to Chinese intentions in Ladakh. Evidence on the ground indicates that China is preparing and positioning itself. The Prime Minister’s personal lack of courage and the media’s silence will result in India paying a huge price.” Modi, however, avoided naming China in his Independence Day speech, only saying: “From LoC to LAC, whoever has tried to challenge the country’s sovereignty, the country and its forces have given a befitting reply to them.” While the LAC (Line of Actual Control) was a reference to China, he also spoke against expansionism again. This was in sharp contrast to Modi’s usual bellicose public posturing on Pakistan — defined by his “ghar mein ghus ke mara” claim — but he appeared satisfied with the situation, saying the world had seen what India could do to protect its sovereignty. It is not clear what retaliatory action the Prime Minister was referring to. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari responded: “China has occupied our territory. The Prime Minister of India does not have the courage to name China. What kind of a leader is he??? On Independence Day people must rise to protect our independence.” Sonia also said in her message that the best tribute to the Indian soldiers who died in the Ladakh clash would be to throw out the Chinese from Indian territory. The BJP has condemned Rahul’s sustained grilling on China as anti-national. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said in a video message: “How come anybody asking questions about jobs, economy, China… become anti-national? Whatever you say, the BJP will either brand you a traitor or a fake nationalist. Who gave them the certificate to assess our patriotism? When the Congress was fighting the British, they were siding with them, writing mercy petitions, promising not to join the Congress struggle.” Shrinate added: “We want to ask how most attacks on our borders happen during the BJP’s rule — Kargil, Doklam, Ladakh? Modi goes to Pakistan to celebrate Nawaz Sharif’s birthday, calls the ISI to the Pathankot airbase and remains a nationalist. And all others who ask questions are anti-national.” Alleging that the RSS had been dancing to the tune of the British when the Congress was fighting them, another party spokesperson, Ragini Nayak, said: “They burnt copies of India’s Constitution, refused to hoist the Tricolour for 52 years and distributed sweets after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination. What kind of nationalism is this?” Echoing the allegation that the RSS had no role in the freedom struggle, senior Congress leader Mohan Prakash asked: “Is selling public sector units like the LIC, BPCL, BSNL and the railways a patriotic act?” The Congress posted several messages, videos and graphics pointing out that “true nationalism was reflected when the Congress built India — world-class institutions, telecom, milk and green revolutions, the world’s largest army and robust economic growth. Toppling governments, muzzling the voice of the people, selling national assets is not patriotic”. The Congress also explained how the BJP had delivered the highest unemployment rate since Independence, the lowest GDP growth rate, publicity stunts and fake news during its six-year rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Pandian drives Naveen to I-Day venue||IAS officer V.K. Pandian, who is private secretary to Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, on Saturday drove his boss to the venue of the Independence Day celebrations in what is being viewed as Patnaik’s complete faith in the officer. Pandian, 46, was behind the wheel of the car which took the chief minister from Naveen Niwas to the Exhibition Ground around 3km away, a 10minute drive. Both Pandian and Patnaik wore masks. Normally a government driver takes Patnaik to programmes and functions but he seems to have done away with his services temporarily in view of the pandemic. “Since Patnaik has complete trust in Pandian, he decided to go to the function with him. Pandian offered to drive him to the venue,” said a source. Patnaik has restricted the visit of people to his residence with Pandian the only officer to have unrestricted access. Many believe Pandian has a say in all important political and administrative decisions. “An IAS officer from Tamil Nadu, Pandian is not supposed to have any political interest in the state. Hence, he is trusted even more by Patnaik,” said a political analyst. •An earlier version of the report erroneously gave the IAS officer's name as Naveen Pandian. We apologise for the mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Lockdown leaves Mountain Man’s family in penury||Dashrath Manjhi, popularly known as the “Mountain Man”, may not have felt helpless when he carved a road through hills for 22 years to ensure villagers could get road access to the nearest town. But his family have been left helpless by the lockdown and the lack of jobs, forcing them into living a hand-to-mouth existence. All the limelight that Manjhi’s family had received due to his feat, all the accolades, recognitions, awards and the grit that runs in their genes did not help when the coronavirus-induced lockdown struck. “My father Dashrath Manjhi chiselled through the hills single-handedly for 22 years to carve a road and became immortal. We carry his legacy and determination but we have lost to the lockdown and joblessness. We feel so helpless,” said his son Bhagirath, furrows of sorrow and frustration etched on his face. Bhagirath, 65, lives with 24 family members, including those of his sister and her sons, in adobe huts on a small piece of land at Gehlaur village in Bihar’s Gaya district. “Our entire family, barring the children, worked as labourers, masons and daily wagers. But the lockdown has taken away everybody’s jobs and forced them to sit at home. Whatever savings we had, has been spent,” Bhagirath told The Telegraph. The different stages of “unlock” did not come to their rescue and they could not get employment. With all savings finished in just a month, the family survived on the help provided by people from neighbouring villages and subsisted on foodgrains borrowed from locals who are well-off. Then, a grandniece (sister’s granddaughter) of Bhagirath, Pinky Kumari, aged 3, was hit by a speeding motorcycle outside their home on July 12, and suffered fractures in one hand and both legs. With no money to take her to hospital, the family had to borrow Rs 35,000 at 10 per cent monthly interest from local moneylenders. The girl is now recovering with plasters in her limbs. Former parliamentarian Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party provided Rs 10,000 but it went in Pinky’s treatment. “We don’t know how we will be able to return the borrowed money without getting work. The return of migrant workers to their homes has created a glut of labourers and the wages have gone down significantly. We are unable to get any work even as agricultural labourers,” said Bhagirath’s son-in-law Mithun Manjhi. The family is somehow managing to stay afloat as Bhagirath’s daughter is an anganwadi sevika (assistant) and gets a salary of Rs 4,400 per month. The family have also  been able to get some foodgrains with their ration cards. “You can imagine our condition by seeing the food on our plate. We used to have rice, dal, roti, vegetables, milk and tea before the lockdown. But now we eat only rice and dal or sometimes roti and dal,” Mithun said. “We feel that the entire situation is man-made and aggravated due to the mismanagement of the government. No government official has come to enquire about us nor we have received any government help so far,” Mithun alleged. Dashrath, who passed away in 2007, was a poor labourer residing at Gehlaur. His wife Falguni Devi slipped and fell in 1959 while crossing a hillock which bordered the south of Gehlaur. She was badly injured and succumbed to her injuries as the villagers could not take her to the hospital on time as the nearest town was 55km away. Working continuously between 1960 and 1982, Dashrath, with just a hammer and a chisel, shortened the distance between Atri and Wazirganj blocks from 55km to 15km, with just one thought in his mind that people should not die without medical attention like his wife did. He carved out a 110-metres long, 9.1-metres wide and 7.6-metres deep path through the hillock, thereby shortening the distance to Gaya town by 40km. Documentaries, television show and films have been made on Dashrath’s life, including the Ketan Mehta directed Manjhi — The Mountain Man, with Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Radhika Apte in the lead roles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker dies in clash||A BJP worker was killed in a clash that broke out over Independence Day celebrations between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP at Khanakul in Hooghly on Saturday. Both Trinamul and the BJP had planned flag-hoisting ceremonies at Harsihchak village on Saturday morning and had built stages within 10 metres of each other on the bank of a canal. Police sources said that when supporters of both the parties reached the spot to begin the celebrations, an altercation broke out, which soon snowballed into a fierce clash. The BJP alleged that Trinamul supporters attacked them with sharp weapons, killing Sudarshan Pramanik, 38, a resident of nearby Natibpur village, and injuring two others. The police sources said Pramanik was hit on the neck with a sharp-edged weapon and died on the spot. In retaliation, BJP workers set fire to a portion of a wooden bridge over the canal and vandalised the Trinamul dais. Trinamul claimed that the murder was the fallout of BJP infighting. “Our party has no connection with the murder and it was a result of the BJP’s infighting. BJP leaders are spreading violence in Khanakul and are blaming us for the death of their party worker. The police will take action against the accused,” said Dilip Yadav, Trinamul’s Hooghly district president. The police have detained 11 persons and a large contingent of law enforcers has been deployed to avoid further violence. “This is nothing new. Trinamul has realised that they will be removed from power next year and have started resorting to violence. They cannot even let the BJP observe Independence Day peacefully,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. In Calcutta, BJP supporters complained that the police prevented them from worshipping Bharat Mata at several parts of the city. In Bagbazar in north Calcutta, local BJP leaders alleged that a programme to worship Bharat Mata was forcibly scaled down by the police. “We had planned a 12ft-long dais where Bharat Mata was to be worshipped. However, the police forced us into making it a 2ft-long dais,” said Shibaji Singha Roy, the BJP’s north Calcutta district president. Some BJP workers clashed with policemen in Behala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
16-08-2020||West Bengal||Leopard caged in tea garden||An adult female leopard was caged by the state forest department from the plantations of Bhagatpur tea estate located in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri early on Saturday. “For the past one month, the leopard had been roaming around in the tea estate. It had taken away cattle and poultry on a number of occasions and we were apprehensive that it might even attack people. It is good that it has been finally caged,” said Shyamsunder Saha, an assistant manager of the garden. Sources in the state forest department said they had laid a trap using cattle as bait. “We have rescued the animal and it has been taken to the nature interpretation centre in Lataguri located on the fringes of the Gorumara National Park. There, it would be kept in observation for some time and then will be released in the wild,” said a forest officer. Those residing in Bhagatpur, however, claimed that they have sighted another leopard roaming around in two other sections of the plantation. “We suspect there are more leopards in the garden for which cages should be laid,” the assistant manager said. With this, as many as 26 leopards have been trapped from 22 tea estates — all in the Dooars — in the past six months. In the Dooars and the Terai, there are a number of tea gardens which are located on the fringes of wildlife habitats. Intrusion of animals like leopards, elephants and gaurs (Indian bison) is common in these gardens. R.A. Sharma, secretary of the Dooars branch of Tea Association of India, said they always keep their members on alert. “Intrusion of animals in tea gardens is a perennial problem for us. During the current tea season, we have seen that leopards have been sighted in a number of tea estates. This has only added to the problems and losses of tea companies as workers have expressed reluctance to work in tea plantations, unless the leopards are trapped,” added Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
16-08-2020||North East||Kuki plea to PM on pact with NSCN-IM||The Kuki Inpi Manipur (KIM), the apex body of the community, has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “seriously consider” simultaneous settlement of Kuki and Naga “aspirations for self-governance” within the Union of India so as to rule out imminent “adverse” repercussions of a settlement between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) that could affect Kuki-inhabited areas. In a representation to Modi, the KIM said they have in memoranda submitted earlier to the Prime Minister made it very clear that the Framework Agreement should not infringe upon the Kuki-inhabited lands. The Framework agreement was signed on August 3, 2015 between the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) and the Centre, based on which both parties would resolve the decades-old Naga political problem. The KIM said five of the 16 Manipur districts — Chandel, Kangpokpi, Tengnoupal, Pherzawl and Churachandpur — are dominated by Kukis. “Any attempt to pamper the NSCN (I-M) at the cost of Kuki ancestral land and without settling Kuki political demands will be considered a betrayal of Kuki aspirations and is likely to fuel violent reprisals,” the KIM memorandum said. “The Kukis will accept any solution or agreement whatsoever made between the government of India and NSCN (I-M) if such agreement does not infringe on Kuki-inhabited areas and a similar political arrangement for self-governance of Kukis is accorded for Kuki territories,” the KIM said. On Thursday, Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh had said that the ongoing Naga peace process would not affect the territorial integrity of the state. He said the Centre would hear the views of the people of the state before finalising a peace deal. The NSCN (I-M) and the Naga Students’ Federation, among others, celebrated the 74th ‘Independence Day’ on Friday. In his message, NSCN (I-M) general secretary Th. Muivah, who is in Delhi, said, “Our forefathers fought back all invaders with total patriotic commitment in defence of our sovereign country — our people, land, history, identity, culture, politics and religion. They fought back the British imperialist forces with available arms for decades and finally declared our independence on August 14, 1947 on the eve of lapse of the British power.” Muivah also said the Nagas will co-exist with India sharing sovereign powers as agreed in the Framework Agreement and defined in the competencies. “But they will not merge with India. We are not asking for Naga national flag and constitution from the Government of India. Recognise them or not, we have our own flag and constitution.” “Flag and constitution are ingredients of our recognised sovereign entity and the symbols of Naga nationhood. The Nagas must keep their flag and constitution.” Reiterating his commitment to a negotiated political solution, Muivah also said, “Taking the sovereign right of the Nagas and the security and commercial interests of India into account, we have condensed our discussions to the mutually agreed Framework Agreement and worked out competencies to be finalised. Indeed, the Nagas are for a political solution.” Talks between the Centre and the outfit resumed this week after a brief period of uncertainty following strained ties between the NSCN (I-M) and the Centre’s interlocutor for the peace talks, R.N. Ravi, who is also the Nagaland governor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
16-08-2020||Opinion||Mountains and men||Faith, the wise ones believe, can move mountains. But can the mountain find faith — political faith — to be a moving experience? This question has arisen on account of an unprecedented request by the maverick president of the United States of America. It has been reported that Donald Trump, during a visit to Dakota, had enquired of the governor of the possibility of adding his visage to the Mount Rushmore Memorial, a gigantic culmination of political and artistic sensibility, which has the faces of four former US presidents carved in rock. The governor, apparently, mistook Mr Trump’s request to be an instance of presidential humour. But the current president — he faces a tough re-election this year — cannot be blamed for lacking humour in uniform. Mr Trump has shown, time and again, that he can be dead earnest when it comes to pandering to the bizarre. Mr Trump has, characteristically, denied that his team had made such a plea. Such a volte-face is not unexpected from a hot-under-the-collar president. The point, really, is not about who is speaking the truth. Neither can it be about the merit of Mr Trump’s ‘dream’: he is on record — a rally in 2017 can be cited as one example — saying that he wished — are not politicians known to nurse colossal ambition? — Mount Rushmore had a fifth face: that of his own. Never mind the fact that Mr Trump would appear like the proverbial Lilliputian on a slope dominated by the likes of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln, who are believed to represent the spirit of the US’s birth, growth, development and preservation, in that order. Mr Trump’s opponents believe that he is, in fact, the very antithesis of the vision nursed by the US’s tallest figures. The real issue, therefore, is the all-too-human attraction towards self-preservation for posterity. History shows that of all tribes, politicians, across the ideological spectrum, are the most at risk. The two Athenians who purged their city-state of authoritarianism had erected statues to commemorate their feat. Dictators, like liberators, cannot do without their fair share of giant replicas. One of Turkmenistan’s presidents erected a golden statue of himself, declaring — without contrition — that the installation had been commissioned at the behest of the people. Unfortunately for Mr Trump and his peers, gold and stone, much like humans, have proven to be mortal. Political memorials are rightfully viewed as repositories of contested ideas. This makes them fragile. Decolonization in Asia and Africa witnessed the toppling of colonial art and figurines. This turmoil continues if the acrimonious, global debate over statues — be it of the slave trader, Edward Colston, or that of a Black Lives Matter protester — is any indication. The tug-of-war between icons and iconoclastism is ceaseless. Politics has blessed this conflict — not politicians — with immortality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
16-08-2020||Opinion|| Prose over poetry||When I saw on Wednesday morning that Kamala Harris had released a short video marking and celebrating her selection as Joe Biden’s running mate, I clicked — eagerly and instantly. I wanted to continue riding my wave of excitement about all the firsts: first woman of colour on a major party’s presidential ticket, first Black woman specifically, first Asian-American. By the time I finished the video, that wave had crashed. Ok, that’s an overstatement. But as I listened to her flat, desultory recitation of her biography and philosophy, I did feel a sense of frustration, and it was familiar. I’d wrestled with the same let-down during the Democratic primary, when the experience of Harris didn’t live up to the idea of Harris. She often skipped or skimmed over facets of her background that she would have benefited from dwelling on. She frequently zoomed past the poetry to the prose, more a steely lawyer rattling off lists than a soulful leader serving up inspiration.Harris the prosecutor can find the holes in your argument and make you tremble. But can Harris the history-making vice-presidential candidate find the cracks in your heart and make you cry? That’s certainly not a requirement — most politicians fail to do that — and I’m not complaining per se. As I wrote when the news broke, her presence on the Democratic ticket makes total sense in terms of the experience that she possesses, the values that she represents, and the contrast that she helps Biden draw between his politics of inclusion and Donald Trump’s politics of division. I’m articulating a wish, one that’s tied to my belief that a decent future for this country hinges on an end to Trump’s presidency and my concern that Biden and Harris use every arrow in their quivers to defeat him. I’m venting a worry that Harris doesn’t fully use one of her arrows. She did poorly in the Democratic primary because, yes, her campaign was a mess. But she also did poorly because she never discovered the right, stirring way to tell and sell her story. I wanted her to discover it on Wednesday night, when she spoke at the Democratic National Convention (or however we’re describing its virtual facsimile). I want her to hold on to it between that day and November 3 because I want to call her the vice-president of the United States of America soon after that. Although Trump would cringe at the following thought and never understand it, Harris reflects this country’s ideals and its reality much better than he does. “Her story’s America’s story,” Biden said when he and she first appeared together as running mates on Wednesday afternoon. He’s right, and I want her to embrace and flesh out that thought at every turn. She’s the biracial daughter of immigrants: Jamaican father, Indian mother, both beckoned to this country of newcomers and transplants. Growing up in California’s Bay Area, she was bused to an elementary school in a richer, whiter neighbourhood than her own, so she knows the fact of segregation and the dream of integration from the road she travelled. She understands how families, despite their best intentions, fray. Her parents divorced, and when her mother found teaching and research work in Montreal, she moved for her middle and high school years to that largely white, French-speaking city. For college she went to Howard, a historically Black university in Washington, D.C. that allowed her to appraise America — its past, present and future — from a different vantage point. From there she forged her own path, with her own rules. She didn’t marry until she was 49. Her husband is white and Jewish and she’s a stepmother to his two children. What a rich mix of influences: as multiracial, multiethnic and multicultural as the country in which her parents wisely invested their hopes. What a portrait of life as it’s lived, with all sorts of swerves. In her public remarks she makes references to some of this, but they’re usually just that — references. After she mentioned school busing (“that little girl was me”) to attack Biden in a primary debate for his opposition to it, I went back and looked at the big speech that she’d given to kick off her presidential campaign. Busing was nowhere to be found. In fact her speech didn’t have all that much biographical detail, period, at least if you edited out the professional stuff. It was strikingly impersonal. I recently read much of her memoir, The Truths We Hold: An American Journey, published shortly before that speech, and came away with the same impression. She gives you less of her history than you expect, not more. She steers away from emotion, not towards it. Maybe that’s what a woman aiming for top jobs in a man’s world has to do. Maybe that’s even more incumbent on a woman of colour. A scintilla too angry and you’re unhinged. A soupçon too misty and you’re unraveling. It’s worth noting that when Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez stood in the House last month to call out the misogynistic remarks of a male colleague, she twice stressed that she was speaking from the perspective of principle, not of upset. “I want to be clear that Representative Yoho’s comments were not deeply hurtful or piercing to me,” she said, adding that she was made of tougher stuff than that. She later reiterated that she “was not deeply hurt or offended.” To be at all emotional, she had to establish that she was unemotional. A male lawmaker wouldn’t have felt that need. John Boehner, the House Speaker from 2011 to 2015, certainly didn’t: he was famous for weeping at the drop of an amendment. If Nancy Pelosi behaved as soggily, she’d be savaged. But in the book, The Firsts, about the women who entered Congress in record-breaking numbers after the 2018 midterms, Jennifer Steinhauer of The New York Times notes that several of those newcomers did permit themselves to tear up at appropriate times — for example, when discussing an issue that had greatly affected them or their loved ones — and it came across as authentic, not weak. Maybe the world is changing for the better. Or maybe there’s more allowance for women in House seats than for women in even higher posts. The Kamala Harris I’ve met and chatted with informally, in person, is warmer and more winning than the version I’ve watched on the stump. More transparent. More accessible. And I saw flashes of her on Wednesday afternoon, during that appearance with Biden, when her huge smiles suggested that she couldn’t contain her exhilaration. She shouldn’t try. Her story is genuinely exhilarating. Storytelling is everything. Trump won the presidency with a story about America that appealed to many Americans. It mixed imaginary villains with real ones, lies with truths. But he told it expansively. He told it effectively. Obama’s rise was rooted in his own story, in the eloquence with which he spoke of Kenya and Kansas and how their commingling inside him was the American dream. I can’t count the number of times, on his path to the White House, that he put a lump in my throat. Harris’s story is the rival of Obama’s. She just has to give it a comparably mythic shimmer. I know “that little girl” was her. But I want to know more about her, and I want to hear her voice. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
16-08-2020||Opinion||Teach a man to fish||Sir — After an initial dip in supplies, markets are now flush with hilsa. Although this is still nothing compared to the quantity of catch in other years. One of the reasons for this is the low pressure in the region. The depleted stocks of fish are worrying for more than just the bhojon roshik Bengali. Fishermen have already been rendered vulnerable by climate change and its effects on marine life and coastal communities. The dangers of over-consumption cannot be underlined enough. The job losses that resulted from the pandemic only make fishermen more desperate to overfish. This is dangerous. Roshni Sen Calcutta Sir — Reports about the deaths of men and women who venture into the depths of the forest in the Sunderbans to catch fish and crabs or gather honey at the hands of tigers are not uncommon. Recently, a mason who lost his job in Calcutta during the pandemic and returned to his home in the Sunderbans was mauled to death by a tiger (“Jobless mason killed by tiger”, Aug 13). This might not seem out of the ordinary, but it is. The residents of the Sunderbans are bearing a double burden of misfortunes. First, it was the pandemic and then the Cyclone Amphan, which inundated fields and ponds with saline water, leaving them unfit for cultivation. It must be noted that the families of people killed without a fishing permit are not entitled to any government compensation. But should this rule be adhered to in the light of the extraordinary circumstances? The section that is most vulnerable is that of the ‘tiger-widows’. They are suddenly left without any earning member or means of livelihood. Since there is little to no chance of the immediate restoration of the livelihoods of the labourers who went back home, the situation calls for immediate intervention on the part of the government and special packages tailored to the needs of people in the Sunderbans. Jahar Saha Calcutta Sir — The claim of the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, that Russia has developed a vaccine for the novel coronavirus ahead of other countries has — understandably — been met with scepticism around the world. It appears to have been made in the fond hope that it will earn laurels for Russia. Perhaps the rushed announcement was to pre-empt some other countries who have similar vaccine projects in the pipeline. Putin cannot take the liberty of shortening a marathon into a sprint in contravention of global guidelines set by the scientific community. He has no right to risk the lives of thousands of people. According to Putin, the Russian coronavirus vaccine called Sputnik-V has shown “sustainable immunity” against SARS-CoV-2 — the president did not elaborate on this. The revelation that one of Putin’s daughters was among the vaccine volunteers and has been inoculated with Sputnik-V and has “felt well after having slight high fever” means nothing in the absence of definitive proof that the vaccine is safe and effective. The fear that a vaccine has been rushed through without following proper protocol is dangerous, and will cause more harm not just to Russia’s image but also the vaccines that come after it. By its own admission, Russia has not done the crucial third phase of clinical trials. It has not done enough testing; what is more, it has not made public the results of whatever tests it conducted for rigorous analysis. It is evident from the speed with which Sputnik-V has been developed that Russia cut corners and bypassed certain parameters. The third phase involving several thousands of participants representing or cutting across the general world population in all its heterogeneity is indispensable to confirm a vaccine’s safety and efficacy. The World Health Organization has not given its stamp of approval to Russia’s Sputnik-V. In the absence of evidence that Russia’s vaccine will not do recipients any harm, people will be reluctant to use it. A vaccine mired in opacity can be no less dangerous than a life-threatening pathogen after all. G. David Milton Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
16-08-2020||Opinion||Caught! When BJP IT cell chief got too clever by half||On August 13, Amit Malviya, the chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s IT cell, said that Narendra Modi has become the longest serving non-Congress prime minister of the country. He surpassed the record of his party senior, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, of 2,268 days as PM. But beating Vajpayee is not exciting enough for either Modi or his party. He has already left behind all others in the BJP and emerged as the tallest leader the sangh parivar has ever had. So the information technology cell of the BJP came up with another statistic to show that Modi had surpassed both India’s first PM, Jawaharlal Nehru, and also his daughter and former PM, Indira Gandhi. Malviya tweeted a comparative chart and wrote that PM Modi has “served for the longest time as head of an elected government”. He said that from being the chief minister of Gujarat to becoming a two-term PM, Modi has been in office for 18 years and 306 days — a total of 6,878 days — beating Nehru’s tally of 6,130 days and Indira’s count of 5,829 days. Social media, however, caught Malviya’s jugglery. One Twitter user replied that Pawan Kumar Chamling was the CM of Sikkim from December 12, 1994 to May 26, 2019, that is, 24.4 years or 8,932 days. The Twitter user asked Malviya if he does not count Sikkim to be a part of India. The BJP IT cell boss had tried to be too clever by half by selecting only former PMs to project Modi as the greatest. There was a stage when the camp of the Rajasthan chief minister, Ashok Gehlot, was not very sure of the loyalty of all the members of the legislative assembly who were holed up at Hotel Fairmont in Jaipur. The Sachin Pilot camp, too, fuelled speculation by talking of hidden support which would come to the surface once the MLAs were freed from captivity. Gehlot, who went to the hotel almost daily, was, on a particular night, discussing strategies with his colleagues. Tired after a long day’s work, the 69-year-old CM, sitting in a chair at around 2 am, was found humming the Hindi song, “Main zindagi ka saath nibhata chala gaya/ Har fikr ko dhuyen mein udata chala gaya...” This inspired the MLAs so much that they resolved to stay with Gehlot come what may, no matter for how long the crisis stretched. The veteran political leader was tense amid the political crisis even though he never showed any sign of surrender and resolutely led the fight from the front to save the government. But the song that flitted through his mind — it was from Dev Anand’s blockbuster, Hum Dono — suggested that he was going through the mill without any worry. Months have passed since the Union home minister, Amit Shah, fixed a deadline and prodded Central paramilitary forces to buy only ‘swadeshi’ products. But the ministry is still not ready with the list of such products. Ministry officials are at their wits’ end because of the confusion over what constitutes swadeshi (indigenous) and videshi (foreign) products. In the absence of a clear definition, officials are still trying to figure out if it excludes products made locally by international brands. A first attempt at the end of May to de-list non-swadeshi products had to be withdrawn as it included goods made by Indian companies. Since then, the decision-makers have been walking on eggshells. The political crisis in Rajasthan, in spite of having ended well for the Congress, has triggered anxiety in other Opposition-ruled states like Punjab, Jharkhand and Maharashtra. While Punjab is better placed as the BJP has no clout there and the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, is in full command, Maharashtra and Jharkhand are feeling jittery. The first thing that Congress MLAs from both Maharashtra and Jharkhand expect from the high command are general secretaries who are actively involved in the states’ affairs. The unease of the general secretary in charge of Maharashtra, Mallikarjun Kharge, is rising as his movements are restricted because of age and health issues. Kharge rarely visits Maharashtra and his commitment to the alliance with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party is also in doubt. The latest allegation against him is that he cannot take everybody together. Many Maharashtra leaders have already asked for the appointment of a new and more active general secretary. Kharge anyway is tipped to replace Ghulam Nabi Azad as the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha in the coming months, making it easier for the high command to relieve him of the taxing gen-sec assignment. In Jharkhand, the in-charge, RPN Singh, has several critics who have started complaining to the Central leadership. Worse, RPN has of late created enemies in the high command structure too, making his position even less secure. The Karnataka BJP chief, Nalin Kumar Kateel, is trying to tame his party colleague and Lok Sabha member, Ananth Kumar Hegde, after the latter called BSNL employees “traitors”. But the fact is that several presidents before Kateel had tried in vain to control the motor-mouth. Although both Hegde and Kateel are favourites of the RSS, some BJP veterans are asking who can bell the cat, considering Hegde’s huge popularity in his Uttara Kannada constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh sadar SDO injured in road accident||Hazaribagh sadar subdivisional officer Megha Bhardawaj suffered minor injuries on Sunday when her official SUV overturned on the Ranchi-Patna highway (NH-33) in Charhi, about 15km from the district headquarters. Bhardawaj, a 2016 batch IAS officer, was referred to Ranchi for treatment. A Charhi police officer said Bhardawaj was on way to Ranchi when the accident took place around 1 in the afternoon. He said the driver veered to avoid a collision with a speeding vehicle and lost control. The SUV hit a divider and overturned near Fauzi Hotel in Charhi. Local people gathered on the spot and informed the police following which Bhardawaj, her bodyguard and driver were pulled out from the vehicle. They were taken to the government health centre in Mandu. On Saturday, the Congress MLA from Barkagaon escaped unhurt when her car rammed into an escort vehicle which had stopped suddenly to avoid running over some buffaloes. In another accident in Ramgarh district late on Saturday, a truck carrying pipes to Ranchi overturned in Kejhia Ghati in the Dulmi police station area, killing driver Khesari Singh on the spot. It took four hours for the police to extract the injured cleaner from the damaged vehicle. The cleaner has been identified as Dablu Kumar. He is hospitalised. The police line ground at Sector-12 in Bokaro has been named after martyr Ranjit Mahto. The state education minister, Jagarnath Mahto, made the announcement at an Independence Day event on the ground. The minister paid rich tribute to those who have sacrificed their lives for the country. He said the government will develop the ground by building a shed and conducting a beautification drive. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh, superintendent of police Chandan Jha and other officials were present on the occasion. In a first for the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), the Independence Day celebrations were held without the CEO. The executive director, project, Rajiv Khuswaha, hoisted the tricolour. Harinand Rai, the in-charge CEO, was not in town. The post of BSL’s CEO has been lying vacant for the past eight months. The celebrations which used to be organised at M.K.M. Stadium every year were shifted to Ispat Bhawan due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Khuswaha felicitated “Covid warriors” and awarded CISF and BSL employees for their exemplary work. He also announced plans to enhance production to 6 million tonnes from the existing 4.5 million tonnes in the next three years. A pellet plant with a capacity of 4 million tonnes will also be set up in Bokaro. Garhwa police late on Friday night arrested a wanted criminal who was in hiding in Chatra.  Satyendra Paswan, alias Satya, was wanted in 13 cases by the police in Garhwa and Bihar’s Aurangabad. He had changed his name and was operating his gang over the phone, the police said. A team led by subdivisional police officer Bahman Tuti conducted a raid in Chatra after a tip-off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad cricketers recall playing days with Mahi||Cricketers of Dhanbad who knew, or had played with, M.S. Dhoni admitted they were taken aback by Mahi’s retirement announcement on Saturday, but all were unanimous in their view that it was perhaps the only way the former Team India skipper would do things given that no one really knows what’s on his mind. Ratan Kumar (36), who played with Dhoni between 1998 and 2005-06 till MS was chosen in Team India, said, “He is known for taking bold decisions. So, he may have decided on his retirement to give an opportunity to newcomers.” Kumar, who works as an office superintendent in the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway, said they wanted him to play his farewell match in Ranchi. Satya Prakash (42), another Dhanbad cricketer who has played Ranji matches for Jharkhand, said, “Although it is his personal decision and nobody should question it, no one expected it as we were hearing lots about his serious T20 practice sessions.” Prakash, who works as senior collector with Eastern Railway at Kharagpur, added that as a fellow cricketer and fan, they still wanted him to don India colours. “We played together and against each other on several occasions both for Ranji Trophy and inter-district matches. Once when I asked him the reason for pasting an MRF sticker on his bat and he said it was because he was an ardent fan of Sachin Tendulkar. So, he copies Sachin’s bat too. He treated Sachin like a god. I am amazed at, and appreciative of, the manner in which he handled senior players like Sachin and Rahul (Dravid) as captain,” said Prakash. Chandra Mohan Jha, a middle-order batsman who has played 34 first class matches, and with Dhoni in Ranji Trophy, said he was sure Dhoni would achieve new heights in IPL too. “Although I was only three years senior to him, he was humility personified and always respectful of his seniors even though we were playing together," added Jha, who is with the mechanical engineering department of Dhanbad division of East central railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Wear a mask, for traffic cops are on the prowl in steel city||Police in Jamshedpur are stepping up vigilance to ensure commuters wear masks, the initiative that started on Friday having already led to around 50 violators being fined Rs 500 each. Deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Shrivendra Kumar made it clear that using a handkerchief or a dupatta (in case of women) as a face cover wasn’t enough. Everybody would have to wear a proper face mask, he said, adding that these measures were being taken in view of the rising number of Covid cases and related fatalities. Even while in a vehicle or riding a two-wheeler, masks were compulsory, he said. "Those found without masks are being asked to pay a fine of Rs 500. The penalty under Motor Vehicle Act-1988 is being charged in accordance with a notification issued by the state transport department," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The DSP pointed out that from Monday, traffic police would carry out a drive to check for masks at all police station areas, beside Sakchi, Bistupur, Jugsalai, Golmuri and Mango traffic stations. In the past 24 hours, 89 new Covid-19 cases were recorded, taking the total number of cases to 3,630 in East Singhbhum district. Four patients at Tata Main Hospital died, taking the total number of Covid deaths in the city to 130. The local chapter of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has demanded a change in bank working hours, citing the relatively high number of bankers who were testing positive for the virus. The forum’s Jamshedpur convenor, Rintu Rajak, said that bank employees dealing with customers were getting infected. "As of Sunday, more than 70 employees posted in various banks in the city have been infected with the coronavirus. As more and more bank employees are getting infected, we want banking hours to be restricted till 2pm instead of 5 pm, he said in a press statement. “Otherwise, banks should be allowed to function every alternate day to ensure bank staff are safe,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||One-time teammates want Mahi to mentor Jharkhand cricket||Ranji players, past and present, want M.S. Dhoni to start his second innings as a “monitor” for cricket in Jharkhand. Some welcomed Mahi’s decision to retire from international cricket, while others felt the former Team India skipper should have stuck on till after the World T-20. “As players we always loved Dhoni to be with us every time. We need him. MS is very sound in taking decisions. His retirement is a great loss... He has changed the face of Indian cricket,” former Team India pacer Varun Aaron told The Telegraph Online from Bangalore. Jharkhand Ranji skipper Saurabh Tiwary said over phone from Mumbai that Dhoni came up with regular tips to players during Ranji camps in Ranchi. “He (Dhoni) is one of the best persons I’ve met. We happened to meet more during the past two-and-a-half years. I learnt a lot from him,” he added. Southpaw Saurabh recalled Dhoni’s captaincy in one Ranji one-day match versus Maharashtra in Calcutta. “Jharkhand was dismissed for 103 in 50 overs and we thought we will not be able to defend such a low total. But Dhoni instilled confidence in us and we went on to stop our opponents for 92. We need his regular tips even now,” he added. Ishank Jaggi, one of Jharkhand’s Ranji mainstays, said Dhoni’s retirement was a personal decision. “But for the Covid crisis, he would have played the World T20. I have learnt a lot from him during Ranji camps. He is a master is reading match situations,” he said. Former Bihar Ranji captain Avinash Kumar has fond memories of Mahi, but regrets he hasn’t met Dhoni for nearly two decades now. “He has achieved everything in cricket. I would like him to administer the game in Jharkhand and someday also head BCCI and ICC. Dhoni’s Ranji debut (at Keenan Stadium in 2002) happened to be my last match. Dhoni scored 64 in that tie. I told him to convert scores into hundreds,” Kumar, now a senior officer at Tata Steel sports wing, recalled. “I remember Mahi used to stay at my home in Dhanbad when he played the summer cricket tournament we organised in the memory of my father in 2000. My wife Amita used to ask Dhoni about his food preference. He loved omelettes,” Kumar recalled, adding that Dhoni and Ranchi’s Anshuman Raj were the most sought-after cricketers at that time with all teams wanting to hire them. Former Ranji allrounder Satish Singh feels Mahi should operate as a “monitor” to take cricket in Jharkhand to new heights. “I think Dhoni should act as a monitor for cricket in the state. There can be no one better than him. I played alongside him in his Ranji debut. A cool man who was different from others. Always looked confident and committed,” he added. Kajal Das, an ex-Bihar allrounder, opined that Dhoni should have retired after the World T20. “Dhoni was part of the team when I was the coach of the under-19 and Ranji sides. He loved Jamshedpur more than Ranchi. I remember when I asked him to open the innings in a Ranji match against Haryana (in Gurgaon) in the early 2000, Dhoni struck 98 before lunch in that match. Dhoni was different and seldom said no to workouts,” he said, and seconded the idea that Mahi  could be a monitor or coach for Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Remote East SInghbhum village gets library on Independence Day||The children of the remote Bhandarshol village in Baharagora block of the East Singhbhum district celebrated freedom from ignorance on the 74th Independence Day, when the village got its first library on Saturday. The library, which started with a mere 100 books donated by various Samaritans in and around Jamshedpur, was named after Galwan martyr Ganesh Hansda. On Saturday, the library, which is within a village building was inaugurated by Hansda’s elder brother Dinesh. “Children in remote areas face problems getting access to books. This village library named after Ganesh will cater to many children in nearby villages. I am happy that the library is named after Ganesh and that it will be able to ignite the quest for knowledge for many,” said Dinesh Hansda, who also hoisted the tricolour. The library will comprise of daily newspapers, magazines, motivational books, and literature along with course materials for intermediate exams and graduation. Nischay Foundation in Jamshedpur supported the formation of the library by collecting the books. A library committee was also formed on the spot where around four members were entrusted with the responsibility of the library. The members aim to make it a full-fledged library for school and college-going students and for those who aim to appear for competitive examinations. The residents of the villagers also aim to start two more libraries in the other two villages of the panchayat. “We aim to start another library on Teacher’s Day, September 5. We have already started getting calls from youth organisations from other panchayats that have showed interest in opening a library in their respective villages. The objective is to connect people to libraries and create a habit of reading books and gaining knowledge,” said Tarun Kumar, founder of Nischay Foundation. Bikas Bhuiyan, a 15-year-old student in Bhandarshol is happy for the first library in his village. “Desh duniya ke bare me zyada jaan sakte hai. Pustakalay humara gyan badhata hai. Dheere dheere hum koshish karenge ki zyada se zyada bachhe yahan samay bitaaye (We will know more about the world. Libraries increase our knowledge. Gradually, we will try to get students to spend more time at the library,” said Bikas who recently received the Veer Shaheed Ganesh Hansda Fellowship 2020 established by the Nischay Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||8-feet-long rock python caught in Hazaribagh village||An 8-feet-long rock python was caught by villagers in Bahronpur village of Sitagarha area under Sadar block, some 10kms away from Hazaribagh town on Saturday night. The snake was entering the house of one Baleshwar Toppo, after which the family cried for help. Local villagers didn’t kill the python but instead, packed it in a jute bag. On Sunday morning, they made a call to Binod Miachel, who works in Vinoba Bhave University and is known for rescuing snakes. Miachel reached the village, retrieved the jute bag, and released the reptile into the forests of Churu close to Canary hills. Sharma said the Churu forest is safe for snakes and they had released snakes here earlier also. He said he was happy to see that villagers caught the python safely and kept it in a bag, instead of killing it. “If people behave in such a responsible way, it will help in saving these creatures. Many times, people of urban and rural areas have killed the snake after seeing it near their houses,” he said. According to Sharma, pythons are found in large numbers around Sitagarha Pahad as well as a hill in Mukundgunj close to town. He said the rock python is in the list of endangered species and killing invites punishment. “It’s non-poisonous and people should catch and leave them in forest areas,” he said. He said snakes come out of their habitat during monsoon and so every year, cases of snakebite increase in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coach who pulled Dhoni away from football wants No.7 jersey retired too||Keshav Ranjan Banerjee, M.S. Dhoni’s childhood coach who weaned him away from football to take up cricket during his school days in hometown Ranchi,  believes that criticism and speculation around his long sabbatical may have played a role in his decision to call it quits. "Of late, there has been a lot of criticism about him in the media about  how he could return to international cricket as he's not played a single match since the 2019 World Cup semi-final in July,” Banerjee said referring to last year’s match against New Zealand. "I don't know but it may have played a role in this decision. Only he (Dhoni) can throw some light into it," Banerjee told PTI from Ranchi. Thirtynine-year-old Dhoni bid adieu to international cricket on Saturday, via cryptic Instagarm post accompanied by video and song, surprising all and bringing the curtains down on a glorious career. Ever since he went on a sabbatical after that semi-final match, speculation raged over his future but he stoically avoided a response for over a year. Banerjee, who first introduced “footballer” Dhoni to cricket during his school days at the Jawahar Vidya Mandir at MECON, maintained that his "favourite student" was still fit to play for India for another year.  "Yes, I had said he could have played for one more year easily including the next T20 World Cup. And I still maintain that.  "Looking at his fitness level, he could have easily played. It's not just my opinion but many others think the same way," an emotional Banerjee said.  "There is an end to everything. Yes I'm heartbroken but, at the same time, you have to take control of your emotions."  The two-time former World Cup-winning captain will go down as one of the finest to have played the game for India, turning up for the country in a whopping 350 ODIs, 90 Tests and 98 T20 Internationals.  Banerjee said Team India should retire Dhoni's No 7 jersey.  "I'm sad for just one thing that we won't be able to see the No.7 jersey anymore. Everyone has to retire at one point of time. But it's a sad moment. I don't think Team India should give this jersey to anyone. He is a legend and No.7 will always be for Dhoni."  Dhoni will, however, compete in this year's IPL, which gets underway in the UAE from September 19 after being moved out of India due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Dhoni's announcement came a day after he joined his IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings for a camp ahead of its departure for UAE.  Asked whether the COVID-19 pandemic impacted his decision, Banerjee said it's all hypothetical.  "He's not the only sportsperson to be affected by the pandemic. All players are affected. It's a hypothetical situation. T20 World Cup is postponed for now. He has made up his mind. It's his decision. Like always this too was a surprise for all of us."  When asked how eager would Dhoni be to fire in the IPL, Banerjee said: "Only we will see how he will do. Every match is like an examination for a cricketer and everyone will see how he does for CSK this time."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad corporation identifies site of waste-to-energy plant||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has identified a 21-acre government plot at Govindpur for establishing a waste-to-energy plant, about which it has already sent a letter to the district administration. The corporation is also planning to hold talks with BCCL authorities for transfer of land for establishing a new compactor station. The city needs more such stations urgently as only seven of the required 30 have been set up so far. Project officer of DMC’s solid waste management project Ravi Kumar said, “We have already written a letter to Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh for transfer of land” Last year, DMC had identified a 30-acre plot belonging to FCI in Sindri to set up the waste-to-energy plant. But it had to look elsewhere as FCI’s lease charges were too high. Earlier this year, DMC identified a 17-acre plot at Aamahata at Baliapur belonging to Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA). It wrote to JMADA too, but a delayed response regarding transfer formalities forced DMC to zero in on Deoli in Govindpur. The proposed waste-to-energy plant and dumping yard is expected to produce 6MW of electricity per day. The capacity of the plant will be 1MW of power from 100 tonne garbage. All 55 wards of Dhanbad, spread over five circles, are expected to produce 600 tonne garbage per day. While dry waste will be used to produce power, besides additional products like tiles, wet waste in the form of food leftovers and kitchen waste will be used to produce manure at a proposed processing plant. DMC is finding it difficult to dump garbage because of a shortage of compactor stations that serve as primary dumping sites. The final dumping site would be the waste-to-energy plant. Notably, the move is aimed at mopping up revenue collection through user charges. But unless the solid waste management service, particularly door-to- door garbage collection, is fully functional, DMC will find it difficult to charge residents. Last month, DMC finalised charges for various categories of houses and commercial establishments. Housing societies for the economically weaker sections will have to pay Rs 20 per month, lower income group, middle income group and higher income group societies/houses will have to pay Rs 30, Rs 50 and Rs 80 per month, respectively For hotels and guest houses with 10 rooms, the user charges are Rs 1,000 per month, for hotels and guest houses with 11-20 rooms, 21-30 rooms, 31-50 rooms and 50 rooms the user charges are Rs 1,500, Rs 2,000, Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mega Covid testing drive across Ranchi on Tuesday||The district administration will hold a daylong special Covid testing drive on Tuesday, August 18, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced on Sunday, explaining that the move was to boost testing in the capital by scanning a large section of the untapped population. Talking to reporters, Ranjan said that the drive, using rapid antigen kits, would be held across 20 centres that would be set up at strategic locations to cover the length and breadth of the capital. He appealing to public step forward and give their samples. "In addition to the existing Covid testing process which is underway on a daily basis, we have decided to hold a daylong mega drive on August 18 to cover vulnerable pockets. This will also help in timely detection of more cases for preventive steps." The locations identified for testing include CMPDI (Kanke Road), Jharkhand High Court, Red Cross building (Morabadi), Hotwar jail, Marwari Bhawan (Ratu Road), Sainik Market (Main Road), the warehouse near Kanke CHC, block offices in Ratu, Nagri, Namkum, Silli, Angara, and Piska. Tests will also be done at 10-plus high school in Mandar, middle school in Bero, Beer Budhubhagat Inter College in Chanho, Bundu sub-divisional Hospital, community health centres in Tamar and Sonahatu. Ranjan appealed to people to follow social distancing norms and wear mandatory masks while turning up for providing samples. As per Sunday night's bulletin, Ranchi's tally rose to 4,376 cases of which 2,101 are active and 39 have died since the virus outbreak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Stuck IITian comes up with smart village plan in Jharkhand ||An IIT Mumbai alumnus stuck in Jharkhand because of the lockdown has conceived a project to transform his native place into the state’s first greenfield smart village. Amitesh Kumar, 27, who completed his MTech in power system and power electronics from IIT Bombay in 2019 and landed a job as an executive engineer at ONGC, had arrived at his native village Daiher in Chouparan block of Hazaribagh district to celebrate Holi in March. He was scheduled to return to Mumbai in the last week of March. But destiny had other things in mind. “I had to cancel my flight tickets due to the lockdown. During my stay, thoughts of doing something to solve the vexed problems of my village came to my mind. I had been to Dholera in Gujarat, which is one of India’s greenfield smart cities. I incorporated the ideas in making a project for my village and approached ONGC Foundation, Ola Foundation and Tata Power Foundation when I reached Mumbai in July. “My persuasive skills while arranging sponsors for IIT Mumbai Mood Indigo (considered Asia’s largest college cultural fest), helped me in arranging sponsors for the project. The ONGC Foundation also approached Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan who consented to lay the foundation stone online from Delhi on August 15 (Saturday),” said Amitesh, who completed his schooling and intermediate from Hazaribagh. However, the project could not be launched on Independence Day as Pradhan had to attend a medical check-up as part of Covid-19 protocols. The minister had tested positive for the coronavirus on August 4. “The Union minister’s office intimated that due to medical check up for Covid, the online launch could not be held today. They have assured to fix a date later this month once the minister tests negative,” said Amitesh. The first phase of the greenfield smart village project will have a 4km-long piped water supply, LED streetlights and plantation of fruit bearing trees and Wi-Fi enabled CCTV cameras at strategic locations across Daiher panchayat, which has over 500 households. The project is scheduled to be completed in four months. “I have hired a project in charge and two engineers who will be monitoring the execution of the first phase of the project. I would be coming to Daiher every month to inspect its progress during my off days as I work in an off-shore project of the ONGC. We have already set up a submersible boring pump and overhead reservoir of 1,000 litres capacity and laying of pipes has already begun. Drinking water was one of the biggest problems of the villagers as more than 3,000 people depended on a handful of hand pumps. Installation of CCTV cameras and streetlights will also commence this month. Tree plantation was scheduled to start from today,” said Amitesh, who also has a BTech from Meerut. The second phase of the project envisages construction of concrete houses for the needy, with each unit costing around Rs 3 lakh, a 25MW solar power plant to be set up by Tata Power and bituminous roads with a completion timeline of nearly three years. “We have estimated a cost of nearly Rs 15 crore under the greenfield smart village project. We will be also approaching the district administration for necessary logistic support,” said Amitesh, whose father Naresh Prajapati works in a private company in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The second phase also has plans for a 50-bed hospital in the village. Daiher is around 116km north of Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
16-08-2020||Jharkhand||Coronavirus patient commits suicide in Ramgarh||A 45-year-old coronavirus patient committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of a Covid-19 care centre in Ramgarh district on Saturday. The reason behind the suicide of Vijendra Prasad Nirala, a resident of Kaitha village, is not yet known, subdivisional police officer Anuj Oraon said. Vijendra’s father-in-law Sitaram Barnwal said he was working at a private company in Ranchi and had returned recently to Ramgarh. He had started feeling uneasy, after which he went for a Covid-19 test, he added. The result came back positive. Vijendra was admitted to the Covid-19 care centre in Nayi Sarai area of the town seven days ago. According to his relatives, Vijendra was tensed for the past few days. Nilamber-Pitamber University (NPU) in Daltonganj has announced that it has “re-extended” the schedule for filling up exam forms for the B.A., B.Sc., and B.Com Honours/General/Vocational courses of Part III for session 2017 -20. Sources said NPU has done “lots of ground work” for the final-year exam as the UGC had set a deadline of September 30. Officials said the Supreme Court had been petitioned by states and various student bodies against organising the exam which the UGC has contested on the ground that it deems all fit and necessary to hold the final-year examination. A notification of the re-extended schedule for filling out the exam form has been issued by the controller of the examinations of NPU, S.K. Pandey, under the order of the vice-chancellor, Ram Lakhan Singh. The re-extended dates are from August 16 to August 23. Students must fill out their forms online at www.npuuniv.in. They can also use the payment options on the website. The NPU has publicised the following fees for the exam: Rs 1,150 for undergraduate non-practical exams; Rs 1,250 for undergraduate practical exams and Rs 1,400 for undergraduate vocational exams. For students who have failed, the fees range from Rs 400 to Rs 650. Vice-chancellor Singh said: “This is the second extended schedule for filling the form. We have asked students to fill their examination forms online and they need not come to the college for it.” He added: “The exam will be conducted in the pen-and-paper mode and there will be no online test. Students will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing.” Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap addressed the people of Koderma after hoisting the national flag on the measures taken by the district administration to put a check on the spread of the novel coronavirus infection. He praised “Corona Warriors” for their work in these tough times. Gholap spoke of the developmental work in the district. Eighteen persons who recovered from coronavirus infection were discharged from the Covid-19 care centre at Domchanch in Koderma on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-333
