17-08-2020||Calcutta||Alipore Zoo goes online||The Alipore zoo is closed to visitors because of the Covid pandemic. But animal lovers can now get a peek into the enclosures every day. The zoo authorities have started to upload live feed of the animal enclosures on Facebook. The feed is based on footage from the CCTV cameras inside the enclosures. The facility was launched on Sunday (in picture). “We will have two sessions every day —  from 9am to 10am, and from 3pm to 4pm. Each session will show an enclosure,” said a zoo official. On Day 1, the feed from the chimpanzee enclosure was shared. The service was inaugurated by forest minister Rajib Banerjee, who also felicitated the keepers and vets of the zoo for their role during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Children should be able to think independently without fear||Independence is not just about hoisting the national flag. It should also mean an ability to think independently without fear, said those working with children. Children should be free from abuse, child marriage and trafficking, said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Only by hoisting the flag one does not become free. Freedom has many layers to it. We know there are many challenges in people’s lives to live or think independently. So on this day we should all pledge that we will support anybody who thinks independently... and children should be free from exploitation, child marriage, sexual abuse, trafficking and they should be entitled to the right to study, play and lead a healthy life…. That is the independence we want for our children,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. She was speaking at a webinar on “Freedom from Fear” organised by the commission on Saturday, the country’s 74th Independence Day. “The adults need to understand that if we let children think independently and give them courage, then they will be able to lead independent lives,” said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram. Chatterjee Chakraborti later said fear was not a good thing to live with. “Parents have to trust their children and make them independent rather than impose their dogmas on them. Children should learn on their own and parents have to guide them and show them the path but the choice has to be the child’s,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. Adults often intrude on the free space of children, which in some cases could be as heinous as exploitation and abuse, and can have a serious outcome, said Ram. He stressed the need to work with families where children are abused but a complaint under the Pocso Act cannot be filed for various reasons. “If a family is not ready to lodge a case, we have to be respectful of their decisions also…but we cannot stop working with them… rehabilitation has a huge significance for the child and family,” said Ram. “There has to be systemic changes, handholding, reassurance that the family or the child needs,” Ram later said. The session was moderated by Yashabanti Sreemany, a member of the commission and a counsellor. “When children or their families come to us we counsel them to come out and talk about the wrong that they have faced. The perpetrators should also not go free,” said Sreemany. Other panellists included Sudeshna Roy, a special consultant of the commission, and actors June, Arjun Chakraborty, Sudipta Chakraborty and Chaiti Ghoshal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||New Town property tax deadline extended ||The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has extended the deadline for paying self-assessed property tax of the 2019-2020 financial year to December 31 keeping in view the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown to contain it. The original deadline for tax payment was June 2, an NKDA official said. The decision to extend the last date of tax payment was taken after several residents requested the New Town authorities for a “breather given the pandemic situation”, the official said. According to another NKDA official, a total of 17,353 residents paid their taxes by June 2. Another reason cited for extending the deadline is requests from non-resident Calcuttans owning property in New Town, who were unaware of the introduction of taxes and therefore failed to pay in time. “In consideration of the genuine time constraints faced by many, the authority has considered and reviewed the deadline for self-assessment and payment of tax,” the official said Tapan Chakraborty, who owns two apartments in Greenfield Heights, said he was happy that the NKDA had heeded their requests. “We are rarely stepping out because of the pandemic,” he said. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had trained Tax Sathis to help the residents go about the assessment and filing process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Sweet poise between old and new||A city usually comes with two kinds of environmental heritage: natural and built. In Calcutta both are under tremendous threat. About our city being the cultural capital of India, the less said the better. Calcutta, many feel now, has only one real heritage item to showcase: its food. The city lives, breathes and certainly eats its food. The past is never disowned when it comes to food. It is cherished, rediscovered, maintained and even fought over. Look how passionately Bengal staked its claim to rosogolla. True, tradition is often subjected to “fusion”; and the purist may object to a lyangcha tart. But done well, it leaves a much better aftertaste than bling on Tangail. Not that Calcutta food — especially its world of mishtis — is sweet and uncomplicated. The lyangcha is being challenged by the tart. Also, there is a caste system. When it comes to mishtis, the North looks down on the South. Ask a connoisseur about the heritage mishti shops of Calcutta and he is likely to rattle off a procession of names that spell vintage, class and refinement: Girish and Nakur, Bhabatarini, Makhanlal Das, Putiram, Haridas Modak and Bhim Chandra Nag. None of these addresses are located in the other side of Dharmatala. Yes, there may be a Balaram or a Mithai in the South, but North Calcutta is a star-studded show. So a place like Mrityunjay Ghosh and Sons, or just “Mrityunjay” as it is known in and around Lansdowne Road, where it is located, almost opposite Lansdowne Market, does not enjoy that privileged a place in this hierarchy. Those who know Mrityunjay, however, think of it as joy in the morning, to quote P.G. Wodehouse. The air around the almost 90-year-old shop, which has the names of its mishtis and savoury items written in clear bold, Bengali letters in white against blue on its spectacular front, is redolent with the smells of its kochuri and singara. The singara has a slightly sweet edge.  The matarshuti kochuri and the radhaballabhi are served with aloor torkari or chholar dal. They are fried fresh. It is hard for the morning walker to ignore that smell and keep going. The lyangchas are soft, succulent and plump. But the most special item served here is roshomundir payesh — tiny rosogollas half-drowned in sweet heavy thickened milk. The man behind the counter, which is a rectangle cut out on the front, is also the proprietor of Mrityunjay, Somnath Ghosh. He is as unassuming as the shop he runs. The sales from the shop has gone down quite a lot during the lockdown. But that does not prevent Ghosh from there every day at the shop from early morning. He admits that his shop is well-loved in the locality, and adds that one of the most famous Bengali celebrities was among his loyal customers, but he looks slightly surprised about his interview. The shop was started by his grandfather, Mrityunjay, a resident of Howrah who came over to the South. It was handed down to his father and then he joined the business. “That was in 1978, after I graduated in commerce from South City College,” Ghosh said. He takes me through the contents of the old-fashioned showcase that houses the mishtis. An unperturbed, jovial, friendly man, he is most willing to answer my questions, but has very little to say about himself. “The main thing is the chhana ,” he said. Almost nothing has changed in the shop since its beginning. Above hangs the beamed ceiling, from which are suspended two large whirring ceiling fans. On one wall hang two large framed photographs, of Ghosh’s father and grandfather. Two attendants help Ghosh man the shop. The only piece of decoration in the whole establishment is its inscribed front. “And we use fresh ingredients,” adds Ghosh, still answering the question on what makes the mishtis special. But listening to his voice inside the barely-lit shop, a feeling of stillness seems to be settling down inside you along with the gorgeous roshomundi you have just had, muting the din of a busy Calcutta street, noisy despite the lockdown. Everything around Mrityunjay has changed. The buildings, the shops. Just opposite Mrityunjay is a shop called Selfie. Mrityunjay items have not changed, too. The different types of sandesh with a coloured layer, chhanar jilipi, rosogolla, pantua, seeta bhog, kalakand — all remain the same as the past, from the time of his grandfather. “I have only added the gur-kalakand,” says Ghosh. The use of gur in making mishtis throughout the year is one big change from the past. He has stopped short of experimenting with the newer ingredients, like chocolate. At this point my reverie about the past is broken rudely. Ghosh informs me that he is just waiting to “modernise” the place. He is prevented from doing so at the moment because of some practical reasons, but will definitely as soon as he can. What will he change? “Everything,” he says. He points at the showcase, the wall cupboards with the wooden doors, everything. I suddenly feel another little piece of old Calcutta disappearing. But in a city like ours, one person’s heritage is another’s inconvenience. And in the absence of any real thinking about heritage by the authorities, modernisation only means a complete overhaul of the past. But Ghosh did not say anything about the modernisation of the mishtis. I hold on to that as I walk away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid note during discharge to clear confusion about double swab test||Covid-19 patients in hospitals or safe homes will get a note during discharge which will mention that they do not need to undergo any more swab test to confirm that they are free of the novel coronavirus, health department officials said. The department has taken the decision following reports that there is confusion among people about the need for a swab test immediately before a Covid-19 patient is discharged as well as after discharge, the officials said. “It has been observed that there is a large degree of confusion amongst Covid affected patients, their relatives, in the neighbourhoods and people at large regarding the need of testing before discharge from hospitals or safe homes,” reads the order issued on Friday by the state’s director of health services, Ajay Chakraborty. The order includes a text that should be part of every discharge certificate. “The patient was suffering from Covid-19 and was under treatment from… to.... The patient is now stable and discharged with advice for home isolation for next 7 days. He is instructed to follow all the home isolation guidelines strictly and to report to the local hospital if any symptoms appear at any time. Further test for Covid-19 is not necessary as per the ICMR protocol,” the text reads. The note will also mention the duration of a patient’s stay in hospital. “There was a lot of confusion among people whether a negative report of Covid-19 is needed or not during discharge. As per guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), such a test report is not needed. We have now circulated a text that doctors should write during discharge of patients,” said Chakraborty. The discharge note is necessary because several patients were asked to provide a negative test result before they are allowed to return to their apartments and/or neighbourhoods. Metro had on August 7 reported that a recovered Covid-19 patient in a south Calcutta apartment was asked by the residents’ welfare association to get tested after 14 days and then step out. In the absence of any clear communication from the health department, the residents’ welfare associations of many housing complexes and standalone buildings are taking it upon themselves to decide when a resident who has recovered from Covid will step out. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and mentor of Covid Care Network (an organisation comprising doctors, officials and people who have recovered from Covid-19), said the organisation had received requests for certificates from many recovered patients. “There was a need for a clear order from the government…. We have been receiving requests from many recovered patients to give them a certificate that they do not need to undergo a test,” said Chowdhury. Patients in home isolation can get such a certificate from the doctor who advised home isolation, an official said. Sanjib Bandopadhyay, a doctor at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Beleghata, said some doctors were issuing those certificates. “The ICMR protocol said any mild or moderate patient who is discharged from hospital and stays in home isolation for seven days does not need to undergo a test,” he said. “If any doctor declines to give the certificate, the patient can come to our Covid-19 follow-up clinic.” The clinic is held every Wednesday, from 11am to 2pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Smartphone, data pack for 800 Jadavpur University students for online classes||Jadavpur University will provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to 800-odd students so they can attend online classes, which are to start on September 14. The university had carried out a survey among the students of engineering, science and arts faculty and the study revealed that as many as 800-odd students are in need of support, said a university official. The students in need of help have been split into two categories. “The students who do not have a smartphone are in the first category. And those who do have a smartphone but lack a high-speed data pack to download lectures and audio visual presentations from the university’s website or social media are in the second category,” the official said. “We will distribute smartphones and high-speed data to the students who need them,” vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said. “A large number of students need a data pack. We have decided to raise a corpus. The teachers have been asked to contribute a day’s salary. The university will approach business houses for funds to buy the devices for the learners.” JU has 600 teachers and around Rs 10 lakh can be raised if each donates a day’s salary, a teacher said. Classes in non-contact mode, which will not require students to come to the campus, will start in September. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had advised the teachers to come up with models on how classes can start. In response the teachers suggested that study materials — notes, soft copies of textbooks, powerpoint presentations, and audio and video lectures — be delivered to the students through email and WhatsApp. A university official said some teachers had suggested creating a central repository on the university’s website, which would have a section where course materials would be uploaded. “Since the central repository will fall short of adequate space for so many lectures and audio-visual presentation, it has been proposed that the lectures and study materials be also uploaded on YouTube. Students will be given a link to download the content from the platform,” said the official. Partha Pratim Roy, an associate professor of physics at JU, said they had urged the VC to have an outreach approach so that students lacking basic connectivity were not left out of the classes. Many students in JU are from the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas, which suffered immense destruction after being hit by Cyclone Amphan on May 20. “Those living in the Sunderbans had their roofs blown away by the May 20 cyclone. They are reeling under the twin blows of the storm and the pandemic. They cannot be expected to buy smartphones,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
17-08-2020||Business||RBI's recap skip call||The government may not have to inject fresh capital into the public sector banks (PSBs) as the one-time loan restructuring permitted by the RBI has reduced additional fund requirement by them. Also the poor credit offtake on account of the coronavirus pandemic may obliterate the need for significant growth capital during the current fiscal, sources said. There may not be a sudden surge in non-performing assets (NPAs) after the six-month moratorium comes to an end this month as it is followed by a one-time loan restructuring, sources said, adding, provisioning requirement is also quite low for the debt recast accounts. Moreover, most of the public sector banks have taken approval in advance to raise tier-I and tier-II capital during the current fiscal depending on the need. Despite all these, sources said, if at all there is a need for regulatory capital requirement by some public sector banks towards the end of the current fiscal, the government will provide that like it has done in the past. In 2019-20, the government infused Rs 70,000 crore into PSBs to boost credit to give  a strong impetus to the economy. However, the government refrained from committing any capital in Union Budget 2020-21 for the PSBs, hoping that the lenders will raise funds from the market depending on the requirement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Rush for gold funds ||Gold ETFs witnessed an inflow of Rs 921 crore in July, a surge of 86 per cent from the preceding month, as new investors rushed to add the precious metal in their portfolios in view of higher prices. With this, the net inflow in the gold exchange traded fund, or ETF category, has reached to Rs 4,452 crore in the first seven months of the year, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed. According to the data, a net sum of Rs 921 crore was pumped into gold-linked ETFs last month, higher than the net Rs 494 crore in June. The inflows meant assets under management (AUM) of gold ETFs climbed 19 per cent to Rs 12,941 crore at the end of July from Rs 10,857 crore in June-end. Month-wise, investors put in a net Rs 202 crore in January, Rs 1,483 crore in February, but withdrew Rs 195 crore in March on profit-booking. Inflows resumed in April at Rs 731 crore, followed by Rs 815 crore in May. “Gold prices continued to scale new highs on the back of weakness in the dollar, tension between the US and China and consistent rise in Covid-19 cases globally, which boosted its safe-haven appeal,” said Himanshu Srivastava, associate director-manager research at  Morningstar India. “With all major economies staring at recession due to the spread of coronavirus pandemic, gold, expectedly, has emerged as one of the best performing asset classes and a preferred investment destination among investors,” he added. Srivastava further said the surge in coronavirus cases has cast a doubt on the swift recovery hopes and investors continue to hedge their exposure to riskier assets by investing a portion of their assets in gold, as it is seen as a safe haven in times of uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Industry felt impact in last fiscal||As many as 159 companies listed on the BSE cumulatively saw a decline of Rs 22,538 crore in their EBITDA in the three months ended March 2020 compared with the December quarter, reflecting an early impact of the coronavirus pandemic, says a report. EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. For the report, leading consultancy EY India analysed March quarter results of the top 300 BSE-listed companies and 115 global firms spanning over 12 sectors to evaluate the impact of Covid-19 disruptions on their reporting calendar, profitability, financial position, liquidity, disclosures and other key parameters. “The analysis relies on the details of the pandemic’s impact as presented by companies in their results or any public document pertaining to their quarterly reporting,” EY India said. It was done for the March quarter results of top BSE 300 companies that were announced till June 5. Most of the companies experienced a material impact on financial performance indicators such as EBITDA, revenue, debt and interest service coverage, provisions, profitability as and earnings per share (EPS), it noted. According to the report, 159 BSE 300 companies saw Rs 22,538 crore decrease in EBITDA in the March 2020 quarter compared to the preceding December quarter, 2019 “as early impacts of pandemic and resulting changes in macro-economic factors,” EY India said. Sectors that experienced significant negative influence of the pandemic and unfavourable macro-economic changes were BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) aviation, automotive, power, oil & gas and travel, the report noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||SUV appeal endures during pandemic||SUVs are blazing the roads amid the debris of the pandemic. As many as 12 of the 18 models launched since March have been SUVs or SUV bodytypes, braving a downturn in the market that is consistently reporting falling sales month-on-month. Car makers have lined up another 27 models by the end of the calendar year — of which 15 will be SUVs, taking the number of planned launches to 27 in just nine months. The industry, on the other hand, continues to be sucked into the vortex of a slump  with July sales down over 30 per cent. Manufacturers, however, have taken it on their chin as they lure customers with fresh launches every month. Analysts said consumers are downgrading their choices with the contraction in the economy and falling incomes. “But once the pandemic is over, people will go back to their preferred vehicle, that is the SUV,” an analyst said. Shashank Srivastava, executive director, sales and marketing, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, pointed out the markedly different type of SUVs favoured by the buyers. “In India, SUVs have a different connotation altogether. It is not the 4x4 offroader that is the choice of the consumers here,” he said. “Rather it is the urban SUV, a 2x2 avatar with SUV bodystyle that is favoured. And why just India, SUV bodystyle is the choice all over Europe, China too,” Srivastava said. Maruti has the S-Presso, Ignis, XL6 with an SUV-ish design. For Hyundai, it is the SUV that is giving the company its numbers. The new Creta launched in March has garnered 65,000 bookings with 60 per cent of  the sales coming from the diesel variant. Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing & service), Hyundai Motor India Ltd,  said, “Hyundai Creta has redefined the SUV landscape since its launch in 2015 and has crossed 5-lakh sales mark.” Hyundai sold more than 34,000 units of the Creta, Venue, Tucson and  Kona Electric. The Korean company has products in all the segments, including the hatchback and sedan, but is betting big on its SUV range because of its high profitability, Garg said. Toyota Kirloskar India Limited (TKIM), which is poised to launch its first compact SUV Urban Cruiser this month, is seeing a revival at the lower end of the market. “The market composition is veering towards what it was five years ago with compact cars seeing a revival of sales,” said Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, Toyota Kirloskar. The Japanese  company is witnessing a growth in the lower end of its product range with the Glanza comprising 25 per cent of its sales. Both the Glanza and the upcoming model Urban Cruiser are cross-badged vehicles from Maruti. “In a contracting industry, Glanza has been able to hold on to its sales of 2,000 units per month. We think the Urban Cruiser, an A segment SUV, will be a good enabler in the current market,” Soni said. For Tata Motors, it’s the compact SUV and the premium hatchback that are seeing good numbers. “The number of first time car buyers is very high in the market. Also people are buying additional cars preferring personal mobility to mass transit. These first time buyers are opting for compact SUVs or premium hatches priced Rs 5 lakh upwards. The segment below Rs 10 lakh is growing,” said Vivek Srivatsa, head of marketing, passenger vehicle business unit, Tata Motors. Kia Motors, which had a dream debut with the SUV Seltos in the top 10 bestselling list every month, will have its compact SUV Sonet in the market in September. The other entrant to the market, MG Motors, has launched its six-seater Hector Plus and is gearing up to launch the MG GS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||NBFCs suffer from cash flow mismatch||Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) could face a cash flow mismatch with the Reserve Bank of India allowing a one-way restructuring of advances, a senior industry representative said. NBFCs are concerned over falling cash inflows following the moratorium to its clients even as they repay the banks for their borrowings which are not under moratorium. Sunil Kanoria, vice-chairman, Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd, said the proposed restructuring programme was designed without any consultation with the industry. “NBFCs are not manufacturers of goods; they borrow money from banks and from the wholesale market,” Kanoria said. Since NBFCs have been directed to offer moratorium to their clients and are expected to restructure the loans of their customers, it is only fair that they should be allowed to get their borrowings restructured, Kanoria said, adding “otherwise, it will create serious mismatch in their cash flows”. He said a representation has been made to the RBI requesting the regulator to address the anomaly of the cash flows to ensure the financial stability of the NBFC ecosystem. Kanoria said a loan should be restructured after assessing the financial position and future cash flow of the borrower and should not be restrained with timelines and portfolio sizes. While announcing the one-time restructuring of MSMEs, the RBI has fixed the aggregate exposure of the borrower at Rs 25 crore as on March 1, 2020 and mandated the restructuring to be done by March 31, 2021. “If deadlines have to be set, it should be liberal, till at least March 2022. We should also wait for the expert committee, led by K.V. Kamath, to make suggestions,” Kanoria said. He said some large NBFCs backed by the government may be able to steer their operations through the pandemic, but others would have to work out strategies. Many NBFCs, including Srei, have been selling portfolios and banks flush with liquidity have been the major buyers. Despite the challenges, deepened by the IL&FS defaults and overall risk aversion from the banking sector, the borrowings of the NBFC sector from the banks have shown an uptrend. RBI data show that the share of long-term market debt in the total borrowings of the NBFC sector has declined from 49.1 per cent at the end of March 2018 to 40.8 per cent at the end of December 2019. The funding gap was met through bank borrowings that rose from 23.1 per cent to 28.9 per cent over this period. Kanoria said that while a consolidation of NBFCs may not be an ideal solution, the regulator can encourage mergers between banks and systemically large NBFCs. “It has happened in the past and there are success stories from such mergers. This will provide a long-term solution to the current liquidity conundrum for NBFCs and will help in expanding the reach of banking services to larger numbers of SME and MSME customers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Gas price may fall below $2||Prices of natural gas in India are likely to be cut to $1.9-1.94 — the lowest in more than a decade — from October, denting the revenues of producers such as ONGC who are already incurring huge losses on production. A price revision is due from October 1 and going by the changes in the benchmark rate in gas exporting nations, the price is likely to be anywhere between $1.90 and $1.94 per million British thermal unit (mBtu), sources privy to the development said. This will be the third straight reduction in rates in one year. Prices were cut by a steep 26 per cent to $2.39 per mBtu in April. Prices of natural gas, which is used to produce fertiliser and generate electricity and is also converted into CNG for use in automobiles as fuel and cooking gas for households, are set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 each year. Sources said the cut in prices would mean a widening of losses for India’s top oil and gas producer ONGC. Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) had posted a Rs 4,272-crore loss in its gas business in 2017-18, which is likely to widen to over Rs 6,000 crore in the current fiscal (April 2020 to March 2021), they said. ONGC has been incurring losses on the 65 million standard cubic metres per day of gas it produces from domestic fields soon after the government in November 2014 introduced a new gas pricing formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Vistara set to fly abroad ||Private carrier Vistara is likely to start flight operations between India and the UK, Germany and France under the bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with these countries, sources in the aviation industry said on Sunday. Earlier this month, India and the UK signed a bilateral air pact, under which the airlines of both the countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. India had signed similar bilateral pacts with Germany and France in July. Vistara got its second B787-9 wide-bodied aircraft on Saturday. It had received its first B787-9 aircraft in February. “Vistara has already got the slots at the Heathrow airport in London. The flights between Delhi and London are likely to be announced in the next few days,” an industry source said. The Delhi-London flight is likely to operate thrice a week, the source added. A wide-bodied aircraft has a bigger fuel tank that allows it to operate long-haul flights. Vistara has 43 planes in its fleet, of which 41 are narrow-bodied aircraft such as A320neo and B737-800NG. The full-service carrier is also likely to operate flights between India and Germany and India and France, another aviation industry source said, adding that the probable destinations for these flights are Frankfurt and Paris respectively. It is not clear which Indian cities will be connected to Frankfurt and Paris by Vistara. The private carrier did not respond to the queries. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted because of the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the pandemic. All airlines in India have opted for cost-reducing measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to conserve cash. India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months. The airlines have been allowed to operate a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. However, the occupancy rate in the domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Brace for hard times, warns Kumar Mangalam Birla ||Kumar Mangalam Birla has said the country’s GDP may not only contract in 2020-21 but the next few years are also likely to be characterised by difficult conditions even as there could be other post-Covid changes reflected in consumer behaviour and the operating models of companies. Birla, who is one of the country’s leading industrialists with diversified interests ranging from commodities and telecom to financial services, said in a letter to shareholders that while the domestic economy may witness its first contraction in more than four decades in this fiscal, some scars from the current pandemic would last longer for the world economy in the form of subdued consumer and business confidence. Some sectors, such as airlines and hospitality, will take time to recover fully, while some supply chain disruption effects will linger. He pointed out that as the world emerges from the current crisis, the next few years are likely to be marked by a lack of buoyancy in growth, subdued commodity prices and inflation, a cautious trend in project investments, heightened risks of de-globalisation and political uncertainty; and increased dependence of financial systems on ultra-loose monetary policy conditions. “We will also have to watch out for potential post-Covid changes in consumer behaviour (such as more virtual engagements) and of the operating models of organisations (such as work-from-home norms, diversification of supply chain risks, more use of e-commerce),” he added. Birla, thus, joins the list of several economists who are forecasting a challenging year for India with recovery only expected next fiscal. While experts feel that the Indian economy may show a double-digit contraction in the first quarter of the fiscal with some estimates even putting it at over 40 per cent and that for the year as a whole, it may shrink by over five per cent. According to Birla, Covid-19 struck India at a time the underlying economic conditions were subdued on account of heightened global uncertainty and stress in the domestic financial system. A stringent national lockdown to slow the spread of the pandemic started in the last week of 2019-20 and remained active in varying degrees in different geographies through most of the first quarter of 2020-21. “It is estimated that about 80 per cent of India’s GDP originates from districts which were classified under the red and orange zones during the lockdown, where economic activity remained severely constrained,” he said. The Aditya Birla group chairman added that though the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have taken various measures to stabilise the economy and boost growth, the Indian economy — like the global economy —will still need to navigate through some difficult quarters. Given the fog of uncertainty all around, it is hard to be prescient in these times, Birla added. Steel demand is expected to decline significantly in 2020-21 in line with a projected contraction in the global economy due to the impact of coronavirus pandemic, Tata Steel has said in its annual report. Most of the steel producing regions are expected to witness a decline in crude steel output due to production cuts amid the ongoing lockdowns, Tata Steel said. The global economic growth is expected to see a contraction of over 3 per cent in 2020, Tata Steel chairman N. Chandrasekaran said, terming the slump as the “worst contraction” since the 1930s. A contraction in global GDP is not a good sign for the steel sector as steel demand is positively correlated with the economic growth. “Global GDP growth eased to 2.9 per cent in 2019 against an initial growth projection of 3.5 per cent... As we look ahead, it is important to gauge Covid-19’s unprecedented impact on the global economy. It is expected that global growth will contract by over 3 per cent in 2020, the worst contraction since the 1930s," Chandrasekaran said in the Annual Report for 2019-20. “But there is little doubt on one reality: companies with quality leadership, sound business fundamentals and a track record of winning in turbulent times, will emerge as champions in the new global order,” he said. This year will see an economic contraction, but this 2020 recession is turning out very different from the past recessions, he observed. Birla was, however, quick to add that on the positive side, this recession is likely to be one of the shortest, assuming no second wave of the pandemic recurs. As present lockdowns around the world get lifted, and businesses reopen, economic activity is likely to bounce back fairly quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
17-08-2020||Business||Gold is on a roll||Since the beginning of 2019, one asset class has emerged the clear winner. It’s gold. Ten grams of 24k gold cost around Rs 32,500 in January 2019. Since then, there’s been a nearly 70 per cent appreciation, with gold future prices appreciating to over Rs 57,400. Gold had flatlined for nearly a decade. But global economic uncertainty started driving it up again before the explosive growth with the arrival of a global pandemic. The pandemic continues to disrupt daily life and economic adversities continue to compound in many economies. It is expected that gold will continue to do well in the near future. So what should the small investor do? Gold thrives in economic uncertainty. During those periods, while everything else crashes and burns, gold shines. Investors use it as a hedge against uncertainty, volatility and inflation. To them, gold is insurance. If global stock indices are crashing, you may be able to stabilise your portfolio through gains in gold. With fiat currencies becoming less valuable in developed countries, people’s faith in the metal may continue to increase. According to Goldman Sachs, a weakening dollar and falling interest rates could push gold prices up from the current $1,930 per ounce levels to around $2,300 in the next 12 months. Others see it going higher. “Gold has entered a bullish phase that can last several years,” said The Arora Report. “There is better than 50 per cent probability of gold approaching $3,000 in this cycle.” Jefferies believes it could rise to $4,000. Clearly, there’s a belief that prevalent instabilities will keep driving up prices. Investors who had been buying gold through the recent past have gained immensely from the ongoing rally. But for new investors looking to get in, the growth prospects are unclear. Therein lie the risks and rewards. You can invest according to your risk appetite to cash in on short-term trends. However, from a long-term perspective, it would be wiser to buy small quantities of gold regularly and systematically. For example, you could buy a gram every month for several years. This would slowly help you create a gold corpus while lowering price-related risks. By the time another global economic crisis comes along, the gold you have slowly accumulated will give you stability. The key with buying gold is having just enough to stabilise your portfolio during times of volatility but not so much as to drag your wealth growth during periods of prosperity. In ten-year periods starting August 1980 and ending August 2010, gold grew at approximate annual rates of -5.20 per cent, -2.63 per cent, and 15.85 per cent considering absolute prices. In the 10 years since then, it grew at 4.61 per cent. Between August 2012 and August 2018, it flatlined at -0.2 per cent. Over the next two years, it would grow at 32 per cent. The point here is that gold flatlines for long periods of time but can grow in short, explosive bursts. If you have too much, you may not achieve growth for prolonged periods. If you have too little, it will not make a meaningful impact on your portfolio during periods of volatility. Many experts believe gold should constitute 5-10 per cent of a portfolio. This is a useful yardstick. However, you can pick a number based on your own unique situation after assessing your risk appetite, investment goals, and liquidity needs. The obvious and traditional choice is to buy gold in its physical form, be it jewellery, coins, bars or something else. You could buy them from your preferred shop or even online via reputable sellers. This option is also useful from the point of using the gold. However, you need to factor in making charges, applicable taxes, concerns over purity, and costs of safe storage into your investment objectives. If you’re looking at gold purely as an investment, you must also consider buying gold exchange-traded funds, gold mutual funds or Sovereign Gold Bonds. ETFs and MFs can be easily bought online from the fund house of your choice, while the SGBs can be bought several times a year from authorised banks, stock exchanges, or online trading platforms. As a long-term investment, the SGB scores over other options because of sovereign guarantee, tax-free returns on maturity, and an additional interest income on the price which is the icing on the cake. You could also buy or sell digital gold through authorised payment apps. In conclusion, while the investment opportunity in the coveted yellow metal may seem hard to overlook, one must approach the decision-making process in a pragmatic manner — both in terms of investment amount and investment mode. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
17-08-2020||India||Shaheen Bagh protest scripted by BJP: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has claimed the entire Shaheen Bagh protest was "scripted by the BJP" and that its leadership dictated each and every move of the agitators for electoral benefits in Delhi polls.  AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj made the claim a day after several Muslims from the Shaheen Bagh area, which was the centre of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests, joined the BJP.  Bhardwaj alleged the BJP's campaign for the Delhi election centred around the Shaheen Bagh protests and it was the only party that benefited from the controversy surrounding the agitation.  "Delhi assembly election could have been fought on the issue of education, health, environment or other developmental narratives. But the Delhi BJP chose to fight the election on the issue of Shaheen Bagh", he said at a press conference.  "The whole Shaheen Bagh protest was scripted by the BJP. The topmost leadership of the BJP scripted each and every step of these protests," he alleged.  "They decided who will speak what, who will attack whom and then who will be doing the counterattack," Bharadwaj further claimed.  Manoj Tiwari, Delhi BJP chief, remarked in a tweet, "Now the confusion is getting cleared and Muslim brothers and sisters want to walk with the BJP...Stop dividing Arvind Kejriwal ji. The world's largest party BJP represents all religions and does not discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or lineage."  Shaheen Bagh became the epicentre of the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) as mostly women, some with young children, staged a sit-in protest there for over three months. The protest was called off in view of the coronavirus outbreak.  The elections in the national capital took place in the midst of the Shaheen Bagh protest in the city over the new citizenship law, an issue that was strongly raised by the top BJP leadership during the campaigning, which often turned bitter and vitriolic.  The BJP's political opponents accused it of carrying out a "divisive" campaign to polarise the voters by consistently highlighting the demonstration by women at Shaheen Bagh. While the BJP campaign focussed on issues related to national security in Delhi polls, the AAP focussed on its achievements in the fields of education, healthcare and infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||An intellectual giant passes away||“I’m not born; it’s 1948 and the bus turns onto a road without a name; there on his bicycle my father, he’s younger than I; at Okhla where I get off, I pass my parents strolling by the river Jamuna.” Agha Shahid Ali Shahid’s father, Ashraf Ali, the grand old man of Srinagar, teacher and guide for generations of Kashmiri students, passed away in his sleep on Friday, August 7. He died as he lived, without a murmur and with a smile on his face. He was buried, as per his last wish, next to his beloved wife Sufia in Baba Mazar, the Shia graveyard in Zadibal. Incredibly, Agha Ashraf lived the last 23 years since his wife’s demise almost alone except for visits by his wonderful children, Hena, Shahid, Sameetha, Iqbal, all of whom followed in their father’s footsteps, securing doctorates and teaching in various universities in the United States. His son, Agha Shahid Ali, the renowned Kashmiri-American poet, was already a legend and inspiration for a whole generation of young Kashmiri writers. Sadly, he passed away in December 2001. Agha Ashraf’s family for the last many years were his ‘Mulazims’, the youngest of whom, Shaukat, was beside him at the end and made arrangements for Agha’s final journey.  Despite the lockdown in the city, nearly 100 people, including many of his students who worshipped the old man, assembled to recite the ‘Fatiha’ and pay homage to Agha Saheb. The youngest of three brothers, Agha Ashraf Ali, was born on October 18, 1922, into a highly educated and illustrious Kashmir family.  His older brothers were both civil servants, one in India, and the other in Pakistan. Ashraf himself was, unequivocally Kashmiri’s greatest educationist; teacher, professor, principal, and Commissioner of Education with Sheikh Abdullah until he resigned. Academia flowed in his veins. His mother, Begum Zafar Ali, herself an educationist and a legislator, was the first female matriculate of Kashmir and his maternal grandfather, Agha Syed Hussain, was likewise the first to pass class X. Agha was hugely influenced by Dr Zakir Hussain, who later became President of India. He often quoted Zakir Hussain’s words in S.P. College where he was a student: “youth was not an attainment but an opportunity which should not be wasted.”  Dr Zakir Hussain later became Agha’s teacher and moulded his personality. When asked about his philosophy, Agha Shahid famously said, “I don’t have a philosophy, I have a temperament.”  His father had both, quite often asking questions that he already knew the answers to. While extremely well read, Agha Saheb’s philosophy was solidly Gandhian.  The child in the old man emerged when he referred to his ‘Bapu,’ often emulating the Mahatma in his squeaky voice. Above all Agha was a humanist who spent most of his last years doing charitable work. His integrity was unimpeachable. He believed in the Quranic injunction, “Speak the truth even if against yourself.” Sufia Nishan, the Agha home, resembled an English countryside cottage in its exterior resplendent with roses. The inside was more austere. Ashraf’s pride was his library; a personal area to which only special friends were admitted even though he kept an open house without discrimination between Hindu and Muslim. More Pandits visited him than Kashmiris. Gandhi’s books and photographs were strewn all over the house. Agha was an icon in Srinagar. Those who’d never met him missed out not only on a storehouse of wisdom but the most unforgettable human being: the essence of Kashmiriyat and ‘Ganga Jamuni Tehzeeb’. My regret is that I also met him too late. In the Spring of 2011 whilst in pursuit of the ‘Vajpayee Years,’ my young friend from the city, Nadir Ali, who was virtually a member of the household insisted that I accompany him to meet the great man.  It was a revelation and an exhilarating experience of Kashmir and life though I sensed Agha was sizing up how crooked a spook could be. He wouldn’t talk to me even as I tried to coax something from him about Kashmir. He just laughed and skirted the issue. Our second meeting in the summer of 2012 was easier and when he invited me, I had the privilege of attending his 90th birthday celebration in October with the intimate ‘who’s who’ of Srinagar. I felt admitted as a friend. In the course of time, it helped me finally eke out his views on Kashmir. Agha Saheb had no doubt that Sheikh Abdullah, ‘Sher-e-Kashmir’, as he referred to him, was the tallest leader in Kashmir. Yet, he said, while Sheikh was gutsy, he had no brains: he could not fathom the reaction to Partition in North India and what Prime Minister Nehru was doing in Kashmir to save Muslims in the rest of the country. In 2014, I asked him who he would vote for in the elections.  “Farooq of course,” he said. He was the only one who could fight Modi.  Agha had been disappointed that Mufti Sayeed had tied up with the BJP. When the floods came in September 2014, Agha was marooned at home; he had to be rescued in a boat from his first-floor window. He arrived in Delhi the same evening and came to our place for dinner. His first words as he entered were, “Dulat Saheb, I escaped death by three minutes.” He was visibly shaken. His house in Srinagar was devastated and took two years to repair, his library totally lost in the flood. He was living in a hut in Chashme Shahi when I visited him in the summer of 2016. Because he enjoyed his tipple, I normally carried a bottle of whiskey for him. This time, I had no whiskey and felt sheepish when I entered empty handed. Agha’s response to my apology for the lapse was typical of the man: “Don’t worry, I’m only 94 you can bring me a bottle next year.” I phoned him on his birthday, both in 2016 and 2017, and he always said, “Thanks so much for remembering me.” But sadly, there was to be no next year. In the last two years he was not particularly keen to communicate.  Since then one got news of Agha Saheb mainly from his son Iqbal [Lala] who visited his father from the United States every three months and was kind enough to call while passing through Delhi. Haji Altaf, a Shia who owns a hardware shop in Maisuma, claims that Agha Saheb summoned him last year to convey to the Abdullah family that Omar was the future of Kashmir. Agha was impressed both by Omar’s speech in Parliament and a spark of humility that he saw in him. The link with Maisuma also possibly explains Agha’s weakness for Yasin Malik and his so-called ‘Gandhian path’ till he realised that Yasin was going astray and lacked leadership. Agha’s last bit of political advice to the Kashmiri leadership was “Unite or Perish!” Agha Saheb will be sorely missed by all those that came into contact with him. Those who need him most are the youth going astray in Kashmir, caught between war and peace, desperately needing to heed Agha Shahid’s most beautiful of lines, “We shall meet again in Srinagar by the gates of the villa of Peace.” A.S. Dulat is a former chief of the Research & Analysis Wing. He was also a Special Director of the Intelligence Bureau and Advisor on Kashmir Affairs in Prime Minister Vajpayee’s office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Pandit Jasraj dies in the US at 90||Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, his daughter Durga Jasraj said. He was 90.  One of India's greatest music legends, Pandit Jasraj leaves behind a storied legacy spanning almost eight decades.  Bapuji is no more, his daughter Durga, also a musician, told PTI over phone from Mumbai. She was inconsolable and could not speak any more.  Jasraj, who belonged to the Mewati Gharana, was in the US when the coronavirus-led lockdown happened and decided to stay back in that country. “With profound grief we inform that Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj ji breathed his last this morning at 5.15 EST due to a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, USA,” a statement issued by his family said here.  “May Lord Krishna welcome him lovingly through the doors of heaven, where Pandit ji will now sing Om Namo Bhagwate Vasudevaya exclusively just for his beloved Lord. We pray that his soul rests in eternal musical peace. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers, Pandit Jasraj ji's family, and the students of Mewati Gharana," it said. Condoling the death of Pandit Jasraj, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that his demise had left a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. "The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti," the Prime Minister tweeted. Along with the tweet, Modi also posted old pictures of him felicitating the maestro. With a musical career spanning almost 80 years, the doyen of Indian classical vocal music was a recipient of various prestigious awards and honours including Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan. He represented the last of a generation of classical vocalists, which includes 83-year-old Kishori Amonkar, the doyenne of the Jaipur Atrauli gharana, reported IndianExpress.com. In September last year, a minor planet which traverses the cosmos between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter was named after him by the International Astronomical Union (IAU). The 2006 VP32 (number -300128) , discovered on November 11, 2006, was named ‘Panditjasraj’, where the doyen of Indian classical music will be ever immortalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Covid: Record number of recoveries in a day||The number of people who have recuperated from Covid-19 in India went past 19 lakh on Monday with a record 57,584 patients recovering within a span of 24 hours, pushing the recovery rate to over 72 per cent, according to the Union Health ministry data. India's Covid-19 recoveries have reached closer to 2 million (19,19,842), while the actual caseload of the country stands at 6,76,900 on date and currently comprises only 25.57 per cent of the total positive cases. This difference between the recovered and the active cases continues to expand and now stands at 12,42,942. The recovery rate is 72.51 per cent at present. This is the result of successful and coordinated implementation of an effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardized clinical management of the critical patients, the ministry said in a statement. India has followed a standard of care protocol for the differentiated categorisation of Covid-19 patients - mild, moderate and severe as clearly formulated in the Clinical Management Protocol of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), it said. The effective clinical management strategies have yielded positive results, the ministry said. India has been marching firmly on the road to enhanced recoveries every day, it asserted. The early identification of cases has helped to ensure timely and prompt isolation of the mild and moderate cases and hospitalisation of the severe and critical cases thereby leading to timely and effective management of cases, the ministry said. The Case Fatality Rate has further slumped to 1.92 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 26,47,663 on Monday with a single-day spike of 57,981 infections, while the death toll crossed the 50,000 mark with 941 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has also crossed the three crore-mark in India, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India|| SC rejects plea to postpone JEE, NEET||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations, which are scheduled to be conducted in September, amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said career of students "cannot be put under jeopardy for long". "Life has to go on. Life has to move ahead. Precious year of students cannot be wasted," the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said during the hearing conducted through video conferencing while paving the way for commencement of the exams as scheduled. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the apex court that due precautions and all safeguards would be taken while conducting these examinations. The counsel appearing for the petitioners told the bench that lakhs of students are looking towards the top court for relief and they were only seeking postponement of these exams. The plea, filed by 11 students belonging to 11 states, had sought quashing of the July 3 notices issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA), by which it was decided to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) April 2020 and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-Undergraduate exams in September. As per the public notices issued by NTA, JEE (Main) April 2020 is scheduled from September 1-6, while NEET UG 2020 exam is scheduled for September 13. The plea, filed through advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, had referred to Covid-19 pandemic and said authorities be directed to conduct these exams only after normalcy is restored. The plea had also sought direction to the authorities to increase the number of examination centres. "Conducting the aforesaid examination across India at such perilous time, is nothing else but putting lives of lakhs of young students (including petitioners herein) at utmost risk and danger of disease and death. The best recourse at this stage can be to wait for some more time, let COVID-19 crisis subside and then only conduct these exams, in order to save lives of the students and their parents," the plea had said. It had claimed that NTA, which conducts entrance exams for admission in higher educational institutions in India, has decided to conduct JEE (Main) April-2020 through online mode and NEET UG-2020 exams through offline mode at 161 centres across the country. It had alleged that NTA has indefinitely postponed the National Council of Hotel Management Joint Entrance Examination-2020, which was scheduled to be conducted on June 22, in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plea had also alleged that authorities concerned have ignored the plight of lakhs of students from Bihar, Assam and north eastern states, which are presently reeling under flood, and conducting either online or offline exams in such places may not be possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||3 killed in a militant attack in J&K's Baramulla||Two CRPF jawans and a policeman were killed in a militant attack in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, police said. A joint team of the CRPF and J&K Police were on duty at a check post at Kreeri, said the officials, when some terrorists fired at them. The terrorists managed to escape after the attack. "We have lost three jawans in the attack. Reinforcement has been rushed to the spot. We are confirming the details," said Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police. "Terrorists fired upon joint naka party of Police and CRPF near Kreeri area of Baramulla. Two CRPF and one JKP personnel sustained critical gunshot injuries who later on succumbed at hospital and attained martyrdom. Area cordoned off, search ops on. @JmuKmrPolice," a tweet by the Kashmir Zone Police read. Security forces have cordoned off the area and a hunt has been launched to nab the militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Book on Sikkim governor’s work||Sikkim Raj Bhavan on Saturday published a coffee table book on governor Ganga Prasad’s work in the state as well as in Meghalaya where he had held the post previously. Titled “Memoirs of the onset years of the Hon’ble Governor of Sikkim Ganga Prasad”, the book was released in the presence of Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) and some of his close aides at Raj Bhavan in Gangtok on Saturday. A release issued by the governor’s office said: “The coffee table book highlights the contribution of the Hon’ble Governor and features pictorial illustrations of his various engagements within and outside the State. The book also includes social and political ascension and short stint as Governor in Meghalaya.” The two biggest contributions of Prasad as governor were controversial. First was the formation of the National People’s Party (NPP)-led alliance government in Meghalaya in March 2018 despite the Congress emerging as the single largest party. The BJP is an ally of the NPP led by chief minister Conrad Sangma. Second was the appointment of Tamang as chief minister in May 2019 despite he not being eligible to contest any election at that time. The accusation against Prasad on both the occasions was that he was doing the bidding of the BJP. Golay contested and won from one of the three seats where bypolls were held in dramatic circumstances in 2019. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had paved the way for him to contest the election a day after the SKM had stitched an alliance with the BJP and a day before the last date of filing of nominations for the bypolls. Golay had been disqualified to contest elections after serving a year’s term in a corruption case. A provision in the Representation of Peoples (RP) Act, 1951, bars a person convicted of corruption from contesting any election for six years from the date of his release. The ECI had reduced the disqualification period for Golay by virtue of the power vested on it by Section 11 of Representation of People’s Act, 1951.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Facebook’s political can of worms||A Wall Street Journal report that suggested Facebook condoned hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem in India to protect the company’s business prospects in its largest market in the world has opened a political can of worms on a toxic phenomenon called the “WhatsApp University”. The Congress on Sunday demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) into Facebook’s links with the BJP and the role of the social media platforms, including the WhatsApp chat service the company owns, in spreading hate and fake news in India. Congress leaders disclosed that they had lodged formal complaints with Facebook and WhatsApp on multiple occasions, categorically asking them to stop influencing Indian elections, but no corrective measures had been taken. The Journal, the New York-based business-focused paper controlled by Rupert Murdoch, reported on Friday that Facebook allowed — on the advice of Ankhi Das, its public policy director for South and Central Asia — posts by a BJP legislator that incite violence. The report quoted unnamed current and former Facebook employees who said Das “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country, Facebook’s biggest global market by number of users”. The Journal report named T. Raja Singh, an MLA and the BJP’s House leader in the Telangana Assembly, and referred to some of his posts against Muslims, saying designated Facebook employees concluded that “Mr Singh not only had violated the company’s hate-speech rules but qualified as dangerous”. The employees contended that “his rhetoric could lead to real-world violence, and he should be permanently banned from the company’s platforms world-wide….” However, Singh “is still active on Facebook and Instagram, where he has hundreds of thousands of followers”. The report said Das, Facebook’s top public policy executive in the country, “opposed applying the hate-speech rules to Mr Singh and at least three other Hindu nationalist individuals….” The Journal report added that after queries from the newspaper, some posts of Singh, BJP MP Anant Kumar Hegde and Delhi leader Kapil Mishra were taken down on Thursday. Provocative speeches and posts by Mishra had immediately preceded the February Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed. MLA Singh, however, claimed he did not have an account on Facebook. “Show me one case of rioting that I called for. There are many Facebook accounts open in my name which I am not responsible for…. I can’t stop them all. I am not responsible if anyone likes or shares their posts. My official Facebook account was hacked in 2018 and blocked, which I complained about to the Cyberabad commissioner (of police). I have got no reply on why it was hacked. I have never given any incendiary speech on my official Facebook or Twitter accounts,” he said in a video message on Twitter. In response to questions from The Telegraph, a Facebook spokesperson said on Sunday evening: “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation. While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy.” Facebook has more users in India than in any other country, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP have more followers than any other head of government, or party, respectively, on the platform. Modi had addressed a public meeting at Facebook’s headquarters in California in 2015. Facebook bought almost 10 per cent stake in Reliance Jio this year. Last year, Facebook and other social media firms were summoned by the parliamentary standing committee on information technology in India on “safeguarding citizens’ rights” after Right-wingers complained that the site was biased against them. Earlier this year, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg had appeared to cite a speech made by Mishra, the Delhi BJP leader. The rampant spread of fake news and hate speech and the propensity of some social media users not only to believe such fictitious accounts but also regurgitate them as verified information have led to the coinage “WhatsApp University”. The fake factory, which is propelled by the wide reach provided by social media platforms, has become the principal source of information for propagandists of all hues, although the Right wing is more visible than the others. On Sunday, the Congress said other legal options were open if the government refused to accept the JPC demand. The party claimed that Facebook and WhatsApp were not only interfering with India’s electoral processes but also poisoning the society by aiding the spreading of hate. Rahul Gandhi led the party’s attack after the Journal’s report, tweeting: “BJP & RSS control Facebook & WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh, who played a key role in the Congress’s election management in 2019, tweeted: “I’ve seen first-hand how Facebook behaved during election campaigns. It is the greatest carrier of lies, and is a lethal threat to social harmony and reasoned debate. Parliament must institute an inquiry into Facebook’s practices.” Praveen Chakravarty, the head of the Congress’s data analytics department, said at a media conference on Sunday afternoon: “I met Facebook’s global head of government relations and elections on July 17, 2018, in America and discussed the issue of bias and partisanship of their India team. I was told this would be looked into, but nothing happened. “On October 12, 2018, I and a few of my party colleagues met Facebook India’s head of government relations. We highlighted how Facebook India was blocking the Congress and denying permission to put ads on Facebook regarding the Rafale issue. We also raised many instances and cases of clear bias and presented evidence. The executive (Das) feigned ignorance and promised to look into the matter. Nothing happened.” Chakravarty said he also met the global CEO of WhatsApp and raised concerns about fake and hate speech being spread unchecked through the platform. “I implored him to take serious notice and warned that such rampant spread of fake and hate propaganda during elections amounts to interference in India’s elections. He heard me politely but did nothing,” Chakravarty said, adding: “I was not surprised because WhatsApp was waiting for government permission and a licence to start their payments business in India.” Demanding a JPC probe, former minister Ajay Maken told the media conference: “The bias and alignment of Facebook India’s leadership team with the BJP and the RSS is not limited to just their head of public policy in India. There are many others in that leadership team with a close working relationship with people in the BJP. “There is clear and ample evidence to warrant a serious investigation by Facebook headquarters into the operations of their India team and their efforts in interfering in India’s electoral democracy….” Maken asked why a JPC probe could not be ordered over a serious issue linked to India’s democracy if the US Senate could summon Facebook CEO Zuckerberg and a Brazilian parliamentary committee could investigate the role of Facebook in election interference. Maken said internal communications of Facebook had revealed that business in India would be affected if action was taken against BJP members. “We want the commercial deal between Facebook and WhatsApp with the BJP investigated,” Maken added. Congress social media head Rohan Gupta said he had written to Facebook’s Das about incendiary posts and fake news spread through WhatsApp and Facebook this April and followed it up with a meeting with her, along with some Congress Working Committee members, to explain how the social media platforms used by over 40 crore Indians were being misused to help the BJP. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad responded but steered clear of specifics: “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us?” In 2018, whistleblower Christopher Wylie had told a British parliamentary committee that he believed that the Congress was a client of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica that used Facebook data without authorisation of users for political advertising. The Congress denied this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
17-08-2020||India||Bhushan releases details of graft charges||Advocate Prashant Bhushan has contended that corruption in the judiciary does not mean monetary gratification alone but includes other offences such as fraud, abuse of discretion and favouritism, and that alleging graft cannot be contempt of court “per se”. Bhushan on Saturday released to the media the written submission he is to make before a Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra on Monday in a case of criminal contempt against him for claiming in an interview in 2009 that “half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt”. The same bench convicted Bhushan last week of criminal contempt for a tweet each on the destruction of democracy and the current Chief Justice of India. The apex court is to pronounce the quantum of punishment in the tweets case on August 20. In his written response in connection with the contempt proceedings against him for alleging corruption, Bhushan has contended that several former judges and former CJIs too have in various media interviews spoken about corruption in the judiciary, and so he cannot be hauled up for raising the issue. Bhushan has stated in his submission: “Corruption in public life has a wide and expansive definition. Corruption is not restricted to pecuniary gratification alone but various instruments identify its particular forms such as bribery, embezzlement, theft, fraud, extortion, abuse of discretion, favouritism, nepotism, clientelism, conduct creating or exploiting conflicting interests.” Bhushan has added: “The factum of corruption in the judiciary has been stated in parliamentary committee reports on prevention of corruption, has been commented upon by former judges of this Hon’ble Court, has been taken note of in various judgements….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
17-08-2020||India||Life-and-death chess battle with Covid||Critical-care specialist Srinivas Samavedam is engaged in what he calls a life-or-death “chess battle” with Covid-19, monitoring every move the coronavirus makes to plan timely countermoves. Each time Samavedam or his colleagues at Hyderabad’s Virinchi Hospitals or their peers across India treating severe Covid-19 cases get their counter-strikes right, a patient goes home. “We’re winning more now than we were three months ago,” said Samavedam, general secretary of the Indian Society for Critical Care Medicine, a professional body. India has recorded a steady fall in its Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed patients — from 3.33 per cent in mid-June to 2.57 per cent in mid-July and 1.93 per cent on August 16. The 1.4 percentage point fall in the CFR would translate into more than 870 deaths averted daily or over 6,000 patients saved weekly based on India’s average of 62,382 new cases per day for the week ending August 15. India’s health ministry too has reported a fall in ventilator use among Covid-19 patients — from 0.45 per cent in mid-May to 0.27 per cent in mid-July. The falling CFR and reduced ventilator use, doctors say, are outcomes of the rising counts of lab-confirmed cases through increased testing, as well as improvements in how the patients are being treated. “Treatment strategies have changed. We’re still learning but we’re more confident about what we should do and what works now than three months ago,” said Anjan Trikha, professor of critical-care medicine and head of Covid-19 management at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “We now use non-invasive oxygen delivery strategies more often than earlier and the (invasive) ventilators only when non-invasive methods fail.” Health ministry officials have attributed the fall in CFR to early diagnosis and effective treatment under the standard guidelines made available to doctors nationwide. Doctors from AIIMS too offer online guidance twice weekly to their peers across the country. “We now see oxygen as a drug,” said Yogiraj Ray, a senior consultant in charge of the Covid-19 critical-care ward at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Calcutta. “We take into account the dose, the delivery mode, and target the oxygen levels we want in the patient.” Early reports from China and Italy had prompted doctors worldwide to offer invasive ventilation to most Covid-19 patients with severe oxygen deprivation. Although non-invasive oxygen delivery was an option, doctors often chose to put their patients on ventilator — which requires intubating them — out of fear that patients receiving non-invasive oxygen might generate aerosols and endanger hospital staff. “Over time, with experience, when some patients rejected the ventilation option, we realised this was an unfounded fear,” said a senior doctor at a private hospital. Doctors believe that the lowered ventilation rates will reduce deaths. Ventilation — an invasive process in which oxygen is pumped through a tube inserted into the throat — carries health risks. Doctors have underlined that the average mortality among patients put on ventilator for other causes of pneumonia is between 35 and 45 per cent. “I have 34 Covid-19 patients who need oxygen now; 14 are on non-invasive ventilation, six are on high-flow oxygen,” Samavedam said on Sunday. “Three months ago, all 34 would be on invasive ventilation.” Falls in death rates and in ventilator use have been observed in other countries too. In the UK, for instance, deaths among Covid-19 patients in hospital fell from 6 per cent in early April to 1.5 per cent in mid-June. During the early weeks of the pandemic, doctors viewed severe Covid-19 primarily as severe pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) — caused also by myriad other microbes, including the H1N1 influenza virus. “We now know that Covid-19 is not classical ARDS,” said Sumit Ray, head of critical-care medicine at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi. “The infection may also lead to small clots in blood vessels and other complications. We need to look out for signals of such complications as early as possible.” Ray added: “As we learn more about a new infection, survival rates improve.” He underlined that mortality among patients with severe H1N1 was 60 per cent when the infection first emerged. “But by the second season, mortality had dropped to 40-45 per cent, which is typical for all viral ARDS,” he said. Doctors say that a Covid-19 patient’s survival hinges on, among other factors, the physician’s ability to quickly recognise how the infection is affecting the patient’s physiology and respond with timely interventions. “It’s like a chess battle — we have to keep an eye on what the virus is doing,” Samavedam said. Daily blood tests allow the doctors to look out for specific biochemical markers or signatures of trouble. If levels of a marker called d-dimer — associated with the risk of blood clots — increases, the doctor gives the patient an anti-clotting drug. If a marker called interleukin-6 — associated with an inflammatory condition called a cytokine storm — increases, the doctor introduces cytokine filters or anti-cytokine-storm drugs. When a marker linked to viral proliferation increases, the doctor administers an anti-viral. “We calibrate treatment according to the behaviour of the virus,” Samavedam said. But doctors say that it would be a mistake to infer that the reduced need for ventilators means that Covid-19 patients do not require invasive ventilation at all. “The challenge is to identify early the patients who need ventilation and offer it in time,” said Shikha Panwar, a critical-care medicine specialist at the Sarvodaya Hospital, Faridabad. “Most of the critically ill patients recover after non-invasive ventilation or high-flow oxygen. But a small percentage of such patients can’t maintain their oxygen levels through non-invasive oxygen. Denying ventilators to such patients is not justified.” Panwar recalled a 55-year-old patient who she believed needed invasive ventilation. “But he refused and kept on demanding high-flow oxygen. He survived but his lungs are fibrosed and he still needs extra oxygen a month after discharge,” she said. Timely invasive ventilation can be crucial, doctors have emphasised amid concern that some patients or their families have been refusing invasive ventilation because of its risks. “A small subset of Covid-19 patients will need invasive ventilation,” said Ray at the Holy Family Hospital. “The ventilator settings in Covid-19 are slightly different. We’ve learnt that over time.” In one hospital, a 36-year-old patient in a critical condition refused ventilation for six days, insisting on non-invasive oxygen delivery. “Finally, we intubated him after the six-day delay but he died six days after intubation,” the patient’s treating doctor said. “We had lost time.” The health ministry on Sunday recorded 63,490 new Covid-19 cases, which raised the total number of lab-confirmed cases above 2.58 million, of whom 677,444 patients are under medical supervision, over 1.86 million have recovered and 49,980 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
17-08-2020||India||Pilot bugbear removed||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday conceded one of the key demands of Sachin Pilot by removing Avinash Pandey as party general secretary in charge of Rajasthan. The Pilot group believes Pandey is biased and never tries to solve any problem objectively, leading to the eruption of the rebellion that imperilled the government. Senior leader Ajay Maken has been appointed general secretary in his place. Maken will also be a member of a committee that also has Ahmed Patel and K.C. Venugopal that will look into the grievances of the Pilot group. Maken, who was part of the team that handled the rebellion in Rajasthan, is considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Maken had been general secretary in charge of communications before he took over as Delhi Congress chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
17-08-2020||India||Dalit teen gangraped and killed||A 13-year-old Dalit girl was found gang-raped and strangled with her dupatta on Saturday, her eyes gouged out and her tongue carrying a gash suggesting the killers had tried to chop it off, police have said. Two young men were arrested on Saturday night in the Isanagar area of Lakhimpur Kheri district, 130km north of Lucknow. Family members said they had last seen the girl on Saturday morning playing outside her home. They began a search when she failed to return home for lunch. Late in the afternoon, the mutilated body was found in an agricultural field, about 150m from her home. Some villagers said they had seen her at 10am, walking towards an area of the field where people relieved themselves. “Her post-mortem report has confirmed she was raped and tortured. We have arrested two suspects from the village,” district superintendent of police Satyendra Kumar said. Santosh Yadav, whose father Jhannu Yadav owns the field, and his friend Sanjay Gautam have been charged with murder and gang rape and sent to jail custody. “I don’t know who did it but the police have jumped to a lazy conclusion just because I own the field where she was found,” Jhannu said. “An inquiry should be done with an open mind before punishing someone.” SP Kumar said: “The victim’s father had told the police on the basis of villagers’ accounts that the two accused were in the field when the girl went there.” The father said: “The two of them have a criminal bent of mind. They had been misbehaving with women and girls for a long time and had recently got very aggressive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
17-08-2020||India||JNU, DU speak up for teacher||Teachers, students and alumni from JNU and Delhi University have condemned the “cruel persecution” of Rakesh Ranjan, an assistant professor of economics at Shri Ram College of Commerce, by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Ranjan and Prem Kumar Vijayan, assistant professor of English at Hindu College, were questioned by the agency on Friday in connection with the 2018 case, in which 12 rights activists are being held on terror charges. Among them is another Delhi University associate professor, Hany Babu M.T. The signatories are from JNU’s Centre of Economic Studies and Planning, from where Ranjan did his MA and MPhil and is now pursuing a PhD, and DU where he graduated from and currently teaches. Among them are Amit Bhaduri, Jayati Ghosh and Prabhat Patnaik. “It is by now clear that a number of individuals are being persecuted on patently false charges related to the Bhima-Koregaon incident. What shocks us is that someone like Rakesh Ranjan is also being trapped in the same witch-hunt,” they said in a statement. “Not only is he a serious academic and teacher, but also a most generous soul incapable of involvement in any violence. We strongly feel that this cruel persecution of innocent persons should immediately end. The Union government must stop the deliberate harassment of academics and activists, which is destroying our democracy, violating civil liberties and subverting the constitutional order. There should not be any further action by any investigating agency against Rakesh Ranjan in this matter.” The case relates to the Elgaar Parishad public meeting in Pune on December 31, 2017, to commemorate the bicentenary of a Dalit battle victory against the Peshwa’s army. The annual Ambedkarite pilgrimage to the victory monument was attacked by Right-wing groups the next day. Now the Elgaar Parishad is being probed for alleged incitement of the violence that followed and alleged links to a purported Maoist plot to attack the Prime Minister’s rallies. Ranjan, Vijayan and Hany Babu are part of the Committee for the Defence and Release of G.N. Saibaba, a disabled former associate professor of political science with DU who is serving a life sentence in Nagpur jail for links with the banned CPI Maoist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
17-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP ‘shield’ in wall protest||Visva-Bharati authorities on Sunday allegedly roped in BJP workers, along with over 150 staff and teachers, as a “shield” against a protest by residents, traders and students against a proposed boundary wall for the Pous Mela ground, violating Covid-19 protocols. Visva-Bharati officials, sources said, have taken up the initiative to put up walls around its land and Pous Mela ground is a part of it. Some Rs 70 lakh have been sanctioned from the Santiniketan Trust so far for the purpose. But the move to put up a wall near the eastern side of the century-old Pous Mela ground did not go down well with many traders, artisans, students and residents who said the area was used by all as a playground and walling it up went against the principles of varsity founder Rabindranath Tagore. Tension erupted over the wall on Saturday morning, when protesters and the contractor’s agents clashed, resulting in police complaints filed by both sides. Varsity officials alleged on Saturday that traders from Bolpur came to the site and stopped the boundary wall work by intimidating and thrashing the contractors. After the incident, varsity authorities allegedly asked staff and teachers to gather at Pous Mela grounds, and called up BJP workers to act as a shield against those protesting the wall’s construction, varsity student leaders alleged. “At least 25 BJP workers came on Sunday to stop our protest. It was a plan by authorities to use the BJP on campus. It is shameful for the varsity. The VC was present,” Somnath Sow, an SFI leader at Visva-Bharati, said. A well-known BJP leader from Bolpur, Ujjal Majumdar, admitted that he and other party members had been present. “But we went to the Mela ground to back Visva-Bharati not as BJP workers, but as alumni,” said Majumdar, one of coordinators of BJP’s Birbhum outreach drive launched by the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Research Foundation. Officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Anirban Sircar sent a copy of an undertaking of the university to a WhatsApp group of mediapersons on Sunday, claiming: “Visva-Bharati has to inform Honble NGT (National Green Tribunal) by 19th August 2020 whether the work (boundary wall) has started or not.” The order further read, “...Visva-Bharati will demarcate the Mela ground and barricade the same so that the Mela ground will be a separate self-contained unit from the university and locality.” Sircar did not take calls or reply to texts from this paper about the BJP’s involvement or Covid protocol violations. Sailen Mishra, an advocate and Birbhum-based secretary of the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights, filed a complaint against the “violation of Covid protocol” on Sunday, naming vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and others. “It was a planned mass gathering by the VC and other authorities violating Covid protocol,” he said. District police chief Shyam Singh said they received the mass-gathering complaint and two cases over the wall issue filed by a trader and a contractor. Probe is on, he said. An elderly Santiniketan resident, Suvaluxmi Goswamy, said she was pushed around by varsity staff when she came to the protest site. “I went to talk to the VC to request him not to put up walls as it goes against the culture of Santiniketan. He did not hear me and his men stopped me forcibly,” said Goswamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||INTTUC president dodges query on minimum wages for tea workers||The president of Trinamul’s trade union front Inttuc on Sunday came down heavily on rival tea trade unions here on Sunday but dodged a direct reply on fixing minimum wages for over three lakh tea workers of the state. Inttuc president Dola Sen, who was here on Sunday to hold meetings of her trade union, said: “In the tea industry, some trade unions under the banner of Joint Forum resort to movements to prove their own existence. They are losing their foothold and so indulge in such activities. Tea workers are aware of it and they have realised that it is the Mamata Banerjee government that has stood by them.” The Joint Forum is an outfit of 26 tea unions other than Trinamul-backed ones. Sen stressed the state’s intervention that saw a hike in tea workers’ daily wages from Rs 67 in 2011 to Rs 176 now. The Inttuc president, however, dodged a direct reply when asked about minimum wage. Back in 2015, the state government had formed a committee to fix and recommend the minimum wage rate for tea workers. It has not yet reached a decision so far. “It is necessary to consult with experts, work on parameters and consider a number of factors before fixing the wage. The demand was never raised when the Left were in power. We hope it will be decided in due course,” said Sen. She also spoke on doles by the state government to the tea population in the form of food grain and infrastructure upgrades such as drinking water facilities and roads. Sen’s visit to north Bengal at a time when the BJP plans to recast its focus in the tea belt from where it got overwhelming support in the Lok Sabha polls last year, is significant, hinted Trinamul insiders. “The chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) has many decisions and announcements for the tea belt, but we could not win the support of most tea workers and their families. It seems that Trinamul now intends to engage its trade union arm to garner support ahead of the Assembly polls,” said an insider. In north Bengal’s tea belt, Trinamul and Inttuc also face the problem of plenty trade unions — at least three trade unions claim to be affiliated to the Inttuc. In the past, even Mamata had said there should be only one union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||26kg gold found in waist belts, 3 held||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized gold bars worth around Rs 14 crore on Saturday. Three men, all residents of Maharastra, have been arrested with the gold bars that had been smuggled into India from Myanmar. The trio had been carrying 160 gold bars, weighing around 26.5kg, hidden in custom-made waist belts, to Delhi. The DRI sources said they acted on a tip-off and raided the Brahmaputra Mail as the train reached the New Jalpaiguri station. The train had been headed for Delhi from Northeast. Those arrested have been identified as Saurav Samarao Sikhandey, Sandip Thappa Naraley and Sasikant Tanhaji Fute. “A team of the DRI conducted the raid and intercepted the three men, who were then taken to the DRI office from the railway station. As they were searched, the gold bars were found in specially made waist belts that all three had been wearing. They had taken the train from Northeast and were smuggling the gold to Delhi. It seems that they are associated with a gold smuggling racket,” said Tridip Saha, the lawyer representing the DRI. All the three were produced in a court here on Saturday. The court heard the case and ordered them judicial custody. In March this year, the DRI had made a similar gold seizure here, rading two buses of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation to seize 5.83 kilos of gold worth Rs 2.53 crores. Two persons had been arrested then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan to ramp up Covid tests in business capital||The spike in Covid-19 cases in Bhutan in the past one week has prompted its government to start mass testing and hire extra health workforce for the job. So far, 138 Covid-19 infections and zero deaths have been reported in the Himalayan country. Last Tuesday, Bhutan announced an indefinite nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the pandemic after it was found that a young woman from Gelephu who tested positive moved through different locations while carrying the infection. “The number of cases was 113 on August 11 when the lockdown was announced, but climbed to 138 as of Sunday. This spike made the government plan tests in Phuentsholing. Those who have been to Phuentsholing on or after July 27 till now, and have (Covid) symptoms are advised to get tested,” said a source from Bhutan. As a number of cases have been reported in Phuentsholing, Bhutan’s business capital, its government decided to engage an extra team of 50 health workers in and around the city for mass tests. Phuentsholing, with a population of 27,000, shares international border with Jaigaon, a town with around 50,000 people in Alipurduar district of Bengal. “Testing will let us know the extent of transmission. In the first phase, some 7,000 samples, one from each household, will be tested. Then, all of Phuentsholing will be tested,” the source said. The Bhutan health ministry also issued a notice to immediately employ MBBS graduates, nurses, lab technicians and radiographers for X-rays and USG. Bhutan, with around 7.5 lakh people, has nearly 6,000 healthcare workers. The country’s health bulletin 2020 puts the number of health workforce at 5,901 in 2019, including 376 doctors, 1,187 medical technologists and technicians, 620 health assistants and 1,364 nurses and other personnel. The Bhutan government’s decision of mass testing in Phuentsholing triggered a similar demand in Jaigaon, where traders and cops are among those who contracted Covid. “If the Bhutan government can make this decision, why can’t there be similar mass-scale tests on our side?” asked a Jaigaon trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid patient dies, hospital head in dock||A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient succumbed to acute respiratory trouble while waiting in an ambulance for admission to Boroma Covid hospital at Panskura, East Midnapore, on Saturday night. The death came an hour after he had been referred to Panskura by the Tamluk district hospital allegedly without a proper inquiry about bed availability. The patient’s family on Sunday alleged that Tamluk district hospital superintendent Gopal Das had provided them with “insufficient information”, owing to which the sexagenarian was left waiting outside the Panskura hospital for over 30 minutes during which he had died. “When we arrived at Boroma, which is 40km away from Tamluk, a hospital doctor checked on my father and informed us he was in an acute condition. But no beds were available and the only other option was Chandipur, 60km in the opposite direction,” said the daughter of the deceased. “We were shocked at being refused admission at Boroma, but it is the officials at Tamluk who should have directed us correctly in the first place,” she added. Sources said the patient had been admitted to the Tamluk hospital with respiratory trouble on Saturday morning and his rapid test results returned positive on Saturday night. “When we were informed of the result on Saturday night, we requested the superintendent to let my father stay the night because it was late. But he assured us that he would be admitted to Boroma as soon as we arrived there. He said he had taken the necessary measures,” said the patient’s daughter. The patient arrived at Boroma around 11pm on Saturday and died half-an-hour later. The relatives had been told that there was no bed or ventilator available at the hospital. Opposition parties have demanded Das’s transfer. “This man is unfit for his job. Even though the district magistrate has pulled him up for not doing his job properly, he has still not changed,” said CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi. BJP district secretary Nabarun Nayak said: “We demand his transfer immediately. This is a deeply disappointing incident.” BJP sources said the party would organise protests at the hospital if Das was not transferred soon. The family of the deceased hadn’t filed a police complaint till late on Sunday. Asked, the Tamluk district hospital superintendent said he had acted “according to protocol”. “I contacted the Boroma hospital in advance. So, I am unsure why they were denied admission. We did not do anything wrong on our end,” he said. Chief medical officer Nitai Mondal said the health department would launch an investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Barrage gap hits launch ride||Two launches brought by the state transport department for safer and faster journey between two river ports of Malda and Murshidabad districts could not be introduced for service as the height of the vessels surpassed the gap between the water level and the sluice gates of Farakka Barrage. The launches first needed to move from one side to another side of the barrage on the Ganga and only then, services can be launched between the Parlalpur Ghat in the Baishnabnagar block of Malda and Dhulian Ghat in Murshidabad. The two ghats, which are on the left and right banks of the Ganga, are located downstream the barrage. Such a situation has made the district administration of Malda plan of bringing in launches which have lesser heights. Sources said both the launches had reached Farakka from Hooghly about a fortnight ago. Each of the launches is 60ft long and 15ft wide with a height 20ft. A launch can carry 80 passengers. “Around Rs 4 crore have been spent by the state government to buy the launches. It was planned to introduce the launches to ferry people between Parlalpur Ghat of Baishnabnagar block in Malda and Dhulian Ghat in Murshidabad. As of now, around 2,000 people travel through on the route in motorised country boats every day. The launches were brought to ensure a safe journey to these people,” said an official of the administration.“The problem has cropped up as the launches reached Farakka the upstream of the barrage. As these vehicles tried to cross the barrage from under the sluice gates, it was found that the gap (between the water and the gate) is 15ft, while each launch has a height of 20ft,” the official added. According to him, there are two options. One is to send back the launches and get smaller ones as the administration has planned. “The other is to get those launches downstream through a turnaround route. But it is an elaborate process and we might even need the help of Bangladesh as the Ganga enters the country before meeting Bay of Bengal,” he said. The launches were brought to prevent accidents like boat capsise on the Ganga. Earlier, such incidents had happened in Malda and led to loss of peoples’ lives. In one year, there were two incidents of boat capsise in Chanchal and Baishnabnagar, which had led to the death of around 10 people.Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said: “We could not introduce the launch services between the neighbouring districts because of this problem. That is why we have requested the state to send us smaller launches with shorter heights and with capacity of around 40 passengers.” In Malda, boat services are available at a number of other locations of the district along the Ganga. Among them are the service between Jharkhand from Panchanandapur Ghat in Kaliachak-II block and Manikchak Ghat in Manikchak block. Also, boat services are available in Chanchal and Harishchandrapur blocks on the Mahananda and Fulhar rivers. The technical issue that has halted introduction of launch services between Malda and Murshidabad has left the daily commuters disappointed. “Journeying by launch is always much safer and quicker than boats. We had learnt about the launch service but later came to know that the launches could not cross the barrage. It is disappointing. We find this water route easy to access but the risk of travelling over the Ganga in a small motorboat is always there,” said Tarun Mandal, a cattle trader from Parlalpur who often visits Dhulian in Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||CBSE challenges order on IISER school||The Central Board of Secondary Education has filed an appeal before a division bench of Calcutta High Court, challenging an interim order that asked the CBSE to issue provisional affiliation to a school on the IISER-Calcutta’s Mohanpur campus in Nadia by August 14 so that it could register students who had passed Class VIII this year. The interim order had been issued by Justice Soumen Sen on July 30 following an application submitted by Satikanta Guha Foundation (SGF), which runs the Garden High School-IISER. In the appeal filed on August 13, the CBSE contended that Justice Sen had passed an “erroneous” and “unreasonable order” by “taking irrelevant factors into consideration” and ignoring relevant affiliation bylaws. The board also reiterated the need for a mandatory lease deed over the land where the school is located, which Justice Sen had rejected in his July 30 order. While the respondent, SGF, declined comments, IISER officials and guardians of the students said the CBSE was contradicting its own bylaw provision in order to harass students. In the July 30 order, the court had rejected the need for a lease deed owing to the existence of a formal agreement between IISER-K and the SGF on November 19, 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP-TMC clash in I-Day murder protest||Eight motorcycles were vandalised and at least three persons injured as BJP and Trinamul workers clashed in a village in Hooghly district on Sunday amid a 12-hour strike called by the BJP to protest a party worker’s murder on Independence Day. BJP worker Sudarshan Pramanik was killed in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Saturday when rival party workers clashed as their respective Independence Day venues were less than 10 metres apart. The saffron party alleged Pramanik was killed by Trinamul supporters. Trinamul claimed Pramanik died because of infighting in the BJP. Six persons have been arrested for the murder. On Sunday, a clash erupted in Khanakul’s Jakra village when BJP workers allegedly hurled crude bombs at the home of panchayat chief Sanjay Dolui. The BJP alleged that TMC attacked “peacefully campaigning” BJP workers. “BJP workers armed with crude bombs first started shutting down shops in our area and finally hurled bombs at the house of our panchayat chief. People who protested against the violence were also attacked,” said Abhijit Bag, Trinamul block president in Khanakul.“The BJP men also forced the poor people to stop their work in jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme,” Bag added. BJP sources claimed Trinamul intentionally attacked workers who were “campaigning peacefully” in support of the strike. “Trinamul attacked and beat up our party workers in Khanakul. They ransacked several motorcycles. One of our party workers is seriously injured and admitted to the Arambagh subdivisional hospital,” said Biman Ghosh, the BJP’s Arambagh president. Six persons were arrested in connection with the murder on the Independence Day and eight more in connection with the Sunday strike. “We arrested six persons accused in the murder case. Those arrested for putting up roadblocks were released on bail,” said Nirmal Kumar Das, subdivisional police officer in Arambagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Over 3,000 new cases, tests rise in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday clocked 3,066 new Covid-19 cases and 51 deaths, but also did 32,286 tests to cross 13 lakh. The state has speeded up Covid-19 tests, conducting a lakh in three days and 13,14,772 in all. Bengal also reported 2,935 recoveries on Sunday. The total Covid count now is 1.16 lakh, including nearly 87,000 recoveries and 2,428 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 74.48 per cent, higher than the national 72.41. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee set a target of 25,000 tests a day by August 15. We reached that long ago and did 34,214 tests on August 15,” said a minister. He added that active cases in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas continued to slide. Of the 3,066 new cases reported on Sunday, 563 were from Calcutta, while 560 were from North 24-Parganas. However, since they reported 678 and 598 recoveries, respectively, their total of active cases fell. “On Sunday, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases and North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,517, while North 24-Parganas has 5,484. All our measures for checking the outbreak in these two districts seem to have started paying off,” said the minister. Bengal’s tests per million went up from 9,927 at the start of August to 14,609 on Sunday. “Now, we are looking at crossing 40,000 daily tests in a matter of days,” the minister said. Testing in Bengal began in early February and the state took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19. “From there, we crossed 2 lakh in 12 days (on May 31), 3 lakh in 11 days (on June 11), 4 lakh in 10 days (on June 21), 5 lakh in 11 days (on July 2), 6 lakh in nine days (on July 11), 7 lakh in eight days (on July 19), 8 lakh in seven days (on July 26) and 9 lakh in six days (on August 1),” said the minister. “After that, we crossed 10 lakh (on August 5), 11 lakh (on August 9) and 12 lakh (on Thursday) in four days each. Now, we crossed 13 lakh in just three days,” said the minister. “At least another 5.2-6 lakh tests are likely in the second half of August. If we get there, we will have conducted 10 lakh tests in a month.” Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.86 per cent, which was 7.86 at the beginning of the month. Of the total 2,428 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,070, with 13 on Sunday 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 565 deaths, 10 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 2,153, or 88.7 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In August alone, there have so far been 847 reported deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 785 were co-morbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.08, but still lagged behind the national rate of 1.92 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.31. The state reported 36.15 per cent occupancy in the 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 84 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, beside 16.4 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 82,000, including 4,120 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid test rider to meet officials backfires||The West Midnapore district magistrate issued an order on Friday asking all visitors to secure Covid-19 negative reports before they met government officials, causing embarrassment to Nabanna as senior officials felt the directive would create panic among people and put unnecessary pressure on testing centres. Amid murmurs that the directive did not go down well with the top brass of the Bengal government, district magistrate Rashmi Kamal told The Telegraph on Sunday evening that “the order is being withdrawn”. Later in the evening, the notification was withdrawn and a fresh order asking people to go for tests if they developed symptoms was issued. The order issued on August 14 by the district magistrate’s office had pointed out that officers at district and block levels were getting infected and that’s why visitors were supposed to follow certain measures before meeting the officials. “If there is no symptom, you must undergo Covid-19 rapid Antigen test... If you have symptoms, you should go for RTPCR tests,” the order reads. While mentioning the names of the hospitals where such tests were being conducted, the DM had written that the visitors should have a negative report which would be valid for 10 days from the date of test. “If we officers refuse to meet visitors without a Covid negative report, people would panic. Furthermore, people come to us with their problems and if we don’t meet them during this crisis, where will they go?,” said a senior official. A top bureaucrat said there was no central instruction in this regard as such an order could put unnecessary pressure on the testing facilities. Sources said officers at the block levels, particularly BDOs, had put pressure on the DM to issue such an order. “Three BDOs and about 100 government employees have already been afflicted by Covid-19 and the district magistrate had issued the order keeping in mind the spread of the disease among the government officers,” said a source. Senior government officers at Nabanna said demanding a Covid-19 negative certificate couldn’t be a solution to deal with the problem at a time the chief minister herself was telling people not to panic. “People in rural areas would meet officers with their problem. If people cannot meet the BDOs, how can they submit their claims like they did after Amphan. The officers have to initiate safety measures to keep themselves safe,” said an official. After the order had been withdrawn, some BDOs were unhappy with the decision saying it would leave them in trouble as leaders of political parties often come to meet them with a group of people. Senior officers said the BDOs could issue orders to ensure that he or she would meet only one person at a time. “They can put in place a system of health screening of visitors like temperature check. They can make it clear that they won’t meet anybody without a mask. But demanding a negative certificate is too much,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Community youth clubs to fight Covid in East Midnapore ||The East Midnapore health department, assisted by a Haldia NGO, has started a health equipment distribution drive among 300-odd youth clubs in the district to enlist “responsible youths” in the community to fight Covid-19. Starting August 14, the clubs spread across 25 blocks and five municipalities started receiving a pulse oximeter, a blood pressure monitoring machine and a digital thermometer each from the Satish Samanta Welfare Trust. “In addition to creating a physical space where people can go for a check-up, youths can spread the word on symptoms, monitoring and the importance of rapid testing,” said an NGO official. The move by the health department comes in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases in July in the district. As of this week, the daily average of new cases stood close to 200, a near 100 per cent spike since early July. District cases stood at 3,662 as of this week, with active cases at 1,384. On Sunday alone, 173 cases were recorded. NGO officials are training youths to use the gadgets. “Our district is facing rising Covid numbers and we are trying our best to ramp up rapid testing. People need to realise the importance of tests when they suspect symptoms and we hope clubs help us in this,” said chief medical officer (health) Nitai Mondal, thanking the NGO for its help. The Bengal government dispenses Rs 2 lakh a year to each of the selected clubs for “health and sports activities”. Trinamul MLA in Ramnagar Akhil Giri lauded the decision, calling it “wise”. Gopal Samanta, secretary of Khelaghar Club in Tamluk,  said: “We espouse social causes along with sports, and these equipment will help us play a bigger role in community health.” A senior citizen from Panskura welcomed including youth clubs in the Covid fight. “These equipment aren’t normally available at people’s homes, so we are grateful that we can access them now at nearby clubs,” Sunil Kar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
17-08-2020||North East||Assam age ceiling raised for two posts||The Assam government has decided to raise the upper age limit for recruitment to Grade III and Grade IV posts to 40 years from 38, a move intended at benefiting the educated unemployed in the state. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal made the announcement in his Independence Day address. He said the step to  will provide unemployed youths more opportunities to get into the government force. The decision comes within few days of the government announcing to deposit Rs 830 a month in the bank accounts of 17 lakh families in the poll-bound state. Assam goes to the polls in April-May next year. According to a government statement in the Assembly in August 2019, Assam has 16,99,977 educated unemployed registered with the employment exchanges across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
17-08-2020||North East||‘Deep network’ on Ravi’s lips||Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi in his Independence Day speech said “waves” of positive change and growth seem to have been “bypassing” the state because a “deeply entrenched network” of vested interests has “misappropriated” the dividends of peace and did not allow them to reach the people. While lauding the government, the community and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for  tackling the pandemic, Ravi used the opportunity to highlight Nagaland’s shortcomings — how it has today earned the “dubious distinction” of the “worst-performing” state  on almost all the “significant” indicators of “human development” . “Ironically, relative decline is more obvious during the recent decades. When the security forces and the Naga armed groups agreed to suspend operations against each other paving the way for political settlement, the legitimate expectation of the people of Nagaland was dividends of peace — freedom from fear of guns, better health, better education, better infrastructure, better livelihood opportunities, an atmosphere to dream and an eco-system to pursue their dreams,” Ravi said. “Incongruously, a deeply entrenched network of vested interests has emerged during the period which has misappropriated the dividends of peace and did not allow them to reach the people. There is mass scale mayhem and miscarriage of dreams and expectations of the people of Nagaland. It is unendurable and unacceptable,” he said. This is the second time, since his June 16 letter to incumbent chief minister Neiphiu Rio, that Ravi has raised questions about governance and government in Nagaland despite a ceasefire between the Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (IM) since 1997. Seven other groups under the Naga National Political Groups are also part of the ongoing peace process. Ravi’s letter criticised the government, highlighting issues “grim law and order” and “armed gangs” indulging in “rampant extortion” with government virtually looking the other way. The state government had said that Ravi’s observations “do not appear to be factual” while the NSCN(IM) had taken offence to the “armed gangs” reference while asserting they “levy taxes” on people and have never indulged in extortion. The letter had strained ties between him and the NSCN(IM) to such an extent that the outfit had urged the Centre to replace him as the interlocutor for the ongoing peace process. This time, Ravi has been careful and subtle with his choice of words without “diluting” the message he wanted to convey about governance since the ceasefire, Nagaland watchers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
17-08-2020||Opinion||Talk it out: Parliament monsoon session||Sir — Parliament is gearing up for the monsoon session, putting in place adequate measures to check the spread of the coronavirus. One can only hope that after such elaborate efforts, there is actual debate and discussion in Parliament instead of the usual steamrolling of bills by the ruling dispensation at the Centre, using its brute majority. Otherwise there is no reason to risk lives.Rima Roy,Calcutta Sinister plot Sir — The film, Sadak 2, has waded right into the nepotism debate raging in Bollywood. The film’s trailer has received a record number of dislikes on YouTube. No one should support nepotism; it is wrong and Bollywood is far from the only sphere in India affected by it. But is not deciding that a film is bad before even watching it based on a controversy as bad as overlooking talent? But the current debate on nepotism goes far deeper than is apparent at first. The theme of inequality is conspicuously absent in the nepotism discourse. Its preferred binary is not privileged versus non-privileged but outsider versus insider, with all the outrage reserved for the insiders. The idea is not to call for a level playing field but to stoke the so-called outsider’s desire to displace the insider as the new insider, without dismantling the insider-outsider structure as such. More important, beneath the veneer of moral righteousness, the nepotism discourse is also powered by right-wing majoritarian elements. This aspect remains understated, if not hidden, thereby enabling the discourse to get traction across the political spectrum, including from liberals. The nepotism discourse is right-wing populist in the same way that the anti-corruption movement was, with both having the same objective: channelling public resentment against traditional elites.Aditya Bannerjee,GurgaonSelfish motive Sir — Sachin Pilot has not yet left the Congress. Is it because the young leader sensed that changing political colours to consolidate power would diminish his popularity within the electorate? It is hard for people to believe that it is commitment to political ideology that made Pilot stick with the Congress. If indeed he cared about the Congress, why did he create this situation in the first place, knowing that his antics could be exploited by the Bharatiya Janata Party to disrespect the people’s will in Rajasthan and usurp power? Pilot may not have jumped ship yet, but he has lost the trust reposed in him.Ashok Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||Costly business: Covid-19 and medical insurance||The Covid-19 outbreak in India has bared gaps in public health and the healthcare system. This is borne by revelations that the private hospital bills of insured Covid-19 patients who have not taken a virus-specific policy now include “non-medical” expenses such as the cost of personal protective equipment, face masks, gloves and hand sanitizers — expenditure that is not covered by insurance agencies. Even at the best of times, treatment at private hospitals is too costly for a vast section of the Indian population. It is, however, a matter of great concern when healthcare — the accessibility and affordability of which ought not to be compromised at the time of a pandemic — is being effectively put out of the reach of even those citizens who can, in fact, afford medical insurance. Insurance companies have cut a sorry figure for themselves during the pandemic; there have been reports of insurers refusing to extend coverage to healthcare workers after the coronavirus outbreak, so much so that the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India had to intervene. Given the ever-mutating nature of the illness, it stands to reason that healthcare policies designed to combat it must take into account the need for flexibility in both treatment and insurance plans. This, however, has evidently not come to pass. The IRDAI must ascertain whether profit continues to be the overriding motivator in the process of insurance policy-making. Worryingly, exclusion seems to be embedded in other institutional responses to the crisis. Take the case of the notification issued by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission: it says that even though private hospitals must grant provisional admission to Covid patients who are unable to make the advance payment of Rs 50,000, healthcare institutes would reserve the right to cancel the admission if the sum is not deposited within 12 hours. There is, admittedly, another side of the problem. Patients’ refusal to pay has forced a number of hospitals to introduce stringent measures in order to recover the costs of treatment. The net result — unsurprisingly — is a severe trust deficit between hospital authorities and patients. Given the complexity of the problem — it involves questions of patients’ rights to treatment, an inclusive healthcare apparatus as well as financial viability of healthcare hospitals — India would do well to study international models for universal healthcare that strike the right balance among these imperatives. The model for India, however, will have to take into account conditions specific to India: poverty, a poor people to hospital ratio, burgeoning population and so on. Deliberations on the formulation of an equitable, universal health programme must be representative and fully transparent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||Others too: Recognise Sarna in Census||Coercion has many forms. It can be direct, a way only too familiar nowadays, or it can be insidious, manifesting its effects gradually. The quiet narrowing down of choice of religion for the indigenous peoples of India on the census form is a good example of the second. On the census form in 1951, they had a column entitled ‘Tribe’, distinct from the named religions. This suggested that the religious beliefs of indigenous people did not have to be acknowledged with the ‘main’ religious systems. Different tribes were lumped together with numerically sparse populations, such as Parsis — there was no need, apparently, to distinguish among them. The disinterest in ancient animistic religions pushed a larger group of people than the followers of named religions, such as Jainism or Buddhism, towards a kind of anonymity — and the attitude remained unchanged. Later census forms had ‘Others’ as the extra column, which, however, allowed the noting of separate beliefs, such as Sarna, a form of nature worship followed by a large number of tribes. The demand to include Sarna as a separate column on the census form has been growing in intensity in the last few years, and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-led government that took over power in Jharkhand in 2019, promised to make this possible. Now the apprehension that the 2021 census form will not even have the ‘Others’ column has led to the 32 tribal groups in Jharkhand threatening to boycott the census unless ‘Sarna’ is included under religions. Otherwise they would be forced either to not record their religion at all or to show themselves as adherents of Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Buddhism or Jainism. The tribes of Jharkhand have promised to make this into a tribal movement covering all tribe-inhabited states, especially because they suspect that the removal of the ‘Others’ column is a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-Bharatiya Janata Party ruse to compel tribes to register under Hinduism. It would not be surprising if the indifference of earlier political regimes have cleared the way for Hindutva interests. Perhaps it is time to include columns under the heads of the main tribal religions as well as one marked ‘Others’ as recompense. The constitutional freedom to practise one’s own religion implies other people’s respect for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||An unusual gift: Life and works of Mira Chaudhuri||I came across this book by chance in my friend’s collection. It is an unusual book: part photography book, part memoir, part private, part published, bound in purple cloth with an exquisite floral design in bright Rajasthani mirror-work embroidery on the cover. The embroidery, feels my friend, could have been the work of the author, Mira Chaudhuri, herself, though by the time the book was made, designed by her, she was quite old and frail. Born in 1905, Chaudhuri was a photographer. Among the people she photographed are the stalwarts of the political and cultural worlds of pre- and post-Independence India, many of whom she knew very closely. Rabindranath Tagore, her father’s friend and an all-pervasive presence in her book, was one of her subjects, as was Gandhi. Rabindranath doted on her, as shown by some of the delightful letters he had written to her. She photographed the eminent cast of artists and teachers in Rabindranath’s Santiniketan, as also Jawaharlal Nehru and Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan. Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit was a personal friend. As were Stella Kramrisch, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and Aruna Asaf Ali. Her father was Dwijendranath Maitra, resident surgeon at Mayo Hospital, also her subject and the person who had gifted her her first camera when she was 10. Satyajit Ray used some of her photographs for the film he made on Rabindranath. But Chaudhuri, who hardly speaks about herself except to say that she is blessed to be in such company, also went on remarkable journeys by herself. She went alone to Kashmir in the late 1930s, though she stayed with family friends. She went to Amarnath, photographing, often from horseback, the unforgiving slopes and the unrelenting ice. During the Bengal Famine of 1943, she travelled with Vijaya Lakshmi through the most affected parts of Bengal, including Barisal and Bhola, photographing the face of death. One wonders how Chaudhuri, a gentle, self-effacing person, and a woman, sari-clad, radical in no obvious way — the camera till very recently was a male apparatus — went about taking photographs, which can be an act of intrusion. And how she looked at her relationship with the camera. The structure of the book is a clue. Chaudhuri was requested by a Bengali magazine to write her memoirs. This led to a serialization from the Eighties in the magazine of her accounts of these personalities. But the book that I hold in my hands is more than that. In it, the published pieces, which carry photographs taken by her of these personalities, are photocopied and appear on the right. The black-and-white photocopied images look blurred now. But on the blank sides of the pages, appearing on the left, Chaudhuri pastes her original pictures, also in black and white, and sharp and observant, writing the captions in her own hand. The texts are often about the gifts she got from those she is remembering: Rabindranath’s visit to see how her foot was healing, a frail Abanindranath’s eyes misting when she visits him, Kamaladevi insisting on visiting the small outfit of handicrafts and embroidery Chaudhuri had started, Stella Kramrisch writing her letters full of love for Chaudhuri and her family. Remarkable people could prove difficult subjects for the camera, deliberately. Kramrisch would not be photographed and Gandhiji proved almost elusive, with a twinkle in his eye. But most of all, the book is about the gift of friendship, laughter and conversation, and being a part of other lives. At the time of writing her accounts, Chaudhuri, in her eighties, is confined to her room because of her health. Yet she is making things, including books, and memories, for others. Her book is not just a photographer’s work. She writes to the couple for whom she has made the book a lovely little note on the first page, following which is a handwritten, though photocopied preface. The book is a great gift. Yes, she writes from a position of great privilege. But in times when politics is only dividing us and the pandemic is isolating us, it is good to come across such an act of generosity. And the nation she captured through her lens looks like a different country, worth remembering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||The game is afoot: Elections in Myanmar||Myanmar’s pro-democracy icon, Aung San Suu Kyi, seems all set to lead her National League for Democracy back to power in the November 8 elections after avoiding a major confrontation with the country’s all-powerful military. Suu Kyi, realizing that discretion is the better part of valour, abandoned the NLD’s efforts to change the Constitution that bars her from contesting for presidentship, gives the army 25 per cent of seats in Parliament and control over three crucial security-related ministries — home, defence and border affairs. An amendment to the Constitution can only get passed if it garners 75 per cent of the vote. If the army were to oppose the NLD-sponsored amendments and get one or two per cent of civilian lawmakers to support it, no amendment would go through. Three years ago, Suu Kyi had told me on the sidelines of a democracy convention that she was no longer “an icon sitting on the wall but a flesh-and-blood Burmese politician determined to survive”. She is indeed living up to this role. She has pleased the army by refusing international demands to investigate atrocities on Rohingyas in the Rakhine province and has challenged an ICJ trial of army officers held responsible for the same. “This army is one created by my father, Marshal Aung Sang, for Burma’s liberation,” she said two years ago, betraying no bitterness for her years in prison and house arrest and the denial of power to her by her ‘father’s army’. Suu Kyi has shifted from vague-eyed idealism to hard-nosed political realism. She has also abandoned her Western-style democracy model and US-style federalism that she was committed to. Both these moves have kept the army in good humour. But there would be many casualties if Suu Kyi continues with this policy. Myanmar’s evolution as a democracy would suffer with no end to draconian censorship laws and no space for legitimate political dissent, as would Suu Kyi’s ‘Second Panglong’, a comprehensive peace dialogue with ethnic rebel armies. The ethnic rebellions will continue because the rebels would see that there is no scope for dialogue to end the stalemate. The continuation of conflict suits the military as it would justify the raison d’être for its existence and expansion. However, as the conflict continues and intensifies in areas like Kachin and Rakhine, the Burmese military is pushing for a change in foreign policy direction to suit its strategic interests. The army — and now Suu Kyi — has warmed up to India because the Tatmadaw is desperately seeking Indian military support to crush the increasingly-powerful Arakan Army, which has announced a ‘final fight’ to liberate the Arakans in a close tactical, if not political, alliance with the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army. India is upset with the Arakan Army because it is obstructing its ambitious multi-million dollar Kaladan multi-modal connectivity project to link the Indian mainland to the Northeast by a sea-river-road route (Sittwe port-Paletwa by Kaladan river-Zorinpui on the Mizoram border by road). Arakan Army sources told me they have information about Indian preparations for surgical and drone strikes — something that the Indian army denies. Myanmar is also upset with China and has, for the first time since 1980s, lashed out at Beijing’s double standards, even cancelling some critical BRI projects. It released 22 northeastern Indian rebels who were in its custody and flew them back recently. The India-Myanmar military bonhomie augurs well for the mutual management of trans-border insurgencies. It would also deny Northeast rebels the opportunity to receive help from China. That may lead to Bangladesh sulking because it wants India to create more pressure on Myanmar for Rohingya refugee repatriation. The United States of America has also backed India in its plans to crush the China-funded and armed rebels like the Arakan Army. The attack on China by the Yangon-based senior diplomat, George Sibley, for supporting insurgencies and undermining Burmese sovereignty, clearly pointed to the emerging equations in the region. As the Asia-watcher, Bertil Lintner, says, this will become the most complex theatre of what he describes as the “Great Game East”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||Stifling embrace||The new education policy comes cloaked in pious platitudes and ostensibly progressive pronouncements. It is only by peeling away the layers of obfuscation that we get a clear insight into the ways in which it is poised to blight the future of our younger generation. The announcement of the policy bypassing Parliament and any real consultation with the states is one more brazen and cynical attempt to advance the ruling configuration’s ideological agenda under the cover of Covid-19. It is a recipe for unenlightened over-centralization. The policy contains some acceptable prescriptions, which one would expect in any twenty-first century reformulation of perspectives on education. The choice of the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in primary school, the move away from the rigid bifurcation between arts and science streams in high school, a measure of flexibility in changing subjects in a four-year college education and a presumption that there should be something universal and not narrowly technical about universities are among the less contentious features of the policy. However, English should be taught as a second language at the primary level even while having the regional language as the medium of instruction. An entire generation in Bengal suffered as a consequence of the Left Front government’s short-sighted decision to do away with English in primary school. We cannot afford to repeat that mistake at the all-India level. Despite bandying about the phrase, “graded autonomy”, the policy leaves no room for genuine autonomy of academic institutions and threatens to extinguish federal autonomy in the domain of education. Properly a state subject for nearly three decades after Independence, education was moved to the concurrent list during an authoritarian interregnum in Indian politics. The new policy bears all the over-centralizing impulse of the current regime in New Delhi. It leaves inadequate space for the reflection of the diversity of India in curricular content at any level of education. The worst feature of the National Education Policy is the provision for a single regulator of higher education. Much will depend, of course, on who gets appointed to this all-powerful body. The present government’s record gives rise to the legitimate fear that it will be packed with the regime’s favoured ideologues rather than bona fide educationists. The proposed central regulatory body is invested with all-encompassing authority without mechanisms for consultation and coordination with any state regulatory body that states may choose to establish or with their departments of higher education. The establishment of this single regulator should be vigorously opposed in Parliament and non-BJP ruled states should set up robust state regulatory bodies to contest the imposition from the Centre. Even though medical and legal education are to be left out of the scope of the single regulator for higher education, the Central government’s interventions in medical colleges have alienated most thoughtful members of the medical fraternity. I introduced a private member’s bill in the 16th Lok Sabha to govern national law universities but was unable to engage the interest of the treasury benches in such an urgently needed measure. Another retrograde measure is the policy’s prescription of a common entrance exam for admission to higher education institutions by a national testing agency. Standardized exams such as the SAT and GRE in the United States of America have been shown to be biased against disadvantaged social groups and are increasingly being discarded or ignored by the best colleges and universities in their admission decisions. Different states and individual institutions must have full autonomy to determine what weight, if any, to give to a common entrance exam at the all-India level in their admission processes. The new national curriculum framework for ECE, school, teachers and adult education promises to be another stifling straitjacket. The spectre of privatization inherent in the new policy has raised widespread concern and for good reason. It offers nothing to stem the rot of commercialization of school education that has been damaging to both quality and equity in many states. The policy advocates “common norms” for public and private higher education institutions. While there are examples of outstanding not-for-profit private universities around the world (I happen to teach in one), for-profit private universities have been unmitigated disasters everywhere. There is need for a new and separate law in Parliament specifying the requirements for being accorded the status of not-for-profit higher education institutions. Since that prospect is unlikely, states should legislate on this matter. States should also amend their laws governing state universities so that governors, who are these days no more than political agents of the Centre, do not automatically serve as their chancellors. Distinguished educationists belonging to the state should be appointed chancellors. The policy exhibits muddled thinking on the internationalization of education, which if properly done would raise standards. I have been watching national channels showing footage of Harvard as they trumpet the government’s decision to welcome foreign universities. I know for a fact that Harvard is opposed in principle to opening campuses outside of its location in and around Cambridge, Massachusetts. Only a handful of the top one hundred universities in the world are likely to show any interest in having campuses in India. Many more can be engaged through intellectual partnerships. The emphasis in the internationalization of education should be on giving Indian institutions the autonomy to attract talented international faculty and to welcome foreign students. Our universities should be far more cosmopolitan than they are at present. They should look east and not just towards North America and Europe. The old and tired promise of increasing public investment in the education sector to “reach 6% of GDP at the earliest” is repeated in the new policy. It was meaningless on the part of the government to announce the policy without an accompanying, clear, time-bound roadmap to attain this level of public investment. Achieving national professional standards for teachers will remain a pipedream without massive investment in teacher-training. The policy declares the good intention of having a gender inclusion fund, which should form part of the repertoire to eradicate deeply ingrained gender-based discrimination. In singing the praises of the NEP, Narendra Modi has revealed his Manuvadi predilections. We must acknowledge and address gender, caste and class-based discrimination and exclusion through resolute and verifiable affirmative action in admissions and appointments at all levels. The current public health crisis has exposed the yawning digital divide in access to education; this shameful inequality and injustice must be addressed urgently through public investment and delivery. The Opposition would do well to challenge the substance of the new education policy instead of getting mired in the defense of the old nomenclature. There is no reason to mourn the impending removal of the jargon-laden phrase, ‘human resource development’, from our official lexicon. We should not reduce the nurturing of human capability to the level of exploiting material resources. Education and health must be the two pillars on which to rebuild our national edifice that must rest on a strong federal foundation. A top-heavy structure is bound to collapse. For the next four years, regional parties in power at the state level must bear the responsibility of safeguarding the future of our young citizens. The author is the Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro district runs out of ventilators, all 27 in use now||Hospitals in Bokaro are headed for a serious crisis with the district health authorities declaring that there were no ventilators available if more Covid patients were to need them. The district has 27 ventilators across three hospitals. Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), the dedicated centre for treating coronavirus patients, has 16 ventilators, K.M. Memorial Hospital four and Muskan Hospital seven. As of Monday evening, Bokaro has 157 active Covid-19 cases. In all, the district has recorded 592 Covid cases. As many as 413 people have been cured while four persons have died. Manikant Dhan, chief of communication of BGH, which is run by Bokaro Steel, admitted that they did not have adequate number of ventilators.  “We have patients using all our ventilators in the hospital,” said Dr Vikas Pandey, the owner of K M Memorial Hospital, said all their ventilators were in use too. It was the same story at Muskan Hospital in Chas. “We have seven ventilators in our hospital. But all are being used,” said paediatrician Dr S.C. Munsi, who is also the owner of the hospital. To add to the challenges, a 10-bed intensive care unit (ICU) that is supposed to come up at Sadar Hospital is unable to start operations because there is no doctor yet. A doctor was appointment head of the ICU one and-a-half months ago. But he hasn’t joined yet. “This is causing a delay in the functioning of the ICU,” said Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak, The district health department has already purchased ventilators and other equipment, all of which are to be installed once the new doctor takes charge. Sources said the doctor who has been appointed is now working at AIIMS, Patna. But since he is a resident of Chas, he agreed to the posting. “We are lucky to have a good doctor only because he is a resident of the district. He is an MBBS, MD from PMCH and had done senior residency from AIIMS, Patna. He had assured us that he would join before August 15. But he hasn’t arrived yet,” said Pathak, adding that the Sadar Hospital ICU would start functioning as soon as he took charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant’s new BMW grabs eyeballs, attracts barbs||Chief minister Hemant Soren’s brand-new BMW sedan marks the end of the journey for the nearly-a-decade-old Toyota Camry, which was used as the official vehicle of three Jharkhand chief ministers, including Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das. The specification-loaded BMW 520d, from the global car manufacturer's luxury line series, is worth over Rs 60 lakh, and will now be used as the official vehicle of the chief minister. The Toyota Camry, which it replaces, was also a premium sedan worth around Rs 40 lakh. It was bought in 2012 when a BJP-led coalition government was in power in the state. The brand-new bluestone metallic BMW grabbed eyeballs when Hemant took it for a spin on August 15. The 1995cc machine is matched to power of 187.74 bhp at 4000rpm and it can notch a top speed of 235 kmph. The car has airbags for all passengers, sunroof, automatic transmission and five driving modes. Besides, it can achieve a speed of 0 to 100 kmph in only 8.1 second. The eight-speed gearbox matched to the four cylinder diesel engine is expected to provide a comfortable ride for the CM and his kin, sources from the chief minister's office said. “The BMW was registered in Jharkhand on August 14. It has been registered with a VIP number, JH01-DZ-3333,” said a close aide of the CM. While the car has received attention for its features and looks, the Opposition has termed the purchase untimely and extravagant. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator-turned BJP leader Kunal Sarangi said that riding a BMW car should not be prioritised at a time when welfare schemes were being halted due to financial crunch. In response to BJP's jibes, JMM leaders clarified that the Toyota Camry, which was being used by the CM so far, was found to be unsafe during inspection. “The new car was purchased to ensure safety of the CM,” said JMM spokesperson Vinod Pandey. The JMM, in retaliation, has raised questions on the alleged purchase of six Mitsubishi Pajero SUVs during the former Raghubar Das-led government. After taking charge as the chief minister, Hemant had said that state's coffers were empty, and the government was thinking of ways to generate revenue. He had accused former CM Raghubar Das of spending too much money on “show business”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||30-year-old woman killed by neighbours after being branded 'witch'||Neighbours killed a 30-year-old woman after branding her a witch on Monday at the Maoist-prone Khesnaro village in Giridih. The incident occurred at 1.30 pm. The superintendent of police (SP), Amit Renu, sent a team headed by SDPO Khori-Mahua Naveen Singh to assess the spot. The police team recovered the body of Geeta Devi lying in front of her house. The SDPO said the incident occurred when Devi came home from the bank. The accused, a group of mostly her neighbours, punched her and attacked her with sticks and traditional weapons. She was hit by an axe on her head following which she collapsed and died. And when her brother and mother-in-law came to save her, the accused bashed them up as well. The two are injured. Police found that the dispute between the deceased with her neighbours was continuing for the past few years. Police are recording statements of the deceased family members and other eye-witnesses. The husband of the deceased, Manoj Yadav, alleged that a neighbour sent his wife to jail in a false case about a year and -a-half ago. They had a dispute with their neighbours for a long time. The police have sent the body for post-mortem. Preliminary investigation revealed that on the day of Raksha Bandhan, a son of one of the accused had died due to some disease. For this, they blamed Geeta. “The deceased was said to have been practicing witchcraft in the village. The accused blamed the deceased for killing her son, and so, they attacked her along with other people and killed her, branding her a witch,” said SDPO. The matter is still being investigated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur southpaw Virat gears up for the IPL challenge ||Virat Singh is geared up to let his bat do the talking in the 13th edition of Indian Premier league (IPL) starting in Dubai next month. The 23-year-old left-hander will be making his IPL debut for Sunrisers Hyderabad, who signed him for Rs 1.90 crore during the auction in Calcutta last year. Virat has used the coronavirus-induced lockdown to keep himself in fine fettle – mentally and physically. He worked out at his Kadma home gym, where he also played badminton, and sprinting was reserved for the Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Stadium. The youngster is aware that stamina and endurance would be key in the glamour-rich tournament. “I am looking forward to the IPL. It’s my debut tournament and I would like to cash in on the opportunity. I am fully geared up for the challenge,``said Virat, who captained Jharkhand under-19 team and is a member of the senior (read Ranji Trophy) side. Speaking to e, Virat said he will leave for Mumbai on August 21 to join the team. “I will be having my coronavirus test tomorrow (Tuesday) and leave for Mumbai via Ranchi on August 21. I will be required to undergo a Covid test once again in Mumbai. We leave for Dubai on August 23. Hope things go well,” the southpaw with good reflexes who knows how to excel in crunched situations, added On being asked if missing out on outdoor training sessions has affected his preparation, Virat said the case was the same for a majority of cricketers. “But I used the lockdown to keep myself in good shape. That way I will not lose out on the preparation front. I am fully prepared mentally and physically,” he said. Virat’s last competitive outing was a Ranji match against Odisha early this February in Cuttack this year. “I am looking towards just one solid knock in the IPL. Things will fall in place after I get that knock,” he said. Virat’s performance in the Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament last year tilted the situation in his favour when it came to IPL. The young batsman, who also bowls a leg spin, has the ability to hold the innings while accelerating. In the tournament’s 10 matches, Virat had amassed 343 runs at an average of 57.17. Virat has played 56 T20s for Jharkhand, scored 1,552 runs at an average of 35.3 with a strike rate of 124.5. He has led the Jharkhand Under-19 side and made his debut for state Senior Sides in the Vijay Hazare Trophy in 2014. He lives with his businessman father Binod Singh, homemaker mother Renu and brothers Vivek and Vishal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||ATMs run dry after 35 SBI staff members test positive||Blame Covid-19 for the prevailing cash crisis in State Bank of India ATMs in and around the steel city. Around 35 staff members associated with the bank’s currency administration cell that is responsible for ensuring ATMs are topped up with cash, have been infected with the virus. Even driver and guards based at the Bistupur regional office of the bank from where the cell operates have tested positive for Covid-19. "I was in need of cash on Sunday. I went around three SBI ATMs in Sonari locality. But all of them displayed a ‘No Cash’ sign. Later, I got the money by using the ATM of another bank," said Sumanta Ghosh, a self-employed resident of Sonari West Layout. Complaints that SBI ATMs had run out of cash in the last three-four days poured in from several other parts of the city, including Telco and Kadma. The only place where cash was available was at the ATM Hub located on the premises of Bistupur and Sakchi branches of SBI. “We are facing a problem in refilling cash in ATMs as all officials and staff of the currency administration cell have tested Covid positive. The cell is literally non-operational for the last few days which has resulted in the cash crisis at our ATMs," said SBI chief manager Rakesh Sinha. He, however, said that they were trying to deploy staff from other departments. "Hopefully, we will be able to start the process from tomorrow (Tuesday)," he said. Sources in SBI said that earlier the cash refilling job was outsourced to a private agency. But as the bank was not satisfied with the service, the currency cell ttk over the job. Rintu Rajak, convenor of National Confederation of Bank Employees and deputy general secretary of All India SBI Staff Association, has appealed to customers to bear with them. "It is an unforeseen problem. Over 30 staff members have tested Covid positive. They are undergoing treatment. We pray to God that they recover and join duty as early as possible, " he said, adding that necessary Covid protocols were  being followed at all branches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader shot at in Chatra over land dispute||A local RJD leader had a narrow escape when a group of men, whom he was later able to identify, fired on him in the market area of Chatra on Sunday night. Indradev Yadav (50), who was injured in his right shoulder, is however, now out of danger. Police officials said Yadav was involved in a longstanding dispute with one Mithilesh Srivastava, who was among those present at Kalyanpur More on Uraili-Tilhet Road when he was shot at. Police said Yadav had identified his attackers as Amit Yadav, Chotu and Mithilesh Srivastava. Yadav said he and Amit Lal went to the local market at Kalyanpur More to buy medicines for his mother when he was attacked. “I was returning to my village of Tilhait when I was fired upon. I suffered injuries on my right shoulder. There is a longstanding dispute over a piece of land. I was being threatened by them regularly. Finally, they tried to kill me,” Yadav said. Yadav was first brought to Huntergunj health centre and provided with first aid after which he was referred to Magadh Medical College in neighbouring Gaya district of Bihar. But Yadav went to Chatra Sadar Hospital and later left for RIMs in Ranchi. Sources there claimed he was out of danger. Extremists arrested Three extremists belonging to Jharkhand Prastuti Company who were demanding a levy from an associate company of NTPC in Tandwa were arrested on Monday. Police recovered a country made pistol, two live bullets and few SIM cards of various service providers from them, said SP Rishabh Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Randhir Prasad Verma stadium to be revamped by year end||Residents of Dhanbad will get a new stadium in Golf Ground, equipped with a gymnasium, roller-skating zone, children’s playing arena, meditation centre and yoga centre, scheduled for October this year. Construction work is in progress as part of a Rs 5.60 crore project by the  Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, contractor for the DMC project Shamsher Singh said that half of the work has almost been completed, though progress has been relatively slower during the monsoon. “The soil gets muddy and is not ready, but we have targeted to to complete the work with 45 days after the end of monsoon,” said Singh. “We may have to stop work for a short period of time during Durga Puja due to the unavailability of labourers,” he said, adding that the equipment for the children’s playing arena, the gymnasium and roller-staking zones etc has already arrived, and will be installed once the work on the ground is complete. “We will be installing swings and see-saws besides some seating arrangements,” he said. Construction work at the grounds began during the last year as part of a dream project of outgoing Dhanbad Mayor Chadrashekhar Agarwal. Work was suspended during the coronavirus induced nationwide lockdown period in March, April, May and began after the relaxation provided the central government to resume the development work in urban areas. The DMC in June 2019  prepared a detailed project report worth Rs 9.72 crore for the developement of the stadium but later revised the plan and divided the development plan of the ground into two phases. The stadium, which was earlier used as a golf course in pre-Independence times, and a shooting range later in the sixties, will be situated less than 500 meters away from the residence of Dhanbad Senior Superintendent of Police. The area is set to witness the development of a host of other facilities including a football and basketball stadium and lawn tennis courts during the second phase. After shooting practice stopped during the end of the 70s due to increased population in the vicinity, and ground was used for morning walkers and for organizing local football matches during the 80s. In 1991, the park was rechristened Randhir Prasad Verma stadium. The Dhanbad Football Association organized several local football tournaments in the grounds periodically, including the Randhir Prasad Verma Memorial Football Tournament, but due to the land’s unevenness, it could not be used as a full-fledged football ground. The ground was thus being managed by the district administration and houses the office of Dhanbad Cricket Association on rented arrangement. It was also used for organizing fairs like Disneyland and for political meetings etc. besides morning walks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
17-08-2020||Jharkhand||Temple keeps date with secular Tricolour||Pahari Mandir, the temple atop Ranchi hill, hoists national flag on every Independence Day and there was no exception this year, too. “Owing to the current pandemic restrictions, only four of us were present this year, besides the priests,” said Prem Shankar Choudhary, member of Pahari Mandir Vikash Samiti. Choudhary said he had been hosting the flag for the past 25 years. Scores of people visit Pahari Mandir during Shivaratri and the month of Shravan to pray to Lord Shiva — the presiding deity here. The temple hoists the national flag every Republic Day, too. In the initial years of British rule, it is believed there was a gallows on the hillock where many freedom fighters were executed and the hillock became known as Fansi Dungri. When the country became independent, the residents of Ranchi went there in a procession  and hoisted the national flag atop the hillock on the midnight of August 14, 1947, before it was done anywhere else. The flag grabbed national headlines when then Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar inaugurated hoisting of the country’s largest national flag there on January 23, 2016. The flag, measuring 99ftx33ft and weighing 60kg, was put on a 293ft-high mast that was hoisted by a mechanical device. But the flag fluttering at about 500ft above the ground could not withstand air pressure and suffered tears a few times, causing embarrassment to both the temple committee and district administration. It also experienced glitches like the steel wire that was used slipped out of the rotation wheel placed on the top of the mast. Following this, a public interest litigation alleging disrespect to the Tricolour was filed in Jharkhand High Court which, in turn, directed in August 2016, that the flag be hoisted there on special occasions only and the flag code followed. Subsequently, no one took the risk of hoisting the largest flag again and the practice of hoisting a normal flag on the top of the temple was resumed next year. And the tradition continues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-332
