18-08-2020||Calcutta||Gunshot injury in Salt Lake guest house||A middle-aged man from Ludhiana in Punjab was injured after a gun an associate was holding allegedly went off inside a guest house in Salt Lake’s BJ Block late on Sunday, police said. Manpreet Singh, also known as Deepa, was taken to a private hospital in Salt Lake by five men with whom he had come to the city ostensibly to look for a woman from his family, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. An employee of the guest house accompanied the group to the hospital. The group had allegedly gone around the city for several days in a vehicle with a Punjab registration number looking for the young woman. The police had no whiff of the so-called search mission till an injured Deepa had to be admitted to hospital. The men had taken Deepa to the hospital in a Toyota Innova that bore Punjab registration plates. Those who had accompanied Deepa told the hospital authorities and doctors in the emergency room that he had met with an accident. All but one man left the hospital as soon as Deepa was wheeled inside. “We immediately called the nearest police station as the man had suffered a bullet injury. The bullet had ruptured his abdomen and the right femur bone,” said an official of the hospital. Deepa underwent surgery and was shifted to the intensive care unit. The cops tracked footage of CCTV cameras and questioned the man who stayed back in the hospital and tracked down the vehicle as well as the others to the guest house in BJ Block, an officer of the commissionerate said. The police questioned the men and guest house employees before arresting a driver in the group named Sunny Singh. “Sunny was handling the gun when it went off,” the officer said. Deepa had come to the city with eight others and checked into the Salt Lake guest house on August 12. Of the eight, two are relatives of Singh and the rest are drivers, the officer said. Three of the drivers checked out on August 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court gives parents a week more on school dues||Parents who are still to pay at least 80 per cent of their children’s fees in 121 schools that do not have any government financial support will get a week more to clear the dues, the high court ruled on Monday. The court had earlier set August 15 as the deadline to make the payment. A division bench of the court, comprising Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya, said the school authorities could not take any coercive steps against students who fail to pay the fees by next week. The court has decided to form a two-member committee to ascertain the income and expenses of schools and the constraints they have supposedly been facing because of parents’ reluctance to pay the fees. Suranjan Das, the vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, will be a member of the committee, the court said. The court asked the state’s advocate-general, Kishore Datta, to nominate an apolitical educationist by Tuesday who would be the committee’s second member. The committee will have the liberty to seek the help of chartered accountants for the job, the division bench said. The committee would be given one week to submit a report before the court. The committee will look into the impact of the long lockdown on a school’s finances. Scores of schools have complained that they are finding it difficult to pay salaries to teachers and other members of the staff because many parents are averse to paying fees. Several schools have pointed out that labs, buses and libraries that are shut now need expensive maintenance for their upkeep. Das told Metro that he was still to receive the court order. “I will see to it that the interest of all stakeholders, students, school authorities, as well as parents, is harmonised and school education moves forward.” The high court was hearing a PIL moved by Vineet Ruia, a social activist, alleging several schools had debarred students from attending online classes and writing online exams because they failed to pay the fees. Ruia had said these private institutions had turned into industries. Some people such as drivers of school vehicles and sweepers had requested the court that they be made a party to the case. They may tell the court about their problems; but they need not be added as parties to the case, the division bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Patients suffer as doctors catch virus||People suffering from diseases other than Covid-19 are facing a crisis because a large number of doctors, many of whom have contracted the coronavirus or been deployed in Covid wards, are staying away from their chambers and polyclinics. Unavailability of doctors have been causing inconvenience to patients since the Covid-19 pandemic started. But now the problem has taken a different dimension, said doctors and officials running polyclinics. Many doctors are getting infected by the coronavirus or are being forced to go into quarantine after coming in contact with Covid patients, making them unavailable at clinics. There are others who are working in Covid wards and so are unable to see other patients, many of whom are suffering from chronic ailments and are under regular treatment. Many doctors, however, are attending OPDs at hospitals because they feel safety protocols are better followed there than smaller chambers and clinics. Adding to the patients’ woes, many clinics are giving appointments to only a few in a week because of shortage of space and doctors. Some clinics are still shut because doctors are staying away. Officials of private healthcare institutes said most doctors are attending OPDs and are insisting that their patients go there for consultations. But many patients are reluctant to go to the hospitals because they are scared of getting infected. They prefer to meet their doctors in smaller clinics near their houses. A woman who is in her 20th week of pregnancy had wanted an appointment with her gynaecologist last week. The doctor told her the polyclinic in south Calcutta where the woman used to go for regular check-ups was closed and asked her to meet him at a hospital off EM Bypass. “Doctors say pregnant women are vulnerable to Covid and so she did not want to go for her check-up at the hospital, where hundreds of Covid patients are admitted. But because the doctor is not seeing patients at the clinic, she is consulting him over the phone,” said a relative of the woman. A 72-year-old woman often suffers from electrolyte imbalance (abnormal levels of sodium and potassium in blood). Whenever the imbalance occurs, her physician gets her admitted to a nursing home, said a relative. Last week, the woman had a similar problem and the doctor was not taking calls. “When her son went to the doctor’s home, he asked him to take the lady somewhere else. He said he was visiting neither the nursing home nor the polyclinic he was attached to,” the relative said. Private hospitals that run polyclinics said several such facilities were still not functioning. The Narayana Health group runs a polyclinic on Sarat Bose Road. “We have opened the clinic but barely 10 per cent doctors are going there and that too for only a couple of days. Also, because of space constraints, we are unable to give appointments to many patients,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region of Narayana Health. The owner of a polyclinic in Narendrapur said barely 50 per cent of the doctors were coming to the clinic because several were affected by Covid-19. Even in some of the clinics where most doctors are turning up, not many patients are being given appointments. “Because of space constraints and to maintain the norms of social distancing, we cannot accommodate every-one at the same time like before. Patients are being asked to sit inside, while those accompanying them have to wait outside for their turns,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, who is also the secretary of Bengal Oncology Foundation that runs a cancer clinic in south Calcutta. “Because of bad weather during this time of the year, we cannot make so many people wait outside. So, we have restricted the number of appointments,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Alumnus donates Rs 50 lakh to IIEST to bridge digital divide||Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from Bengal Engineering College 64 years ago, has donated Rs 50 lakh to his alma mater and the money could go a long way in bridging the digital divide that is threatening the future of many students in the era of Covid. The 86-year-old Jodhpur Park resident did not mind the health hazard and drove to the institute — now Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) — in Shibpur, Howrah, on Saturday to hand over the amount. “With the money we will buy the students who are facing connectivity issues — smartphones and laptops so they can start attending online classes from August 24. The amount will also be spent on developing a digital education hub,” IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. Basu, who had retired from CESC as chief engineer in 1996, visited the campus on Independence Day to sign an MoU with the institute and attend the inauguration of the facility where the digital education hub, named after his mother Sushama Basu, will come up. “Be it for the digital education hub or buying devices, the amount will help students at the time of crisis. It’s good that the institute has taken an inclusive approach so that no one feels left out despite the absence or the poor availability of Internet connectivity,” Basu said. He had promised at the tech school’s global alumni convention in February to donate Rs 1 crore. Saturday’s contribution was the first tranche of the planned donation. “This is the highest contribution from an individualin recent times,” an IIESTofficial said. Basu said the culture of generous contribution from IIT Kharagpur alumni to their alma mater inspired him to make the donation. IIT Bombay was the first to engage the alumni to raise a corpus so that the digital divide could be taken care of. The Bombay institute has raised Rs 1.25 crore to buy its students laptops and broadband facilities. An IIEST official said that initially they had thought Basu’s contribution would be spent on developing hostels and classrooms so they can accommodate the increasing number of students. “But since on-campus activities have ceased because of the pandemic, there is no point investing the amount in these ventures,” the official said. A survey on Net connectivity being conducted by IIEST has so far covered half the students. “As many as 15 per cent of the students surveyed are facing connectivity issues,” director Chakrabarti said. The undergraduate student strength, leaving aside the first year, stands at close to 2,000. The students coping with connectivity issues have been split into three categories. Those who do not have devices such as smartphones and computers are in the first category. In the second are those who possess the devices but live in remote places with poor or limited networks. The third category comprises those who have devices but cannot afford a high-speed data pack. “We will buy the poorstudents the devices. As long as the institute will continue to hold online classes, the students are not required to pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges. They can buy a high-speed data pack with the saved amount,” said director Chakrabarti. The institute is trying to contact the telecom service providers to help out students who are struggling with poor connectivity at home. The IIEST is a central institute where half the students are from Bengal and the rest from across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Teachers advised to ignore home ‘disturbances’  ||Several city schools have been telling teachers to be more accommodating and to ignore background distractions at the students’ end during online classes. More than four months have passed and there is no clear end to the restrictions in sight. People are losing patience and it is not always possible for family members to vacate a portion of the house for the child’s class, at least two school heads said. Teachers should know they are “intruders” in the private space of families and they should not expect parents or other members to be always in perfect attire and not cause any disturbance, the principal of a city school said. For years, parents had to leave after dropping children off at the school gate but the tables have turned and teachers can no longer tell parents to “stay out”. It is the teachers’ turn to learn to ignore things they cannot control, a principal said. At times, there is background noise over which the child has no control. It can be embarrassing for the child if they are pulled up for no fault of theirs, an administrative head who also teaches said. “We have some guidelines for parents… we tell them to create an environment conducive to an online class but we cannot be rigid about it always because we are aware that not all of them have a dedicated space... there can be some distractions and teachers have to ignore and take it in their stride,” Meena Kak, director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, said. Teachers now enter the houses early in the morning; they should not expect parents to be dressed up in their formals for their child’s class, John Bagul, the principal of South City International School, said. “Classrooms have shifted to breakfast tables or bedrooms and teachers have become intruders… they need to understand that there are certain challenges in homes. It can be inconvenient for parents to dress up and teachers have to be realistic; accept the situation and move on,” Bagul said. “In some homes parents have to leave for work in the morning and in some they have to get the household work going… all from the same space. They cannot stay away as long as online classes continue.” The school recently had a meeting with its 150 teachers to tell them to be more accommodating and to ignore background distractions during online classes. At Mahadevi Birla World Academy, teachers in the junior section have been told to be more “empathetic and humane”. At St James’ School, teachers have been asked to be more considerate and understanding of a child’s home environment. “There will be disturbances like servants walking in, doorbells ringing, dogs barking or anything else, all of which can interfere with the child’s concentration,” Terence Ireland, principal of St James’, said. “But we have told teachers to be more considerate and to allow students the freedom to get up and then come back rather than expect them to sit in front of the device throughout the class. One has to understand that classes from home and at school are not the same.” There are homes where siblings or grandparents share the room and it is not possible for them to be always quiet and alert because classes are on. “Just as children, often parents have no control over all that happens in the house. There are occasions when toddlers or younger siblings enter the class… though the student tells the child to move he or she doesn’t,” Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal at Mahadevi Birla World Academy, said. “We cannot discount the fact that the mother is busy and it is easier said than done to tell parents to always keep the home in order. We tell our teachers to be more sensible, sensitive and mature and not to make a hue and cry about everything. Of course if it becomes a recurring issue we speak to parents individually.” For a teacher, the challenges are much more in an online class than in the classroom. They have to constantly innovate to keep students engaged, a school head said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Man hit on the head and mugged on Rashbehari||A man waiting for a hired motorcycle on Rashbehari Avenue on Friday night was hit on the head with an iron rod and robbed off his phone and wallet. Cops scanned more than 20 CCTV cameras in the area to find the assaulter who ran from Pratapaditya Road to SP Mukherjee Road before slipping into a blanket and taking shelter among a group of sleeping footpath dwellers, police said. Investigators used source information to track him down. Ajay Gayen, 21, was picked up from a night shelter for the homeless on Kali Temple Road in Kalighat on Monday morning. The phone and wallet have been seized. Ajay Kumar Prasad, 31, a resident of Sarsuna, who works at a departmental store near Phoolbagan, returns home daily by making a break journey on Rashbehari Avenue. On Friday, he got “exceptionally late”. He was waiting near the Rashbehari Avenue-Pratapaditya Road crossing after booking a bike, when he was mugged, the police said. The CCTV footage showed Gayen standing near Prasad and watching him. “A ragpicker comes into the picture and he shoos him away. He then picks an iron rod from the road and hits Prasad on the head,” an officer said. Prasad fell on the road but tried to resist the man, the officer said. “Gayen fled with the phone and wallet.” Prasad was bleeding from the head when he visited SSKM. He later lodged a complaint with Tollygunge police station. Gayen, who hails from the Sonarpur area, had been staying at the night shelter. During the day, he cleans the floor of the Kalighat temple compound, the police said. “We are checking his records. He looked desperate to snatch the phone and wallet… hitting someone with a rod can kill the person,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Stretch of Motilal Nehru Road closed for 30 days||A stretch of Motilal Nehru Road, in south Calcutta, will be closed for 30 days starting Tuesday morning to facilitate work on a drainage project launched by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, police said. There will be restrictions on the traffic movement on the stretch with diversions at multiple crossings, police said. The stretch comprises residential and commercial buildings. Traffic will be affected on Ritchie Road, Manoharpukur Road, Hazra Road, Sarat Bose Road and Lansdowne Place, which are directly connected with Motilal Nehru Road. Hundreds of vehicles ply along this road that connects Rashbehari Avenue to Hazra Road. ⚫The Motilal Nehru Road crossing with Hazra Road on one side and Manoharpukur Road on the other ⚫When the full stretch of Motilal Nehru Road between its crossings with Hazra Road and Manoharpukur Road will be blocked, north-bound vehicles on Motilal Nehru Road will be diverted through Manoharpukur Road and Sarat Bose Road between 8am and 1pm ⚫South-bound vehicles on Ritchie Road and Motilal Nehru Road will be diverted to Hazra Road through the Ritchie Road-Hazra Road crossing between 1pm and 10pm. ⚫Senior officers said there would be additional police deployments at the intersections to facilitate traffic diversions from Tuesday morning ⚫The road restriction will be for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation project that is meant for “improvement of drainage system” in the stretch, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Antigen test in all CMC clinics||The civic health clinics in all 144 wards of Calcutta will have the facility to conduct the rapid antigen test for Covid-19, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have said. The officials said a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases across the city had prompted the civic authorities to decide to start conducting the test, which produces results much faster than the conventional RT-PCR test for the coronavirus disease, in all civic clinics. “Widespread antigen tests will lead to faster detection and isolation of infected people,” a CMC official said. Public health specialists have repeatedly stressed that in the absence of any drug or vaccine for Covid-19, the best way to combat the disease is to test and isolate as many infected people and as quickly as possible. To start with, the test will be introduced in the clinics of the first 100 wards in the city. The remaining 44 will be gradually added to the list. The CMC now organises camps for the antigen test at various locations on specific days. But once all civic health clinics offer the service, people can get themselves tested on all days the facilities remain open. “Just like conducting dengue and malaria tests, our health clinics will conduct the Covid-19 antigen test,” a CMC official said. The antigen test is known to throw up false negatives but the Indian Council of Medical Research has still approved it because the results arrive within half an hour. The results of the conventional RT-PCR test take about two days to come. “A person who is suffering from Covid-19 is isolated within 30 minutes if she/he tests positive in the antigen test. This helps prevent spread of the infection more effectively,” the CMC doctor said. To deal with the problem of false negatives, the ICMR has said that people who test negative in the antigen test but have symptoms of Covid-19 must undergo the RT-PCR test. Those who are asymptomatic and test negative in the antigen test should be allowed to go. The CMC, which launched the antigen test late last month, had earlier thought about opening antigen test centres in at least three places in each borough. Air-conditioners will be fitted in at least one room in all the clinics where the antigen test will be conducted. The AC rooms are needed because medical technologists who will conduct the test will have to wear personal protective equipment (PPE). Working in a non-AC room wearing a PPE suit is not impossible, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Business||Liberty Group open to idea of acquiring Tata Steel UK assets||Liberty Group founder Sanjeev Gupta says he is ready to acquire Tata Steel’s Port Talbot facility if the opportunity arises. Gupta, who was born in Ludhiana but spent two years of his childhood in Park Street’s Apsara Apartment when his parents moved to Calcutta, says: “The Tatas are very close to Liberty Group; always have been. We have done many things together. We are always open for every type of co-operation with them.” Asked if he would look at Port Talbot if it was offered by the Tatas, Gupta said: “Of course.” Gupta, executive chairman of UK-based GFG Alliance which includes Liberty Steel, spoke to The Telegraph a day after the media in the UK reported that the government and the Tatas had failed to agree on a financial rescue package for Tata Steel UK. Gupta added: “We will look at any steel assets, not only Port Talbot, that may come our way in the markets we operate in.” The London-based investor, known to pick up stressed assets, had bought Tata Steel UK’s speciality steel business for £100 million three years ago. Speculation about Tata Steel looking to sell its chronically loss making steel business in the UK that devolved from its $12-billion Corus acquisition in 2007 resurfaced after the Boris Johnson-led government refused to provide any bailout funds to haul the steel mill out of its Covid-induced crisis. Asked if the pressure will mount on the Tatas to look for a buyer or induct a partner after failing to secure bailout funds, Gupta said he could not speculate on what the Tatas should or should not do. However, Liberty appeared to have become a favoured port of call whenever large legacy integrated players look to shed flab. When ArcelorMittal was required to offload a few European mills to pass the competition control test before acquiring Ilva in Italy in 2019, Gupta was right there scooping up seven units spread across the continent. Soon after, GFG brought steel operations in the UK, Europe and Australia under Liberty Steel, making it one of the top-10 producers outside China with a rolling capacity of 18 million tonnes (mt). After losing out on the big ticket acquisitions, Gupta plans to weave a string of pearls — mid sized assets close to a million tonnes — to mark a meaningful presence in India. Liberty’s bids for Amtek Auto and Bhushan Power & Steel did not work out but it did manage to acquire a smaller one — Adhunik Metaliks Ltd, which used to be based in Calcutta and had plants in Odisha. Gupta said he would not be satisfied with Adhunik alone and was looking to acquire a few more steel assets over the next 12-18 months. Going forward, he would also venture into renewable energy. “India will be a hub for Liberty for sure. We would like to see at least 5 million tonnes (steel) in the next five years, organically or inorganically. Liberty wants to be a meaningful player and below 5 mt, it won’t be in a big market like India,” Gupta said. GFG — acronym for Gupta Family Group — Alliance, which had a lofty target to become a carbon neutral steel producer by 2030, will prefer coastal assets — in the southern and western parts of India — to inland ones, to take the benefit of Liberty’s global value chain. Gupta, however, understands the importance of a good start. “A successful start of Adhunik will give us confidence and it will help us to build on it. Lot of revamping has been done (in Adhunik). We are, of course, delayed a bit due to Covid. Initially, we would like to get to existing capacity of half a million tonne and then expand it to a million tonnes later,” Gupta said. “We perhaps underestimated the diligence process. It is a more complicated market for sure and we underestimated those complications. But we have very good understanding in running a business in India,” Gupta said. “I would like to come every month. But our movement is now restricted due to Covid.” Would he like to visit Calcutta too? Gupta said he did, and two years back he went up to Apsara Apartment and knocked on the very flat where he spent a couple of years. “I used to live here,” he had told the bemused current owner of the property.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
18-08-2020||Business||Trai issues spectrum usage charges sop||In a relief to operators, the telecom regulator has said spectrum usage charges (SUC) will be levied only on the shared spectrum band and not on all the bands of a licensee. Regulator Trai clarified that in cases involving the sharing of radiowaves, the stipulated increment of 0.5 per cent on the SUC rate should apply only on the spectrum held in the specific band where sharing is taking place and not on the entire spectrum holding of the licensee. The telecom regulator has also recommended that suitable exit clauses for the termination of existing spectrum-sharing arrangement by the operators be included in the spectrum sharing guidelines. At present, companies pay 3-5 per cent of their adjusted gross revenue  as spectrum usage charge to the department of telecom. If they share spectrum with another operator, operators must pay an additional 0.5 per cent of AGR for that band as SUC. The recommendations are the outcome of a consultation paper titled “Methodology of applying spectrum usage charges under the weighted average method of SUC assessment in cases of spectrum sharing” that was floated by Trai in April this year. At present, companies pay 3-5 per cent of their adjusted gross revenue (AGR) as spectrum usage charge to the department of telecom. If they share spectrum with another operator, operators must pay an additional 0.5 per cent of AGR for that band as SUC. In January, the telecom department had said the existing norms for sharing of access spectrum by operators provide that the SUC rate of each of the licencees post sharing increases by 0.5 per cent of the AGR. The Department of Telecom (DoT) also informed that it has received representations requesting that incremental SUC rate of 0.5 per cent post sharing should be applied only to the particular spectrum band which has been allowed to be shared between the two licencees and not on the entire spectrum held by licencees, since sharing is allowed in a particular band. It is in this background that DoT requested Trai to furnish its recommendations on whether the incremental 0.5 per cent in SUC rate in cases of sharing of spectrum should be applied only on the specific band in which sharing is taking place; or on the overall Weighted Average Rate of SUC, which has been derived from all bands. The two prominent spectrum sharing arrangements were between Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd and Reliance Communications for the 800 MHz spectrum owned by the latter, and Tata Teleservices sharing its spectrum in 1,800 MHz and 2,100 MHz in around half a dozen circles with Bharti Airtel. While Reliance Jio acquired some spectrum in the 800-Mhz from Reliance Communications before it shut shop, Bharti Airtel acquired all the spectrum along with the entire consumer mobile business of the Tata group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
18-08-2020||Business||Britannia board approves bonus debentures for current fiscal||FMCG major Britannia on Monday said its board has approved bonus debentures and declared an interim dividend of Rs 83 per share for the current fiscal. The record date for the interim dividend has been fixed as August 27. “The board of directors at the meeting held on Monday have declared an interim dividend of Rs 83 per equity share of face value of Rs 1 each for 2020-21,” Britannia Industries told the bourses. The board has also given its approval to the issue of unsecured, non-convertible, redeemable, fully paid-up debentures, along with an “appropriate cash component”, subject to the applicable tax laws, by way of a bonus to the shareholders of the company. The issue is subject to deduction or withholding of applicable taxes and necessary statutory and regulatory approvals, including that of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Calcutta bench. Britannia will announce a detailed disclosure about the issue as and when the board of the company approves the scheme of arrangement. This is not the first time that Britannia is issuing bonus debentures. The last time the company issued a similar instruments was in 2018. The company had then issued secured, redeemable non-convertible debentures as bonus debentures of Rs 60 in the ratio of one debenture for every share at an interest rate not exceeding 8 per cent to be paid annually for a period of three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
18-08-2020||Business||RBI lifts freeze on Bandhan Bank CEO remuneration ||Bandhan Bank on Monday said the RBI has lifted its freeze on the remuneration of the bank’s managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh. The RBI on September 19, 2018, had imposed two restrictions on the city-based bank for non-compliance with its licensing conditions — opening of bank branches without the central bank’s prior approval and freezing the remuneration of the MD and CEO at the existing level. According to the licensing conditions, the bank was supposed to bring down the promoter holding to 40 per cent of the total paid-up voting equity capital within three years from the start of operations, that is by August 22, 2018. The bank amalgamated Gruh Finance Limited with itself effective from October 2019 and the shareholding of the non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) was subsequently diluted to 60.96 per cent from 82.23 per cent. The bank further diluted the NOFHC holding through secondary market sale earlier this month. “Considering the progress of the dilution of excess shareholding of NOFHC in the bank, RBI vide its letter dated February 25, 2020, has withdrawn the restriction imposed for obtaining prior approval of RBI for opening of banking outlets,” Bandhan Bank told the stock exchanges. The statement added that RBI vide communication dated August 17, 2020 has lifted the other regulatory restriction of freezing the remuneration of MD and CEO of the Bank. Ghosh had drawn a remuneration of Rs 2.1 crore in the last fiscal. The Bandhan Bank scrip was down 0.31 per cent at Rs 287.30 a piece on the BSE. With the clearance on remuneration freeze, the microfinance institution-turned-bank said that all regulatory restrictions are now withdrawn. In its annual report, Bandhan Bank has disclosed that Ghosh had drawn a remuneration of Rs 2,10,41,874 in FY 2019-20. The Bandhan Bank scrip was down 0.31 per cent at Rs 287.30 a piece on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
18-08-2020||Business||HDFC Bank faces US lawsuit following allegations of misleading investors||US-based Rosen Law Firm on Monday said it planned to investigate potential securities claims against HDFC Bank following allegations of sharing “materially misleading business information” with investors. Reacting to the development, a spokesperson of HDFC Bank said in an interim response that the lender is unaware of any such class action lawsuit. “We are getting details of it. We’ll examine it and respond to it as appropriate. Prima facie it does look frivolous as we believe we have been transparent in our disclosure,” the spokesperson added. “Rosen Law Firm is preparing a securities lawsuit on behalf of HDFC Bank shareholders,” the global investor right law firm said on its website. Citing some news reports about alleged unfair business practices and that the lender had missed analysts’ estimates on profits for the first quarter ended June 30, Rosen Law Firm said it was preparing a securities lawsuit. The reports related to the private sector lender conducting a probe into the allegations of improper lending practices and conflicts of interests in its vehicle-financing operations involving the unit’s former head. The HDFC Bank American depository receipt share price fell 2.83 per cent following the report, it added. The law firm said it will investigate “potential securities claims on behalf of the shareholders of HDFC Bank Ltd resulting from allegations that the bank may have issued materially misleading business information to the investing public”. Last year, Rosen Law had prepared a similar class-action suit against Infosys after a whistleblower had alleged malpractices by a few key management personnel. The suit was dismissed in May this year. “If you purchased securities of HDFC Bank please visit the firm’s website...to join the securities action,” Rosen Law Firm said. Last month, HDFC Bank had launched a probe on its vehicle finance lending practices following allegations against the conduct of a key executive in the auto lending business. However, the bank said that this probe will not have any bearing on the loan book, or will not cause any loss to the bank. Speaking to shareholders at its annual general meeting, Aditya Puri, HDFC Bank managing director and CEO, had said that the bank had received a whistleblower complaint and subsequently, it conducted an internal investigation into the auto loan business. Following this, the bank had taken action against some employees. Rosen Law Firm represents investors throughout the globe, concentrating its practice in securities class actions and shareholder derivative litigation, according to its website. Shares of HDFC Bank on Monday ended marginally lower at Rs 1033.55. The largest Indian private sector lender had posted a 22 per cent rise in its consolidated net profit at Rs 6,927 crore in the April-June quarter of current financial year 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
18-08-2020||India||No need to transfer funds from PM-CARES to NDRF, rules SC ||Holding that financial planning is in the domain of the Centre, the Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to direct transfer of contributions made to the PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The apex court also ruled that no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust like PM CARES, tailored to provide for necessary financial resources to handle the emergent situation. It also added that this fund and the NDRF are entirely different with separate objectives and purposes. The fund was launched by the Centre after the Covid-19 outbreak. The court verdict prompted several BJP leaders and union ministers to target the Congress with party president J P Nadda saying it was a "resounding blow to the nefarious designs" of its leader Rahul Gandhi and his "band of rent a cause" activists. Rubbishing the Congress' criticism on the issue, BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said "transparency is writ large in the PM CARES Fund". Speaking to reporters, Prasad said the PM CARES Fund is a registered public trust created to fight emergencies like the coronavirus, and added it has so far contributed Rs 3,100 crore in the battle against the pandemic. Out of this, Rs 2,000 crore was spent on procuring over 50,000 ventilators, Rs 1,000 crore was given to states to help migrant labourers and Rs 100 crore for vaccine research, he said. This is the highest number of ventilators made available for critical care in one go since independence, he added. But the Congress said the judgement is a "body blow to transparency and accountability" of the government to the people. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the apex court let go of an opportunity to bring in transparency in the fund which has "its own opaque and murky rules" and, thereby, deviated from the belief that "sunlight is the best disinfectant". The verdict was pronounced in response to a petition filed by an NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation seeking a direction that all the money collected under the PM CARES Fund for the Covid-19 pandemic should be transferred to the NDRF. The petitioner had submitted that this new fund should not have been constituted when the NDRF is already in place to take care of disasters. "The financial planning is in the domain of the Central government, and is made after due deliberation and consideration. We, thus, do not find any substance in the submission of the petitioner that there is any statutory restriction/prohibition in utilization of NDRF for Covid-19," said the bench comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah. The court said there is also no statutory prohibition in making any contribution by any person or institution in the NDRF as per Section 46 (1) (b) of the Disaster Management Act, Act, 2005. The contribution by any person or by any institution in the PM CARES Fund is voluntary and it is open for any person or institution to make a contribution to it, the court said. It also said the National Disaster Management Plan prepared by the Centre deals with all aspects of the Biological and Public Health Emergencies in systematic and planned manner and thus there is no need for a separate plan to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The PIL also sought a direction to the government to prepare, notify and implement a national plan under the Disaster Management Act to deal with the Covid situation. BJP chief JP Nadda has alleged that the Gandhi family treated the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) as its "personal fiefdom for decades and brazenly transferred citizens' hard-earned money from PMNRF to its family trusts". Prasad also accused Gandhi of sparing no effort to weaken the country's resolve in its fight against Covid-19. The apex court has destroyed the "conspiracy" sponsored by them, Prasad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
18-08-2020||India||Congress writes to Facebook, seeks high-level inquiry||The Congress on Tuesday wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, accusing Facebook India of "interfering" with the country's electoral democracy, and demanded a time-bound high-level inquiry into the conduct of Facebook India’s leadership team and their operations. In a letter to Zuckerberg, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal also demanded that pending the internal investigation and submission of the report, the company should "consider a new team to lead Facebook India operations so as to not influence the probe". The Congress and other Opposition parties have attacked the social media giant after a Wall Street Journal report alleged that Facebook did not apply its hate speech rules to some BJP leaders. "Set up a high-level inquiry by Facebook headquarters into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations and submit a report to the Board of Facebook within one or two months. The report should also be made public," Venugopal said in the letter. Sharing the letter on his Twitter handle, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said Facebook needs to be questioned by all Indians. "We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news and hate speech. As exposed by WSJ, Facebook's involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians," he tweeted. On Monday, Facebook said the company's social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence, adding these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. However, Facebook, which counts India among its largest markets globally, acknowledged that "there is more to do". Facebook "may be a willing participant in thwarting the rights and values that the founding leaders of the Congress sacrificed their lives for", Venugopal said, and asked the US firm to publish all instances of "hate speech posts since 2014 that were allowed on the platform." "The WSJ article mentions hate speech of at least three other politicians that were wilfully permitted by Facebook India," he said. Venugopal cited the WSJ article of August 14 about alleged FB India's "blatant basis in content regulation" and said "it was not a surprise revelation". He said Congress has repeatedly raised the issue of "bias" with many Facebook and WhatsApp executives. He said other political parties have raised the issue in India's Parliament adding that the Congress has separately demanded a probe by a Parliamentary Committee in India into "this very serious issue of Facebook's interference in world's largest electoral democracy". Venugopal said the Congress is joined by other leading political parties in "expressing fear over Facebook's purported role in manipulating India's electoral democracy"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||FIR against FB executive, 2 others over social media posts||An FIR has been filed in Raipur against senior Facebook executive Ankhi Das and two users of the social media platform for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, police said on Tuesday. The case was lodged at Kabir Nagar police station late Monday night based on the complaint of Awesh Tiwari, a Raipur-based journalist of a news channel, Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav said. Three persons, identified as Ankhi Das from New Delhi, Ram Sahu from Mungeli (Chhattisgarh) and Vivek Sinha from Indore (Madhya Pradesh), were booked. An investigation is underway and further action will be taken accordingly, the official said. The three have been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 295(a) (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 505(1)(c) (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit offence against any other class or community), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation) and 34 (common intention), he said. Das is Facebook's Director, Public Policy, India, South and Central Asia. Tiwari lodged the case after he was named in a complaint by Das to Delhi Police, alleging that she had been receiving threats to her life through online posts. According to the FIR, Tiwari in his complaint said that on August 16, he put up a post on his Facebook account related to an article published in the Wall Street Journal. The WSJ reported that Facebook refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians, while the social media giant has asserted that its policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. Tiwari in his police complaint said, "Two Facebook users, with names Sahu and Sinha, jumped in to defend Das and commented on his (Tiwari's) post that she (Das) is a Hindu and she is talking in the interest of the faith. Sahu allegedly posted derogatory and communally sensitive photographs and also threatened him." Tiwari also said he had been receiving threat messages and calls on WhatsApp after his post. He alleged that Das, Sahu and Sinha were trying to defame him by spreading religious hatred due to which his life is under threat and he is living in constant fear. Tiwari has submitted to police screenshots of the threat messages received on his mobile phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||SC refuses to direct transfer of contributions made to PM CARES to NDRF||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to direct the Centre to transfer the contributions made to the PM CARES Fund for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan and comprising justices R S Reddy and M R Shah said that voluntary contribution can always be made to the NDRF as there is no statutory bar under the Disaster Management Act. The verdict came on a PIL, filed by NGO 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation, seeking a direction that all the money collected under the PM CARES Fund for the Covid-19 pandemic should be transferred to the NDRF. The Centre had on March 28 set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the Covid-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected. The prime minister is the ex-officio chairman of the fund and the ministers of defence, home and finance are its ex-officio trustees. During the hearing in the top court on July 27, the Centre had defended the PM CARES Fund saying it is a public trust meant to receive "voluntary contributions" to fight Covid-19 pandemic and the budgetary allocations for NDRF and SDRF are not "being touched". Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had told the court that the PM CARES Fund is a "voluntary fund", while funds to the NDRF and SDRF (State Disaster Response Fund) are made available through budgetary allocations. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the petitioner NGO, had said that they are not doubting the bona fide of anyone but the creation of the PM CARES Fund is allegedly in contravention of provisions of the Disaster Management Act. He had claimed that an audit of the NDRF is being conducted by the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) but the government has said the audit of the PM CARES Fund will be done by private auditors. Dave had also questioned the validity of the PM CARES Fund. The solicitor general had said that a national plan was prepared in 2019 and that had included the ways to deal with a "biological disaster." On June 17, the apex court had asked the Centre to file its response on the plea, which has sought a direction that all the contributions made by individuals and institutions for the Covid-19 pandemic should be credited to the NDRF, rather than to the PM CARES Fund. The PIL had alleged that the Centre has been "refraining from divulging information about the specific utilization of crores of rupees that have been contributed to the PM CARES Fund till date".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for post Covid care||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has been admitted to AIIMS here for post COVID care after complaining of fatigue and body ache, hospital authorities said on Tuesday. According to a statement issued by AIIMS, he is comfortable and is continuing his work from hospital. "Home Minister Amit Shah has been complaining of fatigue and body aches for the last 3-4 days. He has tested negative for Covid-19. "He has been admitted to AIIMS for post Covid care. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from hospital," the statement said. Shah, who was earlier undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection at Medanta Hospital, on Friday said that he has tested negative for the disease. Shah, 55, had also said that on the advice of doctors, he will be in home isolation for the next few days. On August 2, Shah had said on Twitter that he had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Institute for Quick and Dirty Science fools journal||A team of European scientists has orchestrated a sting operation on an academic journal in India by claiming in a paper that the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine can prevent push-scooter accidents, evoking mirth and rekindling concerns over predatory publishing. The nine-member team, including one researcher purportedly affiliated to an “Institute for Quick and Dirty Science” in Switzerland, published the paper in the Asian Journal of Medicine and Health that is headquartered in Calcutta and charges $55 per paper. The sting was meant to expose predatory academic publishing and, the researchers have said, to serve as a counteroffensive against what they believe are unsubstantiated claims about the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin (AZT) in treating Covid-19. Such claims have been made in India too, by government bodies as well as in a paper published by the Asian Journal of Medicine and Health. In their spoof paper, the team of scientists claimed they had investigated “an unexpected way to mitigate the death toll from the push-scooter craze”. “We combine two observational studies and one randomised clinical trial to justify our hypothesis that HCQ plus AZT is the key to all the world’s problems,” the researchers wrote in their paper, which is peppered with giveaway text hinting at the sting. For instance, it says: “We have not classified the (push-scooter) accidents by type, date or anything else, essentially by laziness.” At another point, the paper says: “Just like iodine is added to salt, to prevent iodine deficiency... hydroxychloroquine could be in the same way added to table salt to prevent both Covid-19 and push-scooter accidents.” The paper’s “conclusion” section says: “Can we publish anything right now? I think that the question is quickly answered and peer-review has never been a scientific method anyway.” Florian Cova, one of the authors and the one who made up the fictitious “Institute of Quick and Dirty Science” affiliation, told The Telegraph: “We had two goals in submitting our paper — to draw attention to predatory publishing and to show that this journal would accept anything against money.” The same journal had about a month ago published a paper in defence of the HCQ -AZT therapy against Covid-19 that had been authored by a member of the French parliament and a French political group campaigning for the use of HCQ and the right of doctors to prescribe it. Cova said the members of that French group, including the MP, had later brandished their paper in the journal as “proof of efficacy of HCQ and have claimed that the journal where it was published is ‘as serious as The Lancet’.” Scientists in India say the paper’s publication underscores longstanding concerns about so-called predatory journals that publish online papers for a fee without adequate peer review and facilitate the publication of poor-quality research. “This is a hilarious paper – a good surgical strike on a predatory journal,” said Shahid Jameel, senior virologist and chief of the Wellcome Trust DBT-India Fund, a collaboration between the UK and the Indian government. “The Indian government and its various science agencies must view this seriously as many such journals operate out of India and spoil the good name of serious scientists.” The journal’s publisher has denied responsibility for the content of the paper. “We depend 100 per cent on our editorial board members and peer reviewers,” Pinaki Mondol told this newspaper. He acknowledged that the paper’s publication was an embarrassment for the journal. The paper, he said, had been reviewed and approved by three editorial board members and three reviewers whose names were published on the paper. These six individuals are shown as affiliated with academic institutions in Cuba, Libya, Mexico and the US. The journal does not select papers on its own, Mondol said. “We will ask them how they approved such a paper and take corrective action,” he said. The paper’s lead author Mathieu Rebeaud, a bio-scientist in Switzerland who adopted the pseudonym Willard Oodendjik, told this newspaper that the paper was intended to flag how some people might use predatory journals to get others to believe their studies are serious. An independent 2016 study by Indian researchers had found that around 50 per cent of 3,300 papers in predatory journals had originated from government and private academic institutions across the country. A sting in 2013 by a US-based bio-scientist had revealed India as a large source of such journals. “It is a complex issue but scientists should be responsible enough not to accept editorial board positions or peer-review responsibility and not to publish in such journals,” said Shekhar Mande, director-general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Delhi Assembly committee to call Facebook official||A Delhi Assembly committee will summon Ankhi Das, Facebook’s director of public policy for South and Central Asia, and some of her colleagues to ascertain whether any of the social media giant’s employees had “any role or complicity” in the Delhi riots in February. The announcement referred to complaints that quoted a report in The Wall Street Journal last week suggesting Facebook had, on Das’s advice, condoned hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem in India to protect the company’s business prospects in its largest market in the world. The Delhi House panel’s decision comes at a time some Opposition parties have demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee into the Facebook controversy and the Centre has maintained a stony silence. On Monday, Delhi police filed an FIR on a complaint from Das about online threats issued to her after the Journal published the report on August 14. Raghav Chadha, who chairs the Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony, said he had received multiple complaints against Facebook officials for their “alleged deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content in India for vested reasons”. The committee probes complaints against fake news, online content and rumours that incite communal enmity. It was set up by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party, which has accused the police, who report to the lieutenant governor, of inaction during the riots in northeast Delhi. “Significantly, a BJP leader (Kapil Mishra) has been mentioned in the Wall Street (Journal) article as another hate-monger spared by Facebook. Interestingly, in a video featuring Mark Zuckerberg (the Facebook CEO is seen) quoting the contents of that BJP leader’s post as categorically offensive and hateful,” Chadha said in a statement. “Despite this, officials of Facebook have been alleged to turn a blind eye to hate speech and communal hatred mongers. In view thereof it compels the committee to take immediate notice and get to the root of this issue with a view to painstakingly discern if there is any role or complicity of Facebook official in the orchestration of Delhi riots.” Mishra, an AAP rebel who had joined the BJP before the February 8 Assembly polls, had just before the riots given the anti-CAA agitators an ultimatum to end their protest in a speech widely seen as inflammatory. The police, however, have told Delhi High Court they have found no evidence of Mishra's involvement in the riots. Zuckerberg had cited Mishra’s speech to employees as an example of content that would be removed by the platform. Mishra’s account, however, remains operational. Chadha added: “More so, the complaints refer to the article by Wall Street Journal… where a specific mention has been made describing an explicit resistance posed by one Ms Ankhi Das, Facebook’s top public policy director, for applying the hate speech rules to at least one Bharatiya Janata Party politician and other ‘Hindu nationalist individuals and groups’, despite the fact that the content posted by these individuals or groups had been ‘flagged internally for promoting violence’…. “The committee, after vetting the complaints and giving a careful deliberation upon the allegations set out therein is of the prima facie view that the allegations against the concerned Facebook officials are extremely serious in nature which if remain unchecked and unhindered may lead to serious adverse fallouts, having thereby the dubious distinction to intensify an already volatile and vulnerable situation.” Neither Das nor Facebook's communications director Bipasha Chakrabarti responded to queries from this newspaper. On Monday, Das accused two Facebook handles, three Twitter handles and other unknown entities of “issuing violent threats on my life and body through online posting/ publishing of content”. In the complaint, Das also accused Arshad Khan, social media coordinator of the Congress-backed National Students Union of India, and Mumbai-based transparency activist Saket Gokhale of circulating her picture along with defamatory content. Delhi police’s cyber prevention awareness and detection centre filed an FIR on her complaint, in which she wrote: “Since the evening of 14 August 2020, I have been receiving violent threats to my life and body, and I am extremely disturbed by the relentless harassment meted out to me by the accused persons. “The content, which even includes my photograph, is evidently threatening to my life and body and I fear for my safety as well as that of my family members…. The above facts reveal that the accused persons have intentionally vilified me due to their political affiliations and are now engaging in online and offline abuse, subjecting me to criminal intimidation and making sexually coloured remarks.” Gokhale had tweeted that Das’s sister Rashmi Das is the chairperson of the RSS-backed World Organisation of Students and Youth (WOSY), the Sangh’s outreach arm for foreign students in India, and that Ankhi had attended WOSY’s programmes. On Sunday night, WOSY accused Gokhale of using Rashmi’s image at a Pravasi Bharatiya Divas event in Varanasi last year and falsely claiming it was Ankhi’s. The sisters are identical twins. WOSY said that Rashmi was its chairperson from 2011 to 2019. On Monday, Gokhale tweeted: “Y’day, ABVP & RSS-linked WOSY tried to attack me. Now Ankhi Das is attempting to do the same. ‘Defamation’ isn’t a cognisable offence. I continue to face death threats (thanks to Facebook which never took down my doxxed number). Shall I add Ankhi Das in my complaint now?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Salve in Supreme Court for creditors on Friday, for Jio now||Reliance Jio on Monday intervened in the legal battle over the payment of spectrum dues of over Rs 1.47 lakh crore that 15 entities, including its biggest rivals Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, owe the government. The development arose after a Supreme Court bench turned its attention last week to the Rs 40,000-crore dues that have to be extracted from entities like Reliance Communications (R-Com) that have burrowed themselves into a bankruptcy resolution process and sought protection from the claims on that account. On Monday, Harish Salve, who had appeared on behalf of the creditor institutions of R-Com last Friday, chose to appear for Jio. “I am appearing for Jio today,” Salve told the court, which expressed no surprise. “Oh! You are appearing for Jio today. All right!” said Justice Arun Mishra, who has been hearing the case with Justices Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah. Salve has emerged as a legal man for all seasons, representing the Narendra Modi government in battles at the International Court of Justice at The Hague in the past. Last Friday, the bench had wondered aloud whether Reliance Jio, which had acquired R-Com’s assets under a spectrum-sharing arrangement in 2016, could be directed to pay the Rs 25,000 crore that the insolvent telecom player owes the department of telecom (DoT). Jio is owned by Mukesh Ambani while R-Com belongs to his brother Anil Ambani. Over the weekend, Jio sources had said no legal liability for the AGR dues of R-Com could be attached to the telecom behemoth -- a point Salve forcefully made in court on Monday. Salve contended that the DoT had raised no claims against Jio. He added that Jio was not a party to the case but had appeared only to assist the Supreme Court in deciding the question of the competing priorities of the claims before the national company law tribunal (NCLAT) in the R-Com case. In response to a query from the bench headed by Justice Mishra, Salve clarified that he was appearing for Jio but assured the court that he would hold consultations with the chairman of the State Bank of India -- which heads R-Com’s committee of creditors in the resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) -- and resolve the conflict of opinion between the bankers and the DoT on the contentious issue of extracting AGR dues from entities embroiled in the IBC process. Last October, the apex court had ordered the telecom companies to pay the dues immediately and bristled when the DoT and the telecom players continued to quibble over the exact sum that had to be paid. Last month, the court turned down any review of the Rs 1.47 lakh crore that had been computed by the DoT when making its claims. The apex court directed the DoT to place its views on the validity of the spectrum-sharing agreement between R-Com and Reliance Jio after the government asserted the radio waves were national property. Appearing for the DoT, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta said: “Sharing of spectrum is different from spectrum trading. The view of DoT differs from views of the ministry of corporate affairs on the sale of spectrum under the IBC process.” Endorsing the DoT’s view, Mehta added: “The people of the country are the owners of spectrum, which is held by the government in trust; it can’t be sold under the IBC.” The DoT has consistently maintained that spectrum is farmed out to telecom entities on a 20-year contractual lease and cannot be sold or transferred without the government’s consent. “We issued a notice in March 2019 to R-Com to show cause why spectrum should not be revoked due to the non-payment of dues,” Mehta told the court. “Spectrum can never be the subject matter of IBC; it is the consistent position of DoT…  Ministry of corporate affairs had sought to allow spectrum sale for maximisation of value.” The issue has become complicated after Salve argued last week on behalf of the committee of creditors that the IBC resolution process gives primacy to the claims of financial creditors -- which means the DoT needs to stand in line with other operational creditors including unsecured creditors and other vendors. If that position is accepted by the court, the DoT will stand to get virtually nothing. The court later adjourned the matter till Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Covid: Pune chance to verify herd protection theory||The new coronavirus has infected around 51 per cent of a sampled population in parts of Pune, a survey has found, providing what scientists say is fresh evidence for extensive and silent spread of the infection. The researchers have cautioned that their findings do not represent the entire city but are significant as they will allow scientists to probe the question whether wide enough spread of the infection can slow it down through the phenomenon of herd immunity. The survey has detected antibodies against the new coronavirus, indicating previous exposure to the infection, in 51 per cent of a sample of 1,664 persons from randomly selected sites in five Pune sub-wards with relatively high incidence of lab-confirmed coronavirus disease cases. “This indicates there has been extensive spread of the infection in these sub-wards,” the researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, and other collaborating institutions said in their technical report. Pune is among the country’s hardest-hit districts accounting for 130,606 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases, the largest count among Maharashtra’s districts, even higher than Mumbai’s 128,726 cases. The survey found higher prevalence rates in areas with greater population density — 62 per cent among residents of hutments, 43 per cent among residents of bungalows. The prevalence rate was nearly 60 per cent among those living in the smallest homes (less than 150sqft) but 34 per cent in those in the largest houses (above 501sqft). None of those with antibodies had reported symptoms or ever been tested for Covid-19, implying they had unknowingly become infected and had recovered. Similar surveys have revealed prevalence rates of 23 per cent in Delhi, 17 per cent in Ahmedabad, 16 per cent in Mumbai’s non-slum areas and 57 per cent in Mumbai’s slum areas. Scientists have cautioned that the presence of these antibodies does not necessarily indicate that those individuals are protected from subsequent infections. Neither is the high prevalence necessarily an indicator to population level immune protection, the researchers have asserted. “But we’re hoping to address both these questions in the coming weeks,” Aurnab Ghose, a biologist at IISER and one of the survey’s principal investigator told The Telegraph. “This high prevalence level in some areas will help us do that.” Health authorities and researchers have conducted similar population-level antibody-surveys in multiple countries but, Ghose said, almost all have detected prevalence levels well below 30 per cent. The Pune survey was conducted between July 20 and August 5, while the surveys in the other Indian cities were performed earlier. Scientists say it is possible that the current prevalence levels in some parts of other cities are now comparable to those observed in the Pune survey. “The advantage we have in Pune is high granularity testing and infection data maintained by the Pune Municipal Corporation,” said L.S. Shashidhara, a senior biologist at IISER currently at Ashoka University and a co-investigator in the survey. The high granularity population and testing data, the researchers said, will allow them to compare patterns of the epidemic in different areas to determine if the epidemic is slowing down in sub-wards with the highest prevalence. Many epidemiologists have predicted that when infection prevalence levels approach 60 per cent or higher, the virus will find it difficult to spread from person to person and the epidemic will slow down through herd immunity that protects not just those who have been infected but even others. Ghose and his colleagues also plan laboratory studies on the antibodies detected in blood sera to determine whether they can “neutralise” the virus. “We don’t know yet whether these antibodies are protective and, if yes, how long they will remain protective in the body,” Ghose said. Studies in other countries have suggested that the antibodies might wane after some months. Public health experts have asserted that the herd immunity concept is meaningless amid seamless travel and contact between populations with different infection prevalence levels. Health officials and experts have emphasised the need for continued adoption of protective measures such as face masks, physical distancing and hand and respiratory hygiene even in areas with high infection prevalence. The survey’s other principal investigator was Aarti Nagarkar at the University of Pune, while researchers from the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad, served as advisers to the survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Judges not immune to scrutiny, say lawyers ||Several lawyers on Monday asserted the right of the Bar to draw attention to the shortcomings of the judiciary and urged the Supreme Court to put on hold its August 14 order convicting advocate Prashant Bhushan of criminal contempt for two tweets. “An independent judiciary does not mean that judges are immune from scrutiny and comment. It is the duty of lawyers to freely bring any shortcomings to the notice of Bar, bench and the public at large,” the lawyers, most of them practising in the Supreme Court, said in the statement. A group of 41 lawyers, including Dushyant Dave, Vrinda Grover, Arvind Datar, Kamini Jaiswal, Karuna Nundy, Sanjay R. Hegde and Raju Ramachandran, had issued the statement. By Monday evening, the number of signatories had touched 1,700. The lawyers urged the apex court to refer the August 14 conviction order to a five-judge constitution bench that can hear the matter when the physical functioning of courts resumes. The following is the full statement: “We, the below named, practising members of the Bar in India, have noted with dismay the judgment of the Supreme Court in Mr Prashant Bhushan’s contempt case. An independent judiciary consisting of independent judges and lawyers is the basis of the rule of law in a constitutional democracy. Mutual respect and the absence of coercion are the hallmarks of a harmonious relationship between the Bar and bench. Any tilting of the balance, one way or the other, is deleterious both to the institution and the nation. “An independent judiciary does not mean that judges are immune from scrutiny and comment. It is the duty of lawyers to freely bring any shortcomings to the notice of Bar, bench and the public at large. While some of us may have divergent views on the advisability and content of Mr Prashant Bhushan’s two tweets, we are unanimously of the view that no contempt of court was intended or committed especially when contrasted with the normal standard that ‘Justice is not a cloistered virtue.... She must be allowed to suffer the scrutiny and respectful, even though outspoken comments of ordinary men’. “While Mr Prashant Bhushan as a lawyer of good standing of the Supreme Court may not be an ordinary man, his tweets do not say anything out of the ordinary, other than what is routinely expressed about the court’s working in recent years by many on public fora and on social media. Even some retired judges of the Supreme Court have expressed somewhat similar views. “This judgment does not restore the authority of the court in the eyes of the public. Rather, it will discourage lawyers from being outspoken. From the days of the supersession of judges and the events thereafter, it has been the Bar that has been the first to stand in defence of the independence of the judiciary. A Bar silenced under the threat of contempt will undermine the independence and ultimately the strength of the court. A silenced Bar cannot lead to a strong court. “We also express a deep sense of disappointment about the Supreme Court’s utter disregard of the presence of the learned attorney-general, a highly respected lawyer of great eminence, and its refusal to seek his valuable opinion in the matter, which is mandated even as per contempt law. “We are of the firm view that the judgment must not be given effect to, until a larger bench, sitting in open court after the pandemic, has the opportunity to review the standards of criminal contempt. We do believe that the Supreme Court will hear the voice of the people expressed all around in last 72 hours on the subject and take corrective steps to prevent miscarriage of justice and restore the confidence and respect that citizens have generally reposed in it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Harsh Shringla scheduled to visit Dhaka||Indian foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla is scheduled to travel to Dhaka on Tuesday in the first overseas diplomatic engagement since the pandemic brought travel to a halt and comes in the wake of Bangladesh officially registering its protest over some “false news” published online about Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and senior members of her government. There was no official confirmation about Shringla’s visit from either capital but the visit assumes significance because it will be his second to Dhaka since taking charge in January. Shringla, who has served as India’s High Commissioner to Bangladesh, visited Dhaka in March in his first overseas visit after taking charge. While a slew of connectivity projects have continued in line with the schedule and the two Prime Ministers have spoken during the pandemic, relations between the two countries have been frosty over the past year,  particularly with Dhaka having issues about the manner in which leading lights of the Modi dispensation have vilified Bangladeshis as part of their campaign for the religionspecific citizenship law. Apart from having questions about what will happen to those left out by the NRC process despite India maintaining that Bangladesh will not be affected, recent months have also seen Dhaka engaging more intensely with both Pakistan and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Ex-CBI officer Rakesh Asthana to head BSF||Rakesh Asthana, a former CBI officer cleared of corruption charges who is seen as close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been appointed director-general of the Border Security Force. The controversial Gujarat-cadre IPS officer currently heads the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, with additional charge as director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau. On Monday night, the department of personnel and training said the appointments committee of the cabinet had “approved the proposal of the Union home ministry’s for the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as DG BSF”. Asthana had in 2018 been locked in an unprecedented public feud with then CBI director Alok Verma, each levelling corruption allegations against the other, prompting the Centre to bench both in a midnight operation. In February this year, the CBI gave Asthana a clean cheat. Most of the CBI officials probing the bribery charges against Asthana had earlier been transferred. The CBI had booked Asthana on a complaint from Sathish Sana, a Hyderabad-based businessman and co-accused in a corruption case against meat exporter Moin Qureshi. Sana had alleged that Asthana, then special CBI director, had promised to let him off against a bribe. Asthana had denied the allegation. V.S.K. Kaumudi, a 1986-batch IPS officer from the Andhra Pradesh cadre, has been appointed special secretary (internal security) in the home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Odisha crosses 50,000 Covid tests a day ||Odisha has achieved the distinction of holding more than 50,000 Covid-19 tests per day in its effort to contain the corona pandemic in the state. Last month, it had managed to conduct around 9,000-12,000 tests per day. Praising the efforts of doctors, the chief minister’s office on Sunday tweeted: “Odisha has today crossed a major milestone in its fight against Covid-19- the 50,000 tests/day mark. Commend the relentless efforts of health professionals and Covid warriors who dedicated themselves towards the goals of ‘test, trace, track’ to help save lives.” Odisha conducted a record of 52,795 tests during the past 24-hours. While 10,240 tests were done through RT-PCR, 42,414 antigen and 142 tests were done through TrueNat method. The capital city Bhubaneswar has so far reported 5,289 corona cases. So far, Odisha has registered 60,050 corona positive cases with reports of 2,924 new cases coming in the past 24 hours. “We have so far conducted 9,08,508 tests after Covid-19 hit the state. The number of recoveries in the state is rapidly rising and has crossed 40,000 with recovery of 1,521 more persons in the past 24 hours. The total number of recoveries stands at 40,726. The government is also actively promoting plasma therapy in the state,” said a senior official of the state health department. State’s premier hospital and medical college SCB Medical College, Cuttack on Saturday (August 15) achieved another milestone by collecting more than 200 units of plasma from 105 cured Covid patients. The plasma bank in SCB was inaugurated by the chief minister on July 15. “Special thanks to the plasma collecting team for ensuring that people of Odisha have access to best treatment against the pandemic,” Naveen tweeted. However, Covid warriors continue to fall victim to the disease while fighting it. A doctor from Ganjam district on Sunday passed away while undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital. He has been identified as Dr B. Krishna and was working as superintendent of a community health centre in Purushottampur block of Ganjam district. He had been diagnosed with COVID 19 on August 4 and admitted to the Covid hospital the next day. Earlier on August 14, a doctor working in Sambalpur district had succumbed to COVID 19. The number of deaths from corona virus in the state mounted to 343 with 10 more casualties reported from different parts of the state during the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on an inauguration spree ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is on an inauguration spree with the Assembly elections in sight. He has unveiled 1,600 infrastructure projects worth Rs 6,300 crore and laid down foundation stones for 334 projects worth Rs 4,100 crore pertaining to bridges, buildings, irrigation facilities and roads in just over two weeks. Schemes related to roads worth Rs 6,000 crore are waiting to be announced and stamped by his name on their foundation stones. Sources in the government said that projects worth around Rs 2,000 crore are being executed at break-neck speed so that they could also be inaugurated over the next few weeks. The Opposition is calling this phenomenon as side-effects of the upcoming polls, which is allegedly revealing the government’s mismanagement of the state, while the intelligentsia is questioning his moves. Delivering his Independence Day speech, Nitish announced the creation of 34,000 posts of schoolteachers and promised appointment of 5,000 nurses, 4,000 doctors, 1,750 lab technicians, pharmacists and sanitary inspectors, and 4,000 college teachers. “We will also implement a new set of service rules for teachers working under the panchayati raj institutions and municipal bodies. EPF (Employees’ Provident Fund) benefits will also be given to them,” the chief minister said about 3.5 lakh contractual teachers, who are a disgruntled lot due to poor pay and service conditions. Nitish’s moves have rattled the intelligentsia and the Opposition parties alike and they are questioning, criticising and attacking him for using the state’s resources to further his poll interests. “The chief minister is inaugurating projects and also laying down foundation stones indiscriminately to take credit before the polls. These are the side-effects of forthcoming elections. But his actions are unmaking him,” Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told The Telegraph. “These completed projects have been executed hastily and with poor quality control. Approach roads to bridges have been washed away. This is a waste of public money and the people are understanding it,” he added. Approach roads to two mega bridges on the Gandak river in Gopalganj district were washed away by floodwaters in the last one month leaving the government red-faced. In the first case, the road caved in within a month of its opening, while the second incident occurred prior to the inauguration of the bridge. Patna-based A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies professor and former director D.M. Diwakar said, “We can understand the inauguration of completed projects to show that work has been done, but laying down foundation stones at a time when Nitish’s tenure is ending is beyond understanding and an illusion. These could be an effort to woo voters.” Diwakar pointed out that under the financial stress emanating from the bad shape of the economy and the lockdown, the state couldn’t afford so many ambitious projects. “Roads and electricity infrastructure have improved, but Nitish is realising after 15 years of rule that all farms in this agricultural state need irrigation facilities or water. Workers who returned from other states during the lockdown were poorly treated. No jobs have been created for them. Bad quality masks were distributed among the rural people. Corruption reeks from drinking water projects and intra-regional disparity is huge in Bihar,” he added. The Opposition also took umbrage in Nitish’s Independence Day speech in which he attacked his critics. Without taking names, Nitish criticised those who do nothing else but tweet or write something on the social media without knowing anything. “The chief minister delivered a political speech on Independence Day and destroyed its pious tradition. Moreover, he should not have used the opportunity to attack the leader of the Opposition (Tejashwi Prasad Yadav),” said RJD legislator Alok Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects plea to put off NEET||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a petition seeking postponement of the NEET slated for September 13, saying “the plea of the pandemic cannot be a reason to jeopardize the career of lakhs of students this year”. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R.Gavai and Krishna Murari said that since the pandemic is expected to continue even for a year, there cannot be postponement of the exams for such a long period. “Education should be opened up. Covid may continue for a year more. Are you going to wait another year? Do you know what is the loss to the country and peril to the students?” Justice Mishra heading the bench asked counsel Alakh Srivastava appearing for the students. The students had moved the apex court seeking postponement of the exams on the ground that present situation is not conducive to conduct the test, amid the rise in the coronavirus cases. Students pleaded they would become more vulnerable if the exams are conducted at this stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Pandit Jasraj passes away in New Jersey||Hindustani classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, his daughter Durga Jasraj said. He was 90. The classical vocalist, who infused life into the most complex ragas and held audiences spellbound with his craft, leaves behind a storied legacy spanning more than eight decades. He is survived by his wife Madura, son Shaarang Dev Pandit and daughter Durga, both musicians. “Bapuji is no more,” his daughter Durga told over phone from Mumbai. Pandit Jasraj, who belonged to the Mewati gharana, was in the US when the coronavirus-led lockdown happened and decided to stay back in that country. Demonstrating his ability to adapt with the times, his last performance was in April when he sang on Hanuman Jayanti for the Sankat Mochan Hanuman temple in Varanasi through Facebook Live. “With profound grief we inform that Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj ji breathed his last this morning at 5.15 EST due to a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, USA,” a statement issued by his family said here. “May Lord Krishna welcome him lovingly through the doors of heaven, where Pandit ji will now sing Om Namo Bhagwate Vasudevaya exclusively just for his beloved Lord. We pray that his soul rests in eternal musical peace. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers.” “Music legend and unparalleled classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj’s passing makes me sad…. Condolence to his family, friends & music connoisseurs,” President Ram Nath Kovind said on Twitter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his unfortunate demise “leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere”. Music composer A.R. Rahman tweeted: “RIP Pandit Jasraj Indian classical music has lost one of  its shining stars.” Composer Shankar Mahadevan said he was devastated after hearing the news that Pandit Jasraj has moved on to the “next dimension”.Sanjiv Goenka, whose group runs the music company Saregama, said: “Pandit Jasraj was a legend and for our family like an elder. We and all of Saregama will miss him immensely.” Grandniece Shweta Pandit remembered her “precious dadu”. “So many insanely beautiful memories you have given me… but I have no words now.” In an interview with PTI on his birthday this January, Pandit Jasraj had spoken about being in sync with times and technology. “I teach through Skype. I suggest everyone do it. I am walking with time and that’s what one should do. I don’t like when people say ‘Woh zamaana achha tha (Those were the good times)’. I believe the current phase is good. One should not compare it with the past — good or bad. One has to walk with time and only then you will like the current time,” he had said. The stalwart had also spoken about his eclectic taste in music and fondness for melody queen Lata Mangeshkar. He also sang in the films. His first song was in 1966 with the bhajan Vandana Karo in raga Ahir Bhairav for his father-in-law V Shantaram’s Ladki Sahyadri Ki. The bhajan was composed by Vasant Desai. Pandit Jasraj’s second film song came almost after a decade in the 1975 movie Birbal My Brother, for which he collaborated with another legend, classical vocalist Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, on a jugalbandi in raga Malkauns. Pandit Jasraj's last Bollywood song was in 2008 for Vikram Bhatt’s horror movie 1920. The song, titled Vaada tumse hai vaada, was composed by Adnan Sami. His rendition of raga Ahir Bhairav was also used by filmmaker Ang Lee in his Hollywood movie Life of Pi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||One college entrance test from next year||A national-level entrance test for admission into undergraduate courses in universities will be rolled out from the next academic session and the varsities will have freedom to admit students on basis of the test results. Higher education secretary Amit Khare said this while taking part in a webinar on the National Education Policy (NEP) and Way Forward organised by industry body Ficci on Monday. The NEP has recommended a national common aptitude entrance test to be conducted by the National Testing Agency twice a year. “The common entrance test will be held on pilot basis in January 2021. It will be rolled out in 2021-22 academic session. We can start with (admission of) sample universities. If any university is interested, they will be welcome to join,” Khare said. Currently, there is no common admission test for undergraduate courses in general stream. Most universities admit students based on their Class XII marks. Certain universities hold entrance test for some of the courses. The NEP recommended that the common aptitude test would be meant for admission into courses in sciences, humanities, languages, arts, and vocational subjects. The test will assess conceptual understanding and the ability to apply knowledge. The test will lessen the burden of students from appearing in multiple tests and also help institutions to select students smoothly. Khare said the proposed academic credit bank, which will help students acquire academic credits from different institutions as per their convenience, will be rolled out before the next academic session. He said the credit bank would be started with IITs and Institutions of Eminence. The credit bank of the student will be linked to the Aadhaar number and maintained digitally. He said that NEP’s recommendation for merging all education regulators by setting up of a single regulator will be taken up soon. A draft bill will be unveiled next month for creation of a Higher Education Commission of India by next month and comments will be sought from institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||BJP silent on Facebook hate speech charge ||The BJP on Monday did not respond to The Wall Street Journal report suggesting that Facebook had not applied its rules against hate speech to posts from the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business prospects in India. The party did not issue a statement nor did it hold a media address to rebut the allegations in the news report. BJP president J.P. Nadda offered no comment. In the past, whenever the BJP has been caught on the wrong foot, it chooses silence officially while fielding some leaders to instead attack the Opposition. On Monday, too, a minister and a former minister, aided by some social media managers, employed the “offence is the best defence” line. While completely avoiding the allegation in the news report that Facebook had chosen not to act on hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its own business interests, the former junior minister Rajyavardhan Rathore branded Facebook a “Left-Congress-leaning platform” in an opinion piece in The Indian Express on Monday. Rathore, a former Olympic gold medallist-turned-politician, who stands sidelined now, described the WSG report as a “hit-job” that has caused outrage among the “Left-Congress cabal”. While the WSG report talked about Facebook allowing dangerous posts by some BJP leaders, Rathore accused the social media platform of “filtering out non-Left and non-Congress viewpoints through manufactured labels of ‘fake news’.” Rathore said:  “That is why you would hear Mark Zuckerberg quote Kapil Mishra but say nothing on Sonia Gandhi who exhorted people in Delhi to do ‘aar paar ki ladai’ (prepare for the final battle).” The BJP repeatedly used Sonia’s call for a decisive political battle against the BJP at a party rally in Delhi early this year to accuse the Congress chief of provoking the Delhi riots. Many BJP leaders tweeted Rathore’s article. Before Rathore, law and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had spoken up. But he too sidestepped the allegations in the WSJ report and instead called Rahul Gandhi a “loser”. The only other BJP member who commented was the party’s information technology cell chief Amit Malviya, who too brought up Sonia’s speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Facebook red flag raised a year ago||Over a year before The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook had ignored its own rules against hate speech to allow posts from the Hindutva ecosystem that incited violence, Trinamul Congress leader Derek O’Brien had flagged the issue in the Rajya Sabha. On June 25, 2019, O’Brien used his party’s intervention in the motion of thanks to the President’s address to allege a nexus between Facebook and the BJP and coined a new expansion for NDA — “Non-Disclosed Alliance”. “The NDA (National Democratic Alliance) also had a hidden partner, ‘Non-Disclosed Alliance’. I am not here to promote a book. It is ‘The Real Face of Facebook in India’. You won’t read about this in newspapers, you won’t see this in the television channels because it tells a sordid story,’’ O’Brien said. He flashed the book, written by Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, in the House. “Facebook’s senior management in India are de facto campaign managers for the BJP. Facebook’s Delhi office is virtually an extended BJP IT cell, and, I am saying this with all responsibility, Facebook censored anti-BJP news and put other parties in jeopardy. The Facebook algorithm censors anti-BJP content,’’ the MP continued. “Now, I come to WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook. I don’t want to dwell on WhatsApp. Everybody knows about WhatsApp. I have got one lovely quote of September 2018. ‘We are capable of delivering any message we want to the public whether it is sweet or sour, true or fake; we can do this only because we have 32 lakh people in our WhatsApp groups. This is how we can make everything viral. Wow.’ The person who said this in September 2018 is now the home minister of India. Where are we headed? And, of course, in return, the Facebook got a lot of other benefits.” The CPM on Monday joined the Congress in demanding a JPC probe into Facebook’s alleged interference in India’s electoral process. The CPM politburo said the WSJ expose confirms the overall apprehensions over Facebook’s activities across its three platforms; the other two being WhatsApp and Instagram. “A stinging exposure by New York Times in 2018 revealed its questionable practices. This exposure raises serious questions about the huge social media investment and operations of the BJP and its role in promoting hate between communities. “The recent investment of Facebook in Reliance strengthens the apprehension of monopoly control, especially in the absence of an effective social media internal regulatory oversight. “The huge financial resources at the disposal of BJP, aided further by the opaque electoral bonds scheme, completely ensures its control over social media,’’ the politburo noted, and said all this warrants a detailed probe. Meanwhile, the parliamentary standing committee for information technology has begun drawing representations for a probe after chairman Shashi Tharoor said his panel would like to hear from Facebook what it had to say about the expose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Facebook hate speech handling 'destabilises' Indian democracy: Congress||The Congress on Monday said Facebook’s inaction on hate content “destabilises” India’s democracy and voiced shock at the Narendra Modi government’s silence on the American company’s different ethical standards for different countries. “It is not a Congress versus BJP matter. It is about India’s democracy and society. Instead of refuting the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report or investigating the nexus, the government is attacking the Congress. We are raising concerns for democracy. Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg has been questioned in many countries,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. The WSJ report had suggested Facebook condoned hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business prospects in the country. “Facebook has different rules for different countries and that is not acceptable. The rules for India are dramatically different and are bent as per their convenience. In Singapore while deposing before policy makers, Facebook said they… can’t take down offensive content without it being brought to their notice. Ironically, in India, despite complaints and red flags being raised by their own trust and safety teams, hate content has been allowed to continue,” Shrinate said. “Across the world in many countries, Facebook has removed pages and has issued press releases for that, citing ‘coordinated inauthentic behaviour.’ But why has Facebook never done something similar with rumour-mongering and hate speeches in India?” the Congress spokesperson asked. “There is enough and more objectionable content that exists on its platform, including creating acrimony between communities, abusing women and maligning political leaders,” she said. While the Congress had on Sunday said the WSJ report was only a confirmation of what it knew all along and that it had lodged complaints with Facebook since 2018, Trinamul Congress MP Derek O’ Brien had raised the matter in the Rajya Sabha in June 2019. Decoding how the BJP won the election, he said: “There is also an undisclosed alliance. The alliance with the Facebook, it is a sordid story.” After the WSJ report triggered a political storm, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who heads the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, has written to Facebook seeking its response on the allegation that it did not act against hate speech, fearing damage to its business interests. Repeating the party’s demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the matter, Shrinate expressed shock that the Facebook applied a different ethical standard in India, allowing commercial interests to be the driving force. “India is one of the most thriving democracies in the world and anybody or any organisation or any platform which undermines that by indulging in hate-mongering should not be spared. With all responsibility, I will say that Facebook’s inaction destabilises our democracy.” Pointing out that Facebook is replete with hate posts that continue to fester animosity, the Congress spokesperson said: “Facebook-owned WhatsApp awaits a payment licence. The possible profits in India, a market where the messaging app has 40 crore users, is undeniably huge. In fact, many have raised eyebrows on the social media giant’s deal with Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance Jio. Facebook bought a little under 10 per cent stake in Jio for Rs 43,574 crore, which is the largest minority stake investment by a tech company anywhere in the world.” PTI quoted a Facebook spokesperson as saying: “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation. While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Churches taken over after Supreme Court order||The Ernakulam administration on Monday took over two churches from the Jacobite Syrian Church, prompting a senior clergyman to ask why the Church was not being compensated like Ayodhya’s Muslims who have received alternative land for the Babri Masjid. The two churches are to be handed over to the Malankara Orthodox Church under a Supreme Court order in an assets dispute between the two Churches following their split in the previous century. Rev. Sleeba Paul, trustee of the Jacobite priests, told The Telegraph: “Where will our devotees go this Sunday? In the Babri Masjid case, the court gave 5 acres to the Muslims. What was given to the 3,000-odd families in Mulanthuruthy?” The Supreme Court had in 2017 allowed a plea by the Malankara Orthodox Church that 1,064 Jacobite churches be given to it across Kerala. Of these, 45 have been handed over so far, the process beginning last year after a nudge from Kerala High Court. Paul said the Malankara Orthodox Church did not need so many churches in Ernakulam where its flock was smaller compared to the Jacobites. “We are the huge majority in Ernakulam and Thrissur districts while they are more in number in Kottayam and southwards,” Paul said. The Malankara Church had split in 1912 into Jacobite and Orthodox groups. Although the two groups reunited in 1959, the unity lasted only till 1972. The Ernakulam administration vacated the Mulanthuruthy church at 5am on Monday with the help of police, who jostled with a human barricade formed by the faithful who had locked the main gate. Jacobite leaders alleged the police had manhandled their religious leaders who were guarding the main door of the Mulanthuruthy Mar Thoman Cathedral Church, first built 1,100 years ago. There was hardly any resistance at the 100-year-old Sahion Church in Onakkoor in the same district. The district administration had to take over the churches and hand over their keys to Kerala High Court before 10am on Monday. Paul slammed the Orthodox Church members who had fought a long legal battle to take over the properties. “They need to understand that all the Jacobite churches were built with money from the poor and the Orthodox Church hasn’t spent a penny to build these churches,” he said. A representative of the Malankara Orthodox Church, Biju Oomen, questioned the attempt by Jacobite church leaders and members to stop the officials from carrying out their orders. “Trying to stop officials from carrying out the court order can only be seen as challenging the rule of law,” Oomen, a lawyer by profession, said. Jacobite leaders questioned the rationale of handing over their churches, including graveyards, to the Orthodox Church. “More than 3,000 of our families depend on the Mulunthuruthy church while they (Orthodox Church) have only 300 families there. That apart they have a huge church just 100 metres from the church we lost today,” Boban Varghese, general secretary of the Malankara Action Council for Christian Church Act, told this newspaper . “They want 1,064 of our 1,700 churches. So what do we do? Where do we bury our dead? I don’t see any justice in building churches with the hard-earned money of the poor only for them to be handed over to them (Orthodox Church).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Sacked JDU minister rejoins Lalu’s party||The possibility of a backlash over the controversial citizenship regime has begun to tell on the ruling Janata Dal United in Bihar with socialist leader Shyam Rajak resigning as MLA and joining the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Monday. On Sunday, Shyam was dropped from the Nitish Kumar cabinet and expelled from the JDU soon after he made clear his intention to leave the party. He has represented seven times the Phulwari Assembly constituency, reserved for Scheduled Castes. The Phulwari seat has a sizeable minority population and had witnessed strong protests against the citizenship regime last year and early this year. The constituency also has a large Yadav population, who are staunch supporters of the RJD. The formidable combination voted for the JDU in 2015 when the party had teamed up with the RJD and Congress to form the Grand Alliance. This time they are displeased with the JDU — which switched sides to align with the BJP — primarily because of the Citizenship Amendment Act and other related steps. “Shyam is veteran enough to read the writing on the wall. He understood that the chances of his retaining the Phulwari seat were slim, hence decided to go back to the RJD,” a senior minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
18-08-2020||India||Salute for not letting Covid kill dignity in Tamil Nadu||A district collector turned protocol on its head, getting off the podium and saluting a policewoman he had just awarded for her role as a Covid warrior, electrifying what till then had been a low-key Independence Day ceremony in a Tamil Nadu town. Inspector M. Allirani, beneficiary of the gesture by K.S. Kandasamy, had herself acted beyond the call of duty and protocol two months ago to physically remove the body of a man that even his family wouldn’t touch, fearing he had died of Covid-19. At Saturday’s event on the Armed Reserve Police grounds in Tiruvannamalai, the collector had taken the usual salute from the podium before presenting Allirani with a medal, shield and a certificate and saying “Inga vaanga”. It was an invitation to her to climb onto the podium. Kandasamy then stunned everyone by himself stepping down, turning to face Allirani and saluting her for a full 20 seconds. She saluted back. The small gathering went wild, cheering both of them. Shaking off his surprise, the official compering the event paused his run-through of the other Covid awardees to explain the significance of Kandasamy’s act. “We have a ‘people’s collector’ who has uniquely honoured the inspector’s bravery and dedication as part of the frontline staff in this battle,” he announced. Kandasamy told The Telegraph over the phone on Monday: “I had recommended Allirani for the State Bravery Award, named after Kalpana Chawla (the Indian American astronaut who died in the 2003 space shuttle disaster) but that did not come through.” He added: “It isn’t only her; so many other officials from various departments are also working round the clock to contain the spread of the virus. Yet, the circumstances in which she personally removed an unclaimed body, shunned by everyone in the village, are what prompted me to honour her at the I-Day event in that manner. It was the most fitting way to acknowledge her brave, humanitarian act.” Allirani could have gone by the rulebook and left the body to be removed by municipal staff, but did not, he said. An official in Tiruvannamalai recalled Allirani’s mid-June act at Vandavasi, close to Thellar police station to which she is attached. A 35-year-old man, Amavasai, had died apparently after accidentally touching an electric fence. As his body lay in a sugarcane field, none in the village would even come near the body, fearing he had died of Covid-19. Allirani arrived and tried to persuade the villagers to help her take the body to hospital. “But even the man’s wailing mother and sister would not come forward to help,” the official said. Allirani has been quoted as telling her superiors: “I appealed to all of them to lend me a hand, including the dead man’s family members, but none came.” She then began dragging the body, singlehandedly pulling it out of the field. Kamal, an auto-rickshaw driver who was passing by, stopped seeing her plight and they together lifted the body into the three-wheeler. When they arrived at the Adukkamparai government hospital in Vellore town, no one would help them. Allirani and Kamal again turned instant pallbearers until “we found a tricycle and wheeled him in”, the policewoman has told reporters. Besides the post-mortem, a Covid-19 test too was done and the dead man tested negative. Allirani took steps to hand the body over to his family. Allirani’s act of courage stands up to the area’s historical legacy too — for Vandavasi was the site of the January 1760 Battle of Wandiwash that decided the Third Carnatic War. It saw the British, having already consolidated their position in Bengal and Hyderabad, defeat the French in south India and confine them to the small coastal strip of Pondicherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
18-08-2020||India||Supreme Court to vet if fingers can be pointed at judges||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine whether a person can make allegations of corruption against sitting and former judges and under what circumstances they can be levelled. The decision was taken in the wake of two contempt proceedings launched against lawyer Prashant Bhushan. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Rajeev Dhavan urged the apex court to give a “quietus” to the 2009 statements of Bhushan. Justice Arun Mishra, heading the three-judge bench, hinted that the court was primarily concerned with the larger issue of citizens’ right to raise such issues. Dhavan informed the court that Bhushan would file a review petition against the August 14 judgment convicting him for criminal contempt over the two tweets on the destruction of democracy and on the present Chief Justice of India. The same bench is dealing with the 2009 case and the tweets. Although no official order was issued till Monday evening in the 2009 case, the bench that includes Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari decided to frame the following questions for consideration, which will be taken up for hearing next week: In the 2009 suo motu case, Bhushan had in an interview to Tehelka magazine, stated that half of the 16 former CJIs had corruption allegations against them. Bhushan had admitted that he had no evidence to substantiate the allegations and had subsequently tendered “regret” for hurting the feelings of the former CJIs and their families. On Monday, during the hearing, Justice Mishra said: “We wanted to finish this (2009 case). We wanted to end the case but the basic question is if you want to speak to the press in case you have any grievance against any judge, what should be the process? “In what circumstances can such allegations be made is also a question. Putting a quietus is not the issue but the questions are also before us. When some matter is sub judice, to what extent… can the matter be argued through media or another mode?” Justice Mishra asked. The judge made the observation after Sibal and Dhavan requested that the 2009 matter be given a quiet burial. About the tweets’ verdict, Dhavan submitted: “Your Lordships judgment in the tweets’ matter delivered a day before Independence Day suffers from great imbalances. One part of that judgment says it can amount to contempt while another part says it cannot… we will file a review against the judgment relating to two tweets.” Dhavan submitted that there cannot be per se contempt proceedings against Bhushan for the use of the word “corruption”. “We intend to file a review for the judgment of August 14 for this very reason,” the senior counsel said. The judge said the court wanted to frame certain questions on the rights of a citizen to make statements of corruption against sitting and retired judges. Senior advocate Shanti Bhushan suggested that the matter should be heard when the court starts physical functioning. Justice Mishra said: “We want to hear you, Dr Dhavan. If you want to argue now or later.” Dhavan said: “I think all three of us, Mr Sibal, Mr Shanti Bhushan and myself would like to assist you.” Justice Mishra said: “We want to hear because if the question is left, then it will not be better for later on.” Dhavan agreed, saying the questions raised by the court “are very meaningful”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Migrant workers turn Covid warriors||Migrant workers who were diagnosed with Covid-19 after returning to Bengal and recovered, have now been roped in by the state government to help hundreds of those suffering from the pandemic and are undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the metropolis, a senior government official said on Tuesday. Forty nine migrant workers have been inducted by the state government as members of its 'Covid-19 Warriors Club' to assist the coronavirus patients. They hail from Birbhum, Coochbehar, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Murshidabadand and are given a monthly honorarioum of Rs 15,000, he said. "The primary job of these Covid-19 warriors is to keep up the morale of the patients currently undergoing treatment in the coronavirus wards in hospitals by sharing with them their own stories of recovery. These men will also provide updates to the relatives of those being treated," he said. Before being engaged for the work, these migrant labourers were trained for at least seven days about the safety measures while assisting a patient at the Covid-19 ward, the official said. "They are basically providing non-medical services mainly through counselling. They will also play a role in raising awareness about the contagion among the patients, their relatives and others," the official said. These men have also been trained also on how to change oxygen cylinders, check blood pressure, body temperature and a few other basics of treating a patient, he said. Currently these 49 Covid-19 warriors are working in different hospitals in the city, including the state-run Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute at Rajarhat, M R Bangur Hospital, the official said. All of them have been put up at the Youth Hostel at Salt Lake stadium. As per the state government's plans similar such clubs are being set up in every district, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva Bharati to seek central forces from PM after violence||Visva Bharati authorities have decided to seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention for deployment of central security forces on its premises, a day after vandalism forced its closure, a top official of the prestigious institution said on Tuesday. The heritage university founded by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore was shut down indefinitely on Monday following violent protests against Visva Bharati's decision to construct a boundary wall around the venue of Poush Mela, a prestigious annual cultural event started more than a century ago. "The executive council (of the university) has unanimously decided to write to the honourable chancellor (the prime minister) for deployment of any of the central security forces to deal with security issues on the campus," one of its members said. According to Shyam Singh, the Birbhum district superintendent of police, nine persons have been arrested for campus violence. Palpable tension prevailed at the institute with barely any movement seen on Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, a senior professor of the institution has alleged a group of protesters ransacked his residence early Tuesday, hours after the decision to close the university was announced. Biplab Lohachowdhury, the head of the university's journalism department, also said that he has filed a police complaint, and written to the registrar of the institute to intimate him about the incident. A senior police officer in Birbhum said an FIR has been lodged in the case, and the matter was being looked into. "They opened the gate, broke window panes and hurled abuses at me for supporting the university in its decision to build a fence around the Poush Mela ground," he said. The central university has said that the decision to shut down the institute, however, will not affect the admission process, examinations and other emergency work. According to district officials, tension had been brewing in the area over the past few days as local traders were miffed at the university's decision to cancel this year's Poush Mela, a year-end annual fair that draws lakhs of visitors from across the world. Trouble erupted on Monday after the fencing work began on the fair ground, with thousands of protesters vandalising construction equipment and tearing down the main gate. The Trinamool Congress government condemned the violence, but threw its weight behind the protesters. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she was against any construction at the site and asked the district administration to convene a meeting of the stakeholders. The university authorities, however, said a fence around the fair venue was required to honour an order of the National Green Tribunal, which had on November 1, 2017, said that a "barrier needs to be constructed to demarcate the Mela ground from the university and the locality." "Given the vandalism today leading to the destruction of university property worth several lakhs due to the complete absence of police deployment in spite of having two police stations within the university campus, it is decided to bring this to the notice of the Hon'ble Chancellor," a Visva Bharati statement had said on Monday. It said the university will remain closed till the situation improved. Meanwhile, TMC's Dubrajpur MLA Naresh Bauri, who was present at the site during the violence, said he had gone there as a former student of the institute and not a party leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Rs 9 lakh snatched in daylight in Kalyani||Three motorcycle-borne men snatched a bag containing Rs 9.24 lakh from a middle-aged man when he was going to deposit the money in his son-in-law’s bank account on Monday afternoon. Around 2pm, Azizul Islam, 56, was on his way to deposit the cash belonging to his son-in-law, who runs a poultry farm in the locality. As Azizul was walking to the bank with the cash, the trio on a motorbike waylaid him near Anukul More in the town’s Jogendranath Colony area. When Azizul resisted the goons’ attempts to take the bag containing the cash, the trio hit him on his head repeatedly with bricks till he slumped on the road unconscious. He has been hospitalised. The goons decamped with the cash, opening fire when some of the residents gave chase. No one was injured in the firing. Police are trying to identify the goons by examining CCTV camera footage. No one has been arrested so far. Ranjit Biswas, an eyewitness, said: “I saw two youths trying to snatch a bag from an elderly man while the other was hitting on his head with a brick repeatedly. I raised an alarm but the goons threatened to open fire at me. The old man eventually fell unconscious and the goons fled on the motorcycle with the bag. When residents tried to run after them, one of the goons opened fire.” Azizul’s son-in-law Mosaraf Hossain said: “Since I was busy, I gave the money to my father-in-law to deposit it in my bank account. He often does it for me.  I never imagined such an incident of assault and loot could happen in Kalyani in broad daylight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Infighting whiff in elephant death||A wild elephant was found dead on the premises of Binnaguri Military Station here on Monday morning. The elephant — a ‘makna’ or male without tusks — is suspected to have died due to infighting. Sources said the forest officials had recovered the carcass and it was taken to the Gorumara National Park for post-mortem and cremation. “Preliminary probe suggests that the animal has died of infighting. There are multiple injury marks on the carcass. We can, however, confirm the cause of death only after the autopsy report reaches us,” said Ravikant Sinha, the principal chief conservator of forests of the state. Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden, said: “Male elephants fight with each other over possession of females. This at times, also leads to deaths.” The Sashastra Seema Bal and state forest department in a joint operation seized 13 deer horns and arrested three persons at Madarihat in Alipurduar district on Monday. The trio was carrying the horns to Siliguri, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Four test positive, but minus swab samples||Four persons from nearby villages in Goalpokhor-II block of North Dinajpur received reports confirming they were Covid 19-positive, the catch being none underwent a test. This is not the first time that anomalies have been detected in test reports, raising uncomfortable questions for the state health department. District health officials ordered an inquiry while admitting to this compilation error. “We have ordered an inquiry. Anybody found responsible will face departmental action,” said R.N. Pradhan, the district’s chief medical officer of health. Sources said that the district health department decided to conduct RT-PCR tests on swab samples collected at random from residents following a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the block. Accordingly, a list of 80 people from villages under Belon panchayat of the block was made by the panchayat and sent to the health department, panchayat member Tauf Alam said. On August 11, the health department held the camp where out of 80, 73 gave their samples. Among the rest seven, some did not attend the camp and a few left without giving their samples. All the samples were brought to the Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital for the RT-PCR test and reports sent to Belon panchayat on August 14. Alam said the reports sprung the real surprise. “Among the 73 samples, 10 tested positive. But of the seven persons who did not give their samples, four reported positive. People started avoiding Feroze Alam, Mohammad Mamun Rashid, Mohammad Harun Rashid and Jahur Alam as Covid patients though they had not given their samples.” Feroze, who owns an oil mill and is a wholesaler, said he had to shut his business. Alam said they were trying to make residents believe that none of these four had been tested. “But now, of the 73 who gave their samples, the 10 who tested positive are questioning the veracity of test reports.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Car in gorge, 5 youths dead near Kurseong||Five youths died on Saturday night after the car they were travelling went off a hilly road near Kurseong and fell into a 500-foot-deep gorge. Policemen and firemen recovered the bodies of college students Subrata Das, Bikram Das, Rishav Das and Arghya Kundu and found the wreckage of the car early on Monday. By evening, the body of the fifth, Class XII schoolboy Raj Singh, was also recovered, police sources said. Sources said that on Saturday, the five youths, who are from Rathkhola and Deshbandhupara of the city, had decided to celebrate Independence Day. “The father of one of these boys owns a car. So they took out the car and went to Malbazar and Lataguri in the Dooars on Saturday morning. They returned in the evening and then decided to leave for Kurseong,” said Rinki Das, former councilor of ward 22 in which Ratkhola is located. “As the night rolled on, their families grew worried and started contacting them on phone. After 11.30pm, they could not be contacted,” she added. When the youths did not return on Sunday, the anxious families filed missing diaries with Siliguri police. The police probe revealed that on Sunday night a car went off the Subhash Ghisingh Marg also known as Rohini Road, the commonest route that connects Kurseong with the plains. “We learnt the car had fallen into a gorge near Kargildara, a locality along the road near Kurseong,” said a police officer. Search operations started at the site and on Monday, the five bodies were found. “We suspect an accident but we still need to know the exact cause of the deaths of the five youths from post-mortem,” a senior police officer said. “The damaged car will also be examined.” Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha MP of Trinamul who is also from Kurseong, has condoled the deaths. “This is just shocking. I contacted police officers in Kurseong as soon as I got to know,”she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee announces police board overhaul||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a restructuring of the Police Welfare Board to deal with the grievances of police personnel more efficiently. “There is a welfare board, but we are restructuring it so that police personnel can get problems addressed properly,” Mamata told the media at Nabanna on Monday. “The welfare board will address problems of Bengal police and Calcutta police. SPs will keep a close liaison with the board in districts.” The chief minister said that those who were criticising the state police should look into states like UP, Bihar, MP and Delhi and they would be able to see the difference. “Bengal’s police is one of the best... Calcutta Police is working better than the Scotland Yard,” she said. Mamata said both the Bengal police and Calcutta police worked really hard during the pandemic as they stayed on the roads to battle the spread of the disease. “They have worked overtime, they managed traffic, they helped the affected and even arranged food for them... Several policemen were inflicted and 18 of them died as they worked by risking their lives. Now we have some responsibilities towards them and their families. We will observe September 1 as Police Day,” said the chief minister. Nabanna sources said that discontent among policemen was rising amid the pandemic and Mamata stepped in to ensure that these did not foment trouble before Assembly polls. “Most grievances are over Covid-related issues such as lack of testing among policemen, barracks without social distancing,” said a bureaucrat. Commending the police for a great job during the pandemic and acknowledging that 18 police personnel died of Covid as they worked to contain the spread, Mamata said the state government would set up more barracks for police where social distancing would be kept in mind during construction. Mamata also announced a cabinet decision to give female police personnel scope for promotions on a par with their male counterparts. She also personally mentioned that some police personnel could genuinely need transfer because of a parent’s illness or a child’s education. Sources said that the chief minister tried to pacify some police personnel who had raised voices against the system in the past few months. “Policemen in the PTS and in some police stations in Calcutta had launched agitations demanding certain facilities. The chief minister has intervened on time before it (discontent) spreads further. The policemen also had grievances against the welfare board,” said an officer. Calcutta police has launched a mobile app called Niramoy for their personnel. Through the app, the health of those who report sick and are hospitalised or home quarantined will be monitored daily. This will help ensure timely intervention, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Pous Mela wall against Tagore ideals: CM||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the wall being built by Visva-Bharati on Pous Mela ground went against Rabindranath Tagore’s ideals, on a day thousands stormed the construction site to protest against the structure. The central varsity, whose stand is diametrically opposite to Mamata, announced in the evening the varsity’s closure in the wake of massive protests against the wall. Over 5,000 people reached the Pous Mela ground in the morning, vandalised a pandal, demolished an iron gate and damaged construction materials to protest against the upcoming wall. Protests had intensified in the past couple of days with many residents, students and traders calling “walls incongruous with the Tagore school of thought”. The developments indicate battle lines between the Trinamul-led state government and the central varsity — of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the chancellor — over alleged attempts by varsity authorities to saffronise it. “I don’t want any construction that would barricade the natural beauty of Santiniketan and its red soil,” said Mamata at Nabanna, quoting a line from a Tagore song on Santiniketan’s idyllic beauty. “The purpose of Rabindranath Tagore in setting up Visva-Bharati was to conduct academic activities, besides programmes like Basanta Utsav and Pous Mela, in the lap of nature, in the open air, under the trees, amid chirping birds…. He set up Santiniketan as an abode of peace, it wasn’t just about construction,” she said. Mamata brought up other issues from the recent past, such as the protest of Visva-Bharati students against a lecture on CAA by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta in January, to make it clear that her objection to the varsity’s current dispensation’s actions was not restricted to the wall alone. Sources in Mamata’s party said she was particularly displeased to know that on Sunday Visva-Bharati authorities had allegedly involved BJP workers, along with 150 varsity employees, as “human shield” against the ongoing protests. Mamata directed the Birbhum district magistrate to hold a meeting with police, Visva-Bharati VC Bidyut Chakrabarty, students and representatives of residents to resolve the issue peacefully. In its news release later in the evening, Visva-Bharati said it “unanimously resolved” to close the varsity till the situation improved, citing vandalism on campus on Monday in the absence of police. Visva-Bharati said it was within its rights to build a fence as a shield against the alleged misuse of the ground. Birbhum’s BJP leaders also claimed that Trinamul supported the violence to defame Visva-Bharati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||TMC MLA dies after testing positive||Trinamul Congress’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das who had tested positive for Covid-19 breathed his last on Monday morning. Das was the second MLA who died after contracting the novel coronavirus. He, according to his party colleagues, had developed complications in the heart and the kidney. Trinamul’s Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh had died in June. Over a dozen sitting lawmakers in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Some Trinamul councillors have also died from the disease. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the death of Das in a twitter message. “I am deeply saddened at the passing of East Midnapore’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das. His demise leaves an irrevocable void in the realm of politics. I express my sympathy to his family and followers,” wrote the Trinamul chief. Das, 76, was a three-term MLA from Egra. Trinamul Congress president of East Midnapore and MP Shishir Adhikary said: “He was a friend and a brother to me. He was very clear in his politics. I am saddened by the loss of someone very close to me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports 45 deaths and 3,080 infections in a day||Bengal on Monday reported 45 deaths from Covid-19 and the highest number of infections at 3,080, taking the toll to 2,473 and total cases close to 1.2 lakh, of which around 90,000 were recoveries. Hours before the day’s figures related to the novel coronavirus were made public, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and chief secretary Rajiva Sinha spotted several green shoots in the state’s fight against the pandemic, such as the mortality rate of 2.06 per cent and 36.87 per cent bed occupancy. “We have been trying everything, leaving no stone unturned to ensure people stay well, people stay healthy. Our mortality rate has improved to 2 per cent, only 2 now… it was 4.5 or so. We did a whole lot to lower this to 2… of which (around) 89 per cent are comorbid anyway,” Mamata told journalists at Nabanna on Monday. The current national mortality rate is 1.92. Bengal, in the initial months of the pandemic, had a much higher mortality rate. For instance, three months ago, the rate was 8.89, which improved drastically to 2.75 a month ago. “Our worries are mainly about comorbidities…. Despite that, with early detection and timely intervention, much like in the case of cancer, lives can be saved,” said Mamata. Calcutta alone accounted for 1,093 of the total 2,473 deaths recorded in the state. The city logged 23 fatalities for a 24-hour period till 9am on Monday. North 24-Parganas reported total 569 deaths, including four till 9am. The state government attributed 2,189 of the deaths to comorbidities. Of the new 3,080 cases, 548 were from the city, while 571 were from North 24-Parganas. However, they also reported recoveries at 618 and 490, respectively. “(Of the 27,402 active Covid-19 patients), 5,137 are admitted to hospitals. Of them, 1,817 are serious, 997 are moderate, 2,363 are mild,” said chief secretary Sinha. He reiterated that the state was on top of its Covid-19 management. “We are prepared in every possible way to meet the Covid-19 challenge. I don’t know if some aspects of the information we share with you daily are getting noticed,” he said. “For instance, our dedicated Covid-19 bed occupancy, when the pandemic began, was around 40 per cent. Today, that has reduced to 35 per cent (36.87 on Monday). Health infrastructure falling short of the pandemic needs is a huge problem across the country. But in Bengal, we have seen that our infrastructure is still adequate. Our 11,775 Covid beds… interestingly, to every bed, we are capable of providing oxygen, each and every bed,” he added. “What the rest of India is only beginning to realise, the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) has begun talking about, that oxygen is most important, most crucial in treating patients.” Sinha said the state had bought 300 high flow nasal cannula and ordered 300 more at Rs 2.5 lakh each. The chief minister urged donors to come forward with contributions in this regard. “High flow nasal cannula, from two months ago, we started supplying. They are proving to be better than ventilators. We are strengthening this further,” said Sinha. Mamata added: “These cannula, we experimented with…. This is turning out to be more effective than ventilators for Covid-19 patients.” Sinha went on to flaunt Bengal’s position in testing. The highest 24-hour count was 34,214 on Saturday and 32,319 tests were reported on Monday. The total number of tests reached 13.47 lakh, at 14,968 tests per million people. “Testing, we are at 34,000, daily, already. We are increasing further. Our daily testing per million — the WHO norm is 140 — is 377 now. We will maintain this momentum, we hope,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Recreation awaits safe homes in Bengal||The Bengal government has decided to set up recreation facilities at 100-odd safe homes to persuade Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms to stay at such centres during treatment. “We are identifying a recreation room at each safe home. We are installing television sets, carom boards and some other recreation facilities at the safe homes so that asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms don’t hesitate to get treated there,” said a district magistrate. Sources said senior state government officials had asked district magistrates during a video conference on Friday to ensure that safe homes were made attractive for Covid patients. The safe homes were launched as more than 80 per cent of Covid patients were found to be either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. As they did not require major medical support but were occupying hospital beds, serious patients were often facing troubles to get a hospital bed. The initiative — considered as the first such step in the country — started taking a shape about a month a ago when the government started sending asymptomatic patients to the safe homes. But the government was facing trouble from the very first day as patients refused to move to safe homes saying they would not get proper treatment there. “We then took several steps, including deploying dedicated team of doctors for each safe home and attaching the safe homes with a nearby Covid hospital so that a patient could be transferred to the hospitals immediately in case of emergency. But still, the response is poor,” said an official. In Calcutta, there are 1,500 beds at safe homes but the state could move only about 400 patients there from hospitals. “We have to decongest the hospitals, particularly in Calcutta and the surroundings, considering the fact that the state was probably yet to reach the peak. This is why we are trying to make the safe homes attractive for the patients,” said an official. Another district magistrate said they were also instructed to ensure that patients got proper services at the safe homes so that people didn’t hesitate to go there in case they tested positive and didn’t have enough space at their houses. “We are trying to ensure that people get good food, clean toilet and regular health check-ups at the safe homes. If we can do it, half of the battle would be won,” said the DM. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said the facility of providing information of a hospitalised Covid patient through the state health department’s website had been kicked off on Monday. “The service was introduced for the patients admitted to three hospitals — MR Bangur, Calcutta Medical College and CNCI — today and within seven days, the facility would be available for the patients admitted to all 84 Covid hospitals,” said Sinha at Nabanna on Monday. According to the system, a relative of a patient would be able to see the present condition of the patient on the health department’s website. The relative of a patient has to enter the name of the patient and an OTP would come on the registered mobile number. Once the OTP is entered, the relative would be able to see major health parameters like oxygen saturation, pulse rate. Information on whether the patient was kept on ventilation or whether the patient was given oxygen support would also be available in the window. “This is a major step towards bringing in transparency in the entire system to battle the spread of the disease,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Lottery sale & music at tea stalls ‘banned’ ||A kangaroo court (salisi sabha) has initiated unprecedented social policing measures for 12,000-odd residents of a village on the Murshidabad-Jharkhand border. The recently-formed samaj sanskar (social reforms) committee at Adwaita Nagar listed “punishable offences” like purchase and sale of alcohol, lottery tickets, tobacco and marijuana, playing TV sets at tea stalls and music from a phone, playing carom in public and listening to music on a computer. The committee that consists of at least three gram panchayat members of Trinamul and one from the Congress held the kangaroo court last week. The committee printed and circulated pamphlets, listing the alleged offences punishable by fines ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 7,000. It also announced rewards between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000 for informers. Sabha president and Trinamul supporter Azharul Sheikh said: “The diktat was issued in the interest of youths and obeying it is mandatory. The measure is a protective step to ensure that our youths do not go corrupt.” “Watching TV indoors is the only exempted activity. Playing TV at tea stalls distracts youths in the evening, when they should actually be studying.” Asked how the sabha would enforce the regulations, Azarul said it had already reprimanded two youths for violations related to marijuana and cigarette smoking. “However, we did not fine them. Our main interest is their well-being, so we just asked them to pray with folded hands for forgiveness before the sabha,” added Azarul. According to the flyers pasted across the area, the sale of lottery tickets and alcohol entails the highest fine of Rs 7,000. If one buys booze or lottery, he needs to pay a fine of Rs 2,000. Playing TV sets at tea stalls would attract a penalty of Rs 1,000. The same amount is charged for using smartphones or computers for music and organising carom. Playing carom would attract a fine of Rs 500. The penalty does not end with fines but there measures have been incorporated to publicly humiliate people for act the sabha things are “offensive”. Those found selling alcohol, the diktat says, would be tonsured and taken around the village. Similarly, those caught drinking will be made to hold their ears and do sit-ups in front of villagers. For other offences, the “offender” will have to apologise publicly apart from paying fines. “Lottery is gambling even if it is approved by the government. Police barely keep a watch here. So, who else is going to look after the well-being of our youths,” said sabha member and Congress leader Babul Akhtar. He added that the sabha was “society-oriented and not political”. Asked, superintendent of police (Jangipur), Y. Raghubamshi, said he had been informed of the development and had dispatched the OC to submit a report. “Anything illegal will be shut down. We are taking care to ensure there are no communal overtones,” he said and added that Samserganj OC K. Bishoyi had told him that a few youths of the village were behind the act and had confessed to their wrongdoing. “They have promised not to repeat this in the future.” However, committee president Azharul Sheikh refuted the SP’s claim and said they had not been contacted by police. “If the police want to discuss the issue with us, we are ready to meet them at the police station,” he said. Samserganj BDO said he was not aware of the issue but said he would send a team to look into it. Local Trinamul MLA Amirul Haque said he did not support the initiative, and expected “law to take its course" against the sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Warning to close Kohinoor tea estate||The management of Kohinoor tea estate in Alipurduar district issued a pre-lockout notice on Monday, saying the garden would have to be closed down if workers continued with their demonstrations. The garden has 888 permanent workers who have been holding demonstrations regularly since August 10 against the management’s alleged failure to deposit provident fund collected from them in the past 23 months. “The workers might have some issues but those can be discussed through trade unions at different forums. Tea production is getting affected in the garden at a time we need to work sincerely as there have been losses because of the lockdown and inclement weather,” said a management representative. “If such a situation persists, there would be no other option but to take stern steps. It has been made clear that the notice that has been served can be considered as a pre-lockout notice,” he added. Tea trade unions, however, said the tea company had collected the share of provident fund from the workers on a regular basis but not a penny had been deposited with the PF authorities in the past 23 months. “In January this year, the management had assured us that the deposits would be made but there has been no change in the situation till date. That is why the workers have launched protests but every day, after the demonstrations, they are joining their work. The management is just trying to evade its responsibility,” said Bidyut Gun, a leader of the Citu-backed Cha Bagan Mazdoor Union. On Monday, over 1,000 workers demonstrated on the Rahimabad tea estate, demanding payment of provident fund and gratuity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
18-08-2020||North East||OIL manages to cap May 27 Baghjan gas well blowout||Oil India Limited managed to cap the May 27 Baghjan gas well blowout on Monday afternoon after 83 days and two unsuccessful attempts. “We have managed to place the blowout preventer on the well head. Capping was successfully carried out today despite the many challenges. We will go for killing of the well from tomorrow,” OIL official Tridiv Hazarika told The Telegraph. The operation in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, about 530km east of here, involves injecting killing fluid  to stop the flow of natural gas. The well had caught fire on July 9. “The fire you see today is because gas is still flowing. This will stop once we kill the well,” Hazarika said. The blowout had affected over 8,000 people and left two Oil India firefighters dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
18-08-2020||North East||Don’t forsake Naga truce: Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda on Monday said the 23-year-old peace process with the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) should not be “forsaken now” because the people of the Northeast “deserve” to live in harmony and witness economic progress. In an appeal on “negotiations with Nagas”, triggered by media reports that suggested that the talks with the NSCN (I-M) have run into “rough weather”, the former Prime Minister recalled that the 1997 ceasefire agreement followed “my meeting” with NSCN (I-M) leaders, the late Isak Chisi Swu and Thuingaleng Muivah in Zurich on February 3 that year. Gowda followed up on the initiative of one of his predecessors, P.V. Narasimha Rao, to the oldest insurgency in the country. Rao had met Swu and Muivah in June 1995. This was followed by talks with the duo in Bangkok involving former Union minister Rajesh Pilot. In August 1997, the NSCN (I-M) entered into a ceasefire and after several rounds of talks, signed the Framework Agreement on August 3, 2015 in the presence of incumbent Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had called, among others, Gowda after the pact was signed. “We should ensure that the progress made in the last 23 years by successive governments is not forsaken now. There is the Constitution and also the 2015 Framework Agreement, which should help us move towards a solution. I sincerely hope that distrust is put aside, talks continue, and a peace accord is reached at the earliest. The people of the Northeast deserve to live in harmony and witness economic progress,” Gowda said. His appeal assumes significance because the relationship between the Centre’s interlocutor, R.N. Ravi, also the governor of Nagaland, and the NSCN (I-M) has nose-dived. The NSCN (I-M) has accused Ravi of manipulating the Framework Agreement in the copy circulated to his “favoured” Naga civil society organisations, including Naga National Political Groups, comprising seven outfits which are part of the talks. In a statement on Sunday, the outfit said it was pertinent to point out that the talks are on Naga political issues for all the Nagas and covering all Naga areas. “But surprisingly, Mr Ravi reduces the talk to the state of Nagaland only. This is not only a mockery of the Framework Agreement co-authored by him representing the Prime Minister of India but insult to the Nagas as a whole.” The NSCN (I-M) on Sunday even went after former chief minister S.C. Jamir for delay in arriving at a solution. “Ravi had got himself a good partner in ex-chief minister of Nagaland and ex-governor S.C. Jamir, who is tooth and nail against Naga solution defending the 16-Point Agreement. Both of them had been surreptitiously working together and they are responsible for holding the NNPGs in the grip and misled the government of India, particularly the Prime Minister,” the NSCN (I-M) said. The Centre had signed the 16-point agreement in 1960 with the Naga People’s Convention (NPC), sidelining the A.Z. Phizo-led Naga National Council (NNC) which had declared independence on August 14, 1947, that is observed by Naga groups since then. The 16-point pact led to the creation of Nagaland in 1963 but peace continued to elude the Nagas. Jamir is the only living signatory to the 16-point agreement signed when Jawaharlal Nehru was Prime Minister. The NSCN (I-M) is still firm on a separate flag and Constitution. The outfit alleged that Ravi has cast a “huge trust deficit” as his role has come to be seen as nothing short of “disowning” the Framework Agreement. Ravi, in his Independence Day message on Saturday, raised questions about governance and government in Nagaland despite a ceasefire between the government, the NSCN (I-M) and others in place. “Ironically, relative decline is more obvious during the recent decades. When the security forces and the Naga armed groups agreed to suspend operations against each other paving the way for political settlement, the legitimate expectation of the people of Nagaland was dividends of peace — freedom from fear of guns, better health, better education, better infrastructure, better livelihood opportunities, an atmosphere to dream and an eco-system to pursue their dreams,” Ravi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
18-08-2020||Opinion||Historic moment: Kamla Harris vice-presidency||Sir — The selection of Kamala Harris as the running mate of the presumptive Democratic presidential candidate, Joe Biden, for the elections scheduled to be held later this year marks a new era in American politics (“Biden chooses ‘fearless fighter for the little guy’”, Aug 13). If the Democrats win, then Harris would come to represent two marginalized racial groups, which in recent years have borne the brunt of the populist politics of the incumbent president, Donald Trump. No other woman, let alone a woman of colour, has held such a high administrative position in the government of the United States of America so far. The candidature of Harris is not just a proud moment for Indian-Americans. She also is the first black woman — Harris was born to an Indian mother and a Jamaican father — to compete on the presidential ticket of one of the two major parties. With the Black Lives Matter movement gaining momentum in the US in the aftermath of the brutal killing of George Floyd, Harris represents the anxieties of the black population and is expected to draw a large number of African-American voters. The political landscape of the US is rapidly changing and, with the Trump administration facing immense backlash over its poor handling of the issue of police brutality in the country, the California senator’s presence is now being considered crucial. Harris, who ticks several boxes — she has experience in law enforcement, a legislative background, many years ahead of her, has vociferously demanded racial equality and is unwavering in her commitment to civil rights — would be an asset to the Democratic presidential campaign. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The senator of California, Kamala Harris, is a worthy choice for the vice-presidential ticket alongside the Democratic presidential hopeful, Joe Biden. As a biracial child of immigrants, Harris truly represents the diversity and inclusivity of the US, which the current president has decimated over the last four years. Her selection as the running mate to Biden marks a giant leap forward for women in American politics who, for so long, have been denied positions at the upper echelons of government. If Biden, with Harris by his side, wins the presidential elections of 2020, then the bilateral relations between India and the US might take a different turn. While Donald Trump has been vocal about his admiration for the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, Biden’s position on Indian politics has not always been to the liking of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Although Biden has advocated for the strengthening of Indo-US ties, he has also publicly criticized the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and has expressed concerns over the deteriorating situation in Kashmir. Thus, it would be interesting to see how a shift in power at the White House will impact the country’s ties with India in the future. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — It is understandable why the selection of Kamala Harris as the Democratic vice-presidential candidate is being considered a victory by Indian-American and African-American voters alike. Harris is on a history-making ticket, standing in opposition to a president who has deeply offended the minority communities in the country. Unsurprisingly, Donald Trump has reacted adversely to the selection by calling Harris “nasty”, “mean” and “horrible”. The senator, on the other hand, criticized Trump on his mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, calling it “the worst public health crisis in a century”. There is no doubt that Harris is a strategically smart choice for the Democratic Party. Having run for both the Senate and the presidency, she has already been subjected to national scrutiny. Harris — unlike Trump, who has consistently downplayed the importance of climate change, she has taken on the oil industry as the attorney general of California and campaigned for a Green New Deal — has prioritized climate change, an issue that will resonate with the young voters. Her progressive politics, which stand in stark opposition to Trump’s, will provide her with a much-needed boost in the upcoming elections. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — While it is great that Indians are celebrating the news of Kamala Harris being declared the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, overt celebrations of her ‘Indianness’ have raised eyebrows. Reports of people of African origin being treated poorly in India are plenty. Had Harris not been as successful, one wonders if her mixed heritage would have been as readily accepted. Riya Datta,Calcutta Way back home Sir — At a time when good news is hard to come by, it was great to hear that two beluga whales who have lived in captivity for almost 10 years have been rehomed in an open-water sanctuary in Iceland. While they may not have been granted full freedom — conservationists are unsure if the whales would be able to survive in the wild — the decision to house them in a larger pen that allows fish to swim through the net is a positive step forward. Rehoming creatures in captivity must be prioritized and, if successful, this model can help other beluga whales — there are about 300 in captivity — find their way back to the sea in the future. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
18-08-2020||Opinion||Small start: New taxpayer charter||Tax reforms in India are part of a broader set of fiscal reforms. The first attempt to modernize and rationalize India’s fiscal strategy was carried out by Rajiv Gandhi in 1985 with the ‘Long Term Fiscal Policy’, which laid out a five-year roadmap with a well-defined set of rules and targets. The real major boost to tax reforms came in 1991 with the Tax Reforms Committee’s recommendations during the P.V. Narasimha Rao government. The reforms discussed and debated today were initiated during the early 1990s. The committee’s recommendations included broadening of the tax base, minimizing exemptions, having a single value added tax for all domestic production, expansion of tax deducted at source, mandatory permanent account number, reduction of direct tax rates on personal and corporate incomes, and the use of technology to make tax payment user-friendly as well as to reduce tax evasion. Even if everything could not be completed during Manmohan Singh’s tenure as finance minister, it was continued, albeit sporadically, by subsequent governments. In 2003, the National Democratic Alliance government legislated the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act to keep fiscal and revenue deficits under control. While the system of tax collection and payment has become considerably easier over the years, there is still the fear of the taxman and his discretionary powers of harassment. There is also a belief that the honest taxpayer is sometimes at the receiving end of this power while the big fish are free to have ‘arrangements’ that minimize the probability of them being disturbed. These perceptions have resulted in a trust deficit between the taxman and the taxpayer. The latest taxpayer charter announced by the Narendra Modi government is an attempt to address this issue by empowering honest taxpayers by giving them certain rights. It is supposed to have statutory status. It will make the encounter (if necessary) between the assessor and the assessee faceless and online. In fact, the finance minister has gone to the extent of claiming that the role of the income tax department will be that of a facilitator. One hopes that this will erase the remaining apprehensions of individual taxpayers. This charter is not tax reforms per se. But it has the potential to make the tax system more efficient and rule-based.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
18-08-2020||Opinion||Talking shops: Dialectics under threat in India||The Argumentative Indian is the beating heart of Indian democracy. This is not being suggested in jest. A civilized argument need not necessarily be disruptive or even personal. Debate, in fact, facilitates the free exchange of ideas and information, consolidating the richness and diversity of a body politic as well as its intellectual traditions. Indeed, India — especially ancient India — can make a substantial claim on such scholarly deliberations. The tale of the Adi Shankaracharya’s spirited debate with a contemporary philosopher of equal repute has been passed down the generations. The culture of tarka sabhas has played a central role in India’s epistemological blooming. There is reason to believe that this flowering of the nation’s collective intellect through the war of scholarly words is now under serious threat. The media and Parliament — the latter has been witness to some of the finest debates among luminaries — are emblematic of this decline. The question of the pedestrian nature of political debate has been reignited, once again, after the unfortunate demise of a Congress spokesperson who had participated in an acrimonious television debate. The two incidents are not linked. But the Congress’s allegation of television studios functioning as toxic laboratories where supine journalists propound, with unprecedented aggression, the views of the government of the day cannot be taken lightly. Any objective viewer of prime-time debate in India cannot help but notice the eagerness with which anchors stifle independent voices or suppress — vilify — opinions critical of the government, leading to the dissemination and domination of a particular point of view. An attempt to demand accountability, especially by representatives of the Opposition, is met with whataboutery, evasion or intimidation by the cheerleaders of the regime. This is dangerous in two ways. It indicates that the media, entrusted with speaking truth to power, are willing to wag their tail to the powers that be. Second, it also leads to the creation of a hegemony in information, resulting in the falsification or obfuscation of truth. Boycotting partisan television studios would work as a strategy only if the Opposition manages to get its message to the people. The social media, in spite of its infiltration by ideologues, is one option. The other choice is good old public mobilization. Great political upheavals — be it the uprooting of the colonial regime or, say, the Congress’s electoral debacle immediately after the Emergency — were possible because of effective, objective communication. The future of Indian democracy hinges on the Opposition’s ability to get citizens to engage with informed, civilized debate, once again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
18-08-2020||Opinion||People and their will: EIA disregards public opinion||A decade ago, villagers around the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur district joined hands with the people of the city to oppose a proposed captive coal mine allotted to the Adani group. For two years, people did not budge. Their position was non-negotiable: drop the mine. The reason: it was in the middle of a pristine tiger habitat that promoters of the mine called a development-hurdle. The then minister for environment and forests, Jairam Ramesh, visited the proposed mine’s location and went back convinced that there was no way the forest could be destroyed. The then civil aviation minister, Praful Patel, favoured the mine, because the coal would fire Adani’s thermal power project in his constituency, Gondia, some 200 miles away. Finally, the mine project, dropped first in 1999 for the same reasons, was shelved again in 2011. People won. The crux is that they were heard. Their opinion mattered. And despite a tie in the Union cabinet, the environment minister upheld the provisions of the law to drop one mine that would not hurt the nation’s development, but would nevertheless eat away a big part of endangered tiger’s habitat. In June, the Narendra Modi-led government put the same mine for auction again, reigniting local concern and opposition. How open would the Union minister for environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar, be to hearing public opinion is anybody’s guess. He won’t dare stand up to the prime minister. What’s more, the Modi regime has in black and white its intent of not really wanting to know public opinion when it comes to development projects, of any kind, where the environment impact must be assessed to know the extent of potential socio-economic destruction.Barren path That’s what the draft Environment Impact Assessment, 2020 is all about: dropping the public out of opinion. And it is in line with this government’s overall vision: people and their protests are a development hurdle, a philosophy entrenched in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s parent organization. The EIA is the pillar on which the Environment Protection Act stands; read with the laws for land acquisition, it is an important tool to incorporate public opinion, protect the environment, maintain transparency and keep an eye on small or big development projects. The new draft circles it back to the pre-Bhopal era where anybody could walk into your home at any time and light the fireworks. As things stand today, Indian regulatory institutions are shoddy. We are further weakening instead of strengthening them. How can the dilution of EIA provisions mean transparency? The experience of EIA over 25 years since it was first introduced into the EPA regime is that small projects (a stone quarry, for example) cumulatively do equal damage to ecology as big ticket items do. The draft EIA has reportedly received two million comments — so the people do believe they have a role in the making of policies and laws. The government, it seems, is not on the same page. India diverted hundreds of thousands of hectares of forests in the last 25 years, for mining projects, building rails and roads, putting in place special economic zones, airports, jetties and much more; much of this diversion has bulldozed forests, impacting tribal people and forest dwellers on an unprecedented scale. The Covid-19 pandemic teaches us that the old normal was a humongous problem, the new normal must be a radical departure from the past. Development does not mean a government can imperil our environment without us questioning that pathway. Unless, of course, it thinks otherwise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
18-08-2020||Opinion||Dormant state||Animal spirits, the primordial driver of growth that is unquantifiable, are once more in the spotlight. The current context is the dire growth outlook from the Covid-19 impact, future prospects and how to improve these. However, the absence of animal spirits has been felt and commented upon longer than that. It can be traced as far back as the 2012-13 slowdown, or the shortfall in private investment that has, inexplicably, failed to return since. A spurt of growth in 2015-16 neither sustained nor restored investments. Why has investment not revived? Why are animal spirits quiescent? Or to use the coronavirus terminology, why have animal spirits been in quarantine for so long even when the virus was nowhere around? It isn’t as though the government has remained on the sidelines. In the five years to 2019, it responded with numerous reforms, such as inflation targeting, indirect tax harmonization (GST), public bank recapitalization and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code for the resolution of bad loans. Raised public spending provided further support. Yet, a year ago, after an overwhelming re-election, consumer sentiments and business confidence strangely nosedived for unknown reasons that remain unexplained. The government responded vigorously to that abysmal plunge in confidence, leaving nary a stone unturned. It rolled back unpleasant surcharges and super-rich taxes of the July-2019 budget; eased the conduct of business more; gave relief to automobile, NBFCs and MSME segments; relaxed foreign direct investments (single brand retail, contract manufacturing, coal mining); announced major consolidation of public banks with governance reforms; initiated exports and housing boosters and lowered corporate tax rates from 30 per cent to 22 per cent with an even lower 15 per cent for new manufacturing units. Monetary measures were reinforced by easing interest rates, expanding liquidity, special interventions and much more. Bank loan camps in October-December facilitated consumer borrowings. However, a second-round collapse was visible when GDP growth fell steeply to 4.2 per cent in 2019-20 from 6.1 per cent the previous year. In the January-March quarter, the economy grew 3.1 per cent; minus government spending, private sector GDP grew just 1.9 per cent; and even the private consumer spending mainstay slowed down noticeably before exposure to Covid-19. There is a belief that financial sector troubles have held back India’s growth and investment. Financial sector-induced slowdowns take longer to recover from and the initial delay in resolving bad assets stretched this further. Then, in September 2018, the IL&FS’s default triggered fresh rounds of trouble in the non-banking part of the financial system. If a stressed financial sector is indeed the main reason, the consolidating trend in banks and non-bank financial companies with policy support before Covid-19 would probably have manoeuvred a turnaround. However, the devastating coronavirus shock has raised the spectre of an all-round erosion of net worth amongst households and businesses, with a severely weakened public balance sheet. The cascading effects will devolve upon financial intermediaries, pulling them down, once again. The question now is if financial sector weakness was the only reason keeping back investments and growth, is India stuck with low growth for many more years? Or is there an unstated, unquantifiable something that’s not imparting confidence to invest? The absence of animal spirits has been around for long in the public discourse. The British economist, John Maynard Keynes, who coined the term in his General Theory written in the throes of the Great Depression described it as an emotional mindset, a spontaneous urge to act or not act, which can either obstruct or drive growth. Much later, following the global financial crisis and the Great Recession, the economists, George Akerlof and Robert Shiller, wrote Animal Spirits. They described it as a particular human psychology that drives an economy; beyond the economic boundaries, it’s not captured in headline numbers, nor is it quantifiable. Akerlof and Shiller identified five factors they thought were important in the composition of animal spirits: confidence, fairness, corruption and bad faith, money illusion, and stories. They examined these for capitalist societies trapped in low productivity growth, but are of general understanding. How are the parallels for India? It faces a long-standing investment deficit, dearth of confidence and a visible absence of animal spirits. There may be intangible factors undermining investors’ faith and confidence beneath the pleasant surface of support measures, reforms and headlines. Are signalling effects adverse underneath? Consider a businessman’s confusion and unease in spheres critical to planning. For instance, the repeated change of focus in growth strategy and design: there’s no clarity if this greater openness, export-oriented manufacturing or self-reliance (Atmanirbhar Bharat) is based upon protectionism, import restrictions and entry barriers. The macro strategy flits from one to another, often an inconsistent patchwork of objectives. This undercuts faith for none is sure how long will policies, intent, or interest last; what will come next. There is overall confusion caused by such inconsistency and frequent change of track and direction for no one knows where economic strategy is headed. Then, medium-long term planning suffers from failures in demand assessment due to questionable data and statistics; signals about real economic conditions have been conflicting and confusing. Financial sector strategy is likewise; for example, the initial pursuit of IBC route for bad asset resolutions ruling out bailouts and then an abrupt shift outside the framework, or the consolidation of public sector banks instead of privatization with silence on future direction. Tax terrorism surely creates bad faith. So does vilification of private business through criminal actions, penalties that betray low faith, the refusal to acknowledge genuine business failures that are normal when growth cycles turn down. Noble announcements such as tax charters, a friendlier tax regime, anonymous assessments are at variance with common reports of coercion, penal provisions, look-out notices and unsustainable tax demands. No one knows if tax terrorism has ended. There’s also no idea if the GST system has stabilized. Perceptions of fairness are dented by selective favouring: the public over private sector (coal, power purchase agreements); within the private, some over others; or discretionary actions in the drive against corruption and black money that are sensitive to targeting. Faith is eroded when there are gaps in intent and actions — the rapid climb in ease of doing business rankings but frequent disruptions and obstruction complaints. The image of fiscal prudence created by respecting budget headlines but hiding profligacy outside the balance sheet has supremely dented credibility; so has the excessive revenue or welfare spending tilt over productive expenditures. It is likely that the composite of soft factors could be dampening or preventing the rise of animal spirits. On what basis will an investor commit risk capital? Why is it that more and more reforms are being systematically ignored? The answers to these questions have focused on financial sector troubles. As the Covid-19 crisis is still playing out, the transformative effects of numerous policy changes are to be observed. Whether the impediment is missing animal spirits or financial sector weakness awaits clarity. What is known though is that it is not just the coronavirus that has changed or depressed animal spirits. This psychological driver of growth has been missing for much longer, even though the coronavirus dealt a further blow. A keen look into why the emotional mindset governing economic actions is dormant for so long is surely impelled in this light. The author is a macroeconomist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Five grid substations launched, boost to power supply infrastructure ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday inaugurated new power supply infrastructure, including five power grid substations, boasting that his government did not let a pandemic come in the way of improving public utilities, a claim vehemently disputed by the BJP that had initiated these projects when it was in power in Jharkhand. The projects, worth Rs 600 crore, include a double circuit power transmission line between Godda and Dumka, that, the state government said, would alleviate the miseries of thousands of people in the power-starved districts of Garhwa, Palamau, Chatra, Deoghar and Giridih. Dedicating Monday’s launch to the people of the state, Hemant said the government was now focusing on Jharkhand becoming a power surplus state with zero outages. “Our focus now is to get rid of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC)-supplied power in about seven districts to overcome regular threats of blackouts issued to us by the Discom. Also, we shall save on expenditure for procuring power from other sources. The newly launched grids will solve most of these problems,” the chief minister said after launching the projects online from Project Building in the presence of his cabinet colleagues and senior officials of the state energy department. The five grids that were inaugurated are Bhognaidh Garhwa (220/132 kva), worth around Rs 123 crore; Jasidih grid substation (220/132/33 KVA), worth around Rs 137 crore; Giridih substation (220/132/33 KVA). worth Rs 146.50 crore; Jamua substation (132/33 kva), worth Rs 72.50 crore; Saria substation (132/33 kva), worth Rs 80 crore; and the 71km-long Godda-Dumka transmission line (220kva), worth Rs 57 crore. Garhwa is among the worst-hit districts, reeling under acute power shortage since Independence. Executive director of Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam K. K Verma said Garhwa barely got two-four hours of power. “However, the new sub-station in Bhognadih in Garhwa will solve that problem. We were mostly dependent on Uttar Pradesh to source power for Garhwa but people used to barely get two-four hours of power. As a result, not just houses, many industries too ceased to function,” he said, adding that all the new grids would now usher in rapid all-round development. The BJP, however, went all out to claim credit for the new grid sub-stations, with former chief minister Raghubar Das and a host of other senior party leaders taking to social media to point out how it was their government that had worked to make Jharkhand self-sufficient in power. State BJP president Deepak Prakash said, “The Hemant Soren government should have given due credit to his predecessor as it was because of the past regime’s vision that power-parched districts can now hope to get relief from unending darkness. We would have acknowledged the new government’s contribution had they laid the foundation stones and ensured its completion. Ironically, they are now taking credit for the work done by our government in the last five years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC rope in Jackichand Singh||Jamshedpur FC on Tuesday announced the signing of Jackichand Singh, a Manipuri winger who turned out for FC Goa in the last season. Jackichand joined the Tata Steel-owned franchise after having an impressive campaign last season in which he scored 5 goals. Upon signing, Jackichand, fondly known as Jacki said: “Playing for Jamshedpur is a fantastic opportunity for me.  Jamshedpur is one club in India that has everything a player needs, and the entire country knows how passionate and vocal the people of Jharkhand are for football. I hope to contribute with my heart and soul to help the club achieve much-deserved success. Of course, I am looking forward to achieving this under the robust leardership of Owen Coyle.” The addition by Jamshedpur has firmly bolstered the midfield as the club looks to build the squad to match its ambitions. Jackichand has signed a three-year deal, which will see him don the team’s jersey till 2023. The 28-year-old winger has had a consistent performance over the past three seasons. He is known for his quick pace and ball control as he takes on defenders while being a constant threat in front of goal with his quality finishing. Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle said. “Mesmerising – one word to describe Jacki. He is a highly rated and talented winger who was wanted by many teams in the ISL. Signing up a top class winger has been one of our key objectives, and I’m delighted he is joining. He will add pace, power and creativity with the aim of bringing more goals to our team.” Club CEO Mukul Choudhari said a player of Jacki’s calibre is something all in India want and we are glad that he is on our side for the next three years. “Jacki is a technically sound player with great speed and a massive desire to win,” he added. The Indian international will be handed the squad number 12 for the upcoming ISL 2020-21 season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Durga Puja will be without bhog, dhakis and lavish pandals||This year's Durga Puja will be sans bhog, dhaki, fairs and lavish pandals, the steel city’s apex committee that coordinates and monitors the annual festival has decided. This year, Jamshedpur will host 320 community pujas, said Ram Babu Singh, the general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity. "There will be no new addition. A decision in this regard was taken because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of pujas will remain the same as last year,” he told The Telegraph Online. The five-day Durga Puja festival will be celebrated from October 22 to October 26. Kalash Sthapana for Navratri will take place on October 17. Immersion of idols will take place on Maha Dashami on October 26, a Monday. The samity also issued a list of dos and don'ts for puja organisers. All Puja committees have been asked to refrain from serving bhog or any other form of prasad at the puja pandals. Dhakis have been banned, while pushpanjali will take place in a restricted manner with only five persons allowed at a time. There will also be no lavish pandals, fairs or melas. But there are no restrictions on illuminations. "The five-day festival will be organised in a simple manner. We have asked Puja organisers to restrict the height of idols to 5 feet, while pandals will be simple and small. We have conveyed this message to all the Puja organisers, " said Singh. He said organisers of community pujas in flats and housing societies have been asked to do away with idols altogether. Instead, they have been asked to use photographs of Goddess Durga. According to Singh, some puja committees have volunteered to distribute free sanitisers and masks at pandals. "We have allowed them," he said. With two months left for the Pujas the apex body also asked organisers not to indulge in forcible donations. Singh said all Puja organisers will have to follow Covid protocols of social distancing during the festival. He said the samity would soon discuss Puja-related issues with the district administration and hold a meeting with various Puja organisers later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi unveils mobile app that can connect you to a doctor instantly||The district administration has come up with a user-friendly mobile application titled, Doc Talk Ranchi, which allows residents irrespective of whether they have/had Covid-19 or not to seek any kind of medical advice free of cost from a panel of doctors. Developed in association with Noida based IT firm Sanganan IT Solutions, the app currently has over 140 doctors, both from private and public entities, who have empanelled themselves to offer voluntary service, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said on Tuesday. While the mobile application was initially rolled out at the end of July, the district administration is promoting it vigorously only now to curb non-essential movement by the people in the wake of a steady surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital. As per Monday night’s Covid bulletin, of the 4,633 total cases in Ranchi district, 2,152 are active. “The app provides telemedical consultations. So far, over 200 people have availed of it. We appeal to the public to use it as much as they can so that they can get free of cost consultation for their medical needs without having to take pains visiting clinics or hospitals,” Ranjan said. The deputy commissioner said that the district administration was also asking doctors and medical practitioners to get themselves registered and offer their services. “Since it is completely voluntary, we can only appeal to doctors to come forward in public interest,” he said, adding that the app can run on any Android or IOS phones. Sharad Upadhyay (50), a resident of Kokar who downloaded the application on Tuesday, said he was able to seek advice for a dental issue instantly. “I was suffering from a toothache since Monday but wasn’t keen to immediately rush to a dentist fearing infection. “One of my friends told me about this application after which I downloaded it to give it a try. Initially, I couldn’t find any dentist available in the morning. But around noon, I could get help after finding one doctor online, who asked me to take a few medicines,” said Upadhyaya, who runs a milk parlour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s Bank More flyover a risk for commuters, vehicles||No one is ready to take up repairs of the busy Bank More Flyover used by around 2,000 vehicles every half hour, leading to perennial traffic snarls very day. “Such is its condition that any pedestrian walking on the footpath on both sides of the 30-metre-wide flyover, may fall since the railings are broken,” said Madhurendra Singh, an outspoken social worker, explaining the dangers of the 812-metre flyover that connects Dhanbad town with other parts of the district, including Jharia, Sindri, Katras, Putki and Loyabad. “This apart, several potholes towards Netaji Subhash Chandra Chowk also leads to frequent traffic jams,” said Singh, a former president of Bartand Chamber Commerce, adding that the pillars holding up the bridge were in a dilapidated state, posing severe risk to all. Singh also questioned the rationale behind allowing the main Maithon water supply pipeline to pass through the bridge. “The heavy pipeline passing through a dilapidated flyover may endanger the life of many people,” he feared. The district administration had in August last year used the services of the road construction department to repair some of the potholes and the railings. Earlier in March 2015, the road was strengthened as a part of the Rs 11-crore project to repair a 17-km stretch of NH-32 from Kapuria to the district board office in Dhanbad. The bridge was in good condition for about four years when potholes began to surface again. Some pillars also developed cracks in 2019 after which a repair was conducted. Executive engineer of the road construction department Amrendra Saha said, “We carried out repairs of the bridge last year. The bridge was transferred to National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in 2016. Hence, we can’t repair it again and again.” NHAI executive engineer Sudhir Prasad said the state highway authority of Jharkhand, which was now strengthening the 33.8km Govindpur-Mahuda Road, should have repaired the bridge since it is a part of the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
18-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll crosses 250 mark as tally nears 25,000||The Covid toll in Jharkhand crossed the 250 mark on Monday, while the tally in state drew close to 25,000 as over 700 people were found infected, figures released by the health department stated. As many as 733 fresh cases of infection reported in 24 hours took the count of Covid cases in State to 24067 on Monday, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) said. As per the bulletin, the virus claimed eight more lives since Sunday midnight, taking the toll to 255. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, reported 153 fresh cases of infection on Monday, which took the tally in the capital above 4500. The virus has killed 41 people in the district so far; however, no fatalities were reported here on Monday. Meanwhile, the Covid tally in East Singhbhum neared 4000 on Monday as 50 people in the district were found to be infected. The tally in East Singhbhum, which has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in state, was 3910. Three of the eight deaths reported on Monday were from East Singhbhum, which has reported 101 Covid deaths so far. As per government records, Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad account for more than 60 per cent of state's Covid-19 deaths. More than 30 per cent of state's total Covid cases have also been reported from these three districts. Besides these three districts, only Giridih and Hazaribag have reported over 1000 Covid cases till date. The Covid tally in each of the remaining 19 districts in Jharkhand is below 1000. While the count of cases have surged in state, the number of Covid recoveries has also increased. As many as 549 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Monday and were discharged from hospital, data released by the health department stated. So far, 15348 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in the state, taking the recovery rate to 63.77 per cent. The national recovery rate was 72.51 per cent on Monday evening. The government has so far collected swab samples of 4.83 lakh people for Covid tests and tested 4.73 lakh of them. On Monday, the state tested swab samples of 16682 Covid suspects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-331
