19-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur inaugurates Academy of Classical and Folk Arts||IIT Kharagpur has inaugurated the Academy of Classical and Folk Arts on its campus, an institute spokesperson said on Wednesday. It will offer training on music, fine arts and other performing arts, she said. The academy, inaugurated on Tuesday, is in the spirit of the New Education Policy, 2020 to kindle innovation and multidisciplinary teaching, the spokesperson said. Hindustani classical vocalist Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty will head the '100 ragas' initiative of the academy. It aims to formulate deep structures of Indian ragas by forging creative arts with cognitive sciences, she said. "It is essential for an institute of national importance to focus on the holistic development of its students, staff and faculty members. The Academy of Classical and Folk Arts is first-of-its-kind in IIT Kharagpur," institute Director, Professor V K Tewari, said. "Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty will deliver a lecture- demonstration on how learning music can help in developing necessary traits for scientific innovation," Deputy Director, Professor S K Bhattacharyya, said. The institute spokesperson said the academy will inculcate traits of experimentation and innovation in young minds. The academy is being supported by alumni Arjun Malhotra, Dr Kiran Seth, Mukund Padmanabhan and members of the IIT Kharagpur Foundation, USA, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Help held for Rs 35-lakh ATM theft||A woman who worked as domestic help of an elderly man in a highrise in Jadavpur for seven years has been arrested for allegedly stealing his ATM card after his death and handing it over to her son-in-law. The card was allegedly used to withdraw Rs 35 lakh from ATMs in Nadia and Hooghly districts. Police said Satyanarayan Agarwal, a resident of a highrise on Prince Anwar Shah Road, had passed away in January. Investigators said it was only in the first week of June that his son Anurag Agarwal, who lives in an apartment nearby, came to know that someone had withdrawn Rs 34.90 lakh from his father’s bank account after his death. Rita Roy, 45, the domestic help, and her son-in-law and another relative have been arrested. Police said the ATM card she had allegedly stolen from the house was in a wallet, which also had a piece of paper on which the PIN was written. “The deceased person’s son had gone abroad for a while. After returning, he checked his father’s mobile phone and his bank account and discovered that the money had been withdrawn between March 20 and May 30,” said an officer of the detective department. The police found that at least 30 ATM transactions were made to withdraw the cash from ATM kiosks in Karimpur, Krishnagar and Ranaghat in Nadia and Hooghly districts, sources said. Investigators collected CCTV footage from the ATM kiosks and spotted two men withdrawing money in all footage. But in all footage their faces were covered with masks and heads with caps. The cops became suspicious about Rita when they found that all the kiosks from where the money was withdrawn in Nadia were not far from her ancestral home. “We activated our sources in Karimpur, Ranaghat and Guptipara and one of the youths was identified as the son-in-law of the help,” said the officer. Ranjit Mallick, 31, a resident of Karimpur was arrested from his home. It was followed by the arrest of his partner-in-crime, Soumitra Sarkar, 45, a resident of Guptipara, in Hooghly district. Both were arrested on August 13. One of them allegedly said they had got the ATM card and the PIN from his mother-in-law (Rita).  “We arrested the woman from her employer’s home on August 14,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Fake’ doctor performs  surgery, patient dies ||A man who allegedly posed as a doctor and performed brain surgery on a man after taking more than Rs 1.75 lakh from his son has been arrested, police said. Balzur Rahman was arrested after a resident of Barasat, who had allegedly paid him for his father’s brain surgery, lodged a complaint with Eco Park police station in New Town after his father passed away on August 12, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Police said Rahman could not produce any document or certificate to establish that he was a doctor. Dipankar Roy, the Barasat resident, mentioned in his complaint that Rahman used to pose as a doctor at a private hospital on the fringes of New Town where he had admitted his ailing father on July 30. Rahman allegedly took more than Rs 1.75 lakh from Roy after telling him that his father needed brain surgery. “Rahman performed the surgery. After the operation, the patient’s condition worsened and he passed away on August 12,” the officer said. The police said Rahman has been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 420 (cheating) and 468 (forgery), among others. If convicted, he can be sent to jail for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid containment zone list||Two places each in Chetla and Behala’s Barisha have been included in the latest list of Covid containment zones in the city, which the Calcutta Municipal Corporation put up on its Facebook page on Tuesday. A building on Sabji Bagan Lane in Chetla and a slum on Chetla Road have been barricaded. In Barisha, a stretch of Sister Nivedita Road and a portion of Borobagan have been turned into containment zones. “The two places have reported eight cases in the last seven days,” said Rajib Kumar Das, the outgoing councillor of Ward 124, which includes both places in Barisha. The latest list has 20 places, of which five are new. A stretch of Jugal Kishore Das Lane from the Amherst Street area is the other new entry in the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||110-bed Covid ward at NRS||The NRS Medical College and Hospital started admitting Covid-19 patients after opening a 110-bed ward for such cases on Tuesday. Chandirma Bhattacharya, the minister of state for health and family welfare, and senior officials of the health department inaugurated the facility, which is spread across parts of the chest and dermatology departments and the ground floor of the orthopaedic ward. “Nine ventilators and 25 beds have been earmarked for the High Dependency Unit for Covid-19 patients,” an official of the hospital said. “The other wings of the hospital will remain open for non-Covid patients.” The decision to reserve 110 beds for Covid-19 patients was taken by the hospital’s Rogi Kalyan Samity on July 14. “A team of dedicated doctors and nurses has been set up for Covid patients. They will operate in shifts,” the official said. A yellow bin on Aurobindo Sarani on Tuesday. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has started installing these yellow bins across the city where people can dump their masks and other gear that are worn to stay safe from Covid-19. These bins are meant for disposal of such waste. Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 should not dump their biomedical waste in these bins. Their biomedical waste is collected from home by a designated agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University seeks student-aid funds||Jadavpur University has appealed to its teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary and requested alumni, guardians and others to contribute to raise funds to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to 800-odd students so they can overcome the digital divide and attend classes. Classes through a semi-online mode will start on September 14. An official of JU said they would require Rs 40 lakh to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to the 800-odd students. On Sunday, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had said he would appeal to the teachers to contribute a day’s salary for the mission and would also write to business houses to build a corpus so that no student felt left out. Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the finance officer of JU, posted a notice on the university’s website on Tuesday, stating the university had expanded the list of potential contributors. “A provision has been created for receipt of such funds where teachers and other employees can give their option for recovery from salary and the pensioners from pensions, at will,” the notice reads. Current and former employees have to send a mail to itsupportforstudents@jadavpuruniversity.in to give their consent on deduction of a day’s salary and pension. Alumni, guardians and others have been appealed to directly contribute to an account in the Jadavpur University branch of the State Bank of India. Details of the account have been provided on the university’s website. The university had conducted a survey among the students of engineering, science and arts faculty recently and found that around 800 students are in need of support. VC Das said that despite some individual initiatives by teachers, regular classes have not been held in the online mode or through electronic means such as email, WhatsApp and Google classroom. “That is because a significant number of our students do not have access to stable high-speed data connections and some students do not even possess handheld devices,” he said. “I feel it is our moral responsibility to provide the students who do not possess a smartphone with a smartphone and to offer financial assistance to those students who need it to upgrade their data connectivity. I am sure everyone will agree that the adoption of these measures is required to address the challenge of the digital divide.” The students will have to return the smartphones to the university on completion of their courses. In an appeal posted on the JU website, Das has written: “I am sure the university’s faculty members will join hands to help our students and ensure that none of them is deprived of the access to academic activities during a period when normal classes cannot be conducted. This will be in the finest traditions of Jadavpur University, where we work together as a family in our continuing quest to provide our students with an education that combines excellence with equity.” The university earlier this month had advised the teachers to come up with models on how to start classes. The teachers suggested that study materials — notes, soft copies of textbooks, powerpoint presentations, and audio and video lectures — be delivered to the students through email and WhatsApp. “But at JU, a substantial number of students are from poor families. They lack smartphones or a high-speed data pack. So, we also proposed that a special fund be created,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Bay belt triggers ‘widespread rain’ alert||A fresh low-pressure belt, brewing over the Bay of Bengal, is tipped to trigger widespread rain in the city on Wednesday. The system, which led to steady showers and a consistent cloud cover on Tuesday, is the third over the Bay of Bengal this month. Monsoon is the season of rain-bearing systems over the Bay. But July, usually the rainiest month of the season, had hardly seen any such system. August has already had a couple and another is in the making, said Met officials. “A low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal by Wednesday. It is very likely to gain strength over the next 24 hours and move westwards gradually. Under its influence, widespread rain is very likely to occur in the districts of south Bengal from August 18 to 20,” said a Met official. “One or two areas in south Bengal could get heavy rain and the coastal areas are likely to see gusts at 45kmph and above.” As the system is tipped to move westwards, districts like West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia are likely to see more rain on Thursday. A low-pressure area that had formed over the north Bay of Bengal last Thursday led to a wet Independence Day weekend. “The rain was not heavy but typical monsoon rain. It was widespread and persistent rain,” said the Met official. The system has lost strength and was positioned over Chhattisgarh and adjoining areas on Tuesday morning. The back-to-back systems ensured that the monsoon trough remained over south Bengal for much of August. “The trough now passes through Digha to the northeast Bay of Bengal,” said a Met report. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will grant a trade licence to applicants within 24 hours if all documents are in order, a CMC official said on Tuesday. Officials will conduct inspections later and take action if there are any irregularities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Parents’ observations in school report cards||A city school has decided to include observations of parents in the children’s report cards. Sri Sri Academy will involve parents in the assessment of children because parents are collaborating with teachers in implementing online teaching during the pandemic. The parents’ observations will be part of the reports of the 1,400-odd students from nursery to Class V. For those in middle and senior sections, the school is planning self-assessment by the students with some observations by parents. The school has recently sent a feedback form to the parents of the students in the junior school. The parents have been asked to state whether the children are following the teachers’ instructions and whether they are showing any change in behaviour during this period. “During the pandemic, parents are partnering with the teachers to oversee learning. We felt that if we do not include their observations in the report cards, it will be an incomplete report. Teachers cannot make a complete assessment on the basis of what they see online,” said principal Suvina Shunglu. The school says in a note to the parents: “Thank you for being such a pillar of support for us as we navigated our way to newer methods of online teaching during the lockdown... This (the feedback document) will help us understand how your child has advanced through our online teaching sessions.” The feedback form that has been sent to the parents include questions like how the children have reacted to the lockdown and whether they have come to terms with the fact that they cannot go out to play. Other questions include whether children listen to instructions, whether the instructions need to be repeated, whether they are completing their task in an organised manner and whether the parents are helping the children complete the task. The questions have been framed according to age groups and expected learning outcomes, the principal said. The report card also includes observations on social behaviour and work habits, apart from mentioning the numeracy and literacy skills, the school authorities said. “If teachers are not seeing the child in the classroom, how will they judge the child?” Shunglu asked. On online platforms, all children in the class are not visible on the screen always. In in-person teaching, a teacher can observe every child. Observations include how a child is behaving in the class, with peers and on the playground. During online teaching, the video at times gets switched off because of poor connectivity, hampering interactions between teachers and students. Also, to eliminate any background noise, children are asked to keep their devices on mute when the teacher is speaking. For those in middle and senior school, self assessment will be a part of the reports. The students will be asked questions like how much effort they are putting in for online classes and how they think they can improve. “Even after the pandemic, self-assessment can be retained in the reports,” said Shunglu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Free forms drive applicant count||Most colleges have seen a jump in the number of applications for admission since they stopped taking application fees, following an advisory from the state government, as many students are now applying for as many subjects as possible. The trend has left many college principals worried that the admission process might be delayed. Students would usually seek admissions for studying honours courses in two or three subjects when they were charged fees for receiving and submitting online forms, the principals of some colleges said. Most colleges would charge Rs 125 to Rs 500 for every subject. Students have been submitting applications for five to seven subjects after the fee waiver was put into effect on August 13 midnight, the principals said. Shiuli Sarkar, the principal of Lady Brabourne College, said the institution had stopped charging students for admission forms and prospectuses after August 13 following the government advisory. “The number of online applications received by the college has increased many times in each subject,” she said. The college, run by the higher education department, used to charge Rs 125 for each form. After the fees were waived, many students with low scores applied for subjects which are in demand. “The demand for some subjects is high. Only students with very high scores would apply for those subjects before,” Sarkar said. This year the college has noticed that even low-scorers are applying for those subjects. A teacher at Asutosh College said that students who had just scored the required marks to be eligible to apply would not apply for the subjects that are in demand. “The trend has changed this year. Even low scorers are applying for the subjects in demand,” the teacher said. The principal of New Alipore College, Jaydeep Sarangi, said that like previous years, the institution had been charging Rs 200 per application from August 10 till the government advisory was issued. “We received around 500 applications a day on an average between August 10 and 14. We started receiving 750 to 1,000 applications a day after we stopped taking money for the form,” the principal said. The increase in the number of applications is likely to delay the admission process and lead to difficulties in preparing the merit lists, several principals said. Many high-scorers are applying for too many subjects and this can block seats in subjects in demand, according to a principal. “Say a student with high marks applies for seven subjects. She or he manages a berth in five. But the candidate will select only one. The seats in the remaining subjects will remain blocked until she or he surrenders them…. Or, we will have to devise a system to detect such cases immediately. This can delay the admission process,” the principal said. The merit lists will be very long, another principal said. The government had announced on August 13 that universities and colleges would not charge undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses. The colleges started distributing and receiving online admission forms on August 10. Forms can be submitted till August 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Digital hole in district schools||More than half the students of most state-aided schools outside Calcutta do not have a smartphone, laptop or a computer and are not attending online classes, according to reports submitted by the schools. Many state-aided schools in districts have been conducting classes through Whats-App and email since mid-April, according to a senior official of the school education department. The schools send study materials and notes to students through WhatsApp and email and teachers are supposed to take feedback from the pupils through video calls. The heads of several schools have informed the school education department that more than half their students do not have smart devices and have not been in touch with the teaching-learning system since online classes started, a school education department official said. A small number of teachers in some schools had taken a personal initiative and reached out to the students with study materials. “The bulk of the students lacking smart devices is completely out of the education system,” said the official. The school education department had asked all state-aided schools to send reports stating how many students of their institutions had smart devices and were using them to attend online classes. “The reports started arriving on Sunday evening,” an official in the school education department said. The situation is starkly different in Calcutta. Reports from schools in these areas say more than 85 per cent students had been attending online classes regularly and most students have smart devices. At several schools in the city, almost 100 per cent students have the devices and are attending online classes regularly. City-based state-aided schools use WhatsApp, email, Zoom and Google Meet for teaching. The headmistress of a city school that conducts online teaching through WhatsApp and Google Meet cited an example to highlight the level of students’ participation in online teaching: “We have 39 students studying math in Class XII. All 39 attend classes daily.” The report submitted by a school near Madhyamgram, in North 24-Parganas, states that only 57 of the 145 students in classes between V and X have a smartphone, laptop or a computer. The school has 27 students enrolled in Class X. Thirteen have the devices and the remaining 14 students have not attended the classes, though they will be writing Madhyamik next year. Only four out of 26 students in Class V in the institution have a smart device. The remaining 22 students have not been in touch with the school since April. In the same school, out of 23 students in Class VI, only eight have a smart device. In Class VIII, five out of 22 students have smart devices and the rest are not attending the teaching sessions. The report from a school in Diamond Harbour, in South 24-Parganas, states that only 45 of the 97 students in Class V have a smart device at home. Of the 151 students in Class VI, only 61 have such a device at home. The data to be gleaned from the reports is likely to be used to devise strategies if schools can’t be reopened in the next few months. “Around five months have passed since the lockdown was imposed. We still don’t know how long the schools will remain closed. We need to have a proper planning for online classes if the schools remain shut for many more months,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur scraps plan to call students to campus||IIT Kharagpur has scrapped plans to bring students grappling with poor Internet links at home to the campus so they can attend online classes using the institute’s network, following a spike in Covid cases in Kharagpur and other reasons related to the pandemic. The online classes for the autumn semester will start on September 1. The institute is studying alternative models being tried out by other institutes to help those students overcome the digital divide and take part in online classes, an official said. “The plan to bring students facing poor Net connectivity at home to the campus has been scrapped because of several reasons, including a surge in the number of Covid cases in Kharagpur and its surrounding areas,” Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affair, told Metro on Tuesday.  “We are also worried over maintaining physical distancing norms at hostels. Using a common toilet could also pose a serious health risk.” Asked what the institute would do to ensure that those students do not suffer academically, Kumar said: “I believe the authorities will do something to help them.” Another official of the country’s oldest IIT said the authorities were studying various models that other institutes were considering to bridge the digital divide. IIM-Calcutta, too, had planned to bring some students of its two-year MBA programme encountering network problems at home to the campus. The plan had to be shelved because of the pandemic. The B-school is providing the students lacking high-speed data packs with recordings of missed lectures and additional tutorials. The National Institute of Technology (NIT), in Durgapur, headed by a professor from IIT Kharagpur, will conduct an on-campus “crash semester” for students who lack the basic connectivity required to attend online classes. “We are taking feedback about these models to devise a mechanism to help students being affected by the digital divide,” an official of the Kharagpur institute said. A high court division bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Tuesday appointed a two-member committee to assess the income and expenditure of 121 non-aided schools. The committee, with Jadavpur University VC Suranjan Das and former secretary of state higher secondary education council Gopa Datta as members, will consider the constraints the schools are facing. The court is hearing a plea by parents alleging schools are overcharging them during the Covid pandemic. The panel will have to submit a report by September 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Call to identify heritage precincts in Calcutta ||A group of Calcuttans has written to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) to conduct an exercise to identify heritage precincts and help protect from demolition houses that lend a character to a place. A heritage precinct is different from a heritage building. While an individual house can be tagged as a heritage structure, a precinct is a collection of houses on a road that together tell the story of a time, of a place or culture, said an architect who co-authored the proposal sent to the civic body. According to the group behind the move, cities like Mumbai and Ahmedabad have heritage precincts but Calcutta has none. Declaring a neighbourhood as a heritage precinct may not mean that demolition of all buildings in the zone will be stopped forever, said Partha Ranjan Das, an architect who is one of those who drafted the proposal. “There are many overlapping laws. I cannot force someone who doesn’t have the ability to maintain a large house not to sell it. But there are other ways to preserve a heritage precinct,” he said. Das added that the government had to create incentives for the owners of buildings in a heritage precinct so that they did not pull them down. If an owner is unable to maintain the property, the government must buy it or act as a facilitator so that someone interested in preserving the house buys it. The initiative to identify heritage precincts in Calcutta was taken up by author and singer Amit Chaudhuri and heritage conservationist G.M. Kapur. During a couple of their meetings with the CMC officials they had raised the issue. Calcutta High Court had asked the CMC to sit with the two following a PIL that objected to the delisting and downgrading of buildings from the CMC’s heritage list. “A heritage precinct is different from a heritage building. It could be that no single building is of any great historical significance but when they are seen together, they represent an unique architectural style or tell the story of a time or tell the story of culture of a people,” said Das. Chaudhuri said that in trying to identify heritage precincts, they were not looking at monuments but houses that gave a place an identity and remained as evidence of various phases of Calcutta’s progress over the years. “If you see a movie from the 60s that depicts the life in Mumbai or London of that time and go to these cities now, you will still find many of those houses intact. But the way things are being demolished in Calcutta, we will soon lose whatever remains. Therefore the need to identify and declare some places of significance as heritage precincts is necessary,” he said. Das cited the example of Southern Avenue, which has many buildings with an art deco architecture, and Bhowanipore, which has many buildings with two courtyards and a verandah. “None of these buildings was inhabited by any luminary, neither did any historical event take place there. But if one walks down the road looking at the buildings, they represent a unique style, time and a culture,” he said. Conservationist Kapur cited the example of Hastings, where roads evoke the feeling of European settlements but the houses have mostly disappeared. “Hastings could have been a heritage precinct if it were preserved,” he rued. The proposal sent to the CMC does not name any place. It calls for a dedicated team that will roam streets and lanes to identify heritage precincts. In July last year, the Calcutta Architectural Legacies (CAL) and Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage had filed a PIL at the high court seeking to know the parameters set by the CMC to downgrade or delist a heritage structure. In November, the court asked the CMC to sit with the litigants and resolve the matter, said CAL founder Chaudhuri. Members of CAL and Intach had raised the issue of absence of heritage precincts in Calcutta during these meetings. “The CMC asked us to give them a proposal. We gave them the proposal on August 10,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Business||Rules for National Payments Corporation of India rival||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has set a net worth criteria of Rs 500 crore for an umbrella entity governing retail payments that will compete against the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). The central bank released the framework for setting up umbrella entities to operate pan-India retail payments systems. It had invited applications from eligible companies by February 26, 2021. A policy paper put out by the central bank in January 2019 said that though the NPCI has become an organisation which is key to the operations of many of the critical retail payment systems of the country, there is “concentration of many tasks”. The NPCI, which offers services such as UPI, IMPS and BHIM, is an umbrella organisation for operating retail payments and settlement systems in India. It was formed under the initiative of the RBI and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), under the provisions of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. Companies with a net  worth of over Rs 500 crore will be eligible to set up an umbrella entity which will be permitted to set up, manage and operate new payment systems in the retail space comprising ATMs, White Label PoS, Aadhaar-based payments and remittance services. The umbrella entity will be permitted to operate clearing and settlement systems for banks and non-banks. It will identify and manage relevant risks such as settlement, credit, liquidity and operational; and preserve the integrity of the system. One of the key condition is that entities applying as promoter or promoter group will be owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens. Capital requirements under Fema will apply for foreign investments in the applicant. RBI added that if there is any Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) or Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI) in the applicant entity, it will fulfil, additionally, the capital requirements as applicable under the rules framed under FEMA. The guidelines also elaborated on the 'fit and proper' requirements for promoters or promoter groups. "No single promoter/promoter group shall have more than 40 per cent investment in the capital of the umbrella entity," the guidelines said. The promoters or promoter groups should upfront demonstrate the capital contribution of not less than 10 per cent -- Rs 50 crore -- at the time of making application for setting up the umbrella entity.  The balance capital will be secured at the time of commencement of business/operations. It further said the promoter or promoter group shareholding can be diluted to a minimum of 25 per cent after 5 years of commencement of business of the umbrella entity. However, a minimum net worth of Rs 300 crore should be maintained at all times, as per the guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
19-08-2020||Business||PwC lists 10 macro steps that can aid economic revival||PricewaterhouseCoopers India has listed 10 macro steps that can aid economic revival along with the downside risks in a research report released on Tuesday. The macro steps include investment towards development of physical infrastructure, a targeted regional development for central and eastern states, strengthening exim logistics and processes, improving digital and agricultural infrastructure, promoting creation of MSMEs, improving healthcare, pharmaceuticals, transforming financial services and democratisation of learning through ed-tech sector. The challenges include inadequate resources, lack of execution, weak last mile delivery and digital security risks. “While strategies in organisations and policies in government are well constructed, translating them to on ground impact requires knowledge of last mile execution," the report said. PwC had earlier set out three scenarios for India’s growth over a 20 year period ending in 2034. They were 6.6 per cent growth through rapid human capital and some infrastructure spend, 7 per cent growth with further infrastructure build and a 9 per cent growth trajectory with significant additional productivity improvement. The report said that over the past 5 years, the average growth of the economy has been 6.8 per cent. “If we can increase our average growth rate to 9 per cent from the pre Covid-19 five year average of 6.8 per cent and by deepening and widening of the economy make growth more inclusive, we can create 3 additional India’s with a cumulative additional GDP of USD 10 trillion, in a decade post recovery,” the report, presented by Shashank Tripathi, government strategy & transformation leader, PwC India said. “This (pandemic) is a severe exogenous shock for the Indian economy, but it can also be a transformative moment for India. We have an opportunity to rethink our approach, reconfigure our business system and restart our economy,” said Shyamal Mukherjee, chairman, PwC India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
19-08-2020||Business||More air bubble pacts: Aviation minister||India is negotiating with 13 countries, including Australia, Japan and Singapore, to establish separate bilateral air bubble arrangements for international flight operations, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. Under a bilateral air bubble pact, airlines of both the countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. Puri said air bubbles have also been proposed with neighbours Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan. Since July, India has established such bubbles with the following countries — the US, the UK, France, Germany, the UAE, Qatar and the Maldives. Puri said, “We are now taking these efforts forward and are negotiating with 13 more countries to establish such arrangements.” “These countries include Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea and Thailand.” Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 because of the coronavirus pandemic. The ministry of civil aviation will place a proposal for “further” privatisation of airports before the Union cabinet on Wednesday, Puri said. In the first round, the airports in Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Guwahati were cleared for development through public-private partnership  model in February 2019. The Airports Authority of India had in September 2019 recommended privatisation of  airports in Amritsar, Varanasi, Bhubaneswar, Indore, Raipur and Trichy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Rs 110 lakh crore infrastructure challenge||The government is scouting for funds for the Rs 110-lakh-crore infrastructure projects planned over the next five years. The Centre is considering the option of tapping the financial markets, global investors, and banks for the implementation of the projects. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had emphasised on these infrastructure projects during his Independence Day speech. However, the plans could go haywire if it cannot find the necessary resources. The National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) plans to spend Rs 110 lakh crore on nearly 7,000 projects across sectors such as transport, communications, urban development, energy and water. The plan is a grand vision involving private and state-run players and many believe it is too ambitious in its scope. The identified projects across various sectors would help to create social and economic infrastructure to be implemented over the next five year. According to official data, these projects include the Rs 3.66 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, the Rs 1.08 lakh crore Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail corridor and the Rs 1.09-lakh crore North South Dedicated Freight Corridor. The finance ministry is looking at various options for resource generation as the funding options suggested by the NIP committee seems to have gone awry due to the coronavirus pandemic which  posed a massive strain on central and state government budgets. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s virtual bilateral meeting with United Arab Emirates (UAE) Minister of State for Financial Affairs Obaid Al Tayer and urging the Middle Eastern nation to participate in India's ambitious Rs 111 lakh crore infrastructure project should be seen in this context, sources said. Also, it would difficult get the private sector to participate in such infrastructure project with huge costs and long gestation period, analysts said. Analysts also said project implementation capacity of state government has been hit hard due GST collections have halved and the central funds devolution has been delayed. The investment envisaged between fiscal years 2020 and 2025 is a mix of private and public investment. While around 18-20 per cent of the pipeline is expected to be financed through the central government budget, around 24-26 per cent is expected to be financed through the state’s budget, the NIP report had said. About 31 per cent of the required resources are to be raised through debt from bond markets, banks and non-bank financial companies (NBFCs), and around 4-10 per cent as equity from private developers, external aid multilateral and bilateral agencies and internal accruals. However, a funding gap of around 15-17 per cent is estimated. To fill it, the task force suggests asset monetisation by the Centre and states and setting up of new development finance institutions (DFIs).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Uco Bank to raise funds||State-run Uco Bank has secured approvals from its board of directors and shareholders to raise Rs 3,000 crore capital this fiscal as the lender requires resources to grow and also provide for non-performing assets, an official said on Tuesday. The capital will be raised at an appropriate time either through a public offer or a qualified institutional placement (QIP) or preferential issue, Uco Bank MD and CEO A.K. Goel said. “We need capital for both growth and provisioning. Demand for credit is slowly recovering,” he said. The bank’s provision coverage ratio (PCR) is more than 86 per cent, he said, adding that the asset quality scenario will be known after the moratorium on loan repayment is over by the end of this month. “By the third quarter, we will be able to see what extra provisioning is needed. When the time will be conducive, we will raise capital. We are monitoring the market condition,” he said. Goel also said an uptick in credit demand has been witnessed. “People are going for vehicle loans to buy cars to go to offices because of the pandemic. There is a slow recovery of credit off-take,” he added. Speaking about the possibility of coming out of the restrictive prompt corrective action framework, Goel said meetings with the regulator could not be held in the current situation. The Calcutta-based lender posted a net profit of Rs 21.46 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal. Both levels of the non-performing assets and the capital adequacy ratio by the end of the first quarter should enable the bank to come out of the PCA, he added. Gross non-performing assets came down to 14.38 per cent of the total advances as on June 30, 2020, from 24.85 per cent in June 2019 and 16.77 per cent by the end of March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Telcos told to give data on priority plans||Telecom regulator Trai has asked Airtel and Vodafone Idea to submit all pending data post their priority plan presentation on August 10, as the regulator moves closer to finalising its views on the contentious issue, a source said. The regulator recently sent reminders to the two companies to submit the additional data to back their claims, the source told PTI. Following this, Vodafone Idea has sent some information and sought time till August 20 to submit the rest, while Airtel's response is awaited. The source privy to the development said that the companies had made certain claims in the presentation before the regulator on August 10, and that Trai (Telecom Regulatory Authority of India) had asked all related data to be submitted. A reminder was sent this week to the two companies to make all pending submissions, and record of discussion has also to be circulated by Trai. The regulator is expected to finalise its views in the next few days, the source added. Trai has asked the two companies to give details on the source of data they presented, as also international reference or studies. It has asked how the companies intend to accommodate disaster management and other emergency functions, especially keeping in mind needs of the Telecom Department and other agencies, given the backdrop of priority plans. Emails sent to Airtel and Vodafone Idea remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Tata Steel switches to 12-hour shift||Tata Steel’s Jamshedpur plant, which pioneered an eight-hour shift for workers in the country, will switch to an extended 12-hour schedule later this month to contain the spread of Covid-19. The company received an approval from the Jharkhand government on Monday allowing the change which requires special exemption under labour law. Tata Steel said the proposed realignment would minimise the number of people who would enter and or exit the factory at any given point of time and also restrict large congregations on the shop floor. “In view of the situation because of the Covid-19 outbreak we had approached the Jharkhand government to allow a 12-hour shift operation (from the existing eight hours). The primary objective of the request was to reduce the footfall of employees on the shop floor and also reduce the number of days of exposure of an employee to an outside home environment. The Jharkhand government has now exempted Tata Steel from various provisions relating to weekly hours, daily hours, intervals for rest under the Factories Act 1948,” said Tata Steel’s spokesperson. Several other states had already allowed extended hours during the lockdown, including Odisha, where Tata Steel operates two large integrated steel plants such as in Jamshedpur. The company had then switched to 12-hour shifts at Kalinganagar and Angul plants to limit the number of people inside the facilities. These units are now largely back to the eight-hour module. According to the Jharkhand notification, an adult worker will be allowed to work in a factory at Tata Steel, Jamshedpur, for up to 12 hours in a day and 72 hours in any week, the spokesperson added. The notification is in line under section 5  of the Factories Act, which states that during a public emergency that is threatening the security of the country or any part of it, whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbances, a state government may issue a notification to exempt any factory or class of factories from all or any provision of the Act, for a maximum of three months. Set up in 1907, the Jamshedpur works comprise a 9.7 million tonne per annum crude steel production facility and a variety of finishing mills, employing  17,000 people on rolls and another 35,000 thorough vendors. It was a pioneer in introducing an eight-hour shift way back in 1912, much before the Factories Act of 1948 (section 51 of the Act says- no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than forty-eight hours in any week). “We are planning shift patterns wherein we will reduce the footfall of employees on the shop floor and also reduce the number of days of exposure to not more than 48 hours in a week even with 12 hours shift, thereby also maintaining work life balance. We are in discussion with Tata Workers` Union to start a 12-hour shift as a pilot in two departments—sinter plant and new bar mill,” the spokesperson added. President of the century old Tata Workers Union (one of the earliest trade unions of the country) R Ravi Prasad confirmed the development. “We have got the information from the management and the 12-hour shift will roll out later this month on a pilot basis at the two departments and gradually across other departments. We are working out on the timing but initially it would be between 8 am and 8 pm and then between 8 pm and 8 am,” said Ravi Prasad. Incidentally, the existing three-shift roster has employees working between 6 am and 2 pm, between 2 pm and 10 pm and then between 10 pm and 6 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Reliance Industries acquires Netmeds||Reliance Industries on Tuesday announced the acquisition of a majority stake in Netmeds, the Chennai-based online pharmacy, for a cash consideration of around Rs 620 crore. Under the terms of the deal, RIL subsidiary Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd will pick up a 60 per cent stake in Vitalic Health and a direct 100 per cent stake in three of its subsidiaries —Netmeds Marketplace, Tresara Health Private Ltd, and Dadha Pharma Distribution Pvt, the Mukesh Ambani-owned entity announced late on Tuesday night. Speculation about the deal has been brewing for a while and it now sets the stage up for a battle royale in the online pharmacy space after Amazon launched its own venture that has already started accepting orders for both over the counter and prescription-based drugs in Bangalore earlier this week. It will also have to contend with existing players like 1Mg and Medlife. Incorporated in 2015, Vitalic and its subsidiaries have been in the business of pharma distribution, sales, and business support services. Netmeds connects customers to pharmacists and enables doorstep delivery of medicines, nutritional health and wellness products. “This investment is aligned with our commitment to provide digital access for everyone in India. The addition of Netmeds enhances Reliance Retail’s ability to provide good quality and affordable health care products and services, and also broadens its digital commerce proposition to include most daily essential needs of consumers. We are impressed by Netmeds’ journey to build a nationwide digital franchise in such a short time and are confident of accelerating it with our investment and partnership, Isha Ambani, director, RRVL said while commenting on the strategic investment. “It is indeed a proud moment for Netmeds to join Reliance family and work together to make quality healthcare affordable and accessible to every Indian. With the combined strength of the group’s digital, retail and tech platforms, we will strive to create more value for everyone in the ecosystem, while providing a superior Omni Channel experience to consumers," said Pradeep Dadha, Founder & CEO, Netmeds. Apart from pharmacy, analysts say that Reliance Industries will also increase its focus on online learning in the coming months. In 2018, it acquired around 73 per cent in education technology provider Individual Learning Pvt Ltd (Embibe). In 2018, a RIL subsidiary had invested in KareExpert Technologies, a digital healthcare platform. Then there is the JioHealthHub app which allows users to book a test, get check-ups and store health data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court doubt over AGR relief plan||The issue of whether a company under bankruptcy was liable to pay its dues to the government remained shrouded in claims and counter claims at a Supreme Court hearing on Tuesday on the adjusted gross revenues (AGRs) of telecom players, prompting the apex court to signal its unwillingness to accept the pleas of the operators to stagger their payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore in the dues over a 20-year period. The court said the 20-year grace period sought by the operators cannot be countenanced as the plea is vulnerable to “manipulation” and protracted litigation, to frustrate its October 2019 judgment that had mandated the refund. “There are huge dues payable, how can we let it go? “We had directed payment within a certain period. The government is seeking 20 years, what if companies go into  insolvency?” “In 20 years, all kinds of manipulation and legal filings can take place, we can't allow like this. Mr (Harish) Salve (counsel) you may raise technical points, but no technicalities will come in our way in enforcing recovery of AGR dues,” the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Abdul Nazeer and M.R.Shah said. The bench made the observation while examining  whether operators such as R-Com and Aircel can seek insolvency proceedings in an apparent bid to avoid compliance of the court’s October 2019 judgment for AGR dues payment. The bench, which would continue hearing in the matter on Wednesday, was told by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Jio and Committee of Creditors (CoC) of R-Com, that it would be premature to decide if spectrum can be sold or not under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).  He said that only when the R-Com resolution applicant moves the Department of Telecom (DoT) for spectrum sale, the issue will be decided. Salve argued that the insolvency proceedings against R-Com were triggered by Ericsson, which could not be withdrawn even after the Swedish company was paid its dues. He said the CoC has accepted a resolution plan which envisages auction of R-Com spectrum subject to DoT approval. On the issue of whether Reliance Jio was liable to pay the dues of R-Com on account of a spectrum-sharing deal between them, Salve said “There is no question of one operator paying the AGR dues of another operator. Jio has already paid its relevant dues.” On Tuesday, the top court had asked the Centre to clarify its stand on why Jio, which is earning revenue by sharing RCom's 800 MHz spectrum, be not asked to pay the AGR related dues to the government. The Centre had told the top court there was a difference of opinion between the DoT and ministry of corporate affairs on  the sale of spectrum during insolvency proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||People's Bank of China acquires stake in ICICI Bank||The People's Bank of China (PBOC) — the Chinese central bank — is using the portfolio route to pick up stakes in Indian companies amid the standoff between New Delhi and Beijing in Ladakh and the Modi government tightening its rules on foreign direct investment (FDI) from China. After picking up a stake in the country’s largest pure mortgage lender HDFC, the PBOC has acquired a very small stake in ICICI Bank through the recently closed Rs 15,000-crore qualified institutional placement (QIP) by the country’s second largest private sector lender. The PBOC was among 357 institutional investors that subscribed to the issue. Sources confirmed that the Chinese central bank had picked up shares worth Rs 15 crore. Based on current market capitalisation, the stake of the PBOC in ICICI Bank is about 0.0065 per cent. The share price of ICICI Bank on Tuesday settled with gains of 2.54 per cent, or Rs 9.15, at Rs 369.40 on the BSE. The Chinese central bank’s latest investment comes after it pared some of its stake in the first quarter of this fiscal in HDFC after a rise in tensions between India and China. It had earlier raised its stake in HDFC to above 1 per cent during the January-March 2020 quarter. As its holding came below 1 per cent, the PBOC's name did not figure in the list of investors having a stake in the housing finance company as of June-end. Central banks typically make investments in various asset classes including gold, foreign currencies and bonds, covering both government and corporate ones. During the QIP of ICICI Bank last week, the Government of Singapore picked up 4.6 crore shares, representing 11.06 per cent of the total size on offer. Other prominent investors included Morgan Stanley Investment Funds Global Opportunity Fund which picked up 7.31 per cent and Societe Generale-ODI, 5.55 per cent. Proceeds of the issue will be used towards strengthening the capital adequacy ratio of the bank, improving the bank’s competitive positioning or general corporate requirements apart from any other purposes as may be permissible under the applicable law. However, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) criticised ICICI Bank for allowing the PBOC to invest in the lender despite strong sentiments prevailing in the country against Chinese companies. The CAIT said that this was the second such instance of the Chinese bank trying to make inroads into the Indian financial system after it made an investment in HDFC earlier this year. The traders body asked the finance minister to direct both ICICI Bank and HDFC Ltd to return the investments by the Chinese entity. The CAIT said in a statement that it has urged finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to take immediate cognizance of this matter and devise a policy framework to thwart China’s plans and protect the sovereignty of the banking system as also advise the RBI to take necessary steps immediately. CAIT secretary-general Praveen Khandelwal added that there is nothing concrete yet from the RBI to restrain and control the funds coming from China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||India||Intense rainfall likely over central and east India over next 5 days||Parts of central and east India are likely to receive heavy rainfall over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday. According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre and Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD, a well-marked low pressure area lies over north coastal Odisha. A low pressure area is the first stage of any cyclone. It is very likely to move westwards and concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours, the IMD said. It said under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely along with isolated extremely heavy falls over Odisha on Wednesday. Heavy rainfall is also expected over Chhattisgarh on August 19-20, east Madhya Pradesh on August 20, west Madhya Pradesh on August 21 and 22, east Rajasthan on August 22 and Gujarat on August 22 and 23. Detailing the likely impact of the heavy rains over Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, there are chances of localised flooding of roads, water logging in low lying areas and closure of underpasses mainly in urban areas. It may lead to riverine flooding in some river catchments, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Centre withdraws 10,000 CAPF troops from J&K||The Centre on Wednesday ordered "immediate" withdrawal of about 10,000 paramilitary personnel from the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. This is the biggest de-induction of these forces after additional troops were rushed to the UT post the abrogation of the Article 370 of the Constitution that gave the erstwhile state a unique status. They said the decision was taken after the Ministry of Home Affairs reviewed the deployment of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) in the union territory (UT).  The Home Ministry had last withdrawn 10 CAPF companies from the UT in May, while 72 such units were taken out in December last year. A senior official said that a total of 100 CAPF companies have been ordered to be withdrawn "immediately" on Wednesday and they have been asked to revert to their base locations in the country. As per the directions, a total of 40 companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and 20 each of the Central Industrial Security Force, the Border Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal, will be taken out from Jammu and Kashmir by this week. The CRPF has been asked to make arrangements for air lifting of these units to Delhi and other locations, they said. A CAPF company has an operational strength of about 100 personnel. "The units that are being withdrawn are deployed both in Jammu and Srinagar. It was felt that the counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist grid is intact in the UT and these additional units that were sent in last year can be de-inducted giving them the much required rest, recuperation and training," a senior CAPF officer said. Also, he said, with the winters soon setting in, it would have been an onerous task to keep these units in make-shift and temporary dwelling units especially in the Kashmir valley region. With the latest de-induction, the lead counter-terrorist force CRPF will have a strength of about 60 battalions (about 1,000 personnel in each battalion) in the Kashmir valley apart from very few units of the other CAPFs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Cabinet's nod to lease out Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal for leasing out airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through public-private partnership (PPP). Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports - Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati - through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. In July 2019, the Union Cabinet had approved the proposal for leasing out the other three airports - Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow - to Adani Enterprises. At a press conference on Wednesday, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet has approved the proposal for leasing out Jaipur, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram airports through the PPP model. Currently, the aforementioned six airports are owned and managed by the government-run Airports Authority of India (AAI). Eight months after the Cabinet approval, Adani Enterprises signed the concessionaire agreement with the AAI on February 14 this year for operation, management and development of airports at Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow. In June this year, the AAI gave three more months to the Ahmedabad-based company to take over the management of these three airports due to the COVID-19 situation. This means the deadline for take over has been pushed from August 12 to November 12. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on Tuesday said that the Ministry of Civil Aviation would place a proposal for "further" privatisation of airports before the Union Cabinet on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan moves SC seeking deferment of sentence||A day before the scheduled hearing on quantum of sentence, activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan who has been held guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets, moved the Supreme Court seeking deferment of the proceedings till a review petition is filed and considered. The top court on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. The apex court had said it would hear on August 20, the arguments on the quantum of sentence to be awarded to Bhushan in the matter. A contemnor can be punished with simple imprisonment of up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both. Bhushan in his application stated that he intends to file a review petition against the order of August 14 after studying it in detail and seeking appropriate legal counsel as the ramification of the said order is of grave constitutional significance, in particular on the right to free speech. The Applicant would file the same within the limitation period of 30 days from date of the judgment, as he is entitled to under Order 47 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. Hence, it is prayed that, in view of the same, the hearing on the sentence as fixed on August 20, 2020, vide the order of August 14, 2020, be deferred till the consideration of the review by this Court, he said in the application filed in the contempt case which was taken suo motu cognizance by the top court. Bhushan submitted the deferment of the said hearing would be in the interests of justice in view of the underlying public policy with respect to safeguarding liberty of a citizen under Article 21 till such time as his first appeal (in this case the review petition) is considered. The application said if this Court proceeds with the hearing on the sentence and imposes any sentence, the same may be directed to be stayed till the remedy of review is exhausted by the Applicant . Bhushan, in his application filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, said in criminal contempt proceedings, the top court functions like a trial court and is also the last court. Section 19(1) of the Contempt of Court Act gives a statutory right of appeal to a person found guilty of contempt by the High Court. The fact that there is no appeal against an order of this Court makes it doubly necessary that it takes the utmost precaution to ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done, he said. Bhushan said it would be in consonance with the right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Otherwise there would be gross injustice since there would be no occasion to examine the correctness of the findings arrived at in a suo motu criminal contempt proceeding before putting the convicted contemnor's liberty at stake, he said. The top court on August 14 held that Bhushan attempted to scandalise the entire institution of the Supreme Court and said, If such an attack is not dealt with, with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition deteriorates||The health condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee has declined as he has developed a lung infection, the Army's Research and Referral Hospital said on Wednesday. The 84-year-old former president, who was admitted to the hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10, continues to be on ventilatory support, doctors attending to him said. However, his son and former MP Abhijit Mukherjee said his father is showing "positive signs of improvement". Pranab Mukherjee was operated for removal of a clot in his brain and has been in a coma ever since. He also tested positive for Covid-19. "There has been a decline in the medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee as he has developed features of lung infection. He continues to be on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialists," the hospital said in a statement. In a tweet, Abhijit Mukherjee said his father's vital parameters are under control. "With all your good wishes and sincere efforts of the doctors, my father is stable now! His vital parameters continue to remain under control and manageable! Positive signs of his improvement are noticed. I request you all to pray for his speedy recovery," he said. Pranab Mukherjee was the President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: SC orders CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged at Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to the CBI. The apex court said that Bihar government is competent to transfer the case to the CBI for investigation. A bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy said that FIR registered by the Bihar Police on the complaint of Rajput's father Krishna Kishore Singh is correct and the reference to the CBI is lawful. The top court delivered its verdict on a plea by Chakraborty who had sought transfer of the FIR lodged against her at Patna to Mumbai. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then Mumbai Police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles. The Centre had earlier informed the top court that it has accepted the recommendation of the Bihar government for a CBI probe into the FIR lodged at Patna by Rajput's father, who has accused Chakraborty and six others of various offences including abetment of suicide. While pronouncing the verdict, the bench said that if any other case is registered regarding Rajput's death, the same shall be probed by the CBI only. It said that jurisdiction of Mumbai Police, which is conducting probe under section 174 of the CrPC which deals with procedure to be followed in cases of unnatural death and suicide, is limited. The apex court held that the ongoing investigation done by the CBI is lawful. The top court, which had reserved its judgement on the plea on August 11, was told by the Bihar government that political clout has not allowed Mumbai Police to even register an FIR in Rajput's case. The Maharashtra government had argued that Bihar completely lacks jurisdiction in the matter. Chakraborty's counsel had told the bench that probe by Mumbai Police has "proceeded quite substantially" as it has recorded statements of 56 persons in the case. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing Rajput's father, had countered the submissions advanced by Chakraborty's counsel and said that they have "no faith" in Maharashtra Police. Chakraborty's lawyer had argued that FIR lodged by Rajput's father has absolutely no connection with any offence in Patna and there was considerable delay of around 38 days in its lodging. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had said that only FIR lodged in the case was in Bihar and the Enforcement Directorate has also started its separate probe in the matter. The FIR in Patna was registered by Singh against Chakraborty and others for alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 306 (abetment of suicide), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||India's Covid tally almost 28 lakh, over 64,000 infected in a day||With 64,531 people testing positive in a day, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 27,67,273 on Wednesday, while the recoveries crossed the 20-lakh mark pushing the recovery rate to 73.64 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 52,889 with 1,092 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Case fatality rate has declined to 1.91 per cent. There are 6,76,514 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which is 24.45 per cent of the total caseload, while the number of recoveries has surged to 20,37,870. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 3,17,42,782 samples have been tested till August 18 with 8,01,518 samples being tested on Tuesday. Of the 1,092 fresh deaths, Maharashtra reported the highest number of fatalities at 422 followed by 139 from Karnataka, 121 from Tamil Nadu, 88 from Andhra Pradesh, 70 from Uttar Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 35 from Punjab, 20 from Gujarat, 13 each from Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, 12 each from Delhi and Jharkhand and 11 from Rajasthan. Nine fatalities each have been reported from Odisha and Puducherry, eight each from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Telangana, seven from Haryana, six each from Assam, Kerala and Uttarakhand, five from Goa, three each from Ladakh and Tripura, while Andmana and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim and Manipur have registered one fatality each. Of the total 52,889 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 20,687, followed by 6,007 in Tamil Nadu, 4,226 in Delhi, 4,201 in Karnataka, 2,820 each in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, 2,585 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,528 in West Bengal and 1,141 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 898 people have died of Covid-19 each in Rajasthan and Punjab, 719 in Telangana, 557 in Haryana, 561 in Jammu and Kashmir, 476 in Bihar, 362 in Odisha, 262 in Jharkhand, 203 in Assam, 175 in Kerala and 164 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 158 deaths, Puducherry 123, Goa 116, Tripura 65, Chandigarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands 30 each, Himachal Pradesh 19, Manipur 18, Ladakh 17, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Sikkim two each. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Job patriotism chameleons||When Madhya Pradesh chief minister and BJP veteran Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared on Tuesday that government jobs would be given only to “the children of the state”, it touched a raw nerve and struck a note of irony in Kashmir. Until the middle of last year, Jammu and Kashmir had enjoyed a special status that gave exclusive rights to its residents over land and jobs. After August 2019, the Narendra Modi government scrapped the special status and threw open jobs in the Union Territory to certain categories of outsiders. BJP-ruled states “reserving jobs for local youths is patriotism. But Jammu and Kashmir asking for the same is anti-national”, said CPM state secretary M.Y. Tarigami. “This double standard exposes the duplicity and reflects the insensitivity in handling a border state like Jammu and Kashmir,” he added. Iltija Mufti, daughter of incarcerated former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, said it validated Mohammed AliJinnah’s two-nation theory. “While states like Nagaland & MP are moving towards semi autonomous status & exclusive rights for locals, J&K entitled to all of this constitutionally has been robbed because it is Muslim dominant. BJP’s Flag of India has no place for minorities, hence validating Jinnah’s two nation theory,” Iltija tweeted. PTI quoted Madhya Pradesh chief minister Chouhan as saying in a video statement: “The state government has taken an important decision today that government jobs will be given only to youths of Madhya Pradesh. We are making necessary legal provisions for this purpose. Resources of Madhya Pradesh are meant for the children of the state.” Later in a tweet, Chouhan added: “From today, the children of Madhya Pradesh will have the first right over the resources of Madhya Pradesh. All government jobs will be reserved only for the children of Madhya Pradesh.” Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said it was not surprising to see “jobs in J&K and Ladakh” were for everyone but those in Madhya Pradesh were “exclusively for people from MP”. A National Conference spokesperson asked why integration was not an issue for the Madhya Pradesh chief minister. The NC spokesperson said: “J&K has an undulating topography. There is no vibrant private sector. The government is the major employment provider. This window of opportunity has also been closed for the natives….” BJP spokesperson Arun Gupta defended Chouhan’s decision and said domicile certificates took care of local sentiments in Jammu and Kashmir. “Anybody who has stayed in Jammu and Kashmir for seven years or who has given exam for 10th or 12th will be considered a local resident…. Somebody just coming from outside and taking jobs is what has been reserved and preserved (for domiciles).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Two tweets can’t harm SC, says Bar Association||The Bar Association of India has sought a recall of the August 14 judgment convicting advocate Prashant Bhushan of criminal contempt, saying the reputation of the Supreme Court “cannot be dislodged by a couple of tweets” but its stature will be “enhanced” if criticism is allowed. “Judgments that curb the exercise of freedom of speech and expression by a member of the Bar by resort to suo motu powers are conspicuously old fashioned. The reputation of the Supreme Court of India cannot be dislodged by a couple of ‘tweets’,” the Bar Association of India, which represents lawyers, said in a statement on Tuesday. “At a time that the citizenry is facing huge challenges, the stature of the Supreme Court would stand enhanced by allowing criticism rather than taking umbrage at such remarks,” the statement added. “The association is of the view that the exercise of contempt jurisdiction by the court in this manner has the potential for more self-harm than the avowed purpose of safeguarding the prestige of the institution,” it said. “The association believes that the Bench and Bar must work together in delivering justice…. Trenchant criticism, commentary, satire and humour help build institutions in a free society,” Lalit Bhasin, senior advocate and president of the association, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||A wish: link Facebook space to size of political base||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday made a statement that indirectly suggested the BJP and the wider Sangh parivar have a right to dominate the social media space by virtue of the party’s larger electoral clout. Prasad, the law and information technology and communications minister, was on Tuesday questioned at a media conference about The Wall Street Journal report that has suggested that Facebook condoned hate speech by the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business interests in India. “It’s a hard fact we need to know that people whose political base has shrunk like anything seek to dominate public discourse on these platforms. That’s not right,” Prasad replied. In saying so, the minister appeared to be linking electoral dominance to the right to control social media, and suggesting that ideological and political opponents of the BJP who have been defeated in polls have as a consequence also lost their right to dominate the discourse. Prasad stopped short of bluntly putting in the public domain what many Sangh parivar leaders have been saying in private: that the two consecutive electoral wins of Narendra Modi mark a decisive victory of the Hindutva ideology. Modi’s laying of the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 is being seen in Sangh circles as the “liberation” of India from “anti-Bharat” ideologies. At the media conference, Prasad expressed dissatisfaction with Facebook for removing 700 accounts of “BJP supporters”. On the WSJ report on how Facebook had condoned hate content uploaded by those associated with the BJP to prevent a fallout on the company’s business in India, Prasad remained evasive, saying it was for the social network behemoth to look into the allegations according to its “policy and system”. “Seven-hundred pages of BJP supporters were removed. This is also a fact,” he said, going on to hold forth on every individual’s right to be heard, which he then himself contradicted by linking it to electoral clout. “I want to say one thing without taking the name of any platform,” Prasad said. “If the platform in question is a public platform, then every Indian regardless of his ideology or commitment has got the right to convey his or her views.” “Isn’t it a fact that some people think they should have monopoly on these platforms?” Prasad asked, siding with a theory floated by sections of the BJP that Facebook was dominated by people with Left and Congress ideologies. The minister proceeded to launch a political attack on Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Prasad said if the issue was of “hate speech”, then Sonia’s “aar paar ki ladai hogi (there will be a decisive battle)” and Rahul’s “desh ke log pradhan mantri ko dande marenge (people of the country will beat the Prime Minister with sticks)” were “textbook cases for instigation of violence”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||PM CARES Fund validity upheld by apex court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the validity of the PM CARES Fund, saying the mere fact that the administration of the trust is vested in trustees like the Prime Minister and his cabinet colleagues will not take away its public character and no budgetary allocation has been made for the purpose as it is purely “voluntary”. The Prime Minister is the ex-officio chairman of the PM CARES Fund while the defence, home and finance ministers are the ex-officio trustees. The fund had been questioned in a PIL filed by an NGO (the Centre for Public Interest Litigation) on the ground that it is not subject to audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or open to queries under the Right to Information Act. The petition had also questioned the need for such a fund as a National Disaster Relief Fund had already been formed under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. However, dismissing the petition, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said: “…it is still open for any person or institution to make contribution to the NDRF (National Disaster Relief Fund).” The court held that there was no need to direct the Centre to come out with a national plan for tackling the Covid crisis, saying it was already in place and no fresh plan can be conceived after the disaster had already struck the country. On the fund, the court said: “The contribution by any person or by any institution in the PM CARES Fund is voluntary and it is open for any person or institution to make contribution to the PM CARES Fund. “…It is for the central government to take the decision as from which fund and what financial measures are to be taken, and it is neither for PIL petitioner to claim that any financial assistance be made from a particular fund nor this court to sit in judgment over the financial decisions of the central government.” The court added: “The PM CARES Fund is a public charitable trust and is not a government fund.” The bench said the guidelines the NDRF and the states’ SDRMF (State Disaster Resources Management Fund) provided for the use of funds for limited calamities did not include any biological and public health emergency. “The nature of the NDRF and the PM CARES Fund is entirely different. The guidelines issued with regard to the NDRF specifically provides for audit of the NDRF by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India whereas for public charitable trust, there is no occasion for audit by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India,” Justice Bhushan said. The Union government has already disbursed Rs 11,092 crore out of Rs 22,184 crore to different states as the central share in the SDRMF, the court pointed out. The BJP hailed the verdict, saying the apex court had struck down a “planned conspiracy” to weaken the “national resolve” against Covid-19. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said later: “Transparency is writ large in the PM CARES Fund, both in terms of legal requirements and transparent management of funds. I regret to say, in view of the conduct of Rahul Gandhi, that right from day one he never spared an opportunity to weaken the national resolve against Corona.” Prasad said an audit of the PM CARES Fund would be carried out. “Everything is on the website. An audit would also be done and presented to the people. This is Narendra Modi’s government.” A private audit firm has been appointed for the PM CARES Fund. The firm is headed by Sunil Kumar Gupta, who has been photographed with ministers and BJP leaders, including Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Cautious hope in Covid-19 count||India has recorded declines in daily new coronavirus disease cases and in deaths among Covid-19 patients for three consecutive days, senior health officials said on Tuesday, but warned that these trends do not warrant any slackening of precautions or strategies. Health authorities detected 55,079 Covid-19 infections on August 17 (Monday) compared to 63,490 on August 15 and the peak so far of 66,990 on August 12. Deaths among Covid-19 patients declined from 1,007 on August 13 to 876 on August 17. The declines in both sets of absolute numbers come against the backdrop of a steady fall in India’s case fatality rate — mortality among lab-confirmed Covid-19 patients — from 2.89 per cent in early July to 1.94 per cent in mid-August. “These are positive and reassuring trends, and significant because we’re seeing these declines have happened even amid increased testing,” Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s top think tank, told reporters. But he cautioned against attempts to use these trends observed over just three or four days to make any interpretations about the course of the pandemic in India. “Has the challenge gone away? No way. A large proportion of our population is still susceptible. The virus may yet hurt us with full force,” Paul said, underlining the need for continued use of precautions such as face masks, physical distancing, and hand and respiratory hygiene, among others. Data from the Union health ministry have also shown a decline in positivity — the proportion of positive cases among those tested — from 10 per cent in early July to 7.72 per cent in mid-August. “The important point is that in spite of a sustained level of nearly 700,000 to 800,000 tests a day, the positivity figure has come down,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary. The health ministry has attributed the fall in the CFR to aggressive testing that leads to early detection of positive cases and efficient clinical management of Covid-19 patients. “There is no reason to slacken our guard,” Bhushan said, after referring to the downward trends in the daily new cases and deaths and the CFR. “We need to stay vigilant and pursue containment, surveillance and testing at the same level of efficiency and aggressiveness as we have so far,” he said. The ICMR had on June 25 expanded its Covid-19 testing strategy to make available diagnostic tests to anyone with respiratory symptoms anywhere in India. “Testing is nearly on-demand now — we’re nearly there,” Paul said. The daily tests have increased from an average of 230,000 during early July to over 800,000 in mid-August. Paul, who is also the chair of a government panel on vaccines against Covid-19, also said the results of early safety and efficacy trials of the two homegrown vaccines were expected within the next four to six weeks. The results of the large-scale efficacy trial of the Oxford vaccine candidate conducted by the Serum Institute of India, Pune, at multiple sites across the country could take more time to emerge, he said. “We shouldn’t assume that a vaccine (candidate) under trial will be successful,” Paul cautioned. “We want these three vaccines and many others to succeed,” he said, cautioning that all the candidates now under development worldwide might not emerge as vaccines. The World Health Organisation’s August 13 update on vaccines says 29 candidates are under human clinical trials while 138 other candidates are either undergoing lab or animal studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Jobs lost by youths in pandemic: 41 lakh||As many as 41 lakh youths in India lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the majority of them in the construction and farm sectors, according to a joint report by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) that has warned against the creation of a doomed “lockdown generation”. “For India, the report estimates job loss for 4.1 million youths. Construction and agriculture have witnessed the major job losses among seven key sectors,” says the ILO-ADB report, titled “Tackling the Covid-19 Youth Employment Crisis in Asia and the Pacific” and released on Tuesday. The youth’s employment prospects in Asia and the Pacific are severely challenged because of the pandemic, it adds. Youths, who the report classifies as those between 15 and 24 years of age, will be hit harder than adults, those above 25, in the immediate crisis and risk bearing higher longer-term economic and social costs, says the report. The report is based on regional assessment of the “Global Survey on Youth and Covid-19” and arrived at estimates based on available unemployment data in different countries. According to the report, two-thirds of firm-level apprenticeships in India and three-quarters of internships were completely interrupted during the pandemic. The report calls on governments in Asia and the Pacific to adopt urgent, large-scale and targeted measures to generate jobs for youths, keep education and training on track, and to minimise future scarring of more than 660 million young people in the region. Even before the Covid crisis, youths in Asia and the Pacific had been facing challenges in the labour market, resulting in high unemployment rates and large shares of youths being excluded from both school and work, the report says. In 2019, the regional youth unemployment rate was 13.8 per cent, compared to 3 per cent for adults; and more than 160 million youths (24 per cent of the population) were not in employment, education or training. “The pre-crisis challenges for youth are now amplified since Covid-19 hit. Without sufficient attention, our fear is that this risks creating a ‘lockdown generation’ that could feel the weight of this crisis for many years to come,” said Sara Elder, ead author of the report and head of the ILO Regional Economic and Social Analysis unit. The report cites three ways in which young people have been affected by the pandemic. These are job disruptions in the form of reduced working hours and earnings, and job losses for both paid workers and the self-employed; interruptions in their education and training; and difficulties in transitioning from school to work, and moving between jobs in a recession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Congress to Mark: Replace Facebook India team||The Congress has written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to investigate the “blatant biases and dubious practices” of the social media giant’s management team in India and make immediate amends, saying interference in the electoral processes of the country will not be tolerated. In a letter to Zuckerberg on behalf of the Congress, general secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal has written: “It is still not too late to correct course and make amends through an impartial investigation into Facebook India’s operations and practices.” The Congress has asked for a high-level inquiry by Facebook’s headquarters whose report should be submitted to the board of Facebook Inc and also made public. Seeking the replacement of the existing Facebook India management team led by Ankhi Das, the director for public policy for South and Central Asia, with a new team so that the investigation is not influenced, Venugopal informed Zuckerberg that the Congress has sought a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the matter. The letter comes days after The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook did not apply its own rules against hate speech to posts from the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business in India. Pointing to the allegation that Ankhi Das provided support to the BJP, Venugopal said the WSJ report had not come as a surprise to the Congress because the Opposition party had raised such issues with Facebook in the past but no action had been taken. The letter said: “As India’s oldest political party that fought for the nation’s freedom and established India’s electoral democracy through universal adult franchise, it is deeply disturbing to note that your company may be a willing participant in thwarting the very rights and values that our founding leaders sacrificed their lives for.” Venugopal has attached to his letter a report by NewsClick, a video news network, detailing the close association of people involved in the BJP’s election management with the Facebook India team. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday tweeted the letter and wrote: “We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news & hate speech. As exposed by Wall Street Journal, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians.” The Congress later at a media conference pointed to purported evidence of the “cosy connection” of Facebook’s Das with BJP leaders. Referring to what he said were leaked internal memos and chats between Facebook officials that had been reported by international media in 2018, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “We get an insight into the relationship of Facebook India officials blossoming with BJP leaders between 2012 and 2014 when the UPA was in power.” He referred to a “July 2012 memo” in which the global vice-president of public policy of Facebook, Marne Levine, had mentioned a closed-door meeting then information and technology minister Kabil Sibal was to hold with Opposition MPs to discuss the government’s intermediary rules on social media. Khera said: “I quote, ‘Ankhi has advised MPs that the matter is sub judice in various courts of India and they should make that point with the minister and reorient the discussion to the substantive issues in the rules…. We, along with Google and YI’s local policy leads, have worked with them on talking points’.” The Congress spokesperson quoted another portion of the memo that said: ‘“We also finished drafting a letter that Arun Jaitley, leader of the Opposition, can use on intermediary rules.’” He said: “It is clear the lobbyists were making talking points and drafting letters for BJP leaders and MPs.” Alleging that the memo had revealed how Facebook had lobbied to get the IT Act amended by planting stories in the media and supporting public interest litigation, Khera said: “I am proud that their internal communications confirmed UPA ministers did not listen to them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh cuffs on journalist ||Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday picked up journalist Prashant Kanojia from his Delhi home for allegedly tweeting a morphed image on the Ram temple in Ayodhya, a little over a year after he was freed by the Supreme Court that found his arrest illegal in another case linked to freedom of expression. The latest FIR accused Kanojia of sharing on Twitter a morphed image that sought to portray Sushil Tiwari, a Hindu Army leader, as calling for a prohibition on people from the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes from entering the Ram temple. The Facebook post of Tiwari that the Twitter upload had allegedly sought to morph was an image of the leader accompanied by the demand that Islamic studies be immediately replaced with Vedic studies in the UPSC. However, in the “morphed” post attributed to Kanojia, the text had been changed to read: “No Shudra, SC, ST or OBCs will be allowed inside Ram Mandir.” The tweet had added: “According to Tiwariji’s orders.” Late on Tuesday, the tweet could not be found on Prashant’s handle. Many social media users, however, shared screenshots of what they said was the journalist’s tweet on Sunday. In the FIR, Kanojia has been booked under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery) and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), and provisions of the Information Technology Act). Sources in Delhi police said the FIR was registered at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow by a policeman, Dinesh Kumar Shukla. Prashant’s wife, journalist Jagisha Arora, told The Telegraph that her husband had not uploaded the tweet attributed to him. “My husband did not tweet this at all. Someone edited the image to make it look so. I am very sure that he has not tweeted anything of the sort,” Jagisha said. “Around 1.20pm, some police personnel from UP came to our house in Munirka. They arrested Prashant but did not give me any paper that explained why. When asked, they replied that it was for a case regarding a recent tweet of his. An officer said they were taking him to Vasant Vihar police station to get transit remand before being taken to Lucknow,” she added. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad tweeted that the arrest of a Dalit journalist was testimony to “the dictatorial attitude of the Uttar Pradesh government”. Azad alleged that the government was disturbed by people writing, reading and speaking, and compared the situation to the Emergency. He demanded Prashant’s immediate release. On June 8 last year, Prashant had been arrested by Uttar Pradesh police from east Delhi over tweets related to a woman’s purported marriage proposal to chief minister Yogi Adityanath. A judicial magistrate had remanded the journalist in custody in a Lucknow jail for 14 days. After hearing the petition filed by his wife, Jagisha, the Supreme Court had on June 18 last year used its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to order Prashant’s immediate release. The apex court had pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for the “glaring illegality” of the arrest and said that while the authorities “might not approve of the nature” of Prashant’s posts, it was not a crime like “murder” to warrant prolonged incarceration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||US diaspora groups seek Facebook hate probe||Over a dozen diaspora organisations in the US on Monday urged the House of Representatives to launch a congressional probe into the functioning of Facebook, particularly the social networking site’s “role in amplifying hate and bigotry around the world’’. While the demand from the Coalition to Stop Genocide platform was made in the wake of The Wall Street Journal report about a Facebook executive blocking punitive action against the accounts of some BJP leaders in violation of the site’s rules on hate speech on the pretext that shutting them down would affect the company’s business, the diaspora organisations pointed out that what happened in India was not an isolated case. Demanding that Facebook fire the company’s policy chief in India, Ankhi Das, the diaspora organisations said: “Facebook’s corrupt enabling of hate speech and Islamophobia has been studied and extensively documented and actually goes far beyond what was highlighted in the Wall Street Journal article.’’ They also said the United Nations and the European Union should closely monitor Facebook’s role in furthering hate speech and disinformation. “Regulators in countries around the world need to act on the information and hold Facebook accountable, through fines and criminal prosecution if necessary for colluding with genocidal entities working to further mass violence.’’ The coalition includes Hindus for Human Rights, Indian American Muslim Council, South Asia Solidarity Initiative, Ambedkar Association of North America, Guru Ravidas Sabha, Periyar International USA and Students Against Hindutva Ideology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||India’s burden of cancer cases likely to increase in five years||India’s burden of cancer cases is likely to increase from 1.39 million in 2020 to over 1.57 million by 2025, the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Tuesday in a report analysing cancer trends nationwide. The ICMR’s National Cancer Registry Programme’s 2020 report has also predicted an increase in proportions and incidence of tobacco-related cancers from 27.1 per cent and 377,000 cases in 2020 to 27.2 per cent and 427,000 cases in 2025. The report has identified cancers of the lung, mouth, stomach and oesophagus as the most common among men, while breast and cervical cancer are the most common among women. In line with trends observed earlier, the incidence of breast cancer is rising while cervical cancer is declining. The incidence of breast cancer is expected to increase from around 210,000 cases in 2020 to 238,000 in 2025, it has projected. In men and women, cancers of the gastrointestinal tract contribute to 270,000 or 19 per cent of the country’s cancer burden, the report said. The cancer incidence among men is highest in Mizoram’s Aizawl district (269 per 100,000 people) and among women highest in Arunachal Pradesh’s Papumpare (219 per 100,000). Osmanabad and Beed district in Maharashtra have the lowest incidence rates in men (39 per 100,000) and women (49 per 100,000). The analysis has suggested that thyroid cancer is on the rise, with Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts in Kerala having the highest incidence rates, while Delhi had the country’s highest incidence of childhood cancers such as leukaemias and lymphomas. The estimates based on a network of cancer registries at selected sites across the country have also revealed that the majority of breast cancer and cervical cancer were diagnosed at what oncologists describe as the “locoregional stage”. “This is an encouraging sign — the locoregional stage is one where the cancer has not metastasised (spread) to other parts of the body,” said Arnab Gupta, president of the Indian Association of Surgical Oncology and director at the Saroj Gupta Cancer Hospital, Thakurpukur, Calcutta. However, Gupta and other oncologists underlined that the majority of cancers in India continue to be detected either in stage 2 or stage 3 rather than stage 1. Cancer patients diagnosed in stage 1 have the highest chance of cure. Doctors say poor awareness among patients about the early warning signs of cancer and lack of access to diagnosis are among factors that contribute to the late diagnosis of cancer with diagnostic delays more likely in rural areas. Gupta said: “Some patients don’t seek care until they have severe symptoms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Kerala Opposition leader files plea to shield patient call data records||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has filed a public interest litigation plea in Kerala High Court seeking to quash a circular that allows the police to collect call data records of coronavirus patients. The Opposition has been accusing the Left Democratic Front government of “illegally” sourcing call data records to keep track of the patients’ movements. But the government had in its circular, issued on August 11, stated that collection of such records was being done according to Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, which states that “any message or class of messages shall be intercepted or detained” during “any public emergency” and Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, that grants the state or the Centre the “power to issue directions for interceptions or monitoring or decryption of any information through any computer source”. The PIL was filed on Monday in spite of the state government’s guidelines which said that “appropriate security control and protocol shall be adopted for processing of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) collected in regard of Covid-19, so as to ensure that it is stored, processed and analysed in a secure environment as per law”. The government had also made it clear that “such data must be destroyed as soon as the purpose for which it was collected by authorized agency, is over”. But Chennithala of the Congress, in his plea, did not agree with the government’s assurance and sought judicial intervention for “restraining them from collecting CDRs (call data records) from Covid-19 positive patients”. He stated that call data records could be collected only in cases of grave criminal nature, financial crimes or other crimes that threaten national security. Even in such cases the call data records could be collected “only after obtaining permission from home department subject to review by the Review Committee constituted under Rule 16 of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007”. The petitioner cited the collection of call data records as “arbitrary, illegal, unfair, and violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which is liable to be quashed”. Chennithala, a former Kerala home minister, suggested in the petition an alterative to gathering call data records by triangulating signals from mobile towers since each tower covers a radius of about 500 metres. The petitioner noted that service providers usually mention latitude and longitude within the tower range from where calls were made. “In addition to that, by using GPS app, the police can easily pinpoint the location within 500 metre radius,” he said, pointing to a viable alternative to “illegal” means. The petition was apparently part of the Opposition’s efforts to corner the Left government that has been on the backfoot since the unearthing of a gold smuggling racket using diplomatic baggage tags of the United Arab Emirates consulate general in Thiruvananthapuram. Secretary at the chief minister’s office and principal secretary of the IT department, M. Sivasankar, was suspended after his name cropped up for having close ties with some of the key accused in the smuggling case, including Swapna Suresh. A former executive secretary at the consulate, Swapna last worked as an operations manager with a private consultancy operating from the state-run Space Park. The Opposition was planning to use the one-day emergency session of the Assembly convened on Monday by moving a no-confidence motion against the government. Chennithala told a press conference on Tuesday that he expected at least two days of discussion before putting the motion to vote. “We need at least two days to discuss the issues plaguing the state. It is unfortunate that the Speaker allowed only one day,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||HC refuses Saibaba parole for mom rites||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant emergency parole to former Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba to attend his mother’s post-funeral rituals. A division bench of Justices Z.A. Haq and A.G. Gharote directed the Nagpur jail authorities to make arrangements for Saibaba to talk to his family via videoconferencing. Saibaba, who is serving life sentence in the Nagpur Central Prison in Maharashtra for alleged links with Maoists, had sought parole to go to Hyderabad to attend the post-funeral rituals of his 74-year-old mother who died on August 1. The court, while rejecting the plea for emergency parole, said it would be difficult to arrange for security personnel to escort Saibaba from Nagpur to Hyderabad amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Special public prosecutor P.K. Sathianathan, appearing for the government, opposed Saibaba’s plea and argued that most of the post-funeral rituals are complete. Saibaba, who is wheelchair-bound with 90 per cent physical disabilities, had last month sought parole to visit his ailing mother. But his appeal was rejected and, soon after, his mother passed away. In March 2017, a sessions court had convicted Saibaba and four others for alleged Maoist links and waging war against the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Dalit professor's caste bias cry in VC choice||A Dalit professor with “sound” academic and administrative credentials at a central university dedicated to Sanskrit education has alleged that he was not considered for the post of its vice-chancellor because of his caste. Sukadev Bhoi, a well-known scholar of Sanskrit literature and a professor for over 13 years in Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, had applied for the post of the vice-chancellor of the institution. A search and selection committee comprising five academics has decided to not to call Bhoi to the interview scheduled on Thursday. Nearly 40 people had applied and around 10 have been called for the interview. Bhoi has complained to the office of the President, who is the visitor to the university, the Prime Minister’s Office and the education ministry. It is learnt that Bhoi has sought the cancellation of the ongoing appointment process to ensure transparency. Bhoi has accused the panel headed by professor Uma Vaidya to have excluded him purely on caste consideration. He has also claimed the selection process is designed to favour re-appointment of the incumbent vice-chancellor Ramesh Chandra Pandey. Bhoi has alleged that all those called for the interview were from privileged castes and most of the search panel members belonged to the same castes. Last week, the PMO forwarded the complaint to the education ministry for appropriate action. The requirement for the post is 10 years of experience as a professor and that the applicant shall be preferably below 65 years of age. Bhoi, a recipient of Maharshi Badrayan Vyas Samman, fulfils both the conditions. Bhoi has administrative experience and he served as the head of Sahitya department in the university for five years and dean of faculty of Sahitya and Sanskrit for over two years. He has 21 research publications to his credit and has guided over a dozen PhD students. Bhoi has been also nominated by the University Grants Commission (UGC) as an observer or expert in about 40 panels related to either the selection committee for faculty or the board of management of institutions. Devarshi Kala Nath Shastry, a President’s Award winner for contribution to Sanskrit, said: “His academic credentials are sound. But the search panel enjoys freedom to follow its criteria to invite persons for interview. The search panel is expected to follow transparent criteria.” A ministry source said the government would not like to comment on an issue related to a committee of experts. An email to the education ministry to understand its perspective did not elicit a response. Shastry, who has been chairperson of several search panels for VC posts, said that the government influence has increased in recent years in the selection process for academic leaders. A former UGC member admitted that the selection committee gets influenced by recommendations from the RSS. “These days the selection committees for vice-chancellor posts call about 10 to 20 persons for interview. Many people despite fulfilling eligibility get rejected for the interview. The committees also accommodate recommended candidates from the Sangh. But they do so by following some criteria, not arbitrarily. This committee will be able to tell the criteria,” he said. Asked about the allegation of bias, Vaidya said: “Till the process is complete, I cannot say anything. Let him say whatever he wants to say. I am going by rules and regulations.” Another member of the search panel said that the panel did not look at the caste of any candidate. “Normally the search panel looks at criteria like academic and administrative experiences of a candidate, reputation as a scholar and exposure, and conduct. I do not remember exactly why professor Bhoi was not called (for the interview). But we did not look at the caste of the candidates,” he said. The matter has brought to light the alleged hegemony of privileged caste members in academic institutions in general and Sanskrit institutions in particular. Last year, Muslim scholar Feroze Khan had to quit his job as an assistant professor within a month of joining the faculty of Sanskrit Vidya Dharma Vijnan in Banaras Hindu University due to protests by students over his religion. The complaint of bias in selection is usual practice but the government has to rely on the collective wisdom of experts, the source said. The source also defended the decision to assign the secretarial support work to the university for the sake of autonomy. Usually the ministry handles the process of appointment like collection of applications, arrangement of meeting of the search panel and stay of the members as a matter of practice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Navy opposes HAL-built helicopters||The navy has renewed its opposition to the inclusion of the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) in a planned Rs 22,000-crore deal to manufacture naval utility helicopters under the Make in India model, dealing a blow to the Narendra Modi government’s push to make the defence sector a part of its Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. Under the deal that has been in the works since last year, 95 helicopters are to be manufactured in India under a strategic partnership between foreign companies and Indian private sector firms and HAL, while 16 more choppers will be bought from abroad. Initially, only private firms from India had been involved in the proposed project but HAL was included on a request from the public sector utility, sources said. The Indian Navy, however, has contended that the Bangalore-based HAL’s products do not meet the force’s requirements. “The navy has been maintaining that HAL’s naval version of the advanced light helicopter does not meet its basic requirements as the choppers do not have foldable rotor blades that allow them to be parked within the cramped confines of warship hangars,” a defence ministry official said. “Recently, the navy has again conveyed its reservations to the ministry about HAL’s products and said it wanted a foreign version of the advanced light helicopter that meets its requirements to be built under the strategic partnership model,” the official added. The navy’s renewed opposition comes against the backdrop of the announcement last week by defence minister Rajnath Singh that India would stop importing 101 items, including weaponry, in a phased manner from December to strengthen the country’s fledgling defence production industry under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore will be placed with the domestic industry that include HAL, the Adanis, Anil Ambani, the Tatas, the Hindujas, L&T, Kalyani Group and Mahindra Aerospace. The helicopter project, however, is not part of this plan. Several veterans have questioned the move saying India does not have enough indigenous capability and that the embargoed items such as artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars are still at various stages of development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). They have also questioned the purpose of the embargo if critical components are imported and only assembled in India. The 111 naval utility helicopters are critical to enhancing the navy’s operational capabilities. These helicopters will be able to operate onboard warships by consuming much lesser space and replace the ageing Chetak helicopters used for search and rescue operations, casualty evacuation, low-intensity marine operations and torpedo drops. The defence ministry had last year issued an expression of interest for shortlisting of potential Indian strategic partners and foreign equipment manufacturers for the procurement of the 111 helicopters. The strategic partnership model aims at collaborations between Indian manufacturers and foreign firms who are willing to share technology and set up Indian production lines. The foreign firms will have to set up dedicated manufacturing lines, including design, integration and building processes, for making the helicopters in India. The sources said that in November last year, the Defence Acquisition Council headed by the defence minister had met and identified the Indian firms and foreign manufacturers that would come together for the production of the helicopters. “But the DAC did not give the final nod for the request for proposal. The matter was referred back to the Indian Navy for it to consider the proposal of involving defence PSUs,” a defence ministry official said. The sources said HAL had now acquired the technology to manufacture foldable blades. “HAL has all the technologies that the foreign firms are supposed to transfer, including rotor systems, transmission systems and hydraulics,” a HAL official said. A military veteran said the money that would be paid to the foreign equipment manufacturers for the transfer of technology and the cost of setting up a new production line would make the naval utility helicopters more expensive than the Dhruv choppers HAL manufactures. Adani Defence, Mahindra Defence, Reliance Defence, Tata Advanced Systems and the Kalyani Group are among the private players who have responded to the defence ministry’s tender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||AAP Shaheen claim fuels ‘Nitish Jr’ barb||The Aam Aadmi Party has found itself in a tight corner after its chief spokesperson linked the anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh to the BJP. Although the protest abruptly ended on March 24 because of the pandemic-induced lockdown, the matter reappeared on the political firmament when a man named Shahzad Ali, who proclaimed that he was a “Shaheen Bagh activist”, joined the BJP on Sunday. The Shaheen Bagh protest, which was driven by women, began on December 15 and continued for over three months, becoming the longest and largest stir against the Centre’s new citizenship matrix. On Sunday, the BJP inducted 50 Muslims into the party, including Ali of the little-known Rashtriya Ulama Council party. After introducing himself as a “Shaheen Bagh activist”, Ali told news agency ANI: “I have joined the BJP to prove wrong those in our community who think that the BJP is our enemy. We’ll sit together with them over the CAA concerns.” The AAP, which had attributed its defeat in six seats in east Delhi in the February Assembly polls to the communal polarisation due to the anti-CAA protests, was quick to jump at the opportunity. The AAP’s chief spokesperson and strident pro-Hindu face Saurabh Bharadwaj told a media conference on Monday: “The whole Shaheen Bagh protest was scripted by the BJP. The topmost leadership of the BJP scripted each and every step of the Shaheen Bagh protest. They decided who would say what, who would attack whom and then who would be launching the counter-attack. “All these things were pre-planned and well-scripted…. I do agree that there were many pro-democratic people who joined this protest. Many people joined this protest with the hope that it was pro-democracy. But they also did not understand that this Shaheen Bagh protest was just a brainchild and a script of the BJP.” Bharadwaj’s statements created a future online with renewed allegations of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal being a “Nitish Jr” —  a reference to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar who resurrected an alliance with the BJP after becoming a fulcrum of the Opposition. AAP’s social media managers unsuccessfully tried to contain the fallout of Bharadwaj’s statements, stressing that only “the section of protesters adamant on continuing to block the street” had joined the BJP. Shaheen Kausar, one of the organisers of the protest, called Bharadwaj’s statements “heart-breaking”. She said: “This was a leaderless protest and although Shahzad Ali was one of those who regularly attended, he never had any role in organising the protest. If AAP knew that all that we women were doing was a BJP plot, why did they keep silent for so long? They swept the polls, so what benefit are they claiming the BJP got from our protest? “One can understand that the BJP wants to induct people associated with the protest in order to create an impression that people have accepted their unjust law. But the people of Shaheen Bagh will ask AAP leaders why they are speaking the language of the BJP.” In another news conference on Tuesday, Bharadwaj blamed BJP leaders Amit Shah, Yogi Adityanath, Anurag Thakur and Giriraj Singh, among others, for the communal riots in Delhi in February. The AAP spokesperson, however, continued his tirade against Shaheen Bagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||HC bins plea to reopen Sterlite plant in Tamil Nadu||Madras High Court on Tuesday rejected a plea from mining giant Vedanta for permission to reopen its Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu, which has been closed since May 2018 over pollution concerns. The company described the verdict as a “temporary setback” and said it would look into all legal options available to it, while political leaders and others welcomed the judgment. A division bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and V. Bhavani Subbaroyan upheld the orders of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) directing the closure of the unit in May 2018. It had on January 9 this year reserved orders on the matter. The court, in its over 800-page judgment, dismissed a batch of writ petitions from Vedanta and others challenging the closure of the unit, which was at the centre of violent protests over pollution concerns. Vedanta had approached the high court in February 2019, seeking to reopen the Sterlite plant which was closed following a May 23, 2018 order issued by the TNPCB in the backdrop of violent protests which left 13 people dead in police firing on May 21 and 22. It had filed the petition in the high court as suggested by the Supreme Court which had on February 18, 2019 set aside the National Green Tribunal order that allowed opening of the Sterlite plant. Several people hailed the high court judgment in Tuticorin in southern Tamil Nadu by distributing sweets and bursting firecrackers. Deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam welcomed the judgment, saying it reflected the thoughts of crores of people. DMK president M.K. Stalin said he bowed before the court for its judgment. He urged the government to pass a cabinet resolution welcoming the judgment and file a caveat petition in the Supreme Court in case Vedanta files an appeal. MDMK chief Vaiko said the judgment has done justice and hailed it as “a huge win” for the agitation by the people. ”Without compromising even a little, I myself have argued against the plant before the tribunal, the high Court and the Supreme Court,” he said and recalled his party’s 26-year-long struggle against the plant. State secretaries of the CPM and the CPI, K. Balakrishnan and R. Mutharasan and PMK founder leader S. Ramadoss also urged the government to fight the matter in the apex court if the firm went on an appeal and ensure the plant’s permanent closure. Sterlite CEO Pankaj Kumar told reporters in Tuticorin: “We will look at all legal options available to us.” To a question, Kumar said: “There may be a possibility of lay-off,” adding the plant has been shut for over two years. Associate vice-president D. Dhanavel said the judgment was “disappointing” and a “temporary setback”. Dhanavel said “our company has continuously taken efforts to protect jobs of all to the possible extent despite closure. But now with this setback that (safeguarding jobs) will be a challenge... we will discuss this and take further steps considering the welfare of employees”. In its arguments during the hearing, Vedanta had claimed the closure order was nothing but “naked discrimination” against the company and a knee-jerk reaction of the state to “appease” a section of the public with vested interest after 13 protesters were killed in the police firing. Rejecting the charges, the state government had submitted that it has full authority and powers to shut down a factory when it causes serious threat to the environment and ecology. The Sterlite unit had flouted many rules which amounted to violation of statutory provisions warranting closure of the factory, it had told the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Fake news hits Odisha VIPs ||Social media can be a dangerous source of information because a lot of unverified news is shared on the medium. But such is our dependence on social media that sometimes not only ordinary people but also resourceful VIPs land in an embarrassing situation after sharing news floating on the medium. Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi, both hailing from the state, are among the latest VIPs to fall victims of this trend. Taken in by a piece of information on the social media, all of them congratulated an Odia pilot of the Indian Air Force on August 8 for a feat he never accomplished. Lal, Pradhan and Sarangi took to Twitter to congratulate Wing Commander Nikhil Rath after learning from social media that he had been selected for the country’s first manned space mission, Gaganyaan. None of them had checked the authenticity of the information. It later came to light that Rath was not among the four candidates shortlisted for the mission who are already in Russia undergoing training. The governor tweeted that he was delighted to know about Rath’s selection for the mission and wished him success. After this reporter sought to know the source of Lal’s information about Rath being shortlisted among the four astronauts for the ambitious space project, the governor’s office deleted the tweet. Union minister for petroleum Dharmendra Pradhan had tweeted, “Elated to learn that Wg. Cdr. Nikhil Rath of IAF has been shortlisted to be a part of the 4 member crew of India’s first manned space mission, Gaganyaan 2022. It is a matter of immense pride that this son of Odisha will be a part of this significant & prestigious mission.” Union minister of state for animal husbandry and MSME Sarangi tweeted: “ Happy to know that IAF Wing Commander Nikhil Rath of Balangir, Odisha has been shortlisted to be part of the human mission to space in the prestigious #Gaganayan project of Isro . Heartiest congratulations to the ace pilot from the State for getting this opportunity.” He had added, “Pretty sure that he would hone his skills during the one year rigorous training in Russia. Wishing him all the best for the final selection!” According to the news shared on social media, Rath and three other astronauts from India have finished their training at Yuri A. Gagarin Research & Test Cosmonaut Training Center in Russia on crew action in the event of an abnormal descent module landing. Based on the tweets, many media houses, including leading news agencies ran the story. “What could we do? We ran the story after seeing the congratulatory messages. Even leading new agencies and people from Bangalore filed stories on different websites,” said a journalist who fell victim to the fake news. The fact is that Rath had been included among the 25 pilots shortlisted in 2019 for space missions under the Gaganyaan. But he was not among the four candidates finally selected for the mission. Sources said Rath was initially among the 25 shortlisted candidates who cleared the rigorous mental, physical and psychological tests. But he missed out on selection in the subsequent stages. Only four pilots were sent to Russia for the 16-month training and Rath was not among them, official sources said. But many were misled after one of his relatives put an old photo on Twitter congratulating him. Later a flood of congratulatory messages followed. Sources said even a senior IPS officer had congratulated him without verifying the information. “I congratulated him based on the news shared on social media,” the IPS officer told The Telegraph. Rath, who is currently at an air base in Gujarat, told this newspaper, “This news is not correct. I have not been selected (for the space mission). I refute the news. Some news channels are competing for TRPs and filing stories without verifying the truth. What can I do?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Bihar shopkeepers protest ||A large number of shopkeepers took to the streets in Lakhisarai in Bihar on Tuesday to protest against not being able to conduct business and being on the verge of penury because of the lockdown. The shopkeepers complained that the alleged faulty administrative policy has forced them to sit idle since March when the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus started. They chanted slogans demanding permission to open their stores and put up bamboo barricades at several places to halt traffic movement in the town, located around 155km southeast of the state capital. “Owners of shops of clothes, bangles, toys, stationery, sweets, books, jewellery, furniture and many other items are human beings. They also have mouths to feed. Many employees also work at these shops. However, they are unable to conduct business due to the lockdown since March and have reached the verge of starvation,” said Munna Goswami, a shopkeeper in Lakhisarai. As time passed by, the protesters squatted on the roads to demand relief. The Lakhisarai district administration finally intervened and assured them of looking into their grievances. Several shopkeepers pointed out that the problem has been caused by the timings for stores to open. Unlike several other districts, the Lakhisarai administration has ordered that all shops should open between 6am and 2pm. “Such timings are fine for milk, vegetable, grocery shops and fish market. But other stores open only around 11am. Customers won’t be there even if they open early. By the time the shopkeepers settle for the day’s business, it’s time to close. By 1.30am, the police start asking the shops to close,” said Sandeep Sah, another shopkeeper. Lakhisarai district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Singh, who was transferred there a month ago, told The Telegraph that the timings had been prevalent since the lockdown started in March and have continued since then. “There is no restriction on shops, except malls, from doing business. However, the timings could be a problem for those who open their shops late. Some people came to meet me today and said that they were owners of big stores, but were unable to function. We are enquiring into prevalent timings in the neighbouring districts. We will look into their grievances and redress them,” Singh said. The district magistrate also asserted that lockdown was being enforced to protect people from contracting coronavirus and action will be taken if people violate norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||KIIT bags top spot in innovation ranking||Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), a deemed to be university in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, on Tuesday bagged the top spot among self-financing institutions in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020,  the institute said in a statement. The ranking report for 2020 was announced by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu in the presence of Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, minister of state for education Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre, AICTE chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe, higher education secretary Amit Khare and others at a ceremony in New Delhi, a statement said. ARIIA is an initiative of the human resource development ministry to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “innovation and entrepreneurship development” amongst students and faculties. KIIT, recognised as an Institution of Eminence by the government, has achieved the top place in the rankings due to its innovation and entrepreneurship centres, advanced laboratories, centres of excellence and collaborations with industries and international institutions, the statement said. Known for its student-friendly culture, KIIT lays high emphasis on involving students in research, development and innovation activities, it said. KIIT, which came second in the 2019 rankings. “I congratulate KIIT on this achievement. We have moved to the first position this year from second place last year. It is the story of our growth in the realm of research and innovation. I thank Hon’ble Minister of HRD (education) Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank ji for recognising our efforts,” said Achyuta Samanta, founder of KIIT and Kandhamal MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul goes on induction spree||Trinamul Congress functionaries in north Bengal and some parts of the state’s south have been on an overdrive to re-induct into the party people who joined the BJP, Congress and the CPM. Many leaders have been into a kind of competition for the past one month, trying to outshine each other by getting on board hundreds who had deserted Trinamul or are supporters of other parties. Ministers, former representatives of civic bodies, leaders of Trinamul’s youth front and trade unions are at the forefront of the induction spree. All of them are busy finding people at towns and villages and encouraging them to join Trinamul. The efforts put up by these leaders, party insiders said, have been noticed after July 21, the day when party supremo Mamata Banerjee had asked deserters to return to Trinamul from the BJP, Left and the Congress. “Whether it is in Malda or Cooch Behar, our party supremo’s call seems to have triggered a competition among leaders. Every day, someone or the other is joining Trinamul in the presence of prominent district leaders at towns and villages. This is indeed good news for the party, particularly in north Bengal, where we were defeated by the BJP in seven of eight Lok Sabha seats,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri. In the past fortnight or so, north Bengal residents have witnessed a slew of activities by Trinamul. Hundreds of people were paraded at venues and they shouted slogans for Mamata Banerjee and her party while accepting Trinamul flags from prominent leaders. While addressing Trinamul workers virtually from Calcutta on July 21, the chief minister had also emphasised the need to strengthen the party’s support base across the state. A number of changes were made in the party’s hierarchy soon with constitution of new committees and appointment of fresh faces as office-bearers. Since then, the leaders have been putting up their best efforts to get more and more people on board. For example, in Malda, Amlan Bhaduri, a district coordinator of Trinamul, was instrumental in inducting around 100 Congress workers at Kaliachak. Dulal Sarkar, another coordinator, was not far behind. Within 72 hours of Bhaduri’s programme, he arranged for the joining of 50 families, who were with the BJP at Muchia of Old Malda. On Monday, Partha Pratim Roy, the newly-appointed chief of Trinamul’s Cooch Behar district committee, brought in 500-odd BJP workers and leaders to the ruling party. Within 12 hours, Abhijit Dey Bhowmik, the district president of Trinamul Youth Congress, held a meeting in Cooch Behar on Tuesday and claimed that a youth leader of the BJP and 100 others had joined Mamata’s party. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh went to a village in Natabari — his Assembly constituency — on Tuesday and handed over Trinamul flags to 59 families. They had been with the BJP, he claimed. Asked if there was a competition among Trinamul leaders to increase the number of members, Ghosh said: “There is no competition. Each of us is trying to strengthen our base and using our own connections to induct more people into the party. There are many who had left us but are returning now, answering Didi’s call.” Around 1,000 BJP supporters and 200-odd CPM members in at least five panchayats under Sandeshkhali 2 block of North 24-Parganas district joined Trinamul on Tuesday. Local Trinamul MLA Sukumar Mahato handed over the party flags to them. In north Bengal, it is only Biplab Mitra and his brother Prashanta of South Dinajpur who can be considered as prominent faces whom Trinamul could get back on board from the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Negative report twist after death||The RT-PCR test results of the 65-year-old man’s swab sample collected at East Midnapore’s Tamluk district hospital on Saturday night came back negative on Tuesday from Calcutta, three days after he died in an ambulance for the lack of beds at Panskura’s Boroma Covid Hospital. The man’s rapid test result had shown he was Covid positive on Saturday, prompting Tamluk hospital authorities to refer him to Boroma Covid Hospital. His RT-PCR sample were sent to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta the same night the rapid test was done. East Midnapore health officials, however, claimed on Tuesday that their hospital’s rapid testing facilities were reliable and that a health worker had “erred” in collecting the swab sample. The deceased man’s daughter said when his condition worsened on Saturday night, the family did press hospital authorities for a rapid test. “Now that the RT-PCR test of the same swab has come back negative today, we have bigger questions about the efficiency of the whole (testing) system,” she said. “Had the rapid test come back negative, as we now see it should have, my father would have still been undergoing treatment at the Tamluk hospital, and more importantly, would have been alive,” she added. The family had on Sunday blamed Tamluk district hospital superintendent Gopal Das for assuring them that they would find a bed at the Boroma Covid hospital late on Saturday night. But now, after the RT-PCR came back negative, the issue is bigger than a hospital superintendent’s incompetence,” the daughter said. Sources said Das had been pulled up by the district magistrate for three prior incidents since March. Das did not comment on the RT-PCR result. Opposition leaders in the district have pressed for Das’s removal from the post. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi termed Das “unfit for the job” following Saturday’s incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Hundreds in Siliguri bid their ‘Ronaldo’ goodbye||Residents of Siliguri are stunned by the deaths of five youths whose Independence Day joyride in a car ended in a 500-foot-deep gorge near Kurseong on Saturday night, and whose bodies were retrieved on Monday after a massive search. College students Subrata Das, Bikram Das, Rishav Das and Arghanil Kundu, and their footballer friend Raj Singh, fondly nicknamed Ronaldo, had gone to the Dooars on Saturday, come back to Siliguri, and in the evening left for Kurseong. Rishav was behind the wheel when the car veered off the Subhash Ghisingh Marg on Saturday night and plunged into the gorge near Kurseong, said a family friend. He added that the youths had not taken any family car, as was initially reported, but had rented one for their trip. On Monday evening, Rathkhola residents saw Rishav, Subrata, Bikram and Arghanil — who lived there — make their last journey in hearses. On Tuesday, Siliguri’s Milanpally area bid a tearful goodbye to promising footballer Raj, 19, who was called Ronaldo after the Portuguese star Cristiano Ronaldo. Before the cremation, Raj’s mortal remains were taken to his home and to the Babupara Boys’ Club ground where hundreds had assembled. “Raj was a popular footballer and had contributed to many of our club’s victories,” said Abir Roy, one of the 100-odd club members. “We called him Ronaldo and we will all miss him.” Raj lived with his mother Molina Devi and two sisters. His father had passed away around five years back. “On Sunday evening, we were playing in the club ground when his mother came and asked us if we knew where he was. Some hours later, we came to know about the accident on Saturday night,” said Joy Majumdar, another club footballer. Like Molina, Rishav’s mother Pramoli Das was inconsolable. Her neighbour said Pramoli’s husband Chanchal had died in a road accident seven years ago. Rishav was her only son. “She is shattered,” the neighbour added. “We had no idea that Rishav knew driving,” said a family friend Bagha Pain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||CPM to start safe homes in Bengal||The CPM has decided to set up safe homes at a few places in Bengal for Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms as it feels government infrastructure is inadequate to handle the rising number of coronavirus cases and the party should stand by people during a pandemic. The first safe home will be opened at the CPM office in North 24-Parganas’s Nimta on Wednesday. The Congress is also involved in the Nimta project. CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty and Congress veteran Abdul Mannan will jointly inaugurate the eight-bed Dr Sankar Sen Safe Home at Rabindra Palli in Nimta. CPM’s North Dumdum MLA Tanmay Bhattacharjee took the initiative to set up the safe homes. Bhattacharjee said the safe homes would offer ambulance services, ECG tests, screening of oxygen level and other medical facilities at rates charged under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) to Covid patients. “But people belonging to the financially weaker section of the society will be offered services for free,” the MLA added. The Nimta safe home will have eight doctors, four technicians, two trained nurses and 100 dedicated volunteers. The team will be on round-the-clock duty to provide support to patients as well as their families. Bhattacharjee said: “We have arranged for PPE kits for the volunteers and they will be provided with medical insurance of Rs 5 lakh.” The safe homes will work in coordination with the state health department and the team of volunteers will provide updates to the officials concerned about patients. In case of an emergency, the volunteers will shift the patient to the nearest Covid hospital. Asked whether the model would be replicated across the state, CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty said: “It won’t be a pan-Bengal model. That’s the job of the state government and it has miserably failed to do it. We will set up similar centres at a few places. This is an initiative entirely by the party and the Congress has come forward to support it.” Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said: “We have asked our workers in different districts to assess the possibilities of setting up quarantine centres. We are primarily trying to figure out how to source doctors, medical professionals and medicines.” Reiterating the CPM’s offer to the state government to use its cadres as Covid volunteers, Chakraborty said: “We had said our volunteers would work for the cause of the Covid-affected people and the (Nimta) centre is proof that we are sincere in what we say.” CPM leaders said the effort of the CPM in Bengal reflected what the party’s Visakhapatnam unit had recently done by throwing open its office to set up an isolation centre for Covid patients. "To begin with, we are starting with the eight-bed safe home at our party office. But in case of emergency, this can be increased up to 40 beds within 24 hours,” Bhattacharjee said. The recently announced Covid management protocol of the government advocates development of satellite health care facilities for asymptomatic patients by local bodies and private organisations. This, the government feels, will help ramp up accommodation facilities in view of the rising number of infected people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling leaders prod CM on nurse training course quota||The West Bengal Nursing Council’s call for applications to auxiliary nursing and midwifery (ANM) and general nursing and midwifery (GNM) training courses has prompted a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamul and the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) to write to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, seeking reservations for girls from the hills. The ANM and GNM courses are taught at 39 centres across Bengal. While the ANM course is of two years, the GNM is a three-year course. MP Shanta Chhetri wrote to Mamata and state health minister Chandrima Bhattacharya that many girls in Darjeeling and Kalimpong wanted to join the courses. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, guardians of the girls also want it. But in 2019, only seven girls from Darjeeling and three from Kalimpong were selected...I urged the chief minister to see if a part of the total number of seats can be marked for girls of the two districts (Darjeeling and Kalimpong).” Anit Thapa, chairperson of the BoA of GTA, also urged Mamata to reserve 45 of the 90 seats at two training centres, each of which are located in the state-run hospitals in Darjeeling and Kalimpong . “We have requested the chief minister to reserve at least half, that is 45 seats, for the hill candidates. This will create an opportunity of employment in the hills. The move will be appreciated by the people residing in the GTA area,” Thapa said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal: 3,175 Covid cases in a day, tests speed up||Bengal on Tuesday logged another highest single-day jump in Covid-19 infections, with 3,175 cases, and in tests with 35,107. Prior to this, the highest number of Covid infections reported in the 24-hour window was 3,080 on Monday, and the most number of tests was 34,214 on Saturday. The state reported 2,987 recoveries and 55 deaths in the 24-hour period ending at Tuesday 9am. Bengal has now gone past 1.22 lakh cases, of which nearly 93,000 are recoveries and 2,528 are deaths. Of the 3,175 new cases, Calcutta reported 600 and North 24-Parganas 664. But as Calcutta reported 636 recoveries and North 24-Parganas 607,  their total active cases fell again. Calcutta also accounted for 17 deaths on Tuesday and 1,110 deaths in all since the onset of the pandemic. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 580 deaths so far, with 11 of them on Tuesday. “Over nine days now, since August 9, the total active cases in these two high-incidence districts have been falling. On August 9, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases and North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,371 and North 24-Parganas 5,607,” said a minister. “It can be said with a degree of certainty that this indicates the efficacy of a slew of measures to contain the outbreak in the two districts.” He added that the share of total active cases in the two districts fell in nine days from 48.58 per cent to 43.5 per cent. The recovery rate of these two districts put together went up from 70.58 per cent to 76.97 per cent in the same span. Bengal’s recovery rate now is 75.51. The national rate is 73.52 now. Bengal also upped its daily testing in one month from 13,471 to 35,107. The tests per million count almost doubled from 7,814 to 15,358. The total test count has risen from 6.03 lakh to 13.82 lakh in a month. “Daily test count of 40,000 will be achieved in a matter of days. We will look to achieve 50,000 within  August,” said the minister. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.88 per cent, but was 6.04 a month ago. Of the 2,528 deaths, the state government reported 2,240 or 88.6 per cent as those with comorbidity “present”. In a month, 1,416 persons with Covid-19 have died, of which 1,316 had comorbidities, the government said. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 2.05 per cent, still behind the national rate of 1.92 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.31. The state reported 36.82 per cent occupancy in the 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 84 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 16.97 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 91,000, including 4,737 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri hospital fire sparks infants’ shift||A fire broke out at the Sick Neonatal Care Unit of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital here on Tuesday early morning, triggering evacuation of 56 infants admitted there. The blaze that started from a fan’s regulator prompted the authorities to inform the Siliguri Fire Station. Even before the fire brigade reached the spot, the flames had been extinguished by those present at the hospital. When the fire occurred around 3.30am, 56 infants were at the SNCU and all of them were evacuated from the ward immediately. An on-duty nurse has suffered a minor injury in the blaze, sources said. “All those children under treatment at the unit were immediately shifted. We suspect the blaze has occurred because of an electrical short circuit. Nurses and some parents helped us shift the children,” said Kaushik Samajdar, the superintendent of the NBMCH. Last year, a fire had broken out at the Critical Care Unit of the hospital. “These intensive care units are very sensitive areas of the hospital. There are so many gadgets at the units. On a regular basis, we examine the electrical points and the distribution cables to ensure that safety parameters are not compromised. Even then, we will conduct a probe to know what led to the blaze,” Samajdar said. The blaze left the parents of the children who were under treatment at the SNCU anxious. “My child is 10 days old and was under treatment at the SNCU. As soon as the hospital staff had called us, we rushed upstairs and found that the room is dark and full of smoke. We somehow managed to get our child outside,” said Debanti Sahani, a mother. After the incident, all the children were shifted to other wards. The electrical connections would be checked, necessary repairs would be taken up and the whole unit would be sanitised before it is reopened, said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court rejects Mahato plea to nix NIA probe||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday rejected a prayer by Lalgarh Trinamul Congress leader Chhatradhar Mahato to quash a probe against him by the National Investigation Agency in a case related to the anti-land acquisition movement in 2009. Although Mahato had already obtained bail in the case registered at the Lalgarh police station in Jhargram district, the NIA started its own investigation through an order issued by the central government on March 30. Moving the petition on behalf of Mahato, advocate Neil Basu claimed before the high court that since his client had already been granted bail in the case, the NIA should not be allowed to initiate a fresh investigation. The Centre’s counsel said the court should ask the Bengal government to hand over case records lying with the state police to the NIA. After hearing both the sides, Justice Debangsu Basak held that the NIA should be allowed to proceed with its probe. Mahato’s counsel told the court that it would not be possible for his client to go to Calcutta for the probe during the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Basak said the NIA would conduct the probe at Salboni in West Midnapore and it should be completed within four weeks. Mahato’s lawyer assured the court that his client would co-operate with the NIA probe. Mahato was the face of the anti-land acquisition movement that allegedly enjoyed the tacit support of Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati names & blames TMC ‘vandals’||Visva-Bharati authorities have filed a complaint of campus vandalism and loot against a Trinamul MLA and three other ruling party leaders, accusing them of leading a mob on Monday against the construction of a boundary wall on Pous Mela ground to pitchfork the controversy into a full-blown political battle. The central varsity has also written to the office of its chancellor, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking central forces to protect the campus, and said it would demand a CBI probe into the vandalism. In the complaint, officiating registrar Asha Mukherjee of Visva-Bharati accused Trinamul’s Dubrajpur MLA Naresh Bauri and three other party leaders of leading a mob on Monday to vandalise a gate of Visva-Bharati and a pandal erected as a camp office of the authorities, and of looting construction material. Visva-Bharati authorities have argued that as custodians of the Pous Mela ground, they had the legal right to put up a boundary around it. The varsity’s news release on Tuesday evening also clearly blamed Trinamul, indicating it was now putting the blame squarely on the ruling party for Monday’s incident. This comes in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s strong disapproval on Monday of a wall on Pous Mela ground. Citing varsity founder Rabindranath Tagore’s philosophy and ethos that went into setting up the institution, Mamata said at Nabanna: “I don’t want any construction that would barricade the natural beauty of Santiniketan and its red soil.” Birbhum’s Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal dismissed the varsity’s charges. “Trinamul had no connection with Monday’s incident, which was a result of spontaneous mass outrage against Tagore’s ideology being slighted with a boundary wall. Varsity authorities are trying to politicise the issue and frame our leaders,” he said. “I know that authorities had called up a BJP group to use them as human shield to stop protesters (on Sunday).” Tension over the wall started brewing early this month, and escalated when a group of traders protested against the construction on Independence Day, Saturday, by allegedly heckling the contractor. On Sunday, Visva-Bharati allegedly called up some varsity employees and BJP workers to act as a human shield against protesters. Responding to the Trinamul’s charges, Birbhum BJP president Shyamapada Mondal called it the ruling party’s ploy shift blame. “The Trinamul is trying to shift blame now that they are formally accused of campus vandalism,” he said. District magistrate Moumita Godara Basu invited vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty to the Bolpur SDO office to discuss the issue with residents and students, in accordance with the chief minister’s Monday order. However, sources said Chakrabarty on Tuesday hinted he would not attend any such meeting. Visva-Bharati is yet to officially state its stand. In its news release on Tuesday, Visva-Bharati also clarified for the first time that it wasn’t planning to put up a wall but a four-foot high fencing. “The height of proposed fencing shall only be 4 feet from the ground, which will be decorated by creepers and plants…. and on top of it there will be a 3-feet iron grill…with seven gates on the eastern side of the mela ground,” it said. The varsity will hold a 12-hour “fast protest” on Wednesday against the vandalism, it said. Varsity officials also alleged that goons ransacked the Santiniketan home of journalism professor Biplab Loho Choudhury on Monday evening. “They threw brickbats at his house,” a varsity source said. So far, eight persons have been arrested for vandalism in the case filed by the police, district police chief Shyam Singh said. The varsity’s separate complaint is being looked into, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Online session on career tips held in hills||The Kalimpong-based Paramount School and eCorrigo, a cloud-based education platform, jointly organised the hills’ first online career counselling session on Monday night as part of an initiative to motivate and mentor students from the region in time of Covid-19 pandemic and beyond. The expert in the inaugural session called “Career Talk” was Sumeet Mohanty, founder director of Phycolonic Technologies, an agricultural biotechnology company. Each talk would have prominent professionals from different works of life from across the country talk about their journey and hold interactive session with the participating students and their parents. Anupam Lama, the principal of Paramount School, said the objective of the online initiative was to help the students from the hills and the region in general realise their potential and make informed career choices. “Career Talk will be a bi-monthly affair. It is free of cost and anyone can join from anywhere,” he said. The experts would be drawn from various fields, including business, music, cinema, art and sports. “The experts will try to introduce students to the nature and scope of the subjects of their choice and educate them on the skills required. The experts will also share their insights and provide tips to students,” he added. Shivangi Jain, the business development manager of eCorrigo, said Career Talk hopes to help spread awareness on different career opportunities and the pitfalls associated with every profession. “Ecorrigo is a Saas (software as a service)-based online learning platform crafted to fill the gaps in the education sector created by the pandemic,” she said. Most of those who took part in the inaugural session were all praise for the initiative of the organisers. “It was quite interesting and inspiring. Enjoyed his (Mohanty’s) talks and stories,” said Aaryan Pradhan, a Class XII student of Dr. Graham’s Homes, who wants to take up horticulture and landscaping as a career. Naveen Bajla, a guardian who attended the virtual session with his daughter, said it was more informative than physically attending career guidance programmes. “Such guidance would certainly help our children in choosing their streams and career according to their strengths,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Students seek exam scrap over Covid fear, lock up principal||B.Pharm final-year students at the Institute of Pharmacy here locked up the principal and some other faculty members for around 36 hours since Monday morning, demanding that their exams be cancelled and marks be calculated on the basis of previous scores as two of their batch mates were showing suspected symptoms of Covid-19. The final batch of the four-year course has 62 students who didn’t appear for exam on Tuesday. The final-year exams are slated to be held from Tuesday till September 5 by the West Bengal University of Health Sciences. “One of our batch mates is showing symptoms of Covid-19. If we sit for the exams, there is always a risk of some of us getting infected,” said a final-year student. The agitators locked up the principal, Sourav Singha Roy, and some other teachers in their respective rooms on Monday morning when the institute informed that the exams would be held according to the university’s schedule. The protests continued till Tuesday afternoon when the principal fell ill. Two agitating students also fell sick. Doctors and paramedics from the district hospital reached the college and examined them. An official of the Jalpaiguri district administration held a meeting with the faculty members and the students, after which the agitation was lifted. “The varsity authorities have been informed that the exams could not be held in the current situation. We will wait for further instructions from the varsity,” said Singha Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Left seeks more Covid tests in East Burdwan||Left Front leaders in East Burdwan met the district magistrate on Tuesday and urged him to ramp up tests to arrest the spread of Covid-19 and aired their grievances regarding delayed arrival of reports which they said was critically delaying treatment of patients. The leaders referred to two specific incidents where reports of Covid tests came nine days after swab samples had been taken. “It took nine days to get Covid test reports of members of a family in Burdwan town even after two persons from the same family had died of Covid. Two doctors and nine health department employees received their Covid positive reports after nine days. It is clear in the health bulletin that there is a difference of two-four days between collection of samples and tests,” said Apurba Chatterjee, a CPM district secretariat member. The leaders also told the district magistrate, Vijay Bharti, that the cremation of bodies was getting delayed by five to six days because of the late arrival of test reports. During the hour-long meeting, they told Bharti that in most cases, Covid patients did not know what to do as the dedicated number of the health department in East Burdwan hardly worked. Sources in the district administration said Bharti had acknowledged the issues Left leaders raised at the meeting and promised to address the grievances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||North East||Bid to ‘kill’ Baghjan gas well fails||Hope turned into despair for both Oil India Limited’s field personnel and the blowout-hit as the operation to kill the Baghjan gas well failed on Tuesday afternoon. OIL suffered another blow as four of its seniormost officials, including the chairman-cum-managing director S.C. Mishra, tested Covid positive on Tuesday, leaving the energy major in a spot because they were actively involved in the day-to-day operations to cap-and-kill the well, an official told The Telegraph. “After the successful capping operations on Monday by placing the blowout preventer on the wellhead, our efforts to kill the well failed today because an underground casing valve ruptured and thus the kill fluid (liquid mud) did not reach its intended destination to stop the flow of gas,” OIL official Tridiv Hazarika said. The operation to kill the well in Upper Assam's Tinsukia district, about 530km east of Guwahati, involves injecting killing fluid into the well to stop the uncontrollable flow of natural gas from the reservoir. The well suffered a blowout on May 27 and caught fire on July 9. Killing the well will stop the fire at the wellhead. The experts will decide the future course of action on Wednesday afternoon. “We will know what will happen or the road ahead only tomorrow after assessment by experts,” Hazarika said. Locals who were near the site during the killing operation said that fire stopped for about 15 minutes. “ There were smiles all around. All of a sudden there was no fire, no sound. OIL people, journalists, all were happy. But it was shortlived because the well flared once again,” Hemanta Moran, who was at the site,  told this correspondent over phone. The brief silence, said Moran, had seen the many of affected people at the relief camps rushing to the well site while others started packing so that they could spend the night at home. “But it was shortlived. The despair was palpable. We don’t know how long we will have to wait,” he said. On Monday, OIL managed to cap the May 27 Baghjan gas well blowout after 83 days and two unsuccessful attempts, triggering all-round relief. But the relieved OIL personnel were not celebrating because the work was only half done. The blowout had affected over 8,000 people and left two OIL firefighters dead. OIL had last suffered a blowout in 2005, which took 45 days to cap, with the help of foreign experts. Court directive: In a development related to the OIL, the Gauhati High Court on Monday gave time till September 30 to the energy major, petroleum ministry, environment ministry, Dispur and Delhi, among others, to file para-wise reply to the PIL 35/2020 filed by advocate Mrinmoy Khataniar and mountaineer Amarjyoti Deka. The PIL had challenged the awarding of seven hydrocarbon oil wells in an around Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which includes Baghjan well No 5 which suffered the blowout. The petitioners feared that the ecology of the area would be adversely impacted. The PIL was filed before the Baghjan blowout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
19-08-2020||North East||Wider probe call as Manipur cancels medal||The Manipur government has withdrawn a gallantry medal awarded to sub-inspector of police Bheishamayum Debson Singh after the All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU) “exposed” his arrest in a 2013 drug trafficking case. On August 16, the state government suspended Debson for “concealing” the drug case pending against him, along with an inspector, E. Roshan Singh, for the lapses in “initial processing.” The N. Biren Singh government also instituted an inquiry, to be led by an inspector-general of police, for the lapses that have left the government embarrassed. However, on Tuesday, AMSU moved governor Najma Heptulla, seeking her intervention in the case by ensuring that the inquiry is “wide enough” and “headed by a retired high court judge.” The AMSU leadership had on Monday said the inquiry should re-examine the antecedents of all awardees because they have “reliable reports” suggesting more police personnel who were either terminated/suspended in drug haul cases have made it to the gallantry medals’ list. Union chief Peter Laishram told The Telegraph on Tuesday that a two-member AMSU team had submitted a memorandum to the governor in the morning. Copies of the memorandum have been marked to the chief minister and the state police chief. While appreciating the state government’s prompt action against Debson, Laishram said, “This is not the first time that such a goof-up is taking place while awarding gallantry medals. In the past, many police personnel involved in fake encounters were awarded gallantry medals on Republic Day/Independence Day. Subsequently they were chargesheeted at the behest of the Supreme Court. There is a need for more transparency while selecting awardees and placing these in the public domain. We want the antecedents of all awardees checked. There are around 26 awardees.” The AMSU has said that they will wait for the government to act on their demand. “But if we don’t get results, we will be compelled to reveal the names. The authorities should also probe if there is any link between additional director-general of police Arvind Kumar shooting himself and the doubtful selection process,” Laishram said. According to AMSU, Debson, then an assistant sub-inspector, was arrested from Pallel in Chandel district (it is now in Tengnoupal district) on April 28, 2013 along with 11 other police commandos while on their way to Moreh under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, with Respifed and pseudoephedrine tablets worth Rs 3.64 crore in the international market. Debson was reinstated and is now a sub-inspector in Imphal East. Government officials said on Tuesday that the three-member committee led by inspector-general of police (intelligence) K. Radhashyam Singh to probe the lapses would also carry out fresh verification of the antecedents/past records of all awardees and submit its report within a week. “ The CMO has taken the matter seriously. It has also thanked the AMSU for exposing the lapses,” one of them said. The Opposition Congress has used the goof-up to seek the resignation of the chief minister and inspector-general of police (intelligence) for allegedly “awarding police medals to accused policemen”. Senior Congress MLA K. Meghachandra Singh, through an online press conference on Monday, had termed the manner and selection of gallantry awards as “abuse of power” by awarding “handpicked policemen to serve their political bosses in the ruling BJP”. He also reiterated the Congress’ demand to transfer the high-profile 2018 Lukhosie Zou drug trafficking case to the CBI, among others. Zou is a former chairman of the Chandel autonomous district council. The drug seized from the eight arrested, including Zou, is said to be worth over Rs 28 crore in the international market. The Congress has been demanding a war against drugs in the Assembly too, Meghachandra said, adding there was “no hope left” from the present BJP-led coalition government in combating the drug menace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
19-08-2020||Opinion||History as guiding light to a post-Covid world||The outcome of a current case in the Supreme Court of India seeks to define the difference between contempt and freedom of speech at a rather unusual time in the history of our young republic. Its importance is based on our firm belief that the court is a constitutional body above all other institutions. It is an island of impartiality. The sense of comfort and reliance on its absolute fairness is based on the court’s history, barring rare exceptions, since the adoption of the Indian Constitution. India’s highest court seems even more reassuring when India and much of the world face a very uncertain future ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic. It is now evident that much of what we have taken for granted in our lifetime may no longer remain the same while the future of living and livelihood are changing irreversibly. Under these transformational circumstances, the promotion of majoritarian politics will even more deeply disturb the multicultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic cohesion which are at the core of India as a nation. The former Soviet Union and Yugoslavia, for example, faced slightly different, but not dissimilar, challenges. The eventual outcome is recent history. The politics of religious majoritarianism, while not a new concept, and attempts to impose it in a country like India is neither desirable nor sustainable. Furthermore, the world is also facing the consequences of the gradual demise of globalisation, which had underpinned post-war economic growth and prosperity. The world has also started to shrink in terms of communication, commerce, etc, thanks to the growth of digital innovations driving economic advances; something that will remain the most powerful force in the foreseeable future. Even prosperous Islamic nations are anxiously searching for change, aware of the limits to their wealth due to global warming and the impact of Covid-19. There are signals that their wealth, a part of which was being used to promote the spread of Islam, is now in need of a strategic pause. The evangelical spread of Christianity is more a part of history rather than a contemporary movement. The rituals of Christianity in economically prosperous nations have become more symbolic than ever before. The only exception is the progress, prosperity and disproportionate global influence of the historically religious people in the nation of Israel. How a changed world order emerges, or if the world is either able to overcome or is forced to cohabit with Covid-19, remains uncertain. The big question is how people and nations will be transformed as a consequence. In India, one may speculate that however we emerge, we must look forward to the lessons we learnt from our brief history as a developing nation state. The biggest lesson is a continuous one, that of reaffirmation of the Republic as a multicultural and multi-ethnic nation. India’s greatest strength lies in recognising and reinforcing its unity in diversity of language, religion, social mores and ethnicity. While these and more are enshrined in the Constitution, we have also been strengthened by growing access to all in education, health and wellbeing. India, however, is a work in progress and will need to continue to reinforce these fundamentals while facing the Covid-19 future. In this scenario, religion driven majoritarianism will be a hurdle and a threat as is amply evident from two nations in our neighbourhood. The indistinguishable nature of people is also evident from the spread of Covid-19, which does not differentiate by religion, cast, wealth, age or sex. The pandemic is a lasting lesson for the present generation and hopefully for the future as well. India’s unity in diversity must remain a personal choice rather than a politically imposed instrument. Finally, in the midst of the pandemic, China remains at odds virtually with the rest of the civilised world. As its largest neighbour, India will have to resolutely deal with China’s territorial avarice and greed. How we protect and restore our rightful, geographical sanctity will be the biggest symbol of self-reliance in post-pandemic India and our future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||Troubled waters: Mauritius oil spill||Sir — A massive oil spill on the south eastern coast of Mauritius and consequent oil seepage threatens unspoiled coral reefs and mangrove forests in a protected marine park in the Indian Ocean. Given that this is the third instance of a ship running aground in Mauritius in five years, one wonders why commercial sea routes are not planned in such a way that ecologically fragile and biologically diverse regions are avoided. Hearteningly, India has joined the effort to remove the spilled oil. After all, the global environment is common to all, and one country should not have to address such a catastrophe. Priyanko Mullick,Calcutta Truth to power Sir — The Supreme Court’s verdict holding the advocate, Prashant Bhushan, guilty in a contempt case is disappointing (“Bhushan guilty, iron hand needed: Supreme Court, Aug 15). The apex court is known for showing greater resilience, which is why it is puzzling that it got ‘scandalized’ just by some tweets. It seems that the fine line of distinction between criticism and contempt was lost in this case. In initiating the proceedings and convicting Bhushan for contempt of court, the bench appears to have cast aside its ‘majestic liberalism’ that the notable judge, V.R. Krishna Iyer, had referred to, and failed to reinstate the freedom of speech as the bedrock of democracy. As a free citizen, Bhushan was well within his rights to express his opinion. In fact, the views expressed in his tweets resonate with a number of people who think that in the last few years some judges could have upheld the Constitution more firmly and served the cause of justice better than they did. Some feel that on certain matters of great import, the verdicts given by the top court have adhered to the views of the ruling dispensation. Invoking the contempt law — it is but a vestige of colonial rule— cannot change people’s opinions. The nation must make space for those who speak truth to power. All citizens cherish their freedom of expression. As such, no one should be obliged to pay obeisance to any institution, overlooking its fallibilities and failures. Even the highest echelons of the judiciary must abide by the Constitution and their own conscience. They should be able to command the respect of people on account of their high professional and moral standards. The latest verdict could now have a chilling effect on the citizenry and deter them from justifiably critiquing the functioning of the judiciary. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — There is no doubt that with the Supreme Court’s decision to hold Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two ‘false and malicious’ tweets, the space for bona fide criticism of the judiciary has become more restricted. This is also apparent from the bench’s assertion that Bhushan’s case needs to be tackled with an “iron hand”, lest quips like these “affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations”. Many liberal democracies have decriminalized the ‘scandalizing’ of courts, based on the ideal that criticism is necessary to make the judicial system stronger and foolproof. As such, it is disappointing that the top court of India has taken a different stand. Further, it should not be forgotten that only in 2018 four Supreme Court judges came out publicly against the then Chief Justice of India in an open press meet. Was any contempt case filed or action initiated against them? It was expected that the apex court’s verdict would be advisory in nature. The decision of the bench to come down heavily on Bhushan in view of his dissent could shake the trust of the common man in the institution which he considers to be his last resort and rescuer. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — On the eve of the 74th Independence Day, the Supreme Court of India seems to have put a restriction on free speech with its verdict against Prashant Bhushan. The apex court as a public institution should be open to criticism. In fact, criticism can help strengthen such institutions. Of late, like governors forsaking their neutral position and working in favour of the ruling party at the Centre, several public institutions — starting from investigative agencies to the Reserve Bank of India — also seem to be falling in line with the government’s diktats. At such a time, the apex court’s decision to use an ‘iron hand’ to throttle dissent is all the more shocking. Surely the apex court will not punish everybody who criticizes it on social media? It must be ensured that in its 74th year of independence, India does not witness the end of liberal democracy.Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The Supreme Court has been the beacon of hope for Indians, overturning wrong decisions of successive governments. One hopes that this time the court will show the strength to reconsider its own verdict against Prashant Bhushan and defend free speech. Abhishikta Sanyal,North 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||Sands shift: UAE-Israel bilateral ties||A telephone call, under ordinary circumstances, is mundane. But this is not the case when telephone lines between the United Arab Emirates and Israel come to life. The buzzing network could be a testament to the commitment of the UAE and Israel to normalize bilateral ties. The thaw seems promising, at least on paper. The crown prince of the UAE has stated that the historic rapprochement — the UAE is only the third Arab nation to have inked a deal with Israel — implies that Israel would halt its plan of further annexation of the West Bank. Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, is seemingly amenable to a ‘provisional’ suspension. If the agreement lasts, it would strengthen Abu Dhabi’s claim on the pole position in the Arab world hierarchy. Israel, too, would benefit from a toehold in UAE’s security and economic segments. If it plays its hand well, Tel Aviv could even hope that the partnership with Abu Dhabi would cement a broader peace deal for the Middle East. The president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, who helped broker the agreement, has, predictably, made a lot out of it. This perhaps has something to do with the momentum  that has already been generated. The word is that Bahrain and Oman could be the next in line to bury the hatchet with Israel. But there are significant impediments that remain. Iran, Turkey and Syria have expressed outrage while the Hamas — it has a strong presence in the West Bank — has described the deal as a betrayal. Moreover it would be naïve to argue that the accord is an example of altruism triumphing cold diplomacy. This is because the stakeholders in the deal are equally desperate to consolidate their individual agenda. Mr Trump, facing tough presidential re-election, is keen to project the deal as a rare example of success in US foreign policy under his watch. It remains to be seen whether the US, beset by a raging pandemic and plunging economic prospects, is willing to remain interested in Middle Eastern intrigues. Israel and the UAE also have a common axe to grind: Iran. Tehran’s alleged expansionism has been a source of concern for both Abu Dhabi and Tel Aviv. New Delhi should follow the developments closely. The UAE-Israel bonhomie could be used to leverage India’s strategic, economic and security interests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||Quick call: Contact-tracing and privacy||The urgent need to conduct contact-tracing to slow the spread of the Covid-19 infection has brought out strange ironies. In both Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, the governments have chosen to allow the scrutiny of call detail records as one way of tracing the contacts of infected persons. It has been a few months since the police in Kerala started asking telecommunications service providers for the CDRs of patients. The chief minister invoked the use of technology for contact-tracing — reportedly, the method has helped. But the dilemma is an awkward one. The Opposition has complained in court about the infringement of citizens’ privacy. There is substance in that, since CDRs are being looked at without people’s consent. The reason given for this step is that patients often provide inaccurate or misleading information, or switch off their phones, so contact tracing becomes impossible. The chief minister’s assurances that only the records of those infected are being pulled to detect possible contacts and routes, that the records are strictly limited to this use and kept safe from third parties cannot blunt the privacy question. Neither can it be a fail-safe guarantee. The right of the administration to scrutinize call records when the public or the country is in danger from criminals is granted by the Indian Telegraph Act and the Information Technology Act. In 1996, the Supreme Court limited this to a public emergency. The Indian Telegraph Act mentions public safety too. A pandemic may be interpreted as a public emergency. Contact tracing by CDRs may be quick, effective, even necessary, but the discomfort regarding the right to privacy is bound to persist. How far can a government breach people’s privacy for their own good? When public safety is the priority, can citizens be asked to give up some of their rights? This question has risen repeatedly during the pandemic, and not in India alone, each time with regard to some measure a government has taken to stall the spread of the virus. The UP government, however, is fairly smug. Lying to the administration — when infected persons prevaricate about contacts — is a crime, and the police have every right to their call records. This administration discovers criminals whenever it is convenient, even if they are patients. It is seldom bothered about contesting rights and ethical dilemmas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion|| Festering digital differences||The economic slowdown induced by Covid-19 has caused unprecedented joblessness in India and the world. In India, women, who were slowly breaking the glass ceiling, are among the worst victims of the economic slump. In a recent working paper published by Ashoka University, the noted economist, Ashwini Deshpande, pointed out that a higher percentage of women (39 per cent) lost jobs than men (29 per cent) in April 2020. In terms of absolute numbers, men have lost more jobs but that is also because more men are employed than women. But a gap of 10 percentage points is alarming. With the gradual withdrawal of lockdown-induced restrictions and the reopening of industry, there will be a slow re-entry of workers in the workforce. The crucial question pertains to the re-entry of women workers in the workforce in the post-pandemic economy. Deshpande has indicated that “Women who were employed in the pre-lockdown phase were 23.5 percentage points less likely to be employed in the post-lockdown phase compared to men who were employed in the pre-lockdown phase.” The likelihood of fewer women getting employment in a post-pandemic situation is rooted in the low participation of women in the workforce in India. Before the pandemic, women’s participation in the workforce had been consistently low (25 per cent) compared to other countries over the last 15 years; the figure was even lower than that of Bangladesh. The burden of domestic work is an additional obstacle on the path of re-entry for women into the labour force. Significantly, given how inequalities are stacked against women, the gender gap in computing ability is likely to adversely affect women’s participation in work, especially in the formal sector, at a time like this. With the onset of periodic lockdowns, work from home has emerged as a feasible alternative. Several companies are adopting this new norm, which entails a high degree of computing ability. Computing ability combines several skills, including the ability to use the internet, participate in a virtual workspace, and so on. The latest national sample survey data on ‘Household Social Consumption on Education in India’ reveals glaring gender gaps in computing ability across states, sectors and social groups. Despite the proliferation of internet connectivity, computing ability among the women is far lower than men. In India, about 21.96 per cent of males above 14 years of age have computing ability; the figure is 13.12 per cent for women. There is also a stark rural-urban division. The survey indicates that only about 11 per cent of the rural population above the age of 14 can operate computers and use the internet. The percentage in urban areas for the same age group is 40. In India, among social groups, about 12.02 per cent of scheduled caste men (above 14 years) have computing ability; the corresponding figure for women is 6.11 per cent. About 21 per cent of men among other backward classes possess computing ability, but girls lag behind at 12.41 per cent. Among Muslims, the data are 15.92 per cent for men and about 9 per cent for girls. The gap is the widest among the socially upward classes; 37.51 per cent of men have computing ability to 24.31 per cent of women. While some forms of gender gap in education have narrowed down, the chasm in computing ability persists. A cross-tabulation of education level and gender would reveal a telling gap in different educational tiers. About 22.91 per cent of males above 14 years with secondary education have computing ability, but only 15.82 females have the similar ability in this category. At the higher secondary level, the figure for male students is 46.53 per cent while 39.86 per cent of female students have similar digital skills. The gap persists, albeit narrowly, among graduates: 74.94 per cent male and 71.52 per cent of female graduates can compute with ease. For decades, incentives, such as conditional cash transfer or providing bicycles to girl students, have driven policy interventions to promote women’s education and employment. It is high time the government addresses the digital divide by making laptops available to girls and training them to make use of these gadgets. Otherwise, women’s participation in the workforce would remain dismal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||A gig economy||A report in The Telegraph of August 10 reflects a curious situation on India’s labour front. Just when things seemed to be looking up, penniless migrant workers, home after harrowing months of lockdown, are refusing to return to work in the states they fled. They are offered tempting packages, with undreamt-of perks like air-conditioned travel or even flights; yet they would rather stay at home on subsistence wages under the rural employment guarantee scheme that actually offers no ‘guarantee’. Of course this is not the case everywhere: streams of workers are making their way back. What is striking is that so many people, in state after state, should demur. The ‘head-hunters’ (was the term ever used for such lowly workers?) find the situation ‘unimaginable’. The humble labourers have taught our corporate arbiters something. It is important that they draw the right lessons. ‘These people’ are not feckless laggards who won’t stir from home. On the contrary, they have always done so: at their modest level, they were upwardly mobile. The surreal reality of the lockdown has made them rethink their situation: poised on the edge of subsistence, with neither State nor employer reaching out a hand. Hence they feel their only course is to bunker down at home. This should surprise nobody. India’s owning classes have consistently abandoned the poor on the assumption, as classically expressed, that ‘those people’ are not like ‘us’: they don’t need resources, lucky them — they’ll always find a way to survive. Sure enough, they are resorting to that bedrock resilience, of spirit more than substance — assuming on their part, reasonably enough, that the fortunate classes do have resources, that they can work out their survival by themselves. Our economic order, it seems, is at its core no better than a sullen meeting of these adversaries. Covid-19 unhinged a production process held together by human relations as fragile as cobwebs. It thereby exposed that this structure makes bad economic sense. In hindsight, employers might have found it cheaper to support their workers, even subcontractual and casual workers, through the lockdown. A company lost Rs 2 lakhs on a single bus to carry 35 workers from Bengal to Maharashtra. That sum would have fed 200 workers for the six weeks of total lockdown, or fed and housed a hundred. The workers would not have been pauperized, ravaging the humbler end of the consumer economy, and employers would not now be losing production time. It is worth extending the maths to a total costing over the period. The corporates did contribute handsomely to the PM-Cares fund, sometimes retrenching their own staff to find the money, thereby meeting their CSR target and winning political merit. It did not ensure care for their embattled workforce, and the donors were too polite to ask. Perhaps our hard-nosed business model is not so hard-nosed after all. Perhaps Tagore was talking good economics when he wrote, ‘He that you pull down, pulls you down below’. The pandemic has revealed how instead of a dispassionate optimal nurturing of resources, including human resources, we have simply been shuffling the external tools of production in a workspace foetid with ancient distrust and alienation. The curve doesn’t flatten there. The short-changing of India’s proletariat is not restricted to what we conventionally think of as ‘the economy’. It is endemic to certain basic operations of the State that will determine where this country stands in ten years’ time. In a recent interaction, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, rightly stressed containment and contact-tracing as crucial in combating Covid-19. Throughout India, especially in rural areas, this task is carried out by Accredited Social Health Activist workers. They visit houses, record cases, trace contacts, organize quarantine and hospitalization. In normal times, they manage pregnancies, family planning, child health and immunization, and primary control of ailments like diarrhoea and malaria. They are on duty 24x7. They are the bedrock of India’s public health management. So what might be their salary? Basically, zero. They receive modest sums per case: each immunization, each hospitalized pregnancy, each family planning procedure, and so on. Some states add a small stipend. The average Asha worker earns Rs 4,000 a month. Payments are notoriously irregular. To compare, a Union government peon might get Rs 30,000. The genius of the Indian bureaucracy has a rationale for this bizarre imbalance. Ground-level welfare personnel count as volunteers, not employees. The National Literacy Mission is entrusted to volunteers and NGOs. Anganwadi staff, again, are ‘volunteers’ paid Rs 3,000 a month from Central funds, their assistants Rs 1,500, varyingly supplemented by the states and rarely crossing Rs 10,000. Their duties comprise 28 items under five heads, including home visits, record-keeping and surveys, besides actually looking after the children and expectant and nursing mothers. The National Education Policy has reinvented anganwadis as pre-primary schools, with the staff retrained for the purpose. The Policy notes that 85 per cent of a child’s development takes place by the age of six. The emoluments of those guiding this crucial development may seem uncommensurate. The private sector hardly shows up better. In many schools charging five-figure fees, parents would be shocked to learn how little reaches the junior teachers, and on what terms. Nurses and paramedics fare even worse in high-end private hospitals. There was an exodus from such hospitals in Bengal when the government health service recruited nurses on a large scale. In some places, most prominently Bangalore, nurses in private hospitals felt so disincentivized as to leave their jobs as the pandemic broke. All this adds up to an unedifying conclusion. India is running not only its industrial and service sectors but also its public health, child welfare and education systems overwhelmingly on the lines of a gig economy, to an extent rare and possibly without parallel. Yet India has little of the social insurance that mitigates the human damage of the gig economy in prosperous post-industrial societies, which usually attained that prosperity through stabler models of employment in the past. Do we have the money to do better? The blunt answer must be: if we mean business, we must find it by whatever means. We are not always austere in our spending. It would be educative to balance the cost of various welfare measures against that of grand governmental gestures, from Rs 3,000 crore for the Statue of Unity or Rs 20,000 crore as the first tranche for Delhi’s Central Vista, to Rs 1.1 lakh crore for the bullet train (even loans must be repaid) and Rs 1.45 lakh crore as company tax relief last year. The welfare possibilities of those last sums are awesome to contemplate. Such daydreams are futile, but they reflect a looming reality. Over half of India’s population is below 25. ‘Demographic dividend’ has become a cliché. We can reap that dividend only by investing in education, health and social support in a way precluded by our gut instincts of governance. To this day, we view education and health as things ‘we’ enjoy but ‘they’ need not, as ‘our’ advantage lies in exploiting the gap. Buried deep inside the NEP are discreet provisions for ‘alternative models of education’ with ‘less emphasis on inputs’ (read under-funded schools), even a Plan C for child labourers ‘not able to attend a physical school’. The problem with this abstemiousness for people other than ourselves is that it will turn the demographic dividend into a demographic market crash. Somewhere around 2030, India will be full of people with limited skills, denizens of an economy with few jobs on offer, and a level of health and well-being that leaves no-one immune. In fact, we are blest with a preview: it will be a countryscape not unlike today’s. But there will be no virus to blame, only ourselves. The author is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Property dealer shot dead in Dhanbad||Motorcycle-born assailants on Wednesday shot dead a property dealer at Matkuria, 4km from the Dhanbad district headquarters. The incident took place around 3pm when Satish Singh, 40, a resident of Kustore in Dhanbad, arrived at Matkuria Chhath Talab in an SUV and started heading towards Vikash Nagar on foot while talking on his mobile phone. Footage from a nearby surveillance camera showed two youths arriving on the scene on a motorcycle. The pillion rider got down from the two-wheeler, followed Singh for some time and shot him in the head after getting close to him. The duo fled towards Vikash Nagar after the incident. A team from the Bank More police station arrived at the site and took Singh to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Mukesh Kumar, who also went to the site, scanned the footage of the incident and took details from some passers-by and others from the adjoining areas. He also spoke to Singh’s family members. Singh was known to be close to Dhanbad BJP MLA Raj Sinha. Sinha said: “The murder in broad daylight in the heart of the town indicates the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.” Kumar said: “We have obtained footage of the incident and are trying to arrest those behind the murder.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Doctor who ran Ranchi’s first x-ray clinic dies of Covid||Dr Sujit Kumar Pal, a well known radiologist who ran the oldest x-ray clinic of the region, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ranchi on Wednesday. The 71-year-old doctor was admitted to a hospital a week ago after he was diagnosed with coronavirus. His condition started deteriorating on Tuesday and he died on Wednesday morning, his friends informed. Dr Pal was an active member of Chikitsak Sangh (Doctors ' Club). He was involved in establishing and successfully running K.C. Roy Memoroal Hospital on Circular Road in Ranchi. The Ranchi X-Ray Clinic, the oldest such facility in the entire Chotanagpur region, was run by Dr Pal. The facility was established in 1942 by his father Dr Saket Niwas Pal who was inspired by two renowned doctors of Ranchi of that time, Shishir Kumar Basu and Jadugopal Mukherjee The clinic completed 75 years in 2017. A first of its kind facility at the time of its establishment, the clinic has maintained its standard through the years. The funeral was organised by the Ranchi administration. Well wishers and friends could not attend as social distancing protocols had to be maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||CM, 6 ministers home quarantined||Chief minister Hemant Soren and six of his cabinet colleagues quarantined themselves at home on Wednesday, the day after health minister Banna Gupta tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said. All the seven of them had attended a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday when Gupta was also present. “The ministers who attended the Cabinet meeting have been quarantined at home. The due procedure as per the set protocol will be followed hereon,” said state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Rural development minister Alamgir Alam, transport minister Champai Soren, finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, labour minister Satyanand Bhokta, women and child welfare minister Joba Manjhi, health minister Banna Gupta and the chief minister had attended Tuesday’s cabinet meeting. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur, who was the first minister in Jharkhand to get infected by the SARS-COV-2 virus, did not attend the meeting. Gupta’s Covid test reports arrived on Tuesday night, and it is being assumed he was already infected when he attended the cabinet meeting, sources close to the minister said. Other staff and officials of the state cabinet have also come under the Covid scanner since the development, health officials said. Last month, the state cabinet secretary was also found infected by the coronavirus. Hemant is likely to be tested for Covid-19 for the third time, sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. He was tested for the first time in July after his cabinet colleague Mithilesh Thakur was found infected. In August, the CM got tested again after several staff members in his office tested positive for Covid-19. As per the SOP, all the ministers who came in contact with Gupta should be tested. However, health officials in Ranchi are yet to get any directive from the authorities regarding Covid test of the ministers. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr. V.B. Prasad said that a team of health workers was ready to test the ministers and their kin, but they were yet to get a go-ahead from senior health officials. Besides Gupta, former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Mahto, a Silli legislator, is the president of AJSU Party. At least three legislators and two ministers have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far. JMM’s Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto and BJP’s Ranchi MLA C.P Singh tested positive in July, Several members of the political fraternity in Jharkhand have also been under the Covid scanner. RJD chief Lalu Prasad, undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), was tested for Covid-19 last month. Besides, BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi was quarantined for 14 days after returning from New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases cross 4,000 in East Singhbhum, most are from steel city  ||The number of coronavirus cases the crossed 4,000 mark in East Singhbhum district after the district health department launched a drive to conduct at least 10,000 rapid antigen tests on Tuesday. In all, 8,600 people were tested in 11 blocks of the district, including Jamshedpur. As many as 345 people tested positive. This apart, 16 positive cases came up from regular lab tests, thereby taking the total number of new cases to 361 and the total number of coronavirus cases to 4,108. East Singhbhum civil surgeon R.N. Jha said that despite having made all necessary arrangements, the target of testing 10,000 samples could not be achieved because people did not turn up. "Those willing to get themselves tested were supposed to turn up at primary health centres (PHCs). We had also conducted extensive awareness campaigns in both urban and rural areas to ensure people came to PHCs that were designated Covid testing centres. But only 86 per cent of the targeted 10,000 turned up," Jha told The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that unlike lab tests for the coronavirus, rapid antigen test results are available in 30 minutes. All results from across the district had been compiled by 11pm on Tuesday. He said 85 per cent of those who tested positive were from Jamshedpur, indicating that the virus may not have spread as extensively in rural areas.  "As Covid is caused by droplets, health department will now take steps to spread awareness about the need to wear masks and adhere to social distancing in rural areas," Jha pointed out. The health department, he said, would conduct rapid antigen tests on the remaining 1,400 people on Wednesday so as to fulfil the target. Test centres had already been set up at Ghaghidih Central Jail in Parsudih, Transport Nagar in Mango and Police Lines in Golmuri. In Jamshedpur, businessmen belonging to the Sikh community have decided to keep their shops open till 3pm every day in Jugslai. On Sundays, they will keep shops closed. Dr Sahir Paul, who was district surveillance officer in Jamshedpur and had been transferred to Chaibasa a year ago, has now been transferred back here. A senior health department official said that Dr Paul had years of experience as a district surveillance officer and had done remarkable work to check the spread of dengue and other water-borne diseases in the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Leaking roof, no electricity, landmark stadium in Jamshedpur turns bad to worse||Pitch darkness will greet you if you happen to walk into the landmark Mohan Ahuja Stadium in Bistupur. A leaking roof and cracked walls disembellish the nearly seven decade-old stadium, which in its glory days was host to top shuttlers in the likes of Prakash Padukone, Syed Modi, Saina Nehwal and P.V. Sindhu. The condition of the stadium is turning from bad to worse with no scope of its revival in the near future, thanks to a legal wrangle between the Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) and Tata Steel over custody of the venue. The tin roof over the practice courts is riddled with holes, mirroring the condition of the reinforced cement concrete (RCC) cover over three wooden courts. The stadium caretaker remains busy flushing out accumulated water when it rains heavily. The tarpaulin cover arranged by JBA to prevent water from slipping through the tin roof two years ago has been blown away by the wind. “The stadium cannot be revived as the case filed by us is pending in the local court. Neither party (JBA and Tata Steel) can do anything in this regard. We are very much aware about the condition of the stadium,” said JBA secretary K. Prabhakar Rao. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Rao, also joint secretary of Badminton Association of India (BAI), said the concrete roof over the wooden match courts has also started leaking. “The court may be rendered useless if immediate attention is not paid,” he added. An official from the Tata Steel sports wing declined to comment on the issue. The matter went to court when Tata Steel, which owns the stadium, had asked JBA to vacate it in September 2014 However, the JBA filed a title suit against Tata Steel at the local court with the plea that the venue had been leased out to it until December 2017. In 2018, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (formerly JUSCO) disconnected electricity supply to the stadium for pending dues amounting to over Rs 50 lakh. The JBA filed a case against Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd deputy general manager (electrical) Manmohan Singh for illegally disconnecting power supply under the alleged influence of some of his “friends” who held a grudge against the shuttle outfit. The JBA had also filed a defamation case against Singh, and one against the utility major in the local court. With neither party inclined to budge an inch, the aspiring shuttlers are paying a heavy price. The number of outstation trainees who used to hone their skills at Shuttle Zone run by national coach Sachin Kumar Rana at the stadium has come down. Similar is the case with local players. “I have stopped training at the stadium. The wooden courts have become slippery and lighting is also not up to the mark,” a local shuttler said. People who play badminton for fitness’ sake presently use the venue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||50 cops who beat Covid to donate plasma at RIMS||Jharkhand’s policemen are emerging as one of the biggest hopes for the state government to fight the coronavirus, with 50 personnel, who have recently recovered from Covid, expected to join a special drive at RIMS for voluntary donation at the newly set up plasma bank on Friday. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan and senior SP S.K. Jha held an introductory meeting with the district police force, including many personnel who overcame Covid-19, at police lines to apprise them about the importance of donating plasma. Over 2,700 police personnel have so far tested positive for Covid-19 across the state since the outbreak of the virus. In Ranchi, over 150 policemen contracted the virus. Figures available with the district police suggest that about 54 cops have so far recovered while others are in the process of beating the virus. “Everybody was in a tizzy when police and other frontline workers were getting infected. However, the brighter side of it now is that we have several cops who have recovered and are ready to donate plasma. There is always a positive side to every aspect,” Ranjan said on Wednesday. “All policemen of the district force who qualify will be donating their plasma after mandatory tests,” he said. Police have played a stellar role in the fight against the virus, from being frontline warriors by handling law and order and feeding thousands during the lockdown through community kitchens at police stations to creating awareness about various safety measures. Senior SP Jha acknowledged this, saying the pandemic had revealed various aspects of policing. “Not only did we work hard to maintain law and order, the entire police force walked the extra mile to feed the hungry, enforce lockdown rules without ever worrying about the safety of our families and ourselves. Now, cops will also donate plasma to save lives,” he said. Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Jharkhand’s lone government-run tertiary care centre, began plasma donations in the last week of June. However, barely half a dozen recovered patients have so far donated plasma, sources said, adding that the poor response was because of several factors like inadequate antibodies in a cured person to the fear of re-infection, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Camera Club celebrates World Photography Day||The Dhanbad Camera Club (DCC) on Wednesday celebrated the 181st World Photography Day with an online competition of 75 photographs taken by shutterbugs across Dhanbad during the March 25 –August 12 Covid induced lockdown. The declaration of results was done at 10am by Anil Risal Singh, former President of the Federation of India Photography (FIP) via Zoom, and followed by a slideshow of the winning photographs. Arun Kumar Banerjee and Sanjay Das won first and second prize respectively for their topic Covid-19, while the Sagar Parmar’s entry on ‘fashion show’ placed third. Renowned photographer and FIP secretary general Barun Kumar Sinha, who is also the chief guest of the function, addressed the participants and presented a slideshow of images taken during his travel to nine countries in 2019. Arun Kumar Banerjee, secretary DCC conducted the programme. Talking to The Telegraph Online, DCC president Mukesh Srivastava, himself a renowned photographer said, this was the first online exhibition for World Photography Day since 2015. Srivastava who is also director (electrical) of the Directorate General of Mines Safety said, “There was no specific theme for the competition, apart from the fact that the photo had to be taken between March 25 to August 12. The first presentation of photographs was held on April 27”.’ “Previously, the entries were open for photographers from across the country. But this year we restricted the entries to photographers of members of Dhanbad Camera Club and other photographers of Dhanbad,” said Srivastava. The winner of the completion will get a cash prize or Rs 3000 while 1st and 2nd runner-ups will get Rs 2000 and Rs 1000 each which will be transferred to their account. “A panel of judges, including Ashok Karan and Sanjay Basu of Ranchi, and Trina Sanyal of Calcutta, judged the entries” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Heavy showers likely across Jharkhand till Friday||After two days of sultry weather, there seems to be some respite in sight with weathermen pointing to heavy showers in the next 48 hours. On Wednesday afternoon, IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued a heavy rain alert in southern, western and central Jharkhand during the next two days due to the impact of a low-pressure zone brewing over the Bay of Bengal. Satellite pictures indicated the formation of a low-pressure area over North West Bay of Bengal with an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6km  above mean sea level. "The low-pressure zone is likely to convert into a depression during the next 24 hours. This will trigger heavy rain in isolated places over Jharkhand during the next two days," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. According to Kotal the monsoon trough was also passing through Daltonganj. Southwest monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. Light to moderate rain was reported from various places. Capital Ranchi recorded the highest rainfall of 71.6 mm. A weather analyst at IMD’s Patna Meteorological Centre said the expected shower show during the next two days would help reduce the state’s rain deficit. So far, since the onset of monsoon, Jharkhand has received 615.9 mm rain against a normal of 713.7 mm, a deficit of 14 per cent. In Met parlance rain deficit of up to 19 per cent is considered normal. Ramgarh, Palamau, Latehar, Koderma, Dumka and East Singhbhum have achieved surplus rain so far, while the rest of the 18 districts including capital Ranchi still figure in the deficit list. Last year, during this time of the season, Jharkhand was facing a rain deficit of 32 per cent, revealed Met data. "This year, the situation is much better in terms of rainfall distribution. We are expecting more than normal rain in Jharkhand in August. The current spell of rain will help reduce the deficit figure in Jharkhand," said a weather official at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Man on parole kills wife, jumps into well in Palamau  ||A man under trial and on ‘parole’, Vidrohi Singh (55), killed his wife Lalita Devi (50) at his village home at Benaika in Tarhassi police station on Tuesday night, said SDPO Lesliganj Anup Kumar Baraik. Sub-inspector of Tarhassi police Nemdhari Rajak said they have recovered a tangi (a kind of axe) with which Singh killed his wife. Singh, a panchayat sewak of Panki block, finding his wife dead in a pool of blood, jumped into a nearby well, following which he cried for help. Rajak said the villagers rushed to the well at around 2am and pulled him out, but Singh did not survive. Villagers said that Singh had consumed some pesticides as well, but this can only be proved after a post mortem, said the SDPO. The body has been sent to a hospital in Daltonganj. “On July 15, Singh was caught by an ACB (Anti-Corruption Bureau) team on charges of taking of Rs 5,000,” said Baraik. Singh was then sent in judicial remand. Singh was on parole, as all UT (under trial) inmates are given a parole of 45 days by the judiciary in wake of Covid pandemic, said Barik. “Singh’s parole was set to end on September 8. He was both depressed and angry,” he said. Quoting villagers Baraik said, “Singh was angry at the person on whose complaint the ACB team had caught him red-handed with bribe money, resulting in his suspension and remand in judicial custody.” “Singh was determined to teach the complainant a lesson for sending him to jail and robbing him of his job, but Singh’s wife Lalita Devi, a pragmatic woman, would always dissuade him from taking revenge. A stiff war of words between Singh and Lalita would ensue,” he quoted the villagers as saying, adding that following such a tiff, both husband and wives lost their lives on that fateful Tuesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||SC dismisses petition challenging appointment of Jharkhand DGP||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) challenging appointment of Jharkhand Director General of Police (DGP) MV Rao. The apex court ruled that it was a service matter and cannot qualify as a PIL. Petitioner Pralhad Singh had knocked on the door of the court challenging the appointment of Rao. Former DGP Kamal Nayan Choubey was transferred from his post on March 13 before the completion of his two year tenure and was replaced by Rao as the acting DGP. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) also questioned the government's decision to transfer Choubey in a premature rejig. Representing the Jharkhand government, Advocate General Rajiv Ranjan and senior advocate Fali S Nariman informed the apex court that the PIL moved by the petitioner was not maintainable and the DGP will get regular appointment once the UPSC panel gives its nod. After a 15-minute hearing, the court dismissed the PIL by ruling in favour of the State government. Senior advocate Venketraman argued in favour of the petitioner. The appointment of Rao as the DGP had triggered a controversy with some members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) terming it unethical and politically-motivated. Sources said that Choubey, who was the DGP of Jharkhand prior to the 2019 Assembly polls, was transferred because he was close to the former Raghubar Das-led government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jumbo found dead in Jharkhand last week||When forest officials of Ranchi observed World Elephant Day on August 12 for motivating people to help conserve and protect elephants from various threats they face, they found a grown up male elephant dead. After being informed that an elephant with an injury on a leg was seen standing for a long time in a small river, the forest officials went to look for it on August 11 but could not find despite searching in the jungle. When the team that had the local range officer and a veterinarian resumed their search the next day, they found the elephant lying dead in Chipidih forest in the Angara area of Ranchi district, around 45 km from the Jharkhand capital. “It’s a big loss,” said Saba Ahmad, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Ranchi, confirming the death of the elephant and they did not get the chance to attend the animal. The elephant had an injury on one of its front legs and died of the septic wound, junior forest officials informed, quoting the veterinarian who had accompanied them. “Yes, it must be the same elephant,” DFO Ahmad confirmed when asked about an injured elephant that was seen in the same area with a similar wound about two months ago. The Telegraph had reported on June 7 that an injured elephant was found standing on a small water body near Hesadih village in the first week of June that was taken care of by the villagers. Seeing the elephant standing like that, the villagers guessed the animal must be in severe pain. They had kept paddy and vegetables like pumpkins and bottle gourds near the water body so that it could eat something. They also informed the local forest officials who, in turn, informed their seniors. DFO Ahmad then went to the spot with the veterinary surgeon of Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Munda Biological Park to see the wounded animal. Despite searching in the jungle, they could not find the animal at the spot, he had informed this paper. But, judging by the photographs and video clips shown to them, they found there was an injury on the left front leg of the elephant. They left some broad spectrum antibiotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and enzymes with the villagers and advised them to stuff those in pumpkins and bottle gourds and keep near where the elephant was expected, vet Ajay Kumar had added. After two months, an elephant with similar injury was found again in a nearby forest, suggesting it could be the same that was seen two months ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||State health minister Banna Gupta tests Covid positive||State health minister Banna Gupta and AJSU party chief Sudesh Mahto were among the 1266 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the tally in state above 25,000. Both Gupta and Mahto tweeted on Tuesday night that they have tested positive for the SARS-COV-2 virus. “I decided to get myself tested for Covid infection today, and the report came positive. Whoever came in contact with me recently should get themselves tested,” the minister tweeted. While Gupta had no symptoms, Mahto got himself tested after showing minor symptoms of Covid infection, he stated in his tweet. Gupta is the second minister in the Hemant Soren Cabinet to get infected by the virus. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur was found infected last month. Former deputy chief minister, Sudesh Mahto, is the second legislator in the state to test positive for the virus. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha's (JMM) Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto was infected by the virus last month, forcing several politicians into preventive isolation. Sudesh represents Silli constituency. Meanwhile, Covid cases skyrocketed in Ranchi on Tuesday as 426 people tested positive. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in Jharkhand, reported 360 fresh cases in 24 hours. As per figures with the health department, the Covid tally in Ranchi was 5059 by Tuesday night, while the number of cases in East Singhbhum was 4250. As per government data, Jharkhand had 9359 active cases by 10pm on Tuesday, and 15709 patients had recovered. State's Covid recovery rate was 62.01 per cent. However, the Covid mortality rate jumped to 1.04 per cent as nine patients died during treatment, government figures stated. East Singhbhum has reported 103 of the 265 Covid casualties in state so far, while 42 Covid patients have died in Ranchi. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 340 patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours. The government has so far collected swab samples of 5.09 lakh people and tested 5.03 lakh of them. On Tuesday, as many as 27,260 people were tested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
19-08-2020||Jharkhand||No Muharram procession in Ranchi this year||In the wake of the pandemic, Muharram, expected to be observed later this month, will take place without the ritualistic processions, the central Muharram committee announced on Tuesday after a meeting. Members of the committee will soon meet chief minister Hemant Soren to apprise him of their decision. The general secretary of the committee, Akil ul Rehman, in a statement said they will soon issue detailed guidelines for smooth observance of Muharram but they have broadly decided to keep it a low-key affair. He said: “Like Id and other festivals, we shall observe Muharram without any fanfare this time because of the global pandemic. We have decided to not take out any procession or display arms. We will formally submit our resolution to the state government soon.” The Bokaro administration on Tuesday lodged an FIR against Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) district president Mayank Singh and other party supporters for allegedly burning the effigy of chief minister Hemant Soren. The effigy was allegedly burnt while the BJYM cadre protested the chief minister not paying tribute to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary. The protest took place at Nayamoad under the city police station on Monday. The FIR, lodged by Chas circle inspector Narendera Kumar Singh at the city police station, alleges that the BJYM members gathered for the protest in violation of rules meant to stem the spread of Covid-19. The demonstration allegedly took place without the permission of a competent authority. The district administration released a press statement late on Tuesday saying that the “gathering of people is prohibited in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite this, the effigy of the chief minister was burnt by Mayank and his supporters.” The BJYM activists burnt the effigy of Hemant to protest the JMM-Congress government’s failure to recognise Vajpayee’s contributions by not paying tribute to his statue installed at the Jharkhand Assembly on his death anniversary. Mayank said: “Lodging an FIR against me is unfair. Many groups and political leaders have burnt effigies or staged demonstrations despite the Covid-19 restrictions. The JMM-Congress combine seems to have forgotten Vajpayee’s contributions, who played an important role in the formation of the Jharkhand state.” A man was arrested in Giridih on Tuesday for allegedly duping 60 jobseekers of Rs 40 lakh. He had promised the youths government schools jobs. Manoj Kumar, a resident of Old Bazaar in Paliganj police station area of Bihar’s Patna, was arrested by police from Ranchi, where he was operating. Apart from Giridih, he had committed similar crimes in Sahebganj and Pakur. The accused claimed that he was the director of “Skill India National Board of Scholarship and Skill Development (NBSSD)”. He would give out fake appointment letters. Clerks and other staff at the Giridih education department are under the scanner in this connection. The youths with the fake appointment letters would get permission to work at 60 government middle schools. The scam was discovered only when they did not get their salary. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu said an FIR was lodged in the mofussil police station on August 13 against Manoj. “We are investigating how the victims were allowed to work in government schools on the basis of a fake appointment letter from a private institution,” said Renu. A herd of elephants crushed to death a villager at Gola block in Ramgarh district, prompting demands for compensation and other government benefits. The incident took place in Jayantibeda village of Sadam panchayat. When 56-year-old Suleman Ansari, who had gone to the forest with his cattle on Monday as usual, didn’t return, a search was launched. On Tuesday morning, villagers found his dead body in the forest with footprints of elephants around it. This was the second such death in the area in as many days. The villagers said forest department officials had failed to do anything to help them feel secure. Officials tried to pacify them by giving Rs 5,000 for Ansari’s funeral and promising compensation. Forty-five people were discharged from six Covid-19 treatment centres in Dhanbad after their swab test report came negative. Fodder traders of Dhanbad on Tuesday staged a demonstration and submitted a memorandum to the administration protesting the district transport department’s move to impose fines on vehicles carrying goods such as straw above the prescribed height of 15ft. The traders claimed that their survival would be at stake if the restriction was imposed. A bogey of a goods train carrying stone chips derailed on Tuesday near Pradhankhanta railway station on the Dhanbad-Howrah line while being shunted in the yard around 12.30pm. A team of railway officials reached the site along with the accident relief train. The railway has launched an enquiry. According to sources, the stone-laden bogey was to unload the stone chips beside the track at the railway station. However, the stone chips started unloading before shunting could take place, leading to the accident. Since very few trains are running on the line due to Covid-19 restrictions, there was no major traffic disruption. The public relations officer of the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway, P.K. Mishra, said: “Normal traffic on the line was restored within three hours.” Four shops in Dhanbad’s Sudamdih police station area were robbed on Monday night. Goods and property worth thousands of rupees went missing from three grocery shops and a bulk tea seller. The criminals entered the shops by breaking open the gates and windows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-330
