20-08-2020||Calcutta||Free Covid rapid antigen tests for Calcutta fringe municipalities||Rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 will be conducted for free in 10 municipal areas on the northern fringes of Calcutta, covering nearly 20 lakh people, a health department official said. Kamarahati, Madhyamgram and Barasat are some of the municipalities the department has selected, based on a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks, to roll out the test. “Anyone with a doctor’s prescription advising a Covid test can get himself or herself tested for free,” the official said. Those who will test positive in the antigen test would be immediately referred to a Covid-19 hospital. A cell will be set up to trace contacts of those testing positive and arrangements will be made to get the contacts tested as well, the official said. If any of those testing negative has mild or moderate symptoms of Covid-19, he or she will be subjected to the confirmatory RT-PCR test. “The move will bring tests closer to doorsteps so more people can be brought under surveillance. We want to increase the number of tests in all hotspots,” an official said. Other than Kamarahati, Madhyamgram and Barasat, the municipalities where the test will be introduced are Garulia, Halisahar, Kanchrapara, Naihati, Titagarh, North Dum Dum and Barrackpore. Officials at Swasthya Bhavan said North 24-Parganas, with a population of around 1.2 crore, has the highest number of Covid cases in Bengal after Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Desun Hospital asked to deposit Rs 10 lakh||The state clinical establishment commission has asked Desun Hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh while dealing with a complaint that a Covid-19 patient died because the hospital refused to treat her as her family was unable to pay an initial deposit of Rs 3 lakh. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, which passed the order on Wednesday, also directed Desun to not take any advance payment from a patient before admission. “Ideally, Desun’s licence should have been cancelled for this. But many patients are getting treated there and we do not want to take such a step. We have asked the hospital to deposit Rs 5 lakh by Tuesday. They have to deposit another Rs 5 lakh within another two weeks,” said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairman of the commission. “We have also asked Desun to not take any advance payment as deposit while admitting Covid-19 patients. This order is applicable only on Desun Hospital and not other private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.” But there will be no bar on accepting payment for the bill raised for treatment at the hospital, he clarified. The commission had earlier issued an advisory that private hospitals could take up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is lower, as advance payment from Covid-19 patients. A 60-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid died on August 10 allegedly while waiting in an ambulance outside Desun Hospital for over an hour. The woman’s son had alleged that the hospital refused to admit her despite repeated pleas because the family could not pay Rs 3 lakh immediately as initial deposit. The son told Metro on Wednesday that his mother lay in the ambulance outside the hospital from 9pm to 10.30pm. “I will be happy if the commission is able to force all hospitals to start treatment without waiting for any initial deposit. I do not want anyone else to suffer what my mother had to suffer,” he said. Tapas Banerjee, a senior official of Desun Hospital, told this newspaper on Wednesday that they were yet to get a copy of the order. “No one is above law. We will abide by the law,” he said. The commission asked Desun, the woman’s family and the hospital from where she was transferred to file affidavits. “The hospital where the woman was initially admitted before she tested positive for Covid-19 had some responsibilities, too. They should have stabilised the woman’s condition before asking the family to shift her,” the  commission chairman said. Anandaloke licence off Banerjee said the commission had decided to cancel the licence of all units of Anandaloke Hospital as it had declined to pay Rs 2 lakh to a complainant. The commission had awarded a compensation of Rs 3 lakh to the complainant about a year ago. But the hospital paid only Rs 1 lakh. “Anandaloke officials recently informed the commission that it would not be able to pay the remaining amount and so we have decided to cancel the license of the hospital. We have communicated our decision to the state health department,” Banerjee said on Wednesday. The Telegraph could not reach any official of the hospital for a comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
20-08-2020||Calcutta||CMC housing complex directory for Covid fight||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has prepared a directory of all housing complexes in the city with phone numbers of the office-bearers of the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). Similar directories have also been prepared for Salt Lake, New Town and Howrah. None of these places had any such directory before. Senior state government officials said the directories would be distributed to the highrise buildings soon. RWAs have emerged as a crucial enabler in the fight against the Covid pandemic and officials said the availability of such directories would help the associations consult each other during crisis. The directories will have phone numbers of police stations, councillors and health department helplines, which the associations can call during an emergency, a senior state government official said on Wednesday. “The RWAs will have phone numbers of important government establishments that can be of help in fighting Covid-19. Similarly, the booklets also make available the contact details of the RWAs to the police stations and civic officials,” a state government official said. The secretary of an RWA in south Calcutta said consulting other condominiums on how to deal with an issue, such as allowing visitors or dumping garbage, would be very helpful. The directories, she said, will make it easier for the associations to contact police or other departments. The distribution of the directories to highrise buildings and various government establishments will start soon. The directories for Calcutta, Salt Lake, New Town and Howrah were released on Wednesday at the CMC headquarters. “There are many elderly people who live in these gated communities but their children live in other cities or abroad. There have been instances when the elderly people did not find anyone to help them when they had fever. If the residents’ welfare associations have the phone numbers of the police or the health department, they can get in touch with them immediately,” said Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who is Calcutta’s nodal officer for Covid management. “Similarly, if police or other government officials have phone numbers of the office-bearers of the apartment buildings, they can also get in touch with them” if needed, Bandyopadhyay said. A CMC official said they had made large posters with phone numbers of the health department, helpline number to call an ambulance to transport a Covid-19 patient and phone numbers of police stations. “The posters will be pasted in housing complexes,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Molest cry in Salt Lake Sector V, accused held||A woman who was walking home from her workplace in Sector V with a colleague was allegedly moles-ted by a man in front of the Aegis building in Sector V’s EP Block on Tuesday night. The woman mentioned in her complaint lodged with police that the man, later identified as Babu Halder, 22, had allegedly grabbed her hand from behind before groping her. He tried to run away but the woman gave him a chase. Seeing her run after the man, shopkeepers and passersby came to her aid and caught the man, an officer of the Electronics Complex police station said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said a police team, alerted by the woman’s cries, rushed to the site and detained the man. The woman then went to the police station and filed the complaint. Halder was arrested based on the complaint. The woman, who works in an BPO, alleged that the cops asked her a lot of “intriguing questions” and asked her to narrate the incident several times and also to rewrite her complaint repeatedly. “It was quite humiliating and I felt extremely bad as the personnel at the police station seemed reluctant to lodge the complaint,” the woman said. An officer of the commissionerate, however, said she had been asked to rewrite her complaint as the incident was not clear. “We tried to help her in every possible way. A lady officer attended to her all through,” said the officer. Halder has been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman). If convicted, Halder can be sent to jail for five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Garden High International initiative to encourage reading||A school has developed a library curriculum for students during the Covid pandemic to encourage them to read more. Garden High International School has introduced the curriculum in July, as part of which students from Class VIII to XII are being given a genre each month and they are picking books from the collection at home, downloading them from the Net or having links to e-books sent by the school. The reading is followed by discussions, quizzes, skits like inviting a character to dinner. A Class VIII student invited Rusty after reading Ruskin Bond’s Room on the Roof and had a conversation with him and a Class X student picked up the Avoxes from The Hunger Games to make a film on. They will also have an assessment each month and the grade awarded for that will be reflected in report cards. Remarks from the library-in-charge will feature, too, in the report cards. “Why should students focus only on subjects that they will appear for in the boards. They have to read, differentiate between genres, prepare for research and learn to independently access information,” said Anuradha Das, the director of Garden High International School. But the school does not want to take away the joy of reading and hence evaluation will be about book reviews, audio and video presentation. “The activities have to engage the child and not be cliches or such that they can do after reading the synopsis and not the book,” said Anuradha Ganguly, manager, resources and library systems. Each month till May next year will be dedicated to a different genre from classics, war stories or even band books and every class is given a library period once a week. The curriculum — designed by Das, Ganguly and Nandini Mukherjee, the dean of students — also includes library orientation, readiness, learning about bibliography, citation and ethics and plagiarism. The school’s library has 19,000 books comprising fiction, non-fiction and reference books. The library is the “heart” of the school, according to Indranath Guha, the chairman of Satikanta Guha Foundation, which runs Garden High International and two other schools. “If students and teachers make a requisition of a book which is not available, the school buys it if it is worthy to be in the library,” said Das. “We had to think about how we could include the library in our online classes. When the situation normalises we will pick up things that we introduced during this period and bring it in our physical classrooms.” The school feels it will introduce boys and girls to research and the age for doing research is also going down. Das said earlier students would do research only in masters or graduation but now in some of the  international curriculum even high school students are expected to do research. “It’s not that all students do not read. But even those who read they flounder when they have to do research and hence we want to prepare them for it also,” said Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur appeal after student tests positive||The IIT Kharagpur authorities have asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. An official of the institute said the student who tested positive was being treated at a Calcutta hospital. His condition is stable. Those who came in contact with the infected student have been asked to get themselves tested at BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus. “They will undergo the rapid antigen test at the campus hospital,” the official said. The 300-odd students who could not leave the campus because of lack of transport options in the middle of the pandemic are sharing three hostels. In a notice sent to the wardens, the dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, said: “In view of a Covid-19 case detected in one of the halls and since the student has taken dinner in the private mess, we were compelled to seal all the halls of residence.” The notice says: “All students who are presently staying in the campus must vacate the halls latest by August 23... and proceed to their hometowns.” Of the 3,200-odd students of the institute, only about 300 are still on the campus. The rest vacated the hostels by June 20, in compliance with a notice issued on June 10. Some of the 300-odd are from remote areas of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Jammu. On the campus, they have been put up at Madan Mohan Malviya Hall of Residence, Lal Bahadur Shashtri Hall of Residence and Sister Nivedita Hall of Residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: Rush to buy ahead of two-day lockdown||Calcuttans stocked up on groceries and packed refrigerators with ready-to-eats ahead of two consecutive days of “complete lockdown”. Except essential service personnel and people in emergencies, no one will be allowed outside between 6am and 10pm on Thursday and Friday. Even food stores and milk booths will be closed. Biswajit Saha, who runs a mom-and-pop store on Hindusthan Road, had sold 40 litres of milk more than he usually does. Around 7.30pm, he was lamenting he could have sold at least 120 litres more had he got the arithmetic right. “One man who buys two pouches took home 10 today,” Saha said. Many are worried about supplies on Saturday morning as well. Milk may or may not be there this Saturday but banks will be closed. The two-day lockdown means four consecutive bank holidays. There were longer queues outside ATMs across the city on Wednesday, amid apprehension that they may not be refilled over the weekend. The manager of a nationalised bank said his bank had refilled all their ATMs. The pharmacies were crowded as were liquor stores. Exemptions during the lockdown include health services, medicine stores, police stations, courts, jails, electricity and conservancy services, cooked food delivery services, newspapers and electronic media. Police teams across the city used loudhailers and microphones to announce the lockdown dates and rules. Officers in Gariahat said the market was unusually crowded on Wednesday and they had to announce again and again the need to maintain the social distancing rule. On Wednesday, several elderly citizens were seen queuing up outside a nationalised bank near Behala Chowrasta around 11.30am. As only four visitors were being allowed inside, the queue kept extending. Rishikesh Hazra, said he was more comfortable with withdrawal from a bank than an ATM. “I am scared someone will see my PIN and steal my money,” said the retired school teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||CESC ready with revised June bills||CESC on Wednesday said it had revised the bills for June and would send them out with an explanation of the method of calculation printed on them. Only those consumers who  have not already paid the earlier bills are expected to pay the revised ones. The announcement by the private power utility came almost a month after the Mamata Banerjee government had on July 20 advised consumers aggrieved over their bills against paying the amount and asked them to wait for revised bills. The RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group-owned utility — which enjoys a virtual monopoly over 33 lakh consumers across 567sq km in Calcutta and its surrounding areas — also decided to “keep in abeyance” the dues for March, April and May, after hundreds of consumers cried foul over “absurdly high” bills. The utility is yet to offer any clarity on what it would do with the sum kept in abeyance, except for the amount in June. “Let’s keep in focus that this (the reconsideration) was done only by us as a consumer-friendly initiative. There have been parallels in other parts of the country, but nobody else tried doing what we are doing,” said Debasish Banerjee, CESC managing director (distribution). The revised bills will be accompanied by a cover letter, in which CESC will explain the situation to the consumers. The bills for June, issued in July, became the subject of countless jokes and memes on social media, with numerous notable civil society members joining in. Prior to the rethink, the utility had been repeatedly asserting that the bills were based on actual meter readings and it had adjusted them with the previous ones drawn up on an average of the past six months because the lockdown had disrupted meter readings. The average on which the past bills were drawn up was based on power consumption in the winter months, when air-conditioners and fans were not in use. According to Banerjee’s estimates, the revised June bill would be a fraction of the total units consumed since March or April. “For instance, if the total units consumed in the four months from March were 1,000 units, then we are placing each month’s consumption at 250 units…. The 250 units for June is all the consumer will have to pay for in the revised bill, in this example,” he said. “Those who have already paid the previously issued June bill need not pay anything. The necessary adjustment for their payment made towards units presently kept in abeyance will be given subsequently. They too will not be denied of the benefit.” Sources in the state government said the utility’s management started taking the measures after pressure intensified through calls from the “highest possible level” of the government. Power minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay and Trinamul Congress’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee had issued statements, claiming credit, after the matter  was picked up for agitation by not only all prominent non-Trinamul parties but also apolitical fora. The July protests were the second instance in two months when CESC faced the ruling establishment’s — and people’s — rage. The earlier one was in May when CESC was unable for around a week to restore normality to some pockets after Cyclone Amphan had caused havoc. In the wake of Amphan, Mamata repeatedly underscored that her government had nothing to do with the monopoly that was granted to the utility three decades ago. “CESC had claimed to the government that absurdly high bills were few and far between and an aberration,” a senior state minister said. “Nobody was questioning CESC for bills issued for higher than usual consumption in middle-income and high-income households during the lockdown months. A bill including the dues for those months would naturally be much higher. But bills with astronomical amounts, especially for low-income households with no ACs or other heavy appliances, simply cannot be justified,” said a senior minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Most patients helpless on hospital deposit, pledge to clear final bill ||A private hospital in Calcutta admitted 50 patients on Tuesday and Wednesday and asked for Rs 50,000 as advance payment from each. Only one patient could pay the amount, while 18 paid much less. The rest expressed their inability to pay during admission but promised to pay in full at the time of discharge. The data showed how patients are inconvenienced if a hospital insists on Rs 50,000 as advance at the time of admission. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has issued an advisory allowing private hos-pitals to take a deposit of up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is less, during admission. The advisory also states that if a patient is unable to pay instantly, the hospital has to admit him or her but the amount has to be paid within 12 hours. If a patient fails to pay up within that time, the hospital can ask that the bed be vacated within an hour. The chief executive of the private hospital that admitted 50 patients on Tuesday and Wednesday said none of them was shifted because their families had promised to pay during the course of treatment. “Several patients told us they would not pay because they had cashless insurance policies,” said the CEO, who declined to be quoted by name. Eighteen of the patients paid between Rs 5,000 and Rs 20,000, he said. “Some of them, Covid-19 patients, had come alone to get admitted. When our staff asked them for deposits, they said they had come to the hospital with whatever cash they had at home at that time,” said the CEO. “Their family members,  who did not come to the hospital but are in touch with us over the phone, said they were too hassled at that moment to arrange for more money.” The CEO added relatives of these patients had promised to pay the entire treatment cost before discharge. Some of those who could not pay at the time of admission said they did not have enough cash at home and had hurried to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. “At least one of these patients had severe symptoms and is admitted in the intensive care unit. Such patients don’t come to the hospital with credit or debit cards,” said the CEO. Asked why they were insisting on Rs 50,000, and not on 20 per cent of the estimated cost, the CEO said it was almost impossible to guess how expensive the treatment of a Covid patient with symptoms could be. “Such estimates can be given for someone who will undergo planned surgery,” he said. There have been allegations against several hospitals that they are asking for huge deposits and refusing to admit patients if their demand is not met. Public health experts point out saving a life is most important. “True, money is needed for treatment, but that should not be a pre-condition for access to healthcare, especially during a pandemic such as the one we are going through,” said a public health professional. A person testing positive for the coronavirus disease is usually under immense emotional and psychological pressure. Such people often don’t have instant access to adequate money. “We are asking for Rs 50,000 from each patient coming for admission, in accordance with the recent advisory of the regulatory commission. But few patients can pay the amount upfront. So we are taking whatever they are paying and admitting them,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Other hospitals, too, said patients during the pandemic were coming without much cash and are unable to pay Rs 50,000. “Most of these patients who come to the emergency do not carry money with them. So they are asked to deposit a small amount based on their immediate ability, which generally is between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000. We follow them up with daily estimate of charges and provisional bills,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.Calcutta: Calcuttans stocked up on groceries and packed refrigerators with ready-to-eats ahead of two consecutive days of “complete lockdown”. Except essential service personnel and people in emergencies, no one will be allowed outside between 6am and 10pm on Thursday and Friday. Even food stores and milk booths will be closed. Biswajit Saha, who runs a mom-and-pop store on Hindusthan Road, had sold 40 litres of milk more than he usually does. Around 7.30pm, he was lamenting he could have sold at least 120 litres more had he got the arithmetic right. “One man who buys two pouches took home 10 today,” Saha said. Many are worried about supplies on Saturday morning as well. Milk may or may not be there this Saturday but banks will be closed. The two-day lockdown means four consecutive bank holidays. There were longer queues outside ATMs across the city on Wednesday, amid apprehension that they may not be refilled over the weekend. The manager of a nationalised bank said his bank had refilled all their ATMs. The pharmacies were crowded as were liquor stores. Exemptions during the lockdown include health services, medicine stores, police stations, courts, jails, electricity and conservancy services, cooked food delivery services, newspapers and electronic media. Police teams across the city used loudhailers and microphones to announce the lockdown dates and rules. Officers in Gariahat said the market was unusually crowded on Wednesday and they had to announce again and again the need to maintain the social distancing rule. On Wednesday, several elderly citizens were seen queuing up outside a nationalised bank near Behala Chowrasta around 11.30am. As only four visitors were being allowed inside, the queue kept extending. Rishikesh Hazra, said he was more comfortable with withdrawal from a bank than an ATM. “I am scared someone will see my PIN and steal my money,” said the retired school teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Business||Govt to charge higher aviation security fee from Sept 1||The Civil Aviation Ministry has decided to charge higher aviation security fee (ASF) from domestic as well as international passengers from September 1, senior government officials said on Thursday. Making the air travel slightly costlier, the officials said the ASF for domestic flyers will be increased to Rs 160 from Rs 150 starting next month, and international passengers will pay 5.2 USD instead of 4.85 USD as the ASF from September 1. Airlines collect the ASF from passengers when they book their tickets and then give it to the government. The ASF is used to fund the security arrangement at airports across the country. The ministry had increased the ASF last year too. On June 7, 2019, the ministry said domestic passengers would be charged Rs 150 instead of Rs 130 as the ASF and international passengers would be charged 4.85 USD instead of USD 3.25 as the ASF from July 1, 2019. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave-without-pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash. After a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25. However, the average occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating with the approval of aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
20-08-2020||Business||Sales slide prods Bengal to review liquor tax||The Bengal government is considering a change in the tax structure after liquor sales dropped in the state following a 30 per cent additional tax it had imposed in April just after the lockdown. The state may do away with the 30 per cent additional tax but there will only be a partial relief for tipplers as a rejig in the excise duty is also being planned with changes expected to come into effect from September onwards. Industry sources on Wednesday said that circulars could be issued in a few days. “The net impact of both is expected to inflate the pre Covid-19 prices by around 15-20 per cent against the flat 30 per cent rise because of the earlier duty. Overall, MRP is expected to go down slightly,” an industry source said. Bengal was among the top five states in the country along with Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha that had drastically raised the duty on liquor to protect its revenues during the lockdown. But it turned out to be counterproductive as sales declined. In Bengal there was an 84 per cent drop in sales by volume in April followed by a 35 per cent drop in May and the trend of year-on-year decline has continued in June and July. Before the Covid-19 hit, the state’s revenue collection per month was around Rs 1,000 crore, which declined by a third as MRP was jacked up by the additional duty. A decrease in MRP will give a much needed boost to sales before the festive season but the excise duty change is also being considered as the government needs money as well. The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, which comprises manufacturers such as Allied Blenders & Distillers, Amrut Distilleries, Mohan Meakin and Radico Khaitan, had urged the Bengal government to cut the additional duty to a level of not more than 5-10 per cent in order to prevent a downward spiral in liquor sales. Moreover, the additional duty had jacked up the price of Indian-made foreign liquor in Bengal compared with the neighbouring states of Assam and Jharkhand, raising the fear of smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
20-08-2020||Business||Indiabulls Group to exit realty||Indiabulls Real Estate Ltd (IBREL) and Embassy Group have signed a definitive deal to merge their various housing and commercial projects following which Embassy will take control of the merged entity. The transaction would lead to the exit of the Indiabulls group from the real estate business. Embassy Group already has around a 14 per cent stake in IBREL. After the merger of the assets of these two companies, its stake will increase to 45 per cent. The merger comes just days after a major resuffle at the top deck of Indiabulls Housing Finance with former RBI deputy governor S. S. Mundra being appointed as the non-executive chairman. He replaced Indiabulls group founder Sameer Gehlaut, who has been re-designated as the non-executive, non-independent director of the company. NAM Estates Pvt Ltd (NAM) and Embassy One Commercial Property Developments Pvt Ltd (NAM Opco), subsidiaries of the Embassy group, have entered into a definitive merger agreement with IBREL to amalgamate their ongoing, completed and planned residential and commercial projects with the latter. Consequently, Jitendra Virwani along with the other promoter entities of NAM (the Embassy promoters) will become the new promoters of IBREL upon the completion of the merger and Sameer Gehlaut along with existing IBREL promoter group entities will  initiate the process of reclassification as required, the statement added. The merged entity will have about 30 projects. It will create one of the leading market players among listed companies in the real estate sector in terms of surplus from launched projects, land bank ownership and residential stock. The merged entity will be renamed Embassy Developments Ltd and it will have its headquarters both in Mumbai and Bangalore. Under the terms of the agreement, IBREL’s shares are being valued at Rs 92.5 per share, a 25.7 per cent premium to Tuesday’s closing price. NAM shareholders will get 6.619 shares of IBREL for every 10 shares of NAM, while NAM Opco shareholders will get 5.406 shares of IBREL for every 10 shares held in NAM Opco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
20-08-2020||Business||Skill gap in car parts||The auto components industry is facing a shortage of skilled manpower as migrant workers are yet to join work. Many manufacturers had to reskill new workforce on the shop floor. Meeting productivity levels is becoming a challenge even with the current muted demand, said Deepak Jain, president of the Automotive Components Manufacturers’ Association of India (Acma) in a virtual press conference on Wednesday. “There is enough manpower but they are not the same as in pre-Covid times. Contractual workers are not very skilled. So, two to three months are being spent to reskill.” If there is a V-shaped recovery in the industry, then manpower might become a problem, said Vinnie Mehta, director-general, Acma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||Auditors wash their hands of SsangYong||Auditors for SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC) have refused to give an opinion on its half-yearly performance. During the first quarter of this fiscal, the group incurred an operating loss of 98,634 million won and a net loss of 193,537 million won. Auditors KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp had then said that the group’s current liabilities exceed its current assets by 589.87 billion won and that these conditions indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. This comes at a time  Mahindra & Mahindra has decided to bring down its stake in the auto company to less than 50 per cent. The board had agreed to seek shareholders consent by way of a postal ballot. This would be a way to induct potential investors into SYMC or to otherwise meet its funding requirements through other sources. M&M had recently indicated that it is not ruling out the possibility of ceding control over SYMC in full or in part. Mahindra had acquired SsangYong in 2010 but has failed to turn it around. According to M&M’s annual report for 2019-20, as of March 31, 2020, its investments in SYMC stood at Rs 2,450 crore while its ownership interest was at 74.65 per cent. In April this year, the board of M&M had rejected a proposal to inject any fresh equity into the Korean arm. The management and labour union of SYMC had sought a funding of $406 million from M&M over the next three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||RBL Bank joins cash chase||Mid-sized private lender RBL Bank is the latest to join the capital raising spree among banks as it is set to raise funds through a preferential issue and a likely qualified institutional placement (QIP). The bank informed the stock exchanges on Tuesday that its board will meet on Thursday to approve raising funds “by way of issue of equity shares on a preferential basis”, subject to the approval of its shareholders and other regulatory, and or, statutory approvals. Apart from the preferential issue, reports say that RBL Bank may announce a QIP offering on Thursday that may see the participation of marquee investors. This latest exercise comes after the bank mobilised Rs 2,700 crore  through a combination of preferential issue and QIP process in December last year. The transaction saw participation from investors that included Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Allianz, Eastbridge, Ward Ferry and Falcon Edge. The RBL Bank stock on Wednesday ended with gains of 1.29 per cent, or Rs 2.35, at Rs 184.75 on the BSE on a day the benchmark index settled higher by over 86 points at 38614.79 Since March, a clutch of banks have raised funds through QIP and other modes as they beef up capital in anticipation of a possible rise in bad loans. These include Kotak Mahindra Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||GST borrowing meet||The GST Council is likely to meet on August 27 to discuss the compensation payout to states and the opinion of the attorney-general on the legality of market borrowing to meet revenue shortfall. Sources said the 41st meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council would be a single agenda meeting on states’ compensation to be held via video conferencing. Besides, a full-fledged meeting of the Council would be held on September 19, agenda for which is to be decided in due course, they added. The attorney-general — who is the chief legal officer of the government — has opined that the Centre has no statutory obligation to make up for any shortfall in GST revenues of states from its coffers , sources had said. They had earlier indicated that following the AG’s opinion, states may now have to look at market borrowings to meet the revenue shortfall and the GST Council will take a final call. The Centre had in March sought views from attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on the legality of market borrowing by the GST Council to make up for any shortfall in compensation fund — a corpus created from the levy of additional tax on luxury and sin goods to compensate states for revenue shortfall arising from their taxes being subsumed into the GST. The AG had also opined that the Council has to decide on meeting the shortfall in the GST compensation fund by providing the sufficient amount to be credited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||World Bank outlook dims||World Bank is likely to revise its earlier projection of a 3.2 per cent contraction in the Indian economy because of the spread of the coronavirus and a deterioration in the financial sector and global conditions. In the latest release of its biannual India Development Update, the bank asked the government to maintain its reform momentum to spur private investment and exports and reverse the current slowdown. “Challenges have emerged in recent weeks which are likely to weigh on the prospects in the near term. These risks include the spread of the virus; a further deterioration in the global outlook; and additional strains projected on the financial sector. “Keeping these factors in mind, a steeper contraction may be projected in the revised outlook that will be available in October 2020,” it said. The World Bank had in May projected that the Indian economy will contract 3.2 per cent in 2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021) and rebound slowly in the next financial year. The bank’s projections are the most conservative estimate of the contraction. The IMF had said in June that the Indian economy would shrink 4.5 per cent but many others expect far steeper declines. Various agencies and economists have given varying figures for India’s GDP contraction for 2020-21 and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had said even nominal GDP would contract and if it did, it would be the first time since 1947. The World Bank report expects India’s debt-to-GDP ratio to climb to 89 per cent from 66 per cent. But India is a lot better off than most western economies, including the US and Japan. It has advised India’s policy makers to scale back the priority sector lending guidelines — capped currently at 40 per cent of all advances. Earlier this month, the ambit was widened to cover start-ups. It also calls for relaxation in institutional investment rules. The World Bank said the fiscal deficit of the central government was likely to increase to 6.6 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 and is expected to remain elevated at 5.5 per cent in the following year. Assuming that the states’ deficit is contained within 3.5-4.5 per cent of GDP, the combined deficit could rise to around 11 per cent in the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||Adanis to run more airports||The Adanis have won a 50-year lease on three more airports after the Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal to farm out the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through the public-private partnership (PPP). Adani Enterprises had won the rights to six airports, including the three — the others are Lucknow, Ahmedabad and Mangalore — through the PPP model after competitive bidding  in February 2019. In July 2019, the Union cabinet had approved the proposal to lease out the Ahmedabad, Mangalore and Lucknow airports to the Adanis. “The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is not giving these airports permanently to the private operator. After running them for 50 years, the private operator would be handing over the airports back to the AAI,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press conference after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. At present, all the six airports are owned and managed by the government-run AAI. The minister said the AAI will receive Rs 1,070 crore as an upfront amount from the private operator for leasing the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and this fund will be used to develop airports in smaller cities. Seven months after the Cabinet approval, Adani Enterprises on February 14 this year signed the concessionaire agreement with the AAI for the operation, management and development of airports at Ahmedabad, Mangalore and Lucknow. In June, the AAI gave three more months to the Ahmedabad-based company to take over the management of these three airports because of the Covid-19 situation. This means the deadline for the takeover has been pushed to November 12 from August 12. The cabinet has also decided to increase the minimum price sugar mills pay to sugarcane growers by Rs 10 to Rs 285 per quintal for the next marketing year starting October 2020. In a statement, the government said FRP (fair and remunerative price) of Rs 285 per quintal has been fixed for a basic recovery rate of 10 per cent. However, a premium of Rs 2.85 per quintal will be paid by mills for every 0.1 per cent increase above 10 per cent in the recovery, it said. Also, the government has made a provision for reduction in FRP by Rs 2.85 per quintal for every 0.1 percentage point decrease in recovery, in respect of those mills whose recovery is below 10 per cent but above 9.5 per cent. However, for mills having recovery of 9.5 per cent or below, FRP is fixed at Rs 270.75 per quintal. “The determination of FRP will be in the interest of sugarcane growers keeping in view their entitlement to a fair and remunerative price for their produce,” the statement said. The government estimates the country’s total sugar production to be at 28-29 million tonne in the current year ending next month compared with 33.1 million tonnes during 2018-19 due to a sharp fall in cane acreage in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The Centre also approved a proposal to give a one-time relaxation in the working capital limit for discoms as part of  the Rs 90,000cr liquidity infusion scheme. At the press meet, Javadekar said, “There is a slump in power consumption. PFC and REC have been allowed to give loans above the limit...(of) more than 25 per cent working capital limit. This will increase the liquidity of the state discoms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||DoT contests resolution plan||The DoT has opposed the resolution plan of R-Com and its subsidiary Reliance Telecom (RTL) citing it will not recover its dues from the plan proposed by the lenders . The Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which is hearing the R-Com resolution plan on Wednesday, told the DoT to file an affidavit by Friday . In March this year, the lenders of R-Com had given its green signal to a Rs 23,000 crore resolution plan. While Reliance Jio will get the tower and fiber assets of Reliance Infratel Ltd for Rs 4,700 crore, UV Asset Reconstruction Co Ltd (UVARCL) will get the spectrum for Rs 14,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||SC not to rule on IBC payout||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it won’t go into the specific sharing of the dues of the financial creditors and operational creditors in a company under bankruptcy. It was more concerned with a bankrupt company’s claims on its ability to pay dues when under insolvency. The court gave the opinion in the midst of an argument between the committee of creditors of Reliance Communications (R-Com) and the department of telecom (DoT) over who had the first right over the spectrum of the Anil Ambani-company, which is at present undergoing insolvency. R-Com owes a staggering Rs 25,000 crore in spectrum fees linked to adjusted gross revenues (AGR). “We won’t go into apportionment of resolution plan funds between creditors,” the bench observed, meaning it was not concerned about the sharing of dues but rather the bona-fides of the insolvency claims of telecom players such as R-Com and Aircel. The court made the remarks after senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the committee of creditors, said the licence agreement clearly mandated that spectrum was a fit case of security for banks. The SBI-led committee of creditors (CoC) of R-Com on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that R-Com would go into liquidation if UVARC decided to withdraw from the acquisition proceedings if its right to the sale of spectrum was denied. The submission was made by Salve, appearing for CoC, before a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra which is examining whether bankrupt operators such as R-Com and Aircel can seek insolvency proceedings to apparently avoid compliance with the apex court’s October 2019 judgment, which mandated the various operators to refund a staggering Rs 1.47 lakh crore as dues in the form of AGR to the government. UVARC had successfully bid for R-Com in the insolvency proceedings before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). The The UVARC plan, approved by the CoC in March, involves the right to use spectrum under the control of R-Com. “R-Com will go into liquidation if spectrum sale is not permitted… Even UVARC may back out of its bid if the DoT decides against spectrum sale citing IBC (insolvency and bankruptcy code),” Salve told the bench also comprising Justices Abdul Nazeer and  M.R.Shah. He was referring to the DoT’s argument that spectrum was a national asset and no telecom player can sell it to another party. The CoC, on the other hand, has argued that the financial creditors should be given the priority as mandated by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and not operational creditors such as the DoT, employees and other service providers of the company under insolvency law. The court will take up the hearing on Thursday, with senior advocate Ranjit Kumar appearing for the CoC of Aircel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||India||Bhupesh Baghel govt disburses benefits||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel disbursed a host of benefits to farmers, livestock owners and tendupatta collectors on Thursday on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. Among the benefits that were handed out were the second instalment to farmers from a corpus of Rs 1,500 crore. The money was directly transferred to 20 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. This apart, the Baghel government also sanctioned Rs 5 crore that was to be paid under Godhan Nyay Yojana. Also, over 11 lakh tendupatta collectors would receive an incentive remuneration of Rs 232.81 crore in all. The Chhattisgarh government of Bhupesh Baghel has all along claimed that its motto is based on three principles: service, care and empathy. And it was under these three pillars that Thursday’s relief measures were announced and acted upon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat tests positive for Covid||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat on Thursday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. The minister said in a tweet that he underwent a coronavirus test after experiencing symptoms of the infection, adding that he is getting admitted to a hospital on the advice of doctors. "I underwent a coronavirus test after developing symptoms and the report has come positive. I am getting hospitalised on the advice of doctors. I request all who have come in my contact in the past days to isolate themselves and get tested," Shekhwat tweeted in Hindi. The minister held two important meetings on Tuesday. One was on the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL). Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh attended the meeting virtually while his Haryana counterpart M L Khattar was physically present at the meeting with Shekhwat, his deputy in the ministry Rattan Lal Kataria, and senior officials. Kataria was also present for another meeting alongside Shekhwat in a virtual conference with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E K Palaniswami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Dhoni illustration of new India where family name doesn't count: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described Mahendra Singh Dhoni as the embodiment of a new India where family name does not make one's destiny in a letter to the two-time World Cup-winning former India captain, who retired from international cricket last week. A thankful Dhoni shared the letter on his Twitter page on Thursday, his first social media post since the "consider me retired" note on Instagram that stunned one and all on Saturday. "You have been one of the important illustrations of the spirit of new India, where family name does not make young people's destiny but they make their own names and their own destinies," wrote the PM in his letter. "Where we come from does not matter as long as we know where we are headed -- this is the spirit that you have exuded and inspired many youngsters with," he said. Dhoni, who is also an Honorary Lieutenant Colonel in the Territorial Army, thanked the PM for the appreciation. "An Artist,Soldier and Sportsperson what they crave for is appreciation, that their hard work and sacrifice is getting noticed and appreciated by everyone.thanks PM @narendramodi for your appreciation and good wishes," he wrote. In the lengthy note to the celebrated cricketer, the PM also lauded the calm demeanour with which Dhoni led the Indian team. "No matter what hairstyle you sported, your calm head remained the same in victory or defeat, which is very important for every youth," he said referring to different hair cuts that Dhoni made famous after sporting an eye-catching long mane at the beginning of his career. Calling him one of the greatest captains and one of the best wicketkeepers the game has seen, Modi said, "Your dependability in tough situations and your style of finishing matches, particularly the 2011 World Cup final will forever be etched in the public memory for generations." "The correct way to assess your impact is as phenomenon." The 39-year-old keeper-batsman was widely considered a game-changer in international cricket and earned widespread respect for his foresight on the cricket field, which made punts look like well thought out strategy. "Rising from humble beginnings in a small town, you burst onto the national scene, made a name for yourself and most importantly, made India proud," Modi wrote. The PM said Dhoni's rise and conduct "gives strength and inspiration to crores of youngsters who like you haven't been to cushy schools or colleges, neither do they belong to illustrious families but they have the talent to distinguish themselves at the highest level." Modi concluded by wishing him the best for all his future endeavours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||It will be insincere to apologise for tweets, says Bhushan||The Supreme Court Thursday granted two days to activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who has been held guilty of contempt, to reconsider his 'defiant statement' refusing to apologise for his contemptuous tweets against the judiciary. Bhushan told a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra that he would consult his lawyers and think over the apex court's suggestion. Attorney General K K Venugopal urged the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, not to award any punishment to Bhushan in the contempt case saying he has already been convicted. The bench said it cannot consider the request of Venugopal unless Bhushan reconsiders his earlier stand of not apologising for his tweets. The tone, tenor and content of Bhushan's statement makes it worse; is it defence or aggravation, the court told Venugopal. The top court said it can be very lenient if there is realisation of mistake, and posted the matter for further hearing on August 24. At the outset, it rejected the submission of Bhushan's counsel that another bench hear the arguments on the quantum of sentence to be awarded in the case. A contemnor can be punished with simple imprisonment of up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both. The bench gave assurance to Bhushan that no punishment will be acted upon till his review against the order convicting him is decided. The bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing Bhushan, that he is asking them to commit an act of impropriety by saying that the argument on sentencing be heard by another bench. Justice Mishra said that he will be retiring soon and adjournment should not be sought and the review will be decided after this matter is decided finally. The bench said it is not inclined to hear the application filed by Bhushan on Wednesday seeking deferment of hearing on the sentence till his review petition is decided. At the outset, Dave sought deferment of hearing on the quantum of sentence in the case saying that he would be filing a review petition against the conviction order. The top court on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. During the hearing, on Thursday, Dave told the bench that heavens are not going to fall if the apex court will suspend the hearing on quantum of sentence. You are asking us to commit an act of impropriety that arguments on sentencing should be heard by another bench, the bench said. It added: Has it been ever done that hearing on sentencing has been undertaken by the other bench when the main bench is existing? The bench told the Attorney General that it will first hear Bhushan on the issue of sentencing. When Dave said that Venugopal should be allowed to argue first, the bench said, Don't remind us of the professional norms. Bhushan, who himself addressed the court, said that he has been grossly misunderstood. I am dismayed and disappointed that the court did not find it necessary to provide me the copy of the contempt petition , he said. My tweets simply showed my bonafide belief. Bhushan said that open criticism is necessary in democracy to safeguard the constitutional order. My tweets were a small attempt to discharge what I consider my highest duty...", he said. "I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal for magnanimity. I cheerfully submit to any punishment that the court may impose..," said Bhushan. The hearing in the matter is still undergoing. On August 14, in its 108-page verdict, the top court had said: The tweets which are based on the distorted facts, in our considered view, amount to committing criminal contempt. In the result, we hold alleged contemnor No.1 - Mr. Prashant Bhushan guilty of having committed criminal contempt of this Court. The top court had, however, discharged the notice issued to Twitter Inc, California, USA in the contempt case after accepting its explanation that it is only an intermediary and does not have any control on what the users post on the platform. It had said the company has also shown its bona fides immediately after the cognizance was taken by this Court as it has suspended both the tweets. The top court had analysed the two tweets of Bhushan posted on the micro-blogging site on June 27 on the functioning of judiciary in past six years, and on July 22 with regard to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde. "In our considered view, it cannot be said that the tweets can be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary, made bona fide in the public interest," it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Slight improvement in Pranab Mukherjee's health condition||Respiratory parameters of former president Pranab Mukherjee have shown a slight improvement, though he continues to be on ventilator support, the hospital said on Thursday. Mukherjee, who was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital on August 10, developed a lung infection on Wednesday. Doctors attending on him said his vital parameters remain stable. "The respiratory parameters of Hon'ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee have shown slight improvement though he continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists," a hospital statement said. Mukherjee was operated on for removal of a clot in the brain on August 10 at the Army Hospital in Delhi Cantonment. He was also tested positive for Covid-19. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Contempt case: SC rejects Bhushan plea on a separate bench||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected advocate Prashant Bhushan’s submission that hearing on quantum of punishment in a contempt case against him be heard by a different bench, news agency PTI reported. Bhushan, who intends to file a review plea against his conviction for contempt of court, had urged the court to defer the hearing till his petition is decided. Holding Prashant Bhushan guilty on August 14, the court had said the tweets were based on “distorted facts”, were a “malicious…attack” on the “entire Supreme Court” and had the effect of “destabilising the very foundation” of judiciary. The court hearing, on the quantum of punishment, is going on. Details are awaited. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari told Bhushan that no punishment will be acted upon till his review is decided. On his submission for a different bench, the court said, “You are asking us to commit an act of impropriety that arguments on sentencing should be heard by another bench.” Mr Bhushan told the top court that he is "pained" that he has been "grossly misunderstood". "I am pained to hear that I am held guilty of contempt of court. I am pained not because of the would-be sentencing, but because I am being grossly misunderstood. I believe that an open criticism is necessary to safeguard the democracy and its values," Mr Bhushan said. "My tweets need to be seen as an attempt for working for the betterment of the institution. The tweets, I consider, were discharge of my highest duty. Apologising would also be dereliction of my duty," he added. "I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal for magnanimity. I cheerfully submit to any punishment that court may impose," Mr Bhusan told the court. In his application, Bhushan said he “intends” to file a review petition “after studying the order, in detail, and seeking appropriate legal counsel as the ramification of the said order is of grave constitutional significance, in particular on the right to free speech”. He said he “would file the same within the limitation period of 30 days from date of the judgment, as he is entitled to under…the Supreme Court Rules, 2013”. Bhushan said the deferment “would be in the interests of justice in view of the underlying public policy with respect to safeguarding liberty of a citizen under Article 21 till such time as his first appeal (in this case the review application) is considered”. Bhushan also tweeted a statement by Opposition leaders including Digvijaya Singh, Shashi Tharoor and Farooq Abdullah, in which they said that the court’s decision had caused “a chilling effect on free speech and expression of dissent.” “It is sad that the honourable court has not found it necessary to distinguish between constructive criticism and malicious statement,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Incessant rains submerge parts of Delhi||Many parts of the national capital and key road stretches remained flooded as rains continued to drench the city on Thursday, triggering traffic snarls during morning rush hours. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heavy rains in the city on Thursday as well. The downpour may lead to "major traffic disruption" due to heavy water logging and there is an "increased chance" of road accidents, it warned. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 46 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Wednesday and 8:30 am on Thursday. On an average, the city gauges 11.3 mm rainfall from 8:30 am on August 19 to 8:30 am on August 20 every year. The Palam weather station gauged 70.9 mm precipitation during the period, more than six times the normal rainfall. The Delhi Traffic Police remained busy clearing traffic on Narela-Bawana road, Raja Garden flyover, Kasturba Underpass, MB Rad, Jhandewalan Mandir, Jhilmil underpass,, Azadpur vegetable market, Sarai Pipal Thala, Jahangirpuri, Madanpur Khadar among other places. Similar scenes played out on Wednesday, as incessant rains pummelled the national capital region, submerging roads, underpasses and parks in waist-deep water and bringing traffic on key stretches to a virtual halt. The flooding was particularly severe in Gurugram, where roads turned into small rivers and parks resembled swimming pools. Just a few hours of rains flooded swathes of Delhi, spelling trouble for commuters who remained stuck for hours on water-logged roads. Pictures and videos of vehicles and people wading through waist-deep water were widely shared on social media. The rains also crippled electricity supply in many areas. Civic bodies reported incidents of uprooting of trees in a few areas due to the rains. A boundary wall of a school in Saket collapsed, damaging several vehicles parked alongside it. Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said climate change had led to a change rain pattern. Earlier, we used to witness continuous light rains over two-three days. Nowadays, the same quantum of rainfall occurs in just 2-3 hours. These extreme events have been taking place across the tropical region since last 10 years," he said. Experts said the flooding was a result of bad urban planning. "Flooding in Indian cities is largely a product of bad urban planning. In Delhi, the Yamuna floodplains have been encroached upon obstructing the natural water flow. Other issues include deforestation, poor drainage system and lack of integrated urban planning," Anjal Prakash, research director, Indian School of Business, Hyderabad, said. Kuldeep Srivastava,the head of regional forecasting center of the IMD, said the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Therefore, more rains are likely. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. The downpour also reduced the rain deficiency in the capital -- from 13 percent on Monday to 11 percent on Wednesday. The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 147.4 mm rainfall against the normal of 165.2 mm in August so far. Overall, it has recorded 466 mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 441.3 mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Retired Supreme Court judge seeks constitution bench for contempt case||Justice Kurian Joseph, who retired as Supreme Court judge, has said a constitution bench should hear the two contempt cases the top court has taken up suo motu because “substantial questions of law on the interpretation of the Constitution of India and having serious repercussions on the fundamental rights” are involved. “Fiat justitia ruat caelum (let justice be done though the heavens fall) is the fundamental basis of administration of justice by courts. But, if justice is not done or if there is miscarriage of justice, heavens will certainly fall. The Supreme Court of India should not let it happen,” Justice Joseph said in a statement on Wednesday. “Under Article 145(3) of the Constitution of India, there shall be a quorum of minimum five judges for deciding any case involving substantial questions of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution.” The statement does not mention lawyer Prashant Bhushan by name but raises the larger question of the right to appeal when the Supreme Court takes up a case on its own. Right now, a person such as Bhushan, convicted in a contempt case taken up by the Supreme Court suo motu, can only file a review petition, an option whose success rate is not much higher than 1 per cent. But high courts have a provision for intra-court appeal. Justice Joseph has flagged this point, suggesting the safeguard is aimed at avoiding “even the remotest possibility of miscarriage of justice” and asking whether the Supreme Court should also not have such a provision. The statement came a day before a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce the sentence in the contempt case in which Bhushan was convicted last week for two tweets. The same bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari is hearing another suo motu contempt case against Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal on a claim the advocate had made in 2009 in Tehelka magazine. The apex court has said it will consider certain larger questions in the 2009 case, such as whether allegations of corruption can be levelled against judges. On Wednesday, Justice Joseph said in his statement: “The present contempt cases are not cases involving just one or two individuals, but larger issues pertaining to the concept and jurisprudence of the country regarding justice itself.” Important cases like these need to be heard elaborately in person as that is the only way to ensure a broader discussion and wider participation, he added. “Men may come and men may go, but the Supreme Court of India should remain forever the court of supreme justice,” Justice Joseph said. The former judge began his statement by noting that a “three-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India has decided to hear a few serious questions on the scope and extent of contempt of court”. “Certainly, there are graver issues involving substantial questions of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution of India,” he said. The question, for example, whether a person convicted by the top court in a suo motu case should get the opportunity to move an intra-court appeal. Justice Joseph underlined that in all other criminal convictions, the convict is entitled to a second opportunity in the form of an appeal. An intra-court appeal is provided for if the order has been passed by a single judge of a high court, he said. If a high court division bench issues such an order, the convict can appeal against it in the Supreme Court. “This safeguard is provided probably to avoid even the remotest possibility of miscarriage of justice. Should there not be such a safeguard in the other constitutional court, the Supreme Court of India, also, when there is a conviction in a suo motu criminal contempt case?” Justice Joseph asked. He stressed that when Justice C.S. Karnan was sentenced to prison in 2017, it was the collective wisdom of the full court of the Supreme Court that the matter be heard at least by a bench of the seven senior-most judges. Justice Joseph was part of that bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Supreme Court clears CBI Sushant probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the CBI to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, saying the allegations of “political interference” by the Maharashtra and Bihar governments against each other had brought the investigation “under a cloud”. The CBI had already taken up the probe on a request from the Bihar government but Maharashtra had opposed the move. Sushant lived and worked in Mumbai but was brought up in Bihar, where his family is based. On Wednesday, the apex court cleared the CBI probe, saying an agency independent of both state governments needed to investigate the matter to ensure public confidence and accord justice to “innocents who might be the target of vilification campaign”. The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy stressed how the actor’s death by hanging on June 14 at his Bandra home had led to “conjectures” and the raising of “accusing fingers” in public. Sushant’s fans have accused some of Bollywood’s big names of humiliating and ostracising the actor while his family has alleged financial and psychological victimisation by his live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty. “Because both states are making acrimonious allegations of political interference against each other, the legitimacy of the investigation has come under a cloud. Accusing fingers are being pointed and people have taken the liberty to put out their own conjectures and theories,” the court said. “The dissemination of the real facts through unbiased investigation would certainly result in justice for the innocents, who might be the target of vilification campaign. Equally importantly, when integrity and credibility of the investigation is discernible, the trust, faith and confidence of the common man in the judicial process will resonate.” The court was dealing with a plea from Rhea challenging the Bihar police’s right to probe the case, and cross-appeals moved by Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh and the Bihar government. Maharashtra had objected to probes by either the CBI or the Bihar police. While the CBI would normally have needed Maharashtra’s consent to conduct the probe, the apex court said it was passing the order under Article 142 to remove the necessity. Article 142 empowers the Supreme Court to pass any directives to render complete justice. The court noted that Maharashtra had not registered an FIR but merely proceeded under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the limited purpose of a preliminary inquiry into the “apparent cause of unnatural death”. “Therefore, as it appears, no investigation pursuant to commission of a cognisable offence is being carried out by the Mumbai police,” it said. Bihar’s police had registered an FIR on a complaint from Sushant’s father and begun an investigation, the court noted. “Moreover, the allegation relating to criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of money which were to be eventually accounted for in Patna (where the complainant resides) could prima facie indicate the lawful jurisdiction of the Patna police,” the court said. “Patna police committed no illegality in registering the complaint.... For the same reason, the Bihar government was competent to give consent for entrustment of investigation to the CBI and as such the ongoing investigation by the CBI is held to be lawful.” If a new case is registered in Mumbai relating to Sushant’s death, the CBI can investigate that too, the court said. It added that “prima facie”, there didn’t seem to have been any “wrongdoing” by the Mumbai police. “However, their obstruction to the Bihar police team at Mumbai could have been avoided since it gave rise to suspicion on the bona fide of their inquiry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||One test for many central govt jobs||The Union cabinet has approved the creation of the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to conduct an online common eligibility test for selecting candidates for a majority of central government jobs, an official statement said on Wednesday. The NRA will conduct a separate common eligibility test each for the three levels of graduate, higher secondary (Class XII pass) and matriculate (Class X pass) candidates for non-technical posts to which recruitment is currently carried out by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS). Based on the screening done at the common eligibility test (CET), the final selection will be made through separate specialised tiers of examination that will be conducted by the respective recruitment agencies, a government statement said. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the “historic decision” would allow job-seekers to take one common test, and save costs and time spent on writing multiple exams. “The curriculum for this test would be common as would be the standard. This would greatly ease the burden of candidates who are at present required to prepare for each of the examinations separately as per different curriculum,” the statement issued by the personnel ministry said. The NRA will set up examination centres in every district to help youths, especially women, from rural and far-flung areas as they will not be required to travel to another place to take recruitment tests, the statement issued by the personnel ministry said. At present, “candidates have to appear in multiple examinations conducted by multiple agencies. Apart from the examination fees, candidates have to incur additional expenses for travel, boarding, lodging. A single examination will reduce the financial burden on candidates to a large extent,” it said. On average, up to 3 crore candidates appear in each of these examinations. “The NRA will conduct the first-level/Tier I examination, which is the stepping stone for many other selections. The CET score of the candidate shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of declaration of the result,” the statement said. There shall be no restriction on the number of attempts to be taken by a candidate to appear in the CET subject to the upper age limit, the statement said. “Relaxation in the upper age limit shall be given to candidates of SC/ST/OBC and other categories as per the extant policy of the government,” it said. Candidates will have the facility of registering on a common portal and give a choice of centres. Based on availability, they will be allotted centres. “The CET would be available in a number of languages. This would greatly facilitate people from different parts of the country to take the exam and have an equal opportunity of being selected,” it said. A single eligibility test would significantly reduce the recruitment cycle, the statement said. “Some departments have indicated their intention to do away with any second level test and go ahead with recruitment on the basis of CET scores, physical tests and medical examination. This would greatly reduce the cycle and benefit a large section of youths,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Demand within Facebook to denounce ‘anti-Muslim bigotry’||Facebook and its top lobbying executive in India, Ankhi Das, are facing questions internally from employees over how political content is regulated in its biggest market, according to sources with direct knowledge and internal posts seen by Reuters. The world’s largest social network has been battling a public-relations and political crisis in India since The Wall Street Journal reported that Das had opposed applying the company’s hate-speech rules to a BJP legislator who had in posts called Muslims traitors. In the US and around the world, Facebook employees are raising questions about whether adequate procedures and content regulation practices were being followed by the India team, sources familiar with the discussions told Reuters. An open letter written to Facebook’s leadership by 11 employees on one internal platform, and seen by Reuters, demands that company leaders acknowledge and denounce “anti-Muslim bigotry” and ensure more policy consistency. The letter demands that Facebook’s “policy team in India (and elsewhere) includes diverse representation”. “It is hard not to feel frustrated and saddened by the incidents reported.… We know we’re not alone in this. Employees across the company are expressing similar sentiment,” the letter says. “The Muslim community at Facebook would like to hear from Facebook leadership on our asks.” Facebook and Das did not immediately respond to a request for comment. One of the sources said Facebook’s India leadership would have to answer tough questions on what really happened. “There will be scrutiny on what really went down.” A second source familiar with the reactions said Facebook employees were discussing whether there should be strict separation between government relations and content policy teams, and that “an internal debate (was) happening about the (content moderation) processes”. After the article, Facebook India head Ajit Mohan defended Das -- whose title is director, public policy, India, South and Central Asia -- and the company’s policies in an internal community post, also seen by Reuters. The WSJ “article does not reflect the person I know or the extraordinarily complex issues we face every day that benefits from Ankhi and the public policy team’s expertise”, Mohan wrote. Mohan also wrote the company was “confident that the article’s claim that political affiliations influence decision-making in India is inaccurate and without merit”. A spokesman for the WSJ did not respond to a request for comment. Das, 49, is considered among India’s most influential corporate-lobbying executives and has been central to Facebook’s rise in India since joining the company in 2011. “She has created a niche for herself (in India),” said a person who has worked closely with Das on policy issues. A former Facebook executive in Asia and a former Indian government official described Das as very sharp and politically connected. A second former employee said Das had always been outspoken about issues in the company. Das hasn’t commented on the controversy but her sister Rashmi, who has publicly acknowledged her own ties to a student wing close to the BJP, told the India Today TV on Tuesday: “We sisters are made of very stern stuff. I’m sure Ankhi will handle it very competently."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Freedom test for Jammu and Kashmir administration||The National Conference has put to the test the claim of the Jammu and Kashmir administration in court that the party’s leaders are not under house arrest and are “free to move”. The National Conference has called four of its leaders, who are still said to be under house arrest but whose freedom the government has vouched for in court, to a meeting at party chief Farooq Abdullah’s residence on Thursday, “relying fully” on the administration’s stand. The party said more leaders claimed to be free by the government would be called to similar meetings in small batches in keeping with pandemic precautions. Till Wednesday evening, none from the government was willing to comment on the meeting call. Thousands of politicians and activists were arrested or put under house arrest following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last year. Many of them have been released but several, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, continue to be in detention or under undeclared house arrest. The NC had in July filed a habeas corpus petition in Jammu and Kashmir High Court claiming that 16 of its leaders, mostly former ministers and MPs, were being illegally kept under house arrest. In response, the government had last week told the court that the 16 leaders were “free to move” and that they were not under any kind of detention, preventive or substantive. The government had said they needed only to adhere to certain precautions “as deemed fit” for their security. A government counsel had termed the NC’s claims “shocking” and “surprising”. The court is scheduled to hear the matter again on August 24. Last month, the Centre had claimed in the Supreme Court that Congress veteran and former Union minister Saifuddin Soz “is free” and “was never detained or put under house arrest”. However, Soz and his family had accused the government of lying, and a day after the court recorded the Centre’s claim and refused to entertain any further pleas on the matter, security personnel were caught on camera stopping the 82-year-old leader from speaking to the media from even the confines of his house compound. On Wednesday, NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said in a statement that the party had taken cognisance of the government’s stand in the high court and called its senior leaders to the meeting with Farooq. “Now relying fully on the stand of the Govt. before the HC that the members are free to move and expecting no hogwash on part of the government, the Party President Dr. Farooq Abdullah has invited senior party members including Mr Ali Mohammad Sagar, Mr Abdul Rahim Rather, Mr Mohammad Shafi Uri and Mr Nasir Aslam Wani for a meeting at his residence on 20.8.2020 at 5 pm,” the statement said. All four leaders are former ministers and had been named in the NC’s habeas corpus petition. Among them, Sagar had been formally arrested and allegedly put under house arrest after being released recently. The other three, though not formally arrested, are said to be under unauthorised house arrest. The NC statement said the party was “mindful of the present pandemic” and “accordingly the meetings with various leaders who have been under detention will be done in batches of four members per meeting”. “Needless to add that all SoPs shall be strictly followed by all concerned. The party is hopeful that the liberty of the members under detention is now absolute and the meeting is held successfully on the appointed day,” the NC said. Omar Abdullah, Farooq’s son and former chief minister, tweeted the NC letter and wrote: “The @JKNC_President has taken cognisance of the reply submitted by the J&K administration in the High Court. Since no leader is under detention as claimed by the government, Dr Abdullah has invited his colleagues for a meeting in batches of 4 keeping in mind COVID precautions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Maneka applauds Malappuram||Maneka Gandhi has praised Malappuram’s people for the way they helped save passengers after the August 7 Air India Express crash at Calicut International Airport, going full circle from maligning the north Kerala district earlier this year. “Yes, a wonderful job was done by the people of Malappuram to help the plane crash survivors. I hope this kind of humanity towards all beings takes place,” the MP and former Union minister has written in reply to an email from an Indian Union Muslim League youth wing leader. Maneka has confirmed to this newspaper that she sent the mail. Maneka had in early June portrayed Malappuram as a den of crime and prejudice in a rant against Kerala’s only Muslim-majority district. A perennial target of the BJP-Sangh ecosystem, Malappuram was then targeted by Maneka over an instance of animal cruelty that had actually occurred in the neighbouring Palakkad district. On August 14, Abbas Vadakkan, general secretary of the Morayur panchayat branch of the Muslim Youth League, wrote to Maneka citing how Malappuram’s people had helped the crashed flight’s passengers and crew. “While going through my mail today, I found that she had replied on August 15 itself,” Vadakkan told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Residents of the airport’s neighbourhood had been the first to join the rescue effort, ignoring the risk to themselves from a possible fire. Hundreds more later arrived, bringing vehicles to carry the victims to hospital. By the early hours, people were queuing outside hospitals to donate blood for the survivors. If the survival of 171 among the 190 people on board has been described as “a miracle”, much of the credit goes to the ordinary people of Malappuram. “I had first written to Madam (Maneka) when she spoke out against Malappuram after an elephant was killed in Palakkad,” Vadakkan told this newspaper. A trap set with an explosives-filled fruit had blown off the pregnant elephant’s mouth, causing a painful death. Police later booked two men and said the snare had been set for wild boar. “I think they should arrest everybody in Malappuram who they suspect, because these are repeat offenders,” Maneka, an ardent animal rights activist, had then said, picking Muslim-majority Malappuram as a soft target despite the atrocity not happening there. “Whether it’s children being sold in orphanages, which we have found, it is Malappuram. Whether it is people being killed.... Look at the crime rate in Malappuram. What is being done in Malappuram? Nothing. Now the communal conflict there is highest in Malappuram,” the former women and child welfare minister had told ANI. Malappuram, however, is known for communal peace and low crime rates. The late Panakkad Syed Muhammedali Shihab Thangal, the Muslim League leader and the patriarch of one of the most revered families in Malappuram, was credited with preserving communal harmony in Kerala when the Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992. He had told community leaders then: “Not a single stone should fall on a Hindu house. Muslims should stand guard for Hindu temples, if required.” Maneka had also attacked Congress MP Rahul Gandhi who represents Wayanad, again a different district neighbouring Malappuram. Rahul’s constituency has a substantial Muslim population, much like Malappuram. “Rahul Gandhi is from that area; why has he not taken action?” Maneka had asked. Earlier, she had tweeted: “Mallapuram (sic) is known for its intense criminal activity specially with regards to animals. No action has ever been taken against a single poacher or wildlife killer so they keep doing it.” On Tuesday, Vadakkan said: “Such baseless allegations were painful to us. So I sent an email to her official ID. I invited her to visit Malappuram without any security or bodyguards.” Vadakkan had also provided Maneka with a list of freedom fighters from Malappuram and highlighted that it had been the lone Muslim-majority district in the country where not a single incident of retaliatory violence was witnessed after the demolition of the Babri Masjid. “I must admit that Madam (Maneka) replied to that mail as well,” he said. Maneka had then replied: “Malappuram is indeed a good place with a wonderful history. But I was talking about animal cruelty. Maybe we can introspect and stop being defensive and see what we can do to make it kinder. That would be to everyone’s benefit. Instead of making this a communal issue which have never been my intention because I too come from a minority, it would be good to understand the issues that I brought up.” On Wednesday, responding to an email from this newspaper, Maneka wrote: “Yes, I sent the messages.” In another email, she condemned a recent incident in Malappuram — of a pregnant wild buffalo being butchered for its 200kg of meat. “Please put my remarks in this context as well,” Maneka told this newspaper. “If we cannot spare pregnant mothers about to give birth and eat the foetuses, can we call ourselves civilised?” The buffalo was searching for a secure place to give birth when she was shot and killed. The skulls of the mother and the foetus were found from a forest. Six men from Puncha in Nilambur (a key town in Malappuram) — Suresh Babu, Abu, Parothodika Mohammed Bustan, Thalakottupuram Mohammed Ansif, Cheemala Aashiq and Pilakkal Suhail — have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Patient dies, neglect slur on hospital||A man died allegedly unattended at the Central Referral Hospital at Tadong in Gangtok on Tuesday night, the third instance in about a week when the families of the dead have accused the hospital authorities of negligence. Jagat Bahadur Chhetri, 48, had suffered head injury after he had fallen down from his bed at his home in Turuk, South Sikkim, on Tuesday morning. He was first taken to the Namchi District Hospital, which referred him to the CRH. “After travelling for three hours from Namchi, we reached the CRH around 7pm. However, no hospital staff was available to attend to my |father despite making numerous requests to the nurses and other employees. He remained in the car in which we had brought him for about two hours and died there,” alleged Ashika Chhetri, the daughter of the deceased. Ashika said her father was responsive all along the 80km drive from Namchi to Gangtok and would have survived had the hospital authorities attended to him immediately. “I have registered a complaint with police against the hospital authorities,” she said. The CRH management, however, said one of doctors had attended to the man in the car itself and “the patient was declared dead in the Emergency”. In a written statement, the management said it had taken serious note of the incident and had constituted a probe panel. “The management at CRH has constituted a committee consisting of specialist in forensic medicine and doctors …for postmortem examination,” it said. Earlier in the month, families of two other patients had levelled similar allegations of neglect against CHR. The hospital had set up an inquiry committee to probe the two deaths, and its findings are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Congress raises PM CARES questions||The Congress leadership is deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court order on PM CARES Fund. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The Supreme Court has delivered a judgement on the legality and legal accountability of PMCares Fund. The judgement is final but will be contested for a long time in academic circles. There are other aspects of PMCares Fund on which the Supreme Court had no occasion to pronounce judgement. These are transparency, disclosure and management practices concerning the Fund.” He continued: “Who are the donors who gave Rs 3076 crore in the first five days in March 2020? Do they include Chinese firms? What is the amount received since April 1, 2020 and who are the donors? ….What is the procedure to allocate money from the Fund to various Covid-19 mitigating activities? Who are the recipients of money from the Fund since its inception? Are utilisation certificates demanded and received from the recipients? If the Fund is beyond the ambit of RTI, who will answer these vital questions?” Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala said, “The SC Judgement is a body blow to transparency & accountability of the Government to people. It marks a sad letter day for responsibility & answerability of rulers to the electorate and remind them that they are not ‘Monarchs’ but ‘servants of the people’ The Supreme Court scrupulously believed that ‘sunlight is the best disinfectant’. Today, the court, in a departure from that tradition, passed up an opportunity to demand answers on the PMCares Fund that seeks public money but plays by its own opaque and murky rules”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan seeks time for review ||Advocate Prashant Bhushan has urged the Supreme Court to defer the hearing of the sentence it is to pronounce against him on Thursday for criminal contempt of court so that he can file a review petition challenging his August 14 conviction. Bhushan on Wednesday reminded the Supreme Court that “human judgment is not infallible” and as no appeal can be filed against an order issued by the apex court, it should be “doubly necessary that it takes the utmost precaution to ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done”. Bhushan has been convicted of criminal contempt of court by a three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari for two tweets, one on the Chief Justice of India posing on a Harley-Davidson and another on the destruction of democracy. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt of court is six months in jail. In a fresh application filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan said the suo motu criminal proceedings initiated against him provided no scope for an appeal against the judgment, and so the only remedy before him was a review petition. Bhushan pleaded that in his case the review would act as an appeal against the Supreme Court’s own verdict. He said he would file the review petition within the stipulated 30 days from the day of judgment. “It is respectfully submitted that human judgment is not infallible. Despite all the provisions ensuring a fair trial and a just decision, mistakes are possible and errors cannot be ruled out,” Bhushan said. He referred to the apex court’s judgment in the M.H. Hoskot vs State of Maharashtra case in 1978 in which the court had held: “One component of fair procedure is natural justice. Generally speaking and subject to just exceptions, at least a single right of first appeal on facts, where criminal conviction is fraught with loss of liberty, is basic to civilised jurisprudence. It is integral to fair procedure, natural justice and normative universality.” Bhushan also drew attention to Section 19(1) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, which, recognising the possibility of miscarriage of justice, provides that pending an appeal, the appellate court may suspend a sentence for criminal contempt. The section provides for intra-court appeal if the conviction order is passed by a single judge of a high court. If a high court division bench issues such an order, the convicted person can appeal against it in the Supreme Court. Bhushan pointed out that CrPC Section 389 safeguards the liberty of a citizen pending an appeal. Section 389(1) lays down that pending an appeal by a convicted person, the appellate court can suspend the execution of a sentence and, if a person is in jail, order his release on bail or on a personal bond. “In criminal contempt proceedings, this Hon’ble Court functions like a trial court and is also the last court. Section 19(1) gives a statutory right of appeal to a person found guilty of contempt by the High Court,” Bhushan said in his application. “The fact that there is no appeal against an order of this Hon’ble Court makes it doubly necessary that it takes the utmost precaution to ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done. “It is respectfully submitted that, since this Hon’ble Court acts as a court of first instance in a suo motu criminal contempt proceeding and there is no provision for appeal also, if there is conviction in such proceeding, the aforesaid principles of law, held in the context of a criminal trial, must apply pari materia (not comparable) to a case of a review filed against such conviction,” Bhushan contended. He added: “It would be in consonance with the right guaranteed under Article 21 (life and liberty) of the Constitution of India. Otherwise there would be gross injustice since there would be no occasion to examine the correctness of the findings arrived in a suo motu criminal contempt proceeding before putting the convicted contemnor’s liberty at stake. “In the present case also, the applicant intends to file a review against the order of 14.08.2020 after studying the order, in detail, and seeking appropriate legal counsel as the ramification of the said order is of grave constitutional significance, in particular on the right to free speech.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Cong drops hints of Rahul’s imminent return as party president||The Congress on Wednesday dropped hints of Rahul Gandhi’s imminent return as party president by aggressively contradicting reports that had suggested that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wanted somebody from outside the family to lead the party. What created confusion was an interview Priyanka gave a year ago that appeared in a book published now. A section of the media presented it as Priyanka’s view on the leadership question without explaining the context and timing of the interview. Priyanka had said this in July 2019, against the backdrop of Rahul’s resignation. Party’s communication chief Randeep Surjewala responded to the controversy in a series of tweets: “Nehru-Gandhi family has held together & served the Congress unmindful of the trappings of power. In 2004, Sonia ji set an example by sacrificing power to serve the party. In 2019, Rahul ji showed the courage of conviction & stepped down as Congress president. We at Congress appreciate the sudden media interest (egged on by BJP) in a year-old remark (Dated 1st July, 2019) of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.” Surjewala added: “The context today is to take on the vicious attack on India’s polity by Modi-Shah dispensation & fight it fearlessly on front foot. Millions of Congress workers and leaders have seen that Rahul Gandhi has led the fight tirelessly, undaunted by the setbacks & vile attacks by Modi Government on a daily basis. It is this fearlessness and uncompromising courage that the Congress requires, (party) workers respect & the nation needs.” Priyanka was in the interview only reflecting Rahul’s sentiments in the aftermath of his resignation. The Congress party collectively rejected Rahul’s stand that someone from outside the family take the party’s reins and chose to go with Sonia Gandhi as the interim president. Even while opting for this stop-gap arrangement, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) had unanimously requested Rahul to reconsider his decision. Though the unease within the party has doubtless intensified over the past few months and everybody wants a full-fledged president, Rahul has not vanished after his exit and instead continued to work as the leader. The party has also treated him as the ultimate authority even as there are serious reservations over what many describe as back-seat driving. The appointments made in the past bear Rahul’s distinct imprint and it is only a legitimate expectation from party leaders and workers that the leadership question be settled sooner than later. What Surjewala said on record on Wednesday is privately talked about by a majority of leaders in the party. Two kinds of voices can be heard among the leaders: One small section says Rahul should finally step aside and let somebody else take over if he is determined not to come back. An overwhelming majority believes it is only a matter of time that he will return as nobody else is acceptable. In both viewpoints, there is no fundamental objection to his leadership. If he decides to respect the majority opinion, there shouldn’t be any hurdle in his way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Facebook tilts to Right, not just in India||The BJP’s counter to The Wall Street Journal’s expose of the party having received preferential treatment from Facebook has been that the social media platform is Left-leaning but experience  the world over suggests otherwise. The rightward tilt of Facebook has been reported extensively across the world and includes accusations of promoting Holocaust deniers, providing an enabling environment for US President Donald Trump’s 2016 election and the Brexit-related Vote Leave campaign in the UK, besides admitting to being used for the genocide against Rohingyas in Myanmar. The WSJ expose relating to Facebook India is just one of three reports from across the world this month on the platform leaning to the Right. In the first week of this month, Buzzfeed reported about the company sacking a senior engineer who had “collected internal evidence that showed Facebook was giving preferential treatment to prominent conservative accounts to help them remove fact-checks from their content’’. According to Buzzfeed, Facebook employees have been asking founder Mark Zuckerberg “about the company’s competence in handling misinformation, and the precautions it is taking to ensure its platform isn’t used to disrupt or mislead ahead of the US presidential election,’’ particularly since the “Right-wing publication Breitbart News’’ is a Facebook News partner. The Guardian this week reported that the UK-based think tank, Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD), found “Facebook actively promotes further Holocaust denial content’’ to users who go to public pages containing such material. “Our analysis highlights how Holocaust denial content is actively recommended through Facebook’s algorithm,’’ the ISD report said. While Facebook told The Guardian that it took down any post that celebrates, defends or attempts to justify the Holocaust, it added that material is not removed simply because it is untruthful. In November 2018, Facebook even admitted to the abuse of its platform in Myanmar “to foment division and incite offline violence’’ against Rohingyas by not just ordinary Internet users but Myanmar military personnel. According to a report in The New York Times in October 2018, “members of the Myanmar military were the prime operatives behind a systematic campaign on Facebook that stretched back half a decade and that targeted the country’s mostly Muslim Rohingya minority group’’. Besides the US Congress, at least three more legislatures across the world have summoned Facebook, Zuckerberg included. In October 2018, after the Cambridge Analytica scam revealed personal data was harvested from the platform and used for the Trump campaign in 2016 and the Leave campaign for the Brexit vote the same year, parliamentary committees of the UK and Canada issued an unprecedented international joint summons to Zuckerberg to appear before them after he ignored their individual summons. A parliamentary committee in Australia has also summoned several social media companies, including Facebook, to appear before it next month for the probe on online misinformation and foreign interference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||1.89 crore salaried jobs lost in 3 months||An estimated 1.89 crore salaried jobs were lost between April and July in India, with July ominously witnessing huge job losses after a partial recovery in June, a private research group has said after a sample household survey. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) has estimated a loss of around 1.77 crore salaried jobs in April immediately after the lockdown. Another 1 lakh jobs were lost in May while 39 lakh jobs were gained in June, perhaps because of the partial unlock getting under way. But the trend was reversed in July with the loss of 50 lakh jobs, CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas said. He didn’t seek to explain the development. Vyas said the group conducted the Consumer Pyramid Survey every month, asking 1.74 lakh households “if they are employed and what kinds of jobs they are doing”. “We come out with estimates about households and their employment status month after month,” he said. The sample size of 1.74 lakh is higher than that used by the government’s survey wing, the National Sample Survey Office, for any of its household surveys. The CMIE’s samples include 1 lakh households from 320 urban centres and 74,000 households from 4,000 villages across the country. Vyas said it would take a long time to restore all the lost formal-sector jobs. “In the case of informal jobs like (those of) roadside vendors, hawkers and small traders, the job loss was temporary. They started their work immediately after the lockdown was lifted,” he said. “But the salaried employees losing jobs will explore jobs of matching profile. It will take a much longer time, depending on the revival of the economy.” Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra, former chairperson of the Centre for Labour Studies at JNU, said it’s only by 2023-24 that one can expect all the jobs lost during the pandemic to be restored. “But by then, fresh job seekers will have come up too. So, the high unemployment situation will persist for many years,” he said. More than 1 crore youths complete various higher-education courses every year and begin seeking jobs. Mehrotra cited the Reserve Bank prediction about the economy beginning to revive from the second half of 2021-22. “Each sector has been affected. The sluggish economy of the pre-Covid era was aggravated by the pandemic,” he said. “The three earlier economic contractions since 1947 had happened on account of supply issues, mainly because of drought and balance-of-payment constraints. The current contraction is because of low demand. People do not have money. One solution is to provide direct cash to about 60 per cent of the people for the next six months.” Such cash transfers have been advocated by many economists and Opposition parties like the Congress, but the government has so far shown no inclination to accept the advice. Mehrotra said the recovery of the lost formal-sector jobs would start once the economy began reviving in 2021-22. “In 2022-23, we can expect the income level to be the same as the pre-Covid 2019-20. We can expect the lost jobs to be recovered by 2023-24,” he said. A report by the International Labour Organisation and the Asian Development Bank on Tuesday suggested that 41 lakh youths (aged between 20 and 29) in India may have lost their jobs between April and June. Labour economist Ravi Srivastava differed with Vyas, saying “people in the informal sector continue to suffer” because the revival in the sector has been slow. “Most of the domestic workers and newspaper hawkers are yet to get work. So the job loss does not affect only the salaried segment,” Srivastava said. He said that 70 per cent of the salaried class work in the informal sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||‘Loan’ sharks hijack bus with 34 on board||Four men who identified themselves as loan recovery agents of a private finance company hijacked a bus with 34 passengers from a highway in Agra early on Wednesday after the owner of the vehicle who had allegedly defaulted on EMIs died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh. Around four-and-a-half hours after the 6am hijack, it emerged that the passengers had reached Jhansi in another bus the hijackers had packed them into after driving them for around 20km. The bus, owned by the family of the now-deceased Ashok Arora of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, was found parked around 1pm near a dhaba in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah, over 100km from New South Bypass in Agra from where it was hijacked. Nobody was in the bus and the hijackers are still at large. Arora’s family said they had no EMI dues. Police said they were also probing an extortion angle as the Aroras, the owners of Kalpana Travels, had allegedly been receiving threat calls demanding money. The bus had been travelling from Gurgaon in Haryana to Panna in Madhya Pradesh when it was chased down by the four men in an SUV, the police said. The driver, Ramesh Kumar, had initially ignored calls from the men to stop the bus but soon the hijackers caught up. The police said three of the hijackers entered the bus, forced the driver, conductor and helper to get off and sped away with the vehicle. The other hijacker followed the bus in the SUV. “They forced me, conductor Ram Vishal and cleaner Bhura Singh to get off the bus. Then one of them took the driver’s seat and drove away while the two others sat along with the passengers. Their remaining team member followed the bus in the SUV,” the police quoted Ramesh as saying. Ramesh filed a written complaint at the local Malpura police station around 7am. Around 10.30am, the 34 passengers were found safe at a bus terminus in Jhansi, where they told the staff that the hijackers had driven them for around 20km and then herded them into another bus. “The hijackers asked us to make our own travel arrangements to Panna from Jhansi,” the police quoted one of the passengers as saying. Bablu Kumar, the senior superintendent of police of Agra, said: “We have registered a case against four persons for the crime and are trying to arrest them.” As the four men had been wearing masks because of the pandemic, it could be difficult to identify them, police sources said. Ramesh, the driver, told reporters in Agra that the hijackers were saying that the bus owner had not been paying EMIs and so they had come to seize it. Pawan Arora, the son of bus owner Ashok, said they had no EMIs left to pay. “My father died of Covid-19 five days ago. The whole family is in isolation. The bus is in the name of my mother, Deepa Arora. We owe no money to any finance agency. We don’t know who did all this and why,” Pawan said. A police source said: “We have come to know that somebody had been trying to extort money from the Aroras. We are probing all possible aspects.” Agra police arrested the main accused Pradeep Gupta in the early hours of Thursday from the Fatehabad area of Agra district. Pradeep suffered a bullet injury to his leg in the encounter that followed after the police intercepted him. “The main accused of the bus ‘hijacking’ case Pradeep Gupta has been arrested after an encounter with the police. He was on his motorcycle and was traced in Fatehabad area of Agra district in the early hours of Thursday,” said Babloo Kumar, SSP Agra. Gupta was taken for medical assistance for injury in his leg. The CCTV footage helped identify him at the toll plaza on Wednesday as he led the ‘hijacking’ of the bus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
20-08-2020||India||Congress to launch ‘rape’ protest against BJP MLA||The Opposition Congress in Uttarakhand has threatened to launch a movement if no action is taken against a BJP lawmaker who has been accused by a woman of sexual exploitation and refusal to accept that he had fathered her child. Although the woman had sought to register a complaint against Mahesh Singh Negi, the MLA of Dwarahat in Almora, 15 days ago, police have allegedly not accepted it formally, but have acted with promptness to register an FIR against her when the leader’s wife accused her of blackmail two days ago. “The woman has said she has been receiving threat calls. The wife of the BJP’s Dwarahat MLA is offering her money to remain silent, and at the same time she has registered a case of blackmail against the victim. While the police are yet to register a case against the BJP MLA, it was quick to book the victim in a false case of blackmailing and demanding money from Negi,” said Preetam Singh, the president of the Uttarakhand Congress, on Wednesday. “The woman is saying that the BJP MLA is the father of her daughter and has been demanding a DNA test. The government should have heard the victim instead of harassing her. We will soon start a movement against the (Trivendra Singh) Rawat government if she does not get justice,” he added. Rita Negi, the MLA’s wife, registered the blackmail complaint at Nehru Colony police station in Dehradun on Monday. The woman who has alleged sexual exploitation said she had submitted her complaint against the MLA at the same police station two weeks ago but the police were yet to turn it into an FIR. “Negi and I have been in a relationship since 2018. We have a one-year-old daughter,” the woman, who is married and is a resident of Almora, told reporters in Dehradun on Wednesday. “The wife of the MLA called me on August 5 and offered me Rs 25 lakh to remain silent. When I refused and demanded a DNA test on her husband, she registered a case of blackmail against me,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
20-08-2020||India||Odisha MLA tills land, earns Naidu’s praise||Odisha legislator Manohar Randhari has earned the praise of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu for tilling his own agriculture land and sowing paddy, setting an example for youths. A BJD lawmaker from Dabugam in the backward Nabarangpur district, Randhari has been working tirelessly in his fields and transplanting paddy saplings amid the monsoon showers. His efforts have drawn the attention and praise of the Vice-President who called his work inspiring. “It’s inspiring. According to him, the youth should not feel ashamed or feel any kind of hesitation while working in the agricultural field,” Naidu tweeted, appreciating Randhari’s toil. Randhari, 45, told The Telegraph, “I am quite elated after receiving praise from the Vice-President. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has also appreciated my role as a farmer. It’s the farmer who feeds people. I think we all should take up agricultural activities apart from our professional work. One can work as a farmer and be something else at the same time. One needs to be present his fields during the monsoon rains to plough the land and to undertake activities like paddy cutting at the time of harvesting. Other professional work can be taken care of through one’s representatives.” Patnaik tweeted, “Appreciate Party MLA Manohar Randhari for leading by example with his commitment to agriculture and taking pride for his work in the agriculture field.” In view of the lockdown and shortage of labour, Randhari decided to devote 6 to 8 hours daily in his fields. “Earlier my father Damburu Randhari used to take care of agricultural activities. I used to assist him. “After my father passed away last year, I decided to involve myself more in agricultural work. The restrictions imposed due to the corona pandemic have given me time to dedicate myself to agriculture in a much better manner,” the MLA said. Hailing from the tribal community, Randhari, a three-time MLA, tills 25 acres of agricultural land spread in four villages — Pujaripada, Sindriguda, Keshariguda and Bhatigam — in Nabarangpur block. While 20 acres are owned by him, another five acres has been taken by him for cultivation on sharecropping basis. “People say agriculture is not profitable. I want to change that notion. With the use of right kind of technology and the right kind of manure, agriculture can be made profitable. We cultivate paddy and corn and earn around Rs 10 lakh in a year. We also grow vegetables. We don’t have to buy rice. Thanks to what I grow in the fields, I am able to feed rice and dalma (dal mixed with vegetables) to around 100 people in my house daily,” he said. Randhari, whose sister Padmini Dian, is a minister in the state government, said, “Even my sister and her husband, a constable in Odisha police, engage in farming in their area . Earlier there was Maoist disturbance in the district but successful implementation of socio-economic projects have changed the situation. The Maoists are no longer active in the area and people can work in their fields fearlessly. As a result farming has started paying good dividends.” Randhari, who plunged into politics on the call of Patnaik, earlier worked as a senior clerk in a state government office. He quit the job in 2009 and contested the Assembly election on a BJD ticket. He has never been defeated. He also undertakes social work, helping the poor and distributing books among needy students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Music is Malda duo’s mantra to kill Covid melancholy||Two police officers sing songs at their respective police stations in Malda to help relieve the fatigue and melancholy of colleagues who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Madan Mohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station, and Tridip Pramanik, who holds the same post at Baishnabnagar, are happy that their songs have earned appreciation from the force. The duo’s melodious performances are encouraged by Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria. Over 200 police personnel, right from the rank of constable to deputy superintendent, and some civic volunteers have been infected with the novel coronavirus so far. While many of them have recovered, others are still under treatment. Roy, who got no formal training in singing, cherished the urge to sing publicly since his childhood. Being prompted by his knack for cultural activities, the Englishbazar IC has performed drama, recitation and songs since his teenage days. “However, in 2013, I started singing seriously. The skill is now helping me provide some musical relief  to my colleagues. They are playing a praiseworthy role during the pandemic and often request me to sing some popular songs. I try to oblige them by singing Rabindrasangeet and modern Bengali songs,” said Roy, who is an ardent fan of singers Shyamal Mitra and Bhupen Hazarika. Somdev Goswami, an assistant sub-inspector at the Englishbazar police station, is also happy to rejuvenate his nearly forgotten experience of playing the “tabla”. “I accompany IC sir while he sings and stress is largely relieved,” the young officer said. Pramanik, the inspector-in-charge of Baishnabnagar police station, has also amazed the colleagues with songs. “I have no professional training in music. My mother’s melodious humming encouraged me to sing on my own. While I was posted in Bolpur, its proximity to Santiniketan helped me nurture my passion for singing. Now, I sing Rabindrasangeet mostly and help my colleagues forget the exhaustion with the ever inspiring notes by Tagore,” Pramanik said. The officer said Hemanta Mukherjee and Sandhya Mukherjee were his icons in music. Roy and Pramanik regularly perform at their respective police stations. The talents of these two officers have been appreciated by Malda SP Rajoria. “They sing really well. Even their songs help me to have fresh energy and happiness. Our men are fighting against Covid-19 with their best ability. The way Roy and Pramanik are trying to help them get energised is indeed laudable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Draft out on quota at Siliguri rural body||The state election commission issued a draft notification on Tuesday, mentioning the status of the seats at the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad (SMP), the smallest third-tier rural body in the state. In the Siliguri subdivision, the three-tier panchayat elections were held for the last time in October 2015. So, the next polls are due in a couple of months. The notification says five of the nine seats at the SMP are general, while two each are reserved for Scheduled Castes  and Scheduled Tribes. Among the nine, four seats have been reserved for women candidates. Sabhadhipati Tapas Sarkar and Opposition leader Kajol Ghosh will have to choose other seats if the quota is implemented according to the notification. “Both their seats have been reserved for ST women. However, it is only a draft and anybody can raise objections within 15 days from the date of publication of the notification for consideration of the state election commission,” said a source in the Darjeeling district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Stranded in Bangladesh since lockdown, back home via land check posts ||Stranded in Bangladesh since the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March, a few thousand Indians from Bengal have begun to come home in batches from this week after the Union home ministry approved their entry through land border check posts. A group of some 25 Indian citizens, who hail from the districts of Nadia and North 24-Parganas, entered the country through Petrapole on Wednesday, ending their dire distress of the last few months. Bangladesh authorities allowed them to cross the border after the Indian nationals furnished their negative Covid-19 test reports. They were also examined by Indian authorities at the immigration centre before their entry to India. Ashanur Begum Biswas, 50, of Aranghata, and Feli Bewa, 55, of Banpur in Nadia, beamed on reaching Indian soil in Petrapole. Home after five months, Biswas, an epileptic who also has a kidney disorder, broke down in tears to see son Saibur at Petropole. Those who returned home said that last month the Indian High Commission in Dhaka  contacted them and asked them to choose between Petrapole and Phulbari as their convenient check post to come home. Stranded Indians with cancer, epilepsy, mental disorders and kidney troubles were in bigger trouble as the validity of their prescriptions expired and they could not buy medicines. Around 400 Indians from Malda are stranded in Bangladesh. The affluent ones have taken a flight to Delhi, paying over Rs 50,000 for airfare, and then spent two weeks of quarantine in Delhi before returning home. Zakir Husain, a retired bank manager from Malda’s English Bazar, who was stranded in Bholaghat area of Champai-Nawabganj of Bangladesh, came home last week. “I could return because I could afford the airfare. But hundreds from my district are in acute distress close to Benapole. Many are forced to beg to survive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||100-year-old Midnapore building falls, two buried alive||The bodies of two employees of a private contractor agency were extricated on Wednesday from the debris of a 100-year-old building in Midnapore town, a part of which collapsed during heavy showers on Tuesday. A team of 25 workers were evacuating materials from the district land and land reforms department office, housed in a derelict building slated for demolition, when the mishap occurred around 3pm on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Subhadeep Pramanik, 23, and Ram Soren, 50, from West Midnapore’s Gharbeta. Subhadeep, an ITI graduate, had been supervising the work when a part of the structure came crashing down, said his brother Utpal. A 15-member National Disaster Response Force team from Ghatal recovered the bodies, said an official. Two critically injured workers were rescued on Tuesday 9pm, and hospitalised. Midnapore SDO Dina Narayan Ghosh assured “adequate compensation” to the deceased’s kin”. In Panskura on Tuesday night, Manisha Bibi, 30, and her infant son were killed when the mud wall of their home collapsed on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre pays Rs 3cr to restore Buxa fort||The Centre has given over Rs 3 crore to restore Buxa Fort in Alipurduar, an important monument in north Bengal associated with India’s struggle for independence. Spread over 2sqkm, the remnants of the fort next to Bhutan hills bear testimony to how hundreds of freedom fighters were kept in the British detention camp for years. The Directorate of Archaeological Museums under the Union ministry of information and cultural affairs has sanctioned Rs 3.01 crore to restore the fort. The fund has reached the district magistrate, who has tasked the construction wing of the state PWD to execute the work in eight months. “Time and again, we asked for this fort to be restored. It is good that finally the Centre approved funds for it,” said Tamal Goswami, an archaeological consultant in Alipurduar, adding no contemporary materials would be used in the job. Pinaki Ghosh, associated with the restoration work, said cleaning and chemical treatment of walls, scaffolding and strengthening of structures, rebuilding damaged parts and landscaping, including putting up electric lights and restoring a pathway through the fort, would be taken up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Normal rain brings paddy relief in Bengal||Bengal agriculture department officials have heaved a sigh of relief as the initial assessment suggests normal rainfall in most of the rice-producing districts has helped in completion of sowing of paddy in 90 per cent of the 44-lakh hectares of cultivable land in the state. In view of the impact of Covid-19 on all sectors of the economy, the state government was worried about its likely impact on agriculture, the main vocation of over 70 per cent people in Bengal. “The rainfall and the sowing reports, as of now, are satisfying,” said a source. “The state has recorded 1,138.3mm of seasonal rainfall since June 1 till date against an average rainfall of 1,002.1mm during the period. As the rainfall has been distributed almost equally in the major rice-producing districts, sowing of paddy has been completed in 90 per cent of the cultivable land,” said a source in the agriculture department on Wednesday. The kharif season is very important for the economy of rural Bengal. All 72 lakh farmers cultivate land during the kharif season which contributes to 110 lakh tons of 155 lakh tons of rice produced annually in the state. A fall in production in the kharif season — sowing of which ends officially on August 31 — could have created a major problem for the state for multiple reasons. “People have moved back to rural areas after job losses and agriculture is absorbing them... Had there been poor rainfall, it would have caused social tension,” said a source. According to him, if farmers fail to cultivate land during the kharif season, the production drops sharply and results in large-scale rural unemployment, which the state government couldn’t afford. As everything went normal and more than 90 per cent of the farmland has been cultivated before the cut-off date for the season, the state government has heaved a sigh of relief. A rough estimate by the agriculture department showed that nearly 60 lakh people had secured employment opportunities in the kharif season, which comes as a blessing in the backdrop of the pandemic. “This has eased the situation in the rural areas. If the kharif season farming was hit, demand for employment would have increased. It could have been uncomfortable for the state government ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls,” said a source. While, majority of the districts received normal rainfall, two districts — East Midnapore and West Midnapore-- recorded lesser rainfall. According to records available with the agriculture department, West Midnapore recorded 44 per cent lesser rainfall and East Midnapore received 34 per cent lesser rainfall till date. “About 1 lakh hectares of land in each of the districts remained uncultivated till date. This could create trouble for the districts,” said an official. But agriculture minister Ashis Banerjee was hopeful of making up for the shortfall before the kharif season’s deadline. “By August 31, the shortage of rainfall in these two districts would be covered as heavy rainfall has been predicted in these areas in the next few days. I believe that by August 31, we will be able to cover 100 per cent of the cultivable land in the state,” said the minister. A Trinamul insider said if farmers could cultivate their land in the kharif season, it would solve many of their problems. “If there was a shortage of rainfall, the farmers backed by Opposition parties could have started agitation demanding irrigation. Many of the farm labourers would not be able to earn livelihood. All these would have gone against us ahead of the Assembly polls. It is very relieving that everything has gone normal so far,” said the Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC skips meeting on Pous Mela wall||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty skipped the meeting held on Wednesday by the administration as ordered by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to resolve the ongoing impasse around a wall on Pous Mela ground. The VC’s absence triggered fresh speculations of a widening rift between the state government and central university, whose chancellor is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In its news release, Visva-Bharati attributed the VC’s absence to the fact that the meeting’s time and venue had been fixed without consulting him. On Monday, hours after a mob of around 5,000 allegedly vandalised the campus and looted varsity property to protest against the wall, Mamata told the Birbhum district magistrate to hold a meeting with VC Chakrabarty, residents, traders and students to resolve the issue peacefully. She also made her stand clear against the wall, saying it went against Tagore’s ideals. The central varsity on Tuesday formally blamed Trinamul — including party MLA Naresh Bauri — for Monday’s vandalism. The Enforcement Directorate, a central agency, has started a probe into the source of funds to mobilise the mob. The central agency sent a letter seeking all complaints and documents related to the wall from district police chief Shyam Singh, he confirmed on Wednesday. Sources said Chakrabarty was told on August 17 evening about the meeting at the SDO’s office after he asked district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu to host it on campus. A senior varsity official said officials and professors had resolved that the meeting should be held on campus. “It was decided (in the varsity meeting) that the district magistrate should fix the venue and time by discussing those with the VC as minimal courtesy.” Godara Basu, however, said she convened the meeting at the SDO’s office in Bolpur following the order of the state government. “As I called the meeting, I fixed the venue.” Asit Mal, the Trinamul MP from Bolpur who was present during the meeting, criticised Chakrabarty’s absence. “The VC did not attend the meeting, which indicates that Visva-Bharati has no confidence in the state government,” he said. At the meeting, veteran residents of Santiniketan disapproved of any wall or barricade on Pous Mela ground. “Everyone said they did not want any wall on Pous Mela ground. We said many walls had come up on campus, we don’t want more,” said Supriya Tagore, a scion of the Tagore family and former principal of Patha Bhavana. But many also pointed out that like walls, vandalism was also against Tagore’s ideals. “We neither support walls, nor politics and vandalism over walls,” said Neela Bhattacharya, a member of the Tagore family. Officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Anirban Sircar seemed to distance the Pous Mela ground from the Tagore legacy. “The land was acquired and transferred to Visva-Bharati by the Bengal government in 1947, six years after Tagore’s death. The surrounding lands were purchased directly from the Majumdar family in 1942, also after Tagore’s death. Pous Mela started here 20 years after Tagore’s death. This is no heritage ground. This was not part of the Maharshi (Debendranath Tagore, Rabindranath’s father)’s ashram,” he said. Visva-Bharati recently put up walls in front of Rabindrasangeet exponent Santidev Ghosh’s home and near Ratan Pally market. On Wednesday morning, some Santiniketan veterans, including members of the Tagore clan, protested in front of the wall outside Ghosh’s home and sang Tagore’s songs. Visva-Bharati on Tuesday had claimed the wall was only a 4-feet fencing decorated with creepers and plants and would have a 3-foot-high iron grill, with seven gates on the eastern side of the mela ground. “Authorities disclosed this plan suddenly after the issue turned big,” said Subir Banerjee, a veteran Santiniketan resident and Visva-Bharati alumnus. On Wednesday, the police also changed the armed constable posted as Chakrabarty’s security guard, citing “misuse of the cop”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid test count crosses  14 lakh||Bengal crossed 14 lakh Covid-19 tests with 34,358 tests being recorded in a 24-hour period till 9am on Wednesday. The state also reported 3,169 new Covid-19 cases and 53 deaths, besides 2,973 recoveries during the same period. It took 92 days for Bengal to reach the test tally of 14-lakh after logging the first lakh. The state reached the latest lakh in just three days. Bengal reported over 5.23 lakh tests in August so far, with the total test count at 14,16,556. The state has a total of nearly 1.26 lakh cases now, of which around 96,000 are recoveries and 2,581 are deaths. The recovery rate now is 75.97, which was 68.92 per cent even at the beginning of the month. The national rate right now is 73.79. “We have not been able to reduce the rise in new cases yet, but we have been doing a great deal in recovery and testing,” said a minister. “We are already at the 35,000 level in daily testing. We will go past 40,000 in a matter of days. Our aim is to get past 50,000 in the next few weeks,” he added. Bengal’s tests per million has gone up from 9,927 at the beginning of August to 15,740. Testing in Bengal began in early February and the state took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19. “Even after considerable ramp-up, crossing the milestones between 2 lakh and 5 lakh took us 10-12 days each. Look at us now,” said the minister. “We crossed 10 lakh (on August 5), 11 lakh (on August 9) and 12 lakh (on August 13) in four days each. Now, we crossed 13 lakh (on August 16) and 14 lakh (on August 19) in just three days each,” he added. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.89 per cent, which was 7.86 even at the beginning of the month. “Another 4.8 lakh tests are likely in what remains of August. If we get there, we will have conducted 10 lakh tests this month,” said the minister. Of the 3,169 new cases reported on Wednesday, 666 were from the city, while 657 were from North 24-Parganas. However, since they also reported 605 and 627 recoveries, respectively, their total of active cases increased only marginally. Of the total 2,581 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,121, with 11 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 596 deaths, 16 of them on Wednesday. The state government reported 2,277 (88.2 per cent) deaths as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.04, but still lagged behind the national rate of 1.9 per cent.  Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.28. Of 11,825 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 85 dedicated hospitals, 38.24 per cent are occupied.  Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to around 96,000, including 4,514 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP launches campaign to fight TMC's 'Didi Ke Bolo'||The Bengal BJP has launched a mass outreach initiative called “Durnitir Biruddhe Amader Dilipda” or “Our Dilipda against corruption” ahead of the Assembly polls with the campaign being seen as a direct response to Mamata Banerjee’s “Didi Ke Bolo” programme to address people’s grievances. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday unveiled a website and a phone number for people to register their complaints against the alleged corruption of the ruling dispensation. “This initiative will strengthen our fight against corruption in the state. People can contact us through these platforms anytime between 10am and 5pm from Monday to Saturday,” Ghosh said. The saffron brigade tried their best to dispel suggestions that the initiative was modelled along the Trinamul Congress’s successful digital campaign Didi Ke Bolo (Tell Didi). Some in the BJP saw in the initiative a bid to pitch Ghosh as the party’s tallest leader in Bengal and the direct competitor of Mamata. Such a positioning of Ghosh drew sharp reaction from a section of the BJP’s Bengal unit. “People will think that we are copying Trinamul’s campaign. Firstly, they had initiated their programme before us and secondly, there is a striking similarity in the names,” a BJP insider said. Another state leader said: “A party like the BJP should not project a person like this.” Trinamul MP Saugata Roy said the BJP programme was “a poor imitation of Didi Ke Bolo”. He added that the BJP had “false hopes” if it thought the people of Bengal would even wish to connect to Ghosh. “Such measures from the BJP will have no political impact whatsoever on the state,” Roy said. Reacting to Roy’s allegations, a BJP leader said: “Our online presence dates back to 1999. No other party has any match to the kind of penetration we enjoy on digital platforms.” Earlier in April, a website titled “Amader Dilipda” or Our Dilipda was launched. The website which primarily shared details about Ghosh and his activities turned into a platform for the people affected by Cyclone Amphan to register their complaints. The party had claimed it had received numerous complaints about misappropriation of relief materials and funds meant for the Amphan-affected families through this platform. A source in the BJP’s IT cell said similar programmes would be launched from time to time in the run up to the polls. A phone number was launched a few days ago under a campaign called “Aar Noye Anyay” or No more injustice and it was well received. “The response has encouraged us to come up with other programmes such as the one launched on Wednesday,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal tea workers’ cash aid put on hold since April||The state’s financial aid of Rs 1,500 a month to each permanent worker of a tea garden that is closed for six months or more has been put on hold since April. The halt in the aid under the Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked-Out Industries (FAWLOI) scheme impacts over 15,000 tea workers and their families who stay near 15 closed tea gardens of north Bengal amid the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Raju Kerketta, a worker of the Dheklapara tea estate closed since 2002, said that usually they got the state’s financial aid once in a quarter, that is, three months’ of the dole clubbed together. “But this time, we got no money since the first quarter of the this financial year (April to June),” Kerketta said. The workers of closed tea estates said the halt in the aid worsened their distress amid the pandemic for two reasons. One, odd jobs at construction sites have dried up. Two, family members who were migrant workers returned home, and most homes had extra mouths to feed. A senior trade union leader in the Dooars said tea workers and their families get food grains from ration shops arranged by the state government, but “one cannot sustain only on rice and flour”. A source in the state labour department, which disburses money to workers’ bank accounts, admitted that no fund had arrived from state coffers in the first quarter. Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner posted in Siliguri, however sounded hopeful. “Yes, there has been some delay but workers of all 15 gardens will receive money soon. We also decided to include workers of four more nearby gardens (Kalchini, Raimatang, Torsha and Birpara) under this scheme. The process to collect details of workers (of the four gardens) has started,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||North East||Congress quizzes PM on Naga proposal||The Congress on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether the proposal of “shared sovereignty” that his government discussed with NSCN (I-M) was an act of treason or not, insisting that  Congress governments resolved several secessionist movements in the past by strictly staying within the constitutional framework. The Congress regretted that the Prime Minister in 2015 announced with great fanfare the accord reached on Nagaland without revealing the contours of the agreement to the cabinet or the nation. Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said the details emerging now were shocking. The Congress also expressed shock that the Prime Minister chose to sell a framework agreement as an accord. Recalling how the central government did not consult other stakeholders, including the affected neighbouring states, Gohil said: “This had never happened in the country before. The Prime Minister declared an accord without sharing the details. Everybody, including Parliament of India, was kept in the dark. Now it turns out that the accord never happened. Now what the NSCN (I-M) general secretary has said is of serious concern to the country.” Gohil added: “They are now talking of a separate flag, a different passport and no administrative control of India. Is Modi setting new precedents, starting a new tradition in India? The RSS did not accept the Indian flag for decades but now even states will be allowed to do that? Is this the way to strengthen India’s integrity and sovereignty? Isn’t this treason? The Prime Minister must explain why he betrayed the constitutional spirit of India while negotiating this deal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
20-08-2020||North East||Miffed NPF quits Naga truce forum||The Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) legislators have pulled out of the joint legislators’ forum (JLF) on the Naga political issue because they feel it has been rendered “ ineffective” by the state government. The NPF move comes at a time when the peace talks are floundering because of the strained ties between the NSCN (I-M) and the interlocutor for the talks and Nagaland governor, R.N. Ravi, so much so that the Centre has tasked senior Intelligence Bureau officials to engage with the outfit’s leaders to put the negotiations back on track before Ravi “takes it forward”. To prevent the process from collapsing, the Centre had even tasked Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convener Himanta Biswa Sarma to talk to NSCN (I-M) general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah, sources said. The NPF on Tuesday said that the JLF was facing a “huge trust deficit” and has become a “mere forum without any tangible road map to the Naga political issue,” the NPF said in a statement after a meeting of the NPF Legislature Party in Dimapur. The Nagaland Assembly had in 2015 unanimously resolved to constitute a JLF on Naga political issue comprising all members to work as a facilitator and press for early settlement of the decades-old Naga political issue. The JLF was reconstituted on September 18, 2018. The NPF has 25 MLAs in the 60-member Assembly, the effective strength of which is 58. It has five members in the 20-member JLF core committee. “There is neither real activity nor productivity on the ground. Furthermore, when the ruling dispensation does not have confidence in the legislators of the Naga Peoples’ Front, there is no valid reason why the NPF should continue to remain as part of JLF,” the statement said. Three meetings of the core committee have been held so far. The NPF alleged that Rio had “never expressed his mind or divulged about his meetings with the central leadership in any of the JLF or core committee meetings” for the members to carry forward the process as facilitators. It has even cited the meeting Rio and Assam cabinet minister Sarma had with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on August 5. “While the chief minister of Nagaland on his return maintained an eerie silence on what transpired in the meeting, it was learnt from the finance minister of Assam that the government of India was keen on resolving the Naga issue,” it said. The NSCN (I-M) has been relentless in its attack on Ravi, alleging on Sunday that he had “created imbroglio” in the talks process. According to the outfit, the Prime Minister has given the “mandate to continue the talks to a team of IB as a fast-track channel for communication and clear the pending points in the competency. Once everything is clear, the agreement will be at the political level of the Prime Minister”. The outfit had earlier accused Ravi of twisting the 2015 Framework Agreement and misleading Naga groups and organisations. The agreement, which stresses on an honourable solution acceptable to both sides, was made public on Sunday. Both Muivah and Ravi are its signatories. In a statement on Tuesday, the NSCN (I-M) convener “Major (retd)” Hutovi Chishi said any organisation or individuals “falling in line” with Ravi are to be “classified as anti-Nagas” and the Naga people will “not” forgive those who are trying to kill their rights by supporting India’s suppressive policy. “We will never sign any agreement that affects the freedom of our future generations. We will not betray our God who gave us the right and conscience to live as a free nation. That was the reason why we adopted the slogan Nagalim for Christ,” Chishi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
20-08-2020||Opinion||Unsuitable match: Age of marriage review for women||Sir — On the occasion of India’s 74th Independence Day, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, had indicated that the government is mulling an upward revision of the legal age of marriage for women in India. The possible increase in legal age from the current 18 to 21 years would be a welcome step forward. Some of the primary reasons why girls, especially in rural areas, are pressurized to tie the knot early include proper lack of education, social awareness and age-old norms that consider the female child to be a burden. Thus, along with an increase in the age bracket, the government must also work towards improving the level of education in females and, if necessary, provide them with requisite support and incentives. It will not only make women self-sufficient, but would also empower them to stand up for themselves, make better decisions for their family and equip them with the necessary knowledge — including family planning and childcare — to make a smooth transition into marital life. On the other hand, if girls are married off young, they are far more likely to face emotional as well as physical abuse at the hands of their spouse or in-laws. Additionally, children born to mothers under the age of 20 are at higher risk of low birth weight and severe neonatal conditions. It is, thus, imperative that women marry only when they are both physically and emotionally ready. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — While it is great that the government is considering a hike in the legal age of marriage for women in India, it must also be remembered that crimes against women are on the rise. According to government statistics, a rape on a woman was reported every 15 minutes on an average in 2018. These numbers are alarming. Many parents, albeit mistakenly, feel that if a girl child is married off as early as possible then they might not be vulnerable to sexual violence. One wonders whether an increase in the age of marriage from 18 to 21 would really make a difference. In over 140 countries, the lower age limit for women getting married is at 18 which seems to be a reasonable age for marriage. Unless women are empowered and can access all the opportunities and privileges accorded to men, the condition of women will continue to be the same. N.R. Ramachandran, Chennai Sir — Although many people have lauded the prime minister for considering an increase in the minimum age of marriage for women in India, activists are right to point out that it will not do much to bring about change. Girls as young as 12 or 13 years of age — as soon as they start menstruating — are married off in many parts of the country. How does it matter then if the legal age is 18 or higher? If the government truly wants to address the issue of gender inequality, then the way forward would be to work towards improving social awareness about the rights of the girl child. Aparajita Pradhan,Darjeeling Shut down Sir — It is natural that migrant workers are reluctant to return to their former workplaces (“A gig economy”, Aug 19). They need to be provided wage guarantee, housing and also insurance against loss of employment if they are expected to go back to work. These factors have become indispensable to ensure the mobility of labour within the nation. More important, this is an excellent opportunity to focus on skill development. It is not just a matter of filling up empty positions but also about ensuring long-term employment. Those engaged in the unregulated sectors like construction workers, delivery personnel, domestic helpers and so on must be trained so that they can find better employment. This means, of course, that these jobs will then open up. More people can then be trained for these. This will not just address the issue of poverty but also kick-start the economy. Both the Centre and the state governments have to play an active role in this if the plan is to succeed.M. Raghuraman,Mumbai Sir — Sukanta Chaudhuri has rightly pointed out in his article that the problem before India’s economy is multi-faceted. It is not just about getting the migrant labourers who left for their homes when the lockdown was announced back to work. It is also about the thousands of workers who are underpaid and overworked. The case of the Asha workers is an excellent example given the role that they have to play in tackling the pandemic. They are the ones who are most vulnerable given the severe lack of protective equipment and the shaky condition of India’s primary healthcare system. In spite of this, the government pays them a pittance, or a measly commission. It all comes down to a question of respect. Do we respect the grimy work that allows us to lead our lives in luxury? Anjishnu Ghatak,Jamshedpur Survival tactics Sir — The pandemic, it seems, has upended our lives in more ways than one. People are understandably finding it difficult to cope with the new reality. Not only are those stuck at home taking a laid back approach to life, but they are also developing bad habits. Waking up later than usual tops the list, along with constant snacking and a general lack of hygiene. As people face an uncertain future, unless they take care of themselves and maintain a schedule, it is far more likely that they will succumb to depression. A healthy lifestyle combined with safely-conducted social interactions might help us survive the emotional upheavals of the pandemic. Nipa Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
20-08-2020||Opinion||First date: Age of marriage for women||On Independence Day, the prime minister suggested that the government may review the legal age of marriage for women to raise it from 18 to 21, on par with that of men. Data regarding age of motherhood, maternal and infant mortality rates and so on are being collected by a task force, and the review will depend on its report. The prime minister and his government feel that by 21, women would have a better education than at 18, be more mature physiologically and psychologically, and empowered enough to make marital and reproductive choices. Besides, the effects of poor nutrition and anaemia may be somewhat ameliorated by 21. It would also slow population growth, one of the prime minister’s larger goals, since studies show that many women have their first pregnancies between the ages of 18 and 21. These are undeniable benefits, although not new discoveries. Fixing an age for marriage must tread a fine line between the ideal and complex social realities. Early marriage is often forced upon daughters of poor parents for then dowry — illegal but flourishing — is lower and the girl is made, nominally at least, sexually secure. There is no gainsaying the importance of education: determined schoolgirls keep rebelling against their parents’ decision to marry them off. Empowerment is a priority, even if it takes years to achieve. But certain incongruities need to be ironed out. Would marriage at 21 mean the age of sexual consent would be raised from 18 too, when there are calls for this to be lowered to 16 because teenage society is changing? Would child marriage, which is illegal but voided only when a spouse complains, be made void by default? In reviewing the age of marriage — no bad thing — the government would also have to consider how the law is to be implemented in a society riddled with economic inequality. The change should not be pointless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
20-08-2020||Opinion||Too close: Facebook – business and ethics||Business and ethics need not share a complementary relationship. The political storm that is raging over a report in The Wall Street Journal alleging that Facebook had condoned hate-mongering by individuals or groups affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party to protect the company’s business interests in India reveals the uneasy ties between business and ethics. The Opposition has, quite correctly, demanded an investigation into the charges by a joint parliamentary committee. Some Facebook employees are also expected to be summoned by a committee of the Delhi assembly to scrutinize the social media firm’s role, if any, in the riots that shook India’s capital city earlier in the year. These investigations must be fair, transparent and, most importantly, immune to political pressure to arrive at the truth. There is merit in the argument for such probes. Social media has edged out traditional — more reliable — media platforms as a primary source of information. Facebook, by some estimates, has over 300 million users in India. This makes social media companies particularly attractive to regimes that seek to distort narratives for ideological or political gain. A quid pro quo arrangement between digital behemoths and ruling regimes is thus not unheard of. Facebook’s conduct has strengthened such suspicions. There is a shocking lack of consistency in Facebook’s regulations when it comes to rooting out toxic content. In a deposition in Singapore, the company stated that it can only bring down offensive posts when they are brought to its notice. In India, in spite of several such complaints, Facebook, reportedly, chose to look the other way. The issue leads to some disturbing conclusions. Digital technology, which can be transformative in a meaningful way when used ethically, is increasingly becoming a prisoner of dubious political agenda. This is true on a global scale. It only goes to show that the dissemination of such technology must be accompanied by enhanced public awareness that would empower users to identify and then reject spurious news. This collective commitment is important since social media companies, evidently, cannot be relied upon to do the job themselves. Facebook, allegedly, pandered to hate speeches even though its owner believes, at least officially, that a line must be drawn against inflammatory content. There could be another way of combating fake news. Politicians must reinvest in the older ways of mass contact — the good old jan sampark model — to help truth reach the people. The reach and seductive ease of digital technology seem to have introduced a degree of inertia in mass campaigns. India’s political fraternity must — like M.K. Gandhi did all those years ago — learn to take the road, once again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
20-08-2020||Opinion||The poet and the party: Ramdhari Singh Dinkar and the BJP||Politics appropriates everything — the real and the abstract — for expanding its horizon. It may even appropriate poetry. When a politician uses poetry, it can be interpreted in three ways. First, he uses it as an instrument to disseminate political messages; second, it symbolizes the appropriation of the poet by a political party; finally, politicians and political parties use poetry that fits in with their ideologies. When the prime minister, Narendra Modi, visited Ladakh, he chose to inspire the Indian army by reciting a poem by Ramdhari Singh Dinkar (“Kalam Aaj Unaki Jay Bol”). Incidentally, Modi has referred to Dinkar’s poetry on various occasions. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Sushma Swaraj, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, among other leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, have used Dinkar’s verses to get across their political messages. Many pracharaks of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh have been known to use Dinkar’s poems during lectures for swayamsevaks and in their articles for Panchjanya and Organizer. Significantly, Dinkar was a Congressman. He was very close to Jawaharlal Nehru. The Congress retained him as a Rajya Sabha member between 1952 and 1964. After the completion of his stint, the Congress appointed Dinkar as a Hindi advisor to the Government of India. Dinkar was steeped in the Congress’s vision of Gandhian nationalism and believed in protest for the sake of freedom with humility and satyagraha. Dinkar’s famous works — Sanskriti ke Char Adhyay and Lokdeo Nehru — reveal his belief in the Gandhian and Nehruvian visions and the idea of India. Dinkar used the veer ras to express his nationalist sentiments in his poems. This has enabled the BJP and the sangh parivar to appropriate Dinkar to spread their version of nationalism, which is deeply influenced by V.D. Savarkar’s interpretation of Indian nationalism. How and why are the poems of a Nehruvian poet being used to endorse the politics of a right-wing political party? Is this merely an instrumental strategy? Does it signify the appropriation of the poet to appease his caste for electoral gain? Or is this indicative of larger issues at stake? Dinkar’s poetry is characterized by aggressive posturing. It contains appeals of being chivalrous and demands strength to defend the nation. These elements are attractive to the BJP. Dinkar’s poetry is consistent with the ideological tenets of Hindutva politics, which believes in the notions of a strong community and a strong nation. The political message of the right wing in India rests upon the encouragement of the cadre to become ‘veer’ — chivalrous — to defend the nation. Many of the speeches in this ecosystem are thus set to chivalrous, lyrical tones and tunes inspired by Dinkar’s poetry. A number of stalwarts of the BJP — Vajpayee, Vishnu Kant Shastri, Ramesh Pokhriyal — who have gone on to acquire the image of a poet have been highly influenced by Dinkar’s poetry as well as by his poetic forms. Other nationalist poets from the Congress stable, contemporaries of Dinkar, are quite popular in the Hindi heartland. But their works lack veer ras and feature the vinay bhav (humility). That is why their poems are deemed unsuitable for the BJP’s political language. The strategy employed by the BJP-sangh parivar to effectively communicate with those at the grass roots relies on the use of mythical characters from such ancient literature as the Vedas, Puranas and ballads like the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Dinkar’s poetry made substantial use of myths and epics too, reinventing his messages around these works to evoke an aggressive form of nationalism. It is rare to find a Congress leader making use of Dinkar’s poems. But the BJP organizes functions in Dinkar’s memory and has celebrated his birth anniversary in the recent past in various parts of Bihar. This may appear to be a plan to garner electoral gain. But Dinkar’s appropriation by the sangh parivar is better explained by the shared vision between the poet and the political party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
20-08-2020||Opinion||Wall of contention||Many heritage universities across the world are accustomed to tensions between town and gown. Santiniketan, the home of Visva-Bharati, the centre of tranquillity and learning founded by Rabindranath Tagore, is no exception. Matters came to a head last Monday when a mob organized by the Birbhum district leadership of the Trinamul Congress, the ruling party of West Bengal, went on rampage inside the campus. The crowd directed its ire at the construction site of a boundary wall that was sought to be built around a large field, which has traditionally been the venue of some iconic festivals associated with the poet, notably the Pous Mela. That this was no spontaneous gathering of people angry over needless construction in a campus established with the aim of blending nature and learning was obvious from the fact that a bulldozer was kept ready to ensure that the demolition was total. In the process, not only was the construction site vandalized and building material merrily looted, the old gates of the university were bulldozed to the ground. In view of the tensions and the clear collusion of the local administration with the local TMC, an emergency meeting of the university executive council decided to close Visva-Bharati for the foreseeable future. At the heart of the dispute was the tension between the university and local businessmen. Over time, Santiniketan had evolved from being a quiet ashram settlement to becoming a centre of Tagore tourism. While the academic community and local residents who had gravitated to Santiniketan for its tranquil, leafy environment were understandably indignant over the invasion of the town by hordes of — sometimes unruly — tourists, local businessmen viewed tourism as a big economic opportunity. The management of the Pous Mela epitomized the problem. The university administration felt unable to cope with the lakhs of people who descended on Santiniketan for a week or more. In particular, it was out of its depth coping with the mountain of litter, not to mention the stench caused by large areas being turned into urinals by day-trippers. The problem was compounded by the intervention of the National Green Tribunal that held the university responsible for sorting out the mess resulting from the unregulated festivities. It was in such a situation that the university administration took a decision in 2019 to not hold the Pous Mela unless the Centre —Visva-Bharati is a Central university and the prime minister its chancellor — stepped in with financial and logistical support. Following direct appeals to the prime minister, the Centre extended support for the Pous Mela and the event, held between December 24 and 28, passed off with better crowd control and efficient waste disposal. However, there was tension between the university and local businessmen over the duration of the Mela after four days. Whereas the university adhered to the NGT instruction that the event would be for four days, the latter insisted it should continue for much longer as had become the custom in the recent past. The political environment of the state added to the tensions. Until the general election of 2019 when the Bharatiya Janata Party emerged as a challenger to the TMC, winning 18 of West Bengal’s 42 seats, the Centre’s approach to its undertakings in the state was somewhat distant. This changed after 2019 as the BJP developed a stake in a state where its political influence had been negligible earlier. The Prime Minister’s Office, on its part, began taking a deeper interest in a university where the prime minister is the chancellor. New Delhi’s sponsorship of the Pous Mela’s arrangements — including the transparent system of online booking of the Mela stalls — was a direct consequence of these shifting equations. As a direct consequence, tensions between the TMC-sponsored local businessmen and the vice-chancellor escalated. Some of these found reflection in an incident when an attempt was made to disrupt a university-sponsored lecture, delivered by me, on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act on January 8, 2020. What could have escalated into an ugly fracas ended after six hours following a phone call made by the Union home minister, Amit Shah, to the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee. Although the protests and the siege of the venue where the lecture was eventually delivered were allegedly the handiwork of left student bodies, the protesters melted away within 15 minutes of the call from Delhi. Since 2019, there have been repeated attempts by the TMC to extend its political control to Visva-Bharati, which operates as a Central university. This has taken the form of employee agitations over the withdrawal of irregular privileges and vacating illegal encroachments on the perimeter of the campus. Periodically, the personal security provided to the vice-chancellor by the local police has been withdrawn and local politicians have frowned upon the university’s repeated requests to the Centre to deploy a contingent of Central security forces to protect the campus. By and large, using the Centre as a shield, Visva-Bharati has been largely successful in warding off pressures to turn yet another institution in West Bengal into an extension of a party office. Last Monday’s ugly incident was a direct consequence of these simmering tensions. In itself, the enclosure of an open space is undesirable and not in keeping with the ethos of Tagore’s Santiniketan. That is undeniable. However, the proposed wall was also a direct consequence of the NGT order of November 1, 2017 that “a barrier needs to be constructed to demarcate the Mela ground from the University and locality.” The NGT had, in fact, directed the university to show visible progress of the construction before its next hearing on August 19. Whether or not it will proceed with contempt charges against the MLA from Dubrajpur and others who mobilized the protesters and disrupted the work on the boundary wall is worth observing. Safeguarding the authentic heritage of Tagore is an objective that, while being lauded all over India and not least in West Bengal, is also a point of fierce contention. In her press interaction on the afternoon of the incident, Mamata Banerjee made clear her emphatic opposition to the construction of the boundary wall. Equally, she had no words of condemnation for the mob action in Santiniketan and did not mention the fact that even before the incident the university had requested the district administration to declare Section 144 in the area. It was apparent that behind the façade of heritage protection, the state government was using Visva-Bharati to fight a proxy battle against the Centre. In sending bulldozers to complement a political mobilization, it very successfully underlined the limits of the Centre’s powers inside West Bengal. It is even possible that she will take the muscle-flexing a step further by positing a contrived battle between a regime that protects and safeguards the heritage of Bengal’s greatest cultural icon and an uncaring Delhi that seeks to trample on Bengali sensitivities. As the assembly election of 2021 approaches, the chief minister will seek to assume the mantle of Mother Bengal fighting a valiant battle to keep out the barbarians from the North. As a political strategy, it may or may not divert attention from her whimsical — and increasingly venal — record of governance. However, what every incident, such as the one in Santiniketan, does is confirm West Bengal’s unending decline. It also makes a likely recovery imperative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Police seize Calcutta-bound bus in Giridih||Giridih police on Thursday seized a bus carrying 57 passengers to Calcutta despite the travel restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The bus, registered in Bengal, was on its way from Rajdhanwar when police stopped it in an area under the Saria police station. Bus owner Chandan Ram, driver Ismail Ansari and helper Jeevlal Yadav have been booked under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Saria subdivisional police officer Binod Mahto said: “Social distancing rules were being flouted. The passengers of the bus were residents of various blocks in Giridih. They had been charged Rs 800, double the regular fare.” After the vehicle was seized, the passengers were sent home. The bus has been kept at the Saria police station. Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Thursday opted for self-quarantine at his residence in Bhandaridah. According to family sources, he will not meet anyone for the next four days. He has isolated himself as a precautionary step as he had attended the cabinet meeting on Tuesday in which health minister Banna Gupta also participated. Gupta tested positive for Covid-19. JMM activists on Thursday walked in a symbolic funeral procession of Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh and BJP MLA Raj Sinha from Tata Sijua No. 6 area to Bheltand. The JMM activists charged the duo with politicising the issue of renaming Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and disregarding the contributions of the late Nirmal Mahto. The state government had on August 15 renamed various medical colleges. PMCH was named after Mahto, a leader of the Jharkhand agitation. BJP leaders, on the other hand, demanded the renaming of PMCH after four-time Dhanbad MP A.K. Roy. Altogether 28 persons were discharged on Thursday from various Covid-19 treatment centres in Dhanbad. Twenty-three patients were released by the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar; four by the Tata Central Hospital-based dedicated Covid-19 health centre (DCHC); and one by the sadar hospital after they tested negative for the coronavirus. The discharged persons have been asked to remain in quarantine at home for 14 days and continue to follow social distancing norms. Chatra superintendent of police Rishabh Jha and his wife tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday. He is quarantining at his official residence. Jha had convened a news conference on Wednesday which was attended by local journalists. The administration has started contact tracing to track the journalists who met Jha in the past few days. This is the first time a senior officer has been reported Covid-19 positive in the district. Residents of the Kustore and Kendua areas of Dhanbad on Thursday put up a roadblock for around 10 minutes to demand release of the body of the property dealer who was murdered a day earlier. The body had been retained by the hospital because property dealer Satish Singh, who was also a BJP leader, tested positive for Covid-19. The blockade was lifted after a team of Kenduadih police station led by officer in charge Vinod Oraon held talks with the protesters. The team convinced them that as per the norms, the dead body of a Covid-19 patient cannot be handed over to the deceased’s family members. Five alleged members of a gang of mobile phone snatchers were arrested by Dhanbad police on Thursday. The police found 18 mobile phones on the arrested persons. Vivek Paswan, Sriram Paswan, Vishal Pandey, Vikash Nuniyal and Deepak Singh are from Burdwan in Bengal but were operating in Dhanbad. Deputy superintendent of police Sarita Murmu said the force arrested two of the alleged snatchers during a vehicle-checking drive at Govindpur. They divulged details of the others, who were held after a raid in the Nirsa area. Chainpur police on Wednesday arrested four persons for allegedly robbing the manager of a private finance company last month. The police found the charred remains of a tablet and a cell phone from the Murku jungle. The robbers had apparently found it too dangerous to keep or sell the gadgets. The police feel that the robbers -- Anurag, Om Prakash, Aabid Ansari and Aneekesh – had also made off with a biometric scanner belonging to N. Ansari on July 20. But they had burnt it. They had robbed Ansari of some cash, too. The police recovered cash worth Rs 39,000, and have asked a bank to freeze a sum of Rs 30,000 deposited in Anurag’s account. Ansari’s car, which too was taken by the robbers, had been found by the police on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||2 tribal youths tied up, thrashed in Chatra on I-Day||A mukhiya’s husband and a teacher beat up two tribal youths mercilessly after tying them up and dragging them for over 50 metre on August 15 on the suspicion of theft in a village in Chatra, but police began investigations only on Thursday after a video, purportedly of the brutal assault went, viral. Chatra SP Rishab Jha said the two, one aged 20 and the other 23, were now undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He admitted that an FIR had been lodged by the 23-year-old’s wife on the same day, claiming that the allegations that they were stealing mobile phones were false. Jha said three persons were arrested on Thursday for the assault on the youths, but that the teacher, Sushil Singh, and Sanjay Dangi, who is the husband of Kobana village mukhiya Sarita Devi, were absconding. Police maintain that the two were part of a group of five who were caught trying to steal mobile phones. Three escaped, but the two were caught by local people who just stood by as Singh and Dangi beat them up. “No one will be spared. The teacher, the mukhiya and her husband have fled, but we will nab them soon,” said Jha after chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted to condemn the attack on the tribal youths and asked the Chatra police to conduct a thorough investigation and arrest the culprits. He did not explain why police did not launch an investigation after the FIR was lodged. Local sources said the incident occurred at Kobana village in Hunterganj block of Chatra district. The two tribal youths were caught soon after the flag hoisting ceremony at the block. According to the video, the duo was tied up and mercilessly beaten with sticks in the presence of a large number of people. Nobody even tried to stop Singh and Dangi. Local police are understood to have brought the two tribal youths to a community health centre at Huntergunj. But upon seeing that the two had sustained serious injuries, they referred them to Chatra Sadar Hospital, 45km away. At sadar hospital, the two received treatment. But since there was no improvement in their condition, doctors referred them to RIMS on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Rain batters Jharkhand, Kolhan region faces flood threat||Several parts of the state, especially the southern districts, were drenched as heavy showers that began Wednesday evening continued through Thursday, leaving the Kolhan region vulnerable to flash floods. Met data revealed that Jamshedpur in Kolhan's East Singhbhum district recorded the highest rainfall of 118.6 mm between 5.30 pm on Wednesday to 5.30 pm on Thursday. Chandil in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Ghatshila in East Singhbhum also recorded rain of over 80 mm. Rainfall was moderate, between 30mm and 55mm, in various places, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Ranchi and Ramgarh. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Koderma and several other districts also experienced a good shower show during the past 24 hours. Capital Ranchi, which recorded around 55mm rain, witnessed flood-like situations in several low-lying localities. Rainwater gushed into several shops on Main Road. At Kanke Road, there was knee-deep water. There was waterlogging at several places in Jamshedpur. Rainwater entered the basement and parking area of Adarshnagar in Sonari. Several low-lying areas in Mango and Bagbera were also inundated. Several areas in West Singhbhum district, including Chakradharpur, Chaibasa and Sonua, witnessed flash floods. Water level of both rivers, Subernarekha and Kharkai, rose because of the heavy showers. There was waterlogging in Dhanbad too. The worst-hit areas were Tapovan Colony, Barmasai and DRM Chowk. The rain also took a toll on movement of vehicles on NH-33. Sources in the state road construction department said a road diversion, which was under construction, was washed away near Ulidih village at Tamar. As a result, traffic on the Ranchi and Jamshedpur stretch of the highway was hit for over three hours in the afternoon Weathermen said the well-marked low-pressure system, which originated from the Bay of Bengal and north coastal Odisha, intensified into a depression, triggered heavy rain in the Kolhan region comprising East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts. An associated cyclonic circulation extended up to 7.6km above mean sea level tilting southwards. The sky remained overcast with intermittent rain throughout the day in southern, western and central Jharkhand on Thursday. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said the rain would continue overnight posing a threat of flash floods in several areas. "We are expecting heavy rain in isolated places in the next 24 hours. A fresh low-pressure area is developing over north-west Bay of Bengal. This will again result in heavy rain over southern, eastern and western Jharkhand on August 23 and 24," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level passed through Bikaner, Ajmer, Jabalpur, Gangetic West Bengal and northeast Bay of Bengal on Thursday. Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said heavy rain was expected at a few isolated pockets, especially in southwest and northwest Jharkhand, during the next 24 hours. So far, Jharkhand has received 628.9mm against a normal of 725.3mm, a deficit of 13 per cent. The deficit dropped by two per cent in the last 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Starry-eyed 64-year-old celebrates Radio Listeners' Day||64-year-old Chinmoy Mahto celebrated Radio Listeners’ Day on Thursday by tuning in to morning bhajans and discourses. Mahto, an advocate who runs a driving school, wakes and sleeps with radios and transistors. Guide International Radio Listening Club (GIRLC) helmed by Mahto organises an exhibition of radios near his Uliyan, Kadma home but the event turned out to be a non-starter this time owing to the Covid pandemic. The Jamshedpur Radio Shrota Sangh also followed suit due to the same reason. Radio Listeners’ Day is celebrated to commemorate commencement of broadcasting in India on August 20, 1921. The occasion was started by the Chhatisgarh Radio Shrota Sangh in 2006. The bespectacled Mahto is so passionate that he has built a museum of radios at his home. He has a collection of about 200 radios and transistors of various brands, including HMV, Phillips, Siemens, Kaide, Elta and even the little-known Naiwa. A modest man, Mahto said he feels sad about the waning interest for radio listening. “But I cannot live without radios. They are my life and I am fully devoted to them. I am happy that GIRLC has over 100 members now. I started it in 1974 with just four of my friends,” he recalled. Mahto starts listening to the radio from 5 am every day, tuning into religious songs on any radio from his collection that he fancies. “I regularly listen to programmes in Bengali, Hindi, English and Urdu that are aired by Radio Japan. It still feels like magic,” the elderly man remarked, adding that programmes by Voice of America, Voice of Germany and BBC have since discontinued. One has to catch the frequency of foreign airwaves. That takes time and effort. “But I usually manage to catch the frequency.” According to him, he never scraps radios and transistors, even if they do not work. “I respect my radios as I would my family members. It took me six months to get a 1956 make HMV transistor repaired. I searched for almost every radio mechanic in town till I located one in Sonari,” Mahto, who often scouts city markets in search of old radios and transistors, recalled. Mahto added he developed a fascination for radios when he was still in school. “There was no TV then. After that followed the internet and smartphones. But I cannot dream of living without radios. I’ve won a lot of radio quizzes over the years. I remember getting an invite from the German Consulate in Calcutta in 1995 after winning a quiz on Radio Germany. I got a lot of respect,” he said. Mahto said that the FM wave – Big FM, Red FM, Dhamal, Mantra, AIR FM Rainbow – made a lot of youths turn back to the radio in Jharkhand. “But they usually listen to the radio on their phones or in their cars. If you have an old transistor or radio at home, please give it to me even if it is junk. You can dial me on 9234342138,” said Mahto appealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Phase 2 of sero survey begins in Latehar, Simdega, Pakur||The second phase of a sero survey to gauge the prevalence of the SARS-COV-2 virus in the state began on Thursday with a plan to test samples of 400 people in the three districts of Latehar, Simdega and Pakur. “Once the samples are collected in the three districts, survey teams will move to the remaining 10 districts, which were surveyed in the first phase,” said state director of National Heath Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla. “The survey results should be out in 15 to 20 days,” he added. During the first phase of sero survey, samples were collected from the same three districts in May. Later, in June, serum samples of people in Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Dumka, East Singhbhum, Garhwa, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Palamu and West Singhbhum were collected. The first phase of the survey concluded that there was no community transmission of the coronavirus in the state as only 0.63 per cent people of Jharkhand had developed antibodies after suffering from Covid-19. It found that seroprevalence in Jharkhand ranged from 0.43 per cent to 0.9 per cent, which according to the government, was “very low”, and indicated the virus’s exposure to less than one person per 100. However, as per government figures, Jharkhand had reported only 2,490 cases of Covid-19  the end of June. Cut to August 20, the Covid tally in state has leaped to 26,421, which was ten-times higher than the count of cases in June. Nearly 1,000 cases of infection have surfaced every day in Jharkhand in the past fortnight, indicating that the virus was fast spreading among the urban and rural populations of the tribal state, say health experts. In the second phase of the serio survey, random households and population samples from 13 districts will be selected by experts from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Government of India. Each district will be divided into 10 clusters and at least 40 samples will be collected from each cluster for the survey, said heath officials, adding that survey teams were sent to the three districts on Tuesday itself. According to experts, a sero survey aims at collecting serum samples from a relevant group of people to check if they have developed antibodies to fight an antigen, which in this case is the SARS-COV-2 virus. The survey indicates the extent to which the population of a district or a state has been exposed to a virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Activists hold demonstration to support Bhushan||Civil rights groups joined hands with various Left-backed outfits on Thursday to stage a demonstration near Shaheed Chowk to express their solidarity with Supreme Court lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan who has been held guilty of contempt by the apex court for two tweets. Despite the occasional downpour since morning, civil rights groups assembled at the capital’s protest venue with placards and posters in favour of Bhushan, who, during a hearing on Thursday, was given two days to review his statement by the apex court. Those who could not join the demonstration expressed their support to the initiative from home by taking pictures with the banners and posting them on their social media handles with #standwithPrashantBhushan. Bureaucrat-turned activist P.P. Verma, who is a convenor of Jharkhand Nagrik Prayas Manch, said, “Criticism is not contempt and it is time that the democratic voice of the judiciary too is strengthened. Positive criticism is the first step for greater change.” He said they stood firmly behind Prashant Bhushan, who had every right to air his free speech for the betterment of the judicial institution. Nadeem Khan of Lahu Bolega, an outfit spearheading voluntary blood donations, added, “By holding Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court, his right to free speech is being scuttled. It is high time a democratic set-up is implemented in the judiciary, both in letter and spirit. No institution can be above the law or the Constitution of this country.” Tribal rights activist Aloka Kujur appealed to the nation to stand by Bhushan. “If we don’t support him today for speaking out, tomorrow someone else can face similar contempt,” said Kujur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant writes to CM on Hazaribagh medical college name||MP Jayant Sinha wants chief minister Hemant Soren to reconsider his decision to rename Hazaribagh medical college after freedom fighter Sheikh Bhikhari, explaining that a local icon would be better appreciated by the people. In a letter to Hemant on Thursday, the former Union minister and two-time local MP said that they all had great respect for Sheikh Bikhari and his contribution. “Sheikh Bhikhari was born in Ranchi. He fought and sacrificed his life in Chuttupalu of Ramgarh. So, it would be better to name a place either in Ramgarh or Ranchi as a mark of respect to him,” he said. On Independence Day, Hemant announced new names for four medical colleges of the state. While Palamu Medical College was renamed Mednirai Medical College, Hazaribagh Medical College was named after Sheikh Bhikari. The medical college in Dumka was re-christened Pholo-Jhano Medical College and Hospital and Patliputra Medical College (PMCH) in Dhanbad was renamed Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Medical College. “What Sheikh Bhikhari did was a great act and he still inspires people. But the construction of a medical college was like a dream come true for the people of Hazaribagh. So, it is better to name it after a local icon,” Sinha said. Sinha's appeal bolstered a similar demand made by BJP’s Hazaribagh Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal in a letter to the chief minister on August 16. Sinha has suggested a few names for the Hazaribagh medical college. He spoke of freedom fighters like Jai Prakash Narayan, Krishna Ballabh Sahay, and Laxmi Narayan Dubey. “The medical college can be named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who had visited Hazaribagh a number of times,” he said. Sinha also suggested Subhash Mukhopadhyay, a scientist and physician originally from Hazaribagh who is said to have created the world’s second and India’s first test tube baby in 1978.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to miss popular Ganesh Chaturthi fair this year ||The Steel city looks set to miss out on the century old Ganesh Puja fair, one of the most awaited annual event organised at the Ganesh Puja ground at Kadma. Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas, the organisers, has decided to skip the 17-day long Ganesh Mahotsav due to the Covid- 19 pandemic. This year Ganesh Puja ( or Ganesh Chaturthi ) falls on August 22, Saturday. The Puja organised by Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas will enter 102nd year. The Ganesh Mahotsav celebration is best known for its elaborate pandal and the grand fair, which happens to be the biggest in the state. The puja celebrated its centenary year in 2018. Talking to The Telegraph Online, president of Shree Bala Ganapati Vilas,  M K Rao said, " Due to the pandemic the  Ganesh Mahotsav celebration this year will be a low-key affair. Instead of 17 days, it will be a one day affair. There will be no lavish pandal, Prasad and the grand fair." He went on to say that they would perfom the puja and rituals in a simple manner at the club house located close to the Ganesh Puja ground. " The club house will be cleaned and sanitized tomorrow. We have got permission for the same from the local administration. The Puja will be carried out with participation of limited number of our committee members. No outsiders will be allowed. The Puja will take place following social distancing and other Covid norms, " said Rao, adding that the immersion will take place on the next day. The senior functionary of the Ganesh Mahotsav organising body also appealed to the people and devotees to perform puja at their respective homes and to refrain themselves from visiting the venue. Notably, the  17-day Ganesh Mahotsav celebration at Kadma atrracts a huge crowd from various parts of the city and other adjoining districts. Last year it witnessed a daily footfall of over 20,000 visitors. The fence, which has been put up at the Ganesh Puja grounds by Jusco in 2016, has four gates that remains open for visitors from 4.30pm till midnight during the festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Show cause notice against Dhanbad doctor||Taking note of the charges of dereliction of duty with regard to Covid, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh today stopped the salary of medical officer-in-charge of Nirsa, Dr Ila Roy and served a show cause notice against her, directing her to submit a reply within 24 hours. The specific action was taken due to gross negligence by the MOIC during the two-day special Rapid Antibody Test drive conducted on August 16 and 17. Roy did not provide any information regarding the attendance of medical staff and reporting time with regard to a second special Rapid Antibody Test drive, which began on Thursday in different parts of the district, including in Nirsa blocks. She also did not answer her phone. “During the recently conducted special drive, no reports were provided by Roy to the district administration with regard to progress of the drive despite being asked repeatedly, leading to the non-achievement of target of the special drive,” said the DC. When Singh asked Nirsa Block Development Officer Vikash Kumar Rai, he said that Roy didn’t cooperate in the execution of work during the Covid pandemic. “Such an act during the time of pandemic is very condemnable and therefore a show cause notice has been served against her and her salary has been stopped till the next order,” said Singh. Singh, meanwhile, also took cognizance of lesser number of tests being conducted at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital and the Sadar Hospital Dhanbad through TrueNat machines, and instructed the PMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar and Sadar Hospital to ensure at least 120 swab tests are done every day. “We had instructed both Sadar Hospital and PMCH administration to carry out mandatory Covid tests of all persons coming to the OPD. However, the sample collection and testing through TrueNat machine was not commensurate with expectations since the last few days in both the hospitals,” he said, adding that a sufficient number of TrueNat machines as well as staff members have been provided by the district administration to both the hospitals. Since assuming office on July 15, Singh has laid focus on the acceleration of sample testing work and also inspected the PMCH microbiology lab on July 19 to explore the possibility of accelerating the swab sample testing work. Doctors and other healthcare staff also apprised of the lack of workers as the main constraint in accelerating the sample-testing rate. Two microbiologists including PMCH head of the department of biometrics Sunil Verma, and the head of the department of microbiology BC Banerjee, were deputed at the microbiology lab of PMCH with the aim of increasing of Covid sample test speed on July 28. This apart, the appointment of 92 persons including 86 lab technicians and 6 data entry operators has been made by the district administration on August 2 across the district to increase the swab sample testing work. While 17 lab technicians have been deputed at the PMCH for increasing sample testing through TrueNat machines, 35 persons have been appointed at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad, including 29 lab technicians (6 for RTPCR machine and 29 for trueNat machines) and 6 data entry operators for compilation of data etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau villagers build makeshift bamboo bridge||A bamboo bridge was made by the residents of Simrahi Tola of Sakaldeepa panchayat in Palamau district to cross over a turbulent rivulet flowing beneath it. The bridge is being seen as a makeshift arrangement, taking a step towards prime minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. The 25 feet long bamboo strip bridge is a lifeline for about 100-odd people of the area, as the 4-5 feet deep rivulet below is so turbulent, even the young and healthy do not dare wade through. The catchment area is hilly and rocky and the rivulet floods during heavy rainfall. Mukhiya of Sakaldeepa panchayat Hafizullah Ansari told The Telegraph Online, “We have been running from pillar to post for a big culvert on this rivulet over the last many years but in vain.” He said a detailed project report was made, but technical and administrative sanctions are awaited. “Last year the contestants for the Lok Sabha seat and the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha seat came campaigning in Simrahi Tola and promised a culvert here on this rivulet. It remains a promise till date,” he said, adding that the rivulet had very little water in May and November 2019 during the respective polling seasons, so perhaps political figures were unable to understand their hardships. “These political figures just thought our demand then to be for ‘theka patta’ (contract),” said Ansari. “Now this rivulet is in spate and our life is miserable but no political leader has any time for us,” he said. Sources said the locals gave their matured bamboos and made the bridge themselves in just two days. Bikes also pass over this bamboo bridge but with caution, since any speed beyond 20km per hour on this bridge may cause it to shake. Sources said the bridge will allow women in distress to access a nearby health centre which is 12km away, in Panki. Simrahi falls under the Chatra Lok Sabha constituency and Palamau’s Panki assembly constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Over 960 found infected, nine more die||Over 960 people in Jharkhand tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally in state to 26,300, while the toll jumped to 278 as nine more patients died of the viral infection, figures released by the health department stated. As many as 150 cases of the virus surfaced in Ranchi in 24 hours, taking the total count of cases in the districts to 5,209, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday late evening highlighted. The bulletin further stated that at least six people died of Covid in East Singhbhum, the district that has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in state so far. The tally in the district was 4458, the second highest in state, while the toll in the district was 112 by the time this report was filed. As per government data, Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad account for more than 40 per cent of Covid cases in Jharkhand. However, only eight people were found to be infected in Dhanbad on Wednesday, taking the Covid tally in the district to 1818. While the number of Covid cases witnessed a nearly four-digit spike, as many as 857 patients recovered from the infection on Wednesday, taking the Covid recovery rate in state to 62.98 per cent. However, the recovery rate in Jharkhand was still lower than the national average of 73.01 per cent, the NHM bulletin said. The virus has infected several policemen, politicians and prisoners in Jharkhand. The count of infected prisoners at the Birsa Munda Central Jail also jumped to 129 as 24 more prison inmates were found to be positive on Tuesday. Meanwhile, at least seven cabinet ministers, including chief minister Hemant Soren, have come under Covid scanner after health minister Banna Gupta tested positive for the virus. As per figures with the police headquarters, at least 100 policemen have been infected by Novel Coronavirus so far in state. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 5.24 lakh people and tested 5.16 lakh of them. On Wednesday, swab samples of as many as 12,282 people were collected for Covid test across Jharkhand, and 11315 of them were tested, data shared by the health department stated. As many as 967 of the 11,000-odd people were found to be positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Beep, beep: Your child’s school bag is too heavy||A retired scientist in Jharkhand and two of his associates have developed a warning system that beeps and lights up when a school bag exceeds a certain weight limit or goes above the child’s body mass index (BMI). Kamal Sharma, 68, a retired scientist of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research in Dhanbad, research assistant at the institute, Prem Mandal, and Aparna Shree, secretary of the NGO Innovation for Society, have not only developed the bag warning system but also conducted trials on students of various schools and institutions within a period of six months. Sharma is also the chairman of the NGO which develops sustainable technologies for the society. “It is a sensor-based system using microchips and sensors for fixed programming. Parents or students would have to enter either weight or both weight and height (for the body mass index) initially. Whenever the bag is lifted, a light will glow with a beep sound if the bag is in excess of the permissible limit for that weight or BMI. It can be affixed near the holding point of bags. As the schools were closed during lockdown, we have conducted trials for nearly a month on students going for tuitions or coaching classes and the result has been encouraging,” said Sharma. The bad posture of children due to carrying heavy school bags is what inspired the retired scientist to work on this project. “We see several children walking with a bad posture developed due to carrying heavy school bags. They also develop a hunched back and hang their arms forward while walking due to musculoskeletal disorder. This happens despite the central government directive for students not to carry school bags in excess of 10 per cent of their weight. We decided to develop a system which will sound an alarm to parents, students and also teachers not to force students to carry bags in excess of the permissible weight,” said Sharma. In October 2018, the education (erstwhile human resource development) ministry had directed all states and Union Territories to “formulate guidelines to regulate the teaching of subjects and weight of school bags in accordance with the Government of India instructions”. According to the central government’s advice, weight of school bags being carried by students in Classes I-II, III-V, VI-VII, VIII-IX, and X should not be more than 1.5kg, 2 to 3 kg, 4kg, 4.5kg, and 5kg respectively. The ministry also said that students should not be forced to carry study materials other than the prescribed textbooks to school, according to the day’s timetable. Sharma and his associates are willing to transfer the technology to any organisation for commercial production provided they give an undertaking against pricing it reasonably. “We are a voluntary organisation and are not keen on commercial production. We are ready for technology transfer to any organisation for a token amount to us and with a condition that the product should be pocket-friendly. It cost us less than Rs 250 (per piece) and if it is manufactured in bulk, the price would go down further. We want the product to be affordable for all parents,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||PIL on pollution board chief||A Jamshedpur-based environmentalist on Wednesday filed a PIL in Jharkhand High Court against appointment of principal chief conservator of forests P.K. Verma as chairperson of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board, citing it as violation of the Supreme Court order of 2017. The PIL was filed by advocate Diwakar Upadhyay on behalf of Pratik Sharma. The petition called for directing the state government to formulate norms for appointment of the JSPCB chairman in line with a Supreme Court directive. The Supreme Court verdict of 2017  clearly states that only experts and professionals with suitable experience are appointed to the board. It is also in violation of the 2013 Supreme Court verdict to avoid conflict of interest in the appointment of chairperson of the state pollution control board. For any appeal against the decision of the board one has to approach the state revenue council, of which the principal conservator  is a member, the PIL said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
20-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh police officer dismissed||Mukesh Kumar, a suspended sub-inspector of the 2012 batch and then officer in charge of the Barkagaon police station in Hazaribagh, has been dismissed from the service after he was found guilty of misusing his position. He was accused of going to his native village with a police team from Barkagaon and threatening his relatives over a land dispute. He also thrashed Dhirendra Kumar Yadav, a relative. Yadav complained to police officers, following which then director-general of police Kamal Nayan Chobey ordered an inquiry. The inquiry established that Yadav’s complaint was true. Sources said Kumar could also face action for allegedly helping gangster Aman Sahu escape from the custody of Barkagaon police. The Dhanbad administration on Wednesday notified 26 containment zones across the district in areas such as Jharia, Topchanchi, Baghmara and Govindpur after the detection of Covid-19 patients. Curfew has been clamped in these areas. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheshwaram said: “Auto-rickshaws, taxis, motorcycles, buses, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws will not be allowed in the containment zones and all offices, commercial establishments, factories, warehouses, markets, etc. will remain closed.” Chas subdivisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh on Wednesday imposed Section 144 in urban and rural areas of Bokaro to ensure complete lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic till August 31. The gathering of five or more persons is banned under the guidelines. Strict action will be taken against those found on the road without valid reason or if they are not wearing masks. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday instructed civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das and others, including Patliputra Medical College and Hospital superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary and principal Dr Shaildendra Kumar to ensure regular payment of salary and wages to all doctors and other health workers deputed on Covid-19 duty. The officials have been asked to ensure payment of salaries to doctors and other staffers within the first week of every month. The Dhanbad district administration on Wednesday took over four government guest houses to accommodate doctors fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said there had been an increase in the number of doctors treating Covid-19 patients as the case count has risen. “It was, therefore, imperative to make housing arrangements for them.” The Bokaro district administration has sought permission from the state tourism department to convert a pre-fabricated structure at Mirdha in Chandankyari block at the Jharkhand-Bengal border into a Covid-19 care centre for asymptomatic patients. The structure was developed on land belonging to the tourism department on the outskirts of the city. Patients staying at the facility can choose to live in the dormitory or a suite. They will be provided a healthy balanced diet. Apart from TV, carom, ludo and other forms of recreation will be available to them. In view of the rising number of coronavirus cases, the district administration has come up with a plan to develop paid isolation centres under the private-public partnership (PPP) model. On Wednesday, deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh, additional collector Vijay Gupta, Chas subdivisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh, civil surgeon A.K. Pathak and top officials inspected the spot. “The structure will be a 20-bed isolation care centre,” said the deputy commissioner. There is a rising demand for private isolation or quarantine centres in the district. The district administration has already declared Zaika Resort situated close to the spot an isolation centre. The resort has eight deluxe rooms. Asymptomatic patients are being charged Rs 4,500 a day for a deluxe room. The resort is the only paid isolation centre in the district. Two persons have been arrested in Palamau in connection with several ATM thefts. Munna Kumar, from Nalanda in Bihar, and Shyam Ram, from Palamau, are returnees from Delhi where they worked as labourers. The duo are accused of duping ATM card holders at several places in Bihar but they remained scot-free. However, their luck ran out after they allegedly duped Janeshwar Mehta in Palamau’s Hussainabad of Rs 28,000. Police found eight ATM cards, two cell phones and Rs 3,070 in cash, among other articles, on the duo. They were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-329
