21-08-2020||Calcutta||Old project barb at civic body launches ||A slew of facilities and services was inaugurated by fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, the MLA of Bidhannagar, mayor Krishna Chakraborty and other officials of the civic body on August 14. But the opposition claims these are old and revamped projects. Among the newly-renovated facilities is BD Market that the civic officials claimed had undergone a thorough makeover. According to mayor Chakraborty, the market’s toilet has been rebuilt, the floor relaid and a new shed for fish and vegetable sellers has been constructed. But renovation of the market in reality is far from over. According to official sources, what was inaugurated was work done in just the second phase of work. “Since shifting the shops is a problem, work has been going on for years. This phase started in 2018. The first phase had been approved by the previous civic board. The third phase of repair and renovation is currently under way,” said a civic official. A visit to the market on Sunday, the day after the inauguration, indeed revealed what can at best be described as work in progress. A board in front of a series of temporary stalls under a tin shed read that the shed has been set up as the market was being revamped. Plastic sheets made for the roof of several open areas and such sheets were seen on top of the market as well. “The roof leaks. The repairs for this place is taking forever,” said Bikas Saha, who owns a shop in BD Market. What had been achieved was at the back of the market — two toilets, one for the shopkeepers and another pay-and-use one for visitors. About a dozen stationery goods and grocery shops had also been repaired. Questioned about the current state and the need to “inaugurate” a market where work is yet to be completed, Chakraborty said that work would complete soon and majority of the renovation work had been completed. In addition to this, waste segregation at source for 10 wards of Salt Lake was also inaugurated. According to Chakraborty, separate bins for biodegradable and non-biodegradable household waste items have been despatched to houses in these wards. “We are encouraging people to segregate their household waste before handing them over to the door-to-door waste collectors. The response has been quite good,” said Chakraborty. Saheli Gupta, a homemaker in ED Block, said that although she had been segregating the waste at home and using the two bins, most collectors were dumping the separate packets into the same van. “Most of the collectors who come don’t have separate bins and are dumping the waste into a single one in their vans,” said . Chakraborty said that once the bin distribution was complete they would focus on handing out larger bins to waste collectors. “We have distributed around 1,000 large bins to our door-to-door conservancy teams. We will distribute more in the coming months,” Chakraborty said. Another service that was “inaugurated” is the online issue of birth and death certificates. This facility too existed but the mayor pointed out that they had streamlined the process and made it more user-friendly. A former councillor of the civic body said that it was disheartening to see that the corporation was digging up old existing projects, branding them as new and inaugurating them. Former mayor Sabyasachi Dutta who is now a BJP secretary, said that it exposed the fact that the corporation had not carried out any new developmental projects. “All these are old wine in new bottles. It is sad that old projects are being passed off as new and inaugurated. The residents will see through this,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Cancelled fairs a fell blow for weavers||The Bidhananagar Municipal Corporation has declared that no fairs will be held at Central Park in 2020-21, demoralising not just visitors but also boutique owners and artisans who depend heavily on these fairs for their income. “We shall not hold any fairs at Central Park in Karunamoyee in 2020-21. Some of the most popular fairs in the city like Saras Mela, Handicraft Fair, Taanter Haat and Bidhannagar Mela are annually held here but the state government has asked us not to accept any bookings for now. In case we already have bookings from early birds, we have been asked to refund the money," said Devashis Jana, mayoral council member, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. This comes as a big setback to small-time businessmen involved in the handicraft and cottage industry who participated in these fairs for years. In fact, for many of them this was their sole source of livelihood. Anjan Biswas, a 30-year-old weaver, has been setting up a stall called Fulia Sari Centre at Bidhannagar Mela for the last 10 years. “We have a huge customer base in boutiques of Salt Lake and Ballygunge and have been coming to Taanter Haat and Bidhannagar Mela for a decade now. But the lockdown has killed our business. Ever since the lockdown was declared in March we have not had any new orders,” said Biswas, who had to let go of his team of 30 weavers in April. “We are receiving dry ration from the local administration but have no cash in hand,” he said. Boutiques of Salt Lake and New Town are also facing the blues. Most of them have workshops in their garages where tailors work on customised orders or block print tables. Abira Roychowdhury, who runs a boutique called Ranikahini near Laboni Estate, said that her business has largely shifted online. “The shutters are down but I’m selling saris, blouses, jewellery online through Facebook and WhatsApp groups. I’m not buying any new stock, just clearing what I had in hand. If things don’t improve before the Pujas, why would people shop for new clothes?” she said. Agreed Arpita Roy, who runs the boutique Arpita’s in BA Block: “We have had very few customers since the lockdown was lifted in June. Even now with a semi-lockdown situation still in place, things are not likely to improve. The roads are empty and so are the shops. We do make some online sales but it is minimal,” said Roy. Besides Salt Lake, New Town mela ground, Eco Park fairgrounds and Biswa Bangla Convention Centres had emerged popular for exhibitions. Traditional art and craft forms - from patachitra to sitalpati mats and dokra jewellery - gained visibility at fairs and exhibitions held here. Most of the artistes who live in poverty and hail from marginalised communities, had started looking at fairs as a source of income and exposure to wider market opportunities. Once they started setting up stalls in the government fairs, many claim their average income increased by nearly 50 per cent over the last five years. “We have been receiving requests for booking quite regularly but have been delaying or postponing them since we don’t know when we can host the fairs again,” Sen said, urging weavers to set up online stores for their businesses. “Online is the only way forward now. Everything has shifted online right from films to birthday parties and business meetings,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Locked down townships sing ode to freedom||CD Block, New Town New Town’s CD Block celebrated August 15 with a YouTube video on some of the elderly residents of the block but it was much more than music and recitation. It was about memories. A couple, Ratneshwar and Reba Guha, recalled their childhood in what is now Bangladesh and about how they moved to India and began their lives afresh. Dipika Ghatak, a college student of the block, narrated the story of her grandpa Jitendra Lal Sen and his brother Manindra Chandra Sen, both freedom fighters. “Jitendra Lal was part of the Chittagong armoury raid led by Masterda Surya Sen. He was later awarded by Indira Gandhi,” said the proud grandchild. “Manindra Chandra was part of a group that tried to kill a British official in Myanmansingha. He was arrested and sent to the cellular jail in Andaman for six years.” They even got a byte from Manindra Chandra’s widow Pulina Rani Sen where she said she is flown to Andaman by the government for Independence Day every year. “I would have gone this year too, if it wasn’t for the lockdown,” she says. Shila Bose of the block sang a Dwijendrageeti, Amra emni ese bhese jaiand Bijan Das, the block president, recited Sukumar Ray’s Jibon er hishab. Gouri Sanyal sang, Amalabha Dutta spoke on spirituality and Shiuli Sarkar, who is stuck in Mumbai for the lockdown, sang a thumri. “We are planning two more instalments of this video in the weeks to come,” said Sithi Kana Ghatak, who conceptualised the presentation, called Smriti Manjari. Somsuddha Palit was the anchor and the video was executed by a group of youths called Pancha Pandav comprising Saptarshi Choudhury, Mrinalini Banerjee, Shruti Chinha, Beas Bera and Dipika. BK Block The BK Block flag was hoisted by mayor Krishna Chakraborty and a garbage collector Arjun Yadav, who was commemorated for his uninterrupted services during the pandemic. Yadav was quite nervous and disbelieving of the honour.   In the evening, residents who are part of the block’s music-based WhatsApp group Cholo Gaan Gai presented a show over Google Meet. The largest participation was by kids - Shirshannita Majumdar, 10, recited Priyo Swadhinata, Debarpan Mukherjee, eight, sang Nanha munha rahi and the youngest participant — five year-old Ishani Bhattacharya — spoke on the Rani of Jhasi and sang a few lines of Main rahu ya na rahu from the film Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi. Those like Somogga Choudhury danced solo but there were some group dances too, if one can call them so. Tanishka Das began dancing to Des mera rangila in her living room but the visual soon cut to Titasha Roy on her terrace. “I didn’t even know my song was getting punched with another didi’s,” said Tanishka, a Class VI student, puzzled. “But the overall effect looked great.” Most performances were pre-recorded and presented by Tamashree Saha, who along with the anchor Arpita Mukherjee, also sang Sare jaha se achcha. Oishik Das strummed the national anthem on guitar, Sammridha Mukherjee played the violin to Kadam kaam badhaye ja and there was an adorable presentation by brothers Baishyayan Banerjee, of Class X, and brother Debayan, of Class II. “Debayan had felt left out when his brother took part in this group’s Rabindrajayanti function online and insisted he join now,” said mother Baisakhi. The elder brother played the keyboard and the younger one sang Bharat amar Bharat barsha. Moreover Baishyayan wore an orange kurta and Debayan (whose head has been shaved recently for a Gandhi look-alike event at school) wore a green one. Chandra Sekhar Bag (better known as Babloo in the block) sang Banglar mati banglar jol with Sathi Ghosh. “I had sung a few lines and sent her to check if the scale was agreeable. And then we performed live. Most other events were pre-recorded to avoid network disruptions,” said Bag. The senior-most participant was Sathi Dasgupta who sang O amar desher mati with a tricolour sash on. Block president Rajarshi Chandra wished everyone and requested them to continue staying indoors. “I know it’s difficult but you can keep busy with such cultural endeavours,” he said. The group presented a video collage of residents waving the flag at home and concluded by standing up to sing the national anthem together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Kedarnath temple at Sreebhumi this year||Sreebhumi will construct Kedarnath temple this year. And hope that it does not draw as big a crowd as the puja is known for. “This is not a time to show off. We are not looking for perfection this year. We have told the decorator that. So there should not be 100-150 labourers at work at the pandal at any point,” said Dibyendu Kishor Goswami, chief co-ordinator of the puja committee. The club hosted khuti puja on Sunday with about 300-400 people in attendance. “In other years, we have more than 700. It was difficult to reduce further as our members total over 200.” To keep onlookers away, no celebrity was invited this time. “Last time, we had actress Subhashree and filmmaker Raj Chakraborty. Actor Dev and singers Raghav and Rupankar have  also attended our khuti puja in recent years,” he said. The puja’s sponsors were also not invited. Lunch and dinner, customary at Sreebhumi on the day, were cancelled in favour of packets of sweets. “We also handed over a sapling each to all visitors.” Priest Somesh Sashtri came all the way from Behala to perform the puja. To ensure that attendance was staggered through the day, instead of asking people to come during the start of the puja, the entire duration of the ritual was mentioned — from 10am to 3pm — so people could drop by at their convenience. Explaining the choice of the theme, Goswami said the puja venue has a ready structure which cannot be downsized. “Moreover, our idol started being built right after Jagaddhatri puja. That was long before coronavirus struck India.” Idol-maker Pradip Rudra Paul said the traditional idol would be 20ft high with chalchitra as in other years. “Work was stopped for three months because of lockdown. Even now, we are short of hands. Labourers are hardly being able to come,” said Rudra Paul, who makes around 65 idols every year. “Idols of most pujas will be smaller this time. But Sreebhumi and BJ Block in Salt Lake will retain last year’s idol height,” said the resident of BJ Block. Yubak Sangha Club, that usually celebrates Ganesh puja near PNB Island, inaugurated this year’s celebrations on Tuesday — online. The Zoom meeting was attended by the likes of MLA and minister Sujit Bose, mayor Krishna Chakraborty and deputy mayor Tapas Chatterjee. “Due to the pandemic we have decided on the theme of ‘Grihakone Vinayak’ for our puja this year,” said Anindya Chatterjee club president and local councillor. The location of the idol has been kept a secret but those wishing to watch the rituals may, on August 22, watch the Facebook page ‘Bidhannagar Ganesh Chaturthi Mahotsav’. Payment can also be made online for the priest to perform puja on behalf of someone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Marching with Netaji ||It might have been 1999 before a woman — Gunjan Saxena — got to fly for the Indian air force during a war but women had an entire army regiment to fight for India as early as the 1940s. And the credit goes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. A webinar was organised last week on the women of the Indian National Army by the Indian Association for Asian and Pacific Studies. This is an academic think tank of college and university lecturers and researchers. “We had wanted to host this seminar for a while now and decided to time it around August 15 so as to arouse maximum interest in the audience,” said secretary Sarvani Gooptu. Speaking on the subject was Maitreyi Sengupta, former head of the history department of Shri Shikshayatan College and a resident of FE College. “Netaji was the greatest champion of women’s rights,” said Sengupta. “Our country is still battling dowry deaths and honour killings in the 21st century but Netaji had scripted this glorious chapter in Indian history with this regiment exclusively for women that was led by a woman too. It’s a pity that the Rani of Jhansi Regiment almost forgotten today.” Here is what Sengupta shared with the audience — All for a cause Netaji’s vision for women was more radical and progressive than his contemporaries. Women had joined India’s freedom struggle as early as the 1920s but passively, selling khadi and the like. But Netaji wanted women to devote their lives to the ideal of freedom, just like men. At the Calcutta session of the Congress in 1928, Netaji had wanted the young women members to parade in military uniform but the party did not allow it. So the women marched in saris, but draped in a smart way that looked no less than a uniform. After leaving India, it was on July 9, 1943 in Singapore that Netaji announced the formation of the Indian National Army. At the same time he announced that the Rani of Jhansi Regiment would be an important part of it. But no one took him seriously or even thought this possible. The Indian-origin women of south east Asia were barely educated and had no exposure outside their houses and after a week of campaigning Netaji had recruited only 15 women. But one of them was Lakshmi Swaminathan, an energetic and active doctor. Alongside Swaminathan, Netaji held rallies across Singapore, Malaysia and Burma and the response was unbelievable. Young women in the audience rushed to the stage to enlist themselves. They took off their jewellery and donated on the spot, held up their children and said they would leave their families behind and join Netaji if he sought them. Most of these girls had never even laid foot on Indian soil but Netaji’s towering personality made them yearn for their roots. In a year or two, the Rani of Jhansi Regiment had 1,500 recruits. The strength of the entire Azad Hind Fauj was about 40,000 but 1,500 women in it was a significant number. Some women had to coax their families into joining the army but for many it wasn’t difficult. Entire families had joined Netaji by making donations to the cause and sending their children to become soldiers. Tough training The training camps were held in Singapore, Malaysia and Burma and the women roughed it out like the men. They were taught to use fire arms, map reading, jungle warfare, guerrilla tactics, advanced nursing etc. It was also unprecedented that the women’s regiment was led by a woman — Swaminathan. The women went to Rangoon to fight but the British had already gained on the Japanese troupes there. They had to beat a retreat. Still, the regiment is of historical importance. Forgotten heroes After independence these women got a raw deal. The land they were ready to die for refused to acknowledge them as freedom fighters. They weren’t given citizenship or freedom fighter pension. Swaminathan married a fellow INA soldier Prem Sehgal and was better known as Captain Lakshmi Sahgal for the rest of her life. She had joined politics and continued to serve as a doctor in Kanpur, where she had settled. Another soldier Janaky Devar returned to Malaysia and joined politics there too. There were sisters Aruna Ganguly and Shanti Ganguly too who hailed from south east Asia but had homes in Calcutta and settled here. Several of these soldiers would come to Netaji Bhavan for his birth anniversary celebrations and I would get to speak to them. It was an honour. India today is moving backwards in every field but things would have been different had Netaji been around. He was a man who promoted true secularism and women’s emancipation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||3-day fest promotes cycling||Three cycling events were held between August 13 and 15 in New Town in a bid to promote cycling as a means of last mile connectivity in the township. The first event was exclusively for women. They took a ride from the business club to the clock tower. On the second day, a mixed group comprising mostly men rode a much long distance from the clock tower to the Eiffel Tower in Eco Park and on Independence Day two independent groups rode and culminated their rides in the township. “The events may seem one-off but they are part of a well-thought out strategy,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “Our aim is to lure residents away from using buses and totos for last-mile connectivity and switch to bicycles.” The all-women ride was introduced for gender balance. “We noted that elderly women, particularly, would be reluctant riding in a mixed group. One lady who turned up said she was riding after 25 years, another straight after her school days… Response was positive,” said Sen. The authorities are also planning to teach cycling to those interested. “These steps are required to change people’s attitude. At present many believe cycles are for those who cannot afford anything else. Parents forbid their children from cycling for fear of road accidents. So we are expanding our cycle track network, asking them to use service lanes and building an ecosystem conducive to cycling,” he said. He added that the sale of cycles had risen during the lockdown. “One large housing complex has informed me that over the past month or two 300 new bicycles have been purchased by their residents,” said Sen. Namrata Bhatta, a resident of Mahishgot, adjoining New Town participated in the event with her two sons, aged 10 and 8. “I am a Baidyabati girl. In our growing-up years, cycle was the preferred mode of transport for all of us. We would think nothing of cycling five-six kilometres daily.” Though she left her cycle back in her Hooghly district home after shifting to New Town post-marriage, she is now planning to bring it over. “My sons had a cycle but did not ride it much. This event has created such a craze that they are cycling on their own even now that the event is over,”  said the lady on Wednesday. She had borrowed her neighbour’s cycle for the event, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Blame it on Rajarhat||Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has about Rs 160 crore in property taxes arrears. This astronomical sum has accrued over the last four years, when residents failed to paid their dues. The authorities, however, blame Rajarhat for the chunk of it. Money received as property tax is used to provide civic services like streetlights, road repairs, water supply and solid waste management but several councilors and mayoral council members said that due to the accrued taxes, several development projects, including healthcare services, in the corporation could not be undertaken. Lack in Covid care facility “Had we managed to collect the taxes properly and on time, we could have started a hospital for Covid-19 patients that could also have started testing people living in the corporation area,” said a mayoral council member who did not wish to be named. At present, the corporation has three medical facilities — Matri Sadan Hospital in EE Block,  Vidyasagar Matro Sadan in Narayanpur and a third in Deshbandhu Nagar. None of these hospitals is now admitting Covid-19 patients. Matri Sadan Hospital has, in fact, been shut for the past few years and has not been thrown open to patients despite a Rs 1.25 crore revamp. Dark streets According to a mayoral council member, several areas in Salt Lake are plunging into darkness after sundown due to dysfunctional streetlights. “If we had money in our coffers we would have repaired our lights,” said the councillor. Several roads in Salt Lake, including the First Avenue, parts of the Broadway and roads inside blocks, are in bad shape. “Tenders for road repairs have not even been called as there is no money at hand,” said another Salt Lake councillor. A contractor who undertakes road repairs said that the civic body was yet to clear its dues for work that has already been completed. “We are still waiting for our last payments,” he said. Tax bills sent Of the total pending amount, Rs 150 crore is receivable from homes under the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality like Kestopur, Baguiati, Kaikhali and Teghoria. Rajarhat alone has more than 1.17 lakh holdings as opposed to only 26,000 in Salt Lake. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said they had already initiated tax collections and that tax bills would soon reach all corners of the corporation. “We have started sending out bills and have received assurances from several housing complexes in Kaikhali and Teghoria, who have outstanding taxes to the tune of a few crores, that they will pay up,” she said. But a mayoral council member said that in reality very little effort was being made to collect taxes from these areas. “We are extending all services to these places but not receiving any taxes in return. Without money we cannot buy new equipment or launch new projects,” he said. Deputy mayor Tapas Chatterjee said that holdings in Rajarhat need to be reassessed for updated tax rates. “The area had a different tax structure as part of the erstwhile Rajarhat Goplapur Municipality. But now it needs to be reassessed as it is part of the corporation,” said Chatterjee, who was earlier the chairman of the Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality. Ward by ward In Salt Lake the scenario differs from ward to ward. Devasish Jana, councillor of Ward 34 that includes blocks IB, HB, GD, GE, FE, FF and IC, said that taxes amounting to at least a couple of crores were due. “I have sent all the tax bills with a request to residents to clear them at the earliest,” said Jana, who is also the mayoral council member of solid water management in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Anindya Chatterje, the councillor of Ward 41 that encompasses blocks AA, AB, AC, AD, BA, BB, BC and BD, said that around Rs 12 crore was due from these areas. “I have gone around the ward personally delivering tax bills to residents who have large sums pending. Several of them have said they would pay up. Others said they felt the received was too high and would like a review.” In such a case they are to send an application to the corporation seeking review. A mayoral council member even mentioned instances where residents have queued up to pay taxes but the civic body could not accept payment as the assessment procedure was not clear to resdients. Chairperson of the civic body and the councillor of Ward 30, Anita Mondal, too has been visiting AG, AH, BG, BH, CG and DG blocks to hand deliver bills. “At least 35 residents have handed over cheques since then. Most came to the ward office for it. We expect payments to be faster once the pandemic is over,” she said. Then there are those like Rajesh Chirimar, councillor of Ward 39 (including wards like blocks like CA, DA, DB), who say that most residents have already paid up. “There is not much due in from my ward. Residents of Salt Lake are law-abiding people and tend to keep their tax payments clear,” said Chirimar. Residents of Duttabad, an added area under his ward, do not have to pay taxes.   Tulsi Sinha Roy, the Ward 40 councillor, said that about Rs 2 crore worth of taxes was due from her ward.  “A chunk of these are receivable from commercial establishments like hotels and a shopping mall (City Centre),” said Roy whose ward includes CC, DC, CD and DD blocks. Kumar Shankar Sadhu, a member of the Bidhannagar (Salt Lake) Welfare Association said that residents of Salt Lake did not have much taxes pending. “We know for a fact that residents here have been making payments as most of them don't want to increase liabilities. Instead, the civic body should focus on areas that have been added during the formation of the corporation where no tax payments have been made over the past few years,” Sadhu said. An official said only 10 per cent of Salt Lake's taxpayers pay property tax online. This could be because there is a sizeable population of senior citizens here, many of whom are not comfortable making payments online. Unlike in New Town the corporation does not have any dedicated personnel to help file online taxes. In New Town the New Town Kolkata Development Authority has roped in services of “tax sathis” to help people pay their property tax.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Safe’ lamp post kills two in Shibpur ||Two men returning home after a dip in the Hooghly were electrocuted near the botanical garden in Shibpur on Thursday afternoon after they came in contact with a lamp post barely seven hours after a CESC team inspected it following a complaint and declared it safe. People in the neighbourhood said the technician in the CESC team told them there was no fault in the post and that some of the branches of an overhanging tree, in which wires were entangled, needed to be pruned. No one turned up to trim the tree. Residents said Suman Sharma and Srikanta Das, both in their 30s, might not have died had the branches been pruned in time. They said the wires were lying entangled with branches for a long time and caused a huge spark and sound that prompted one of them to register a complaint with CESC on Thursday morning. Officials of the utility said they received a complaint about a loud sound in a post around 6.30am and a team went to inspect the spot but did not find any fault. “There was a need for trimming of some branches for which an internal team was alerted,” the CESC spokesperson said. “But it started raining heavily after that (the morning inspection) and the place got waterlogged.” Officials in the Howrah Municipal Corporation said they had not received any requisition from the power utility for trimming the tree. Asked to respond, the CESC spokesperson said: “As no fault was found during the inspection in the morning, there was no reason to rush for the trimming as well.” The spokesperson also said the tree trimming was not related to the electrocution. “There are several wires that run through trees across the city. Then all the wires could have caused electrocution.” Around 1pm, Sharma and Das accidentally came in touch with the lamp post outside a government quarters while trying to negotiate the waterlogged lane. Both got electrocuted and were declared dead at the Howrah State General Hospital, police said. An unnatural death case has been started by AJC Bose Botanic Garden police station. “We have not received any specific complaint till now,” said a police officer late on Thursday. CESC officials said soon after the incident was reported in the afternoon, their team had re-visited the spot and switched off the supply line. “Necessary investigation to find the cause of the incident is on,” the CESC spokesperson said. The need to trim a tree with entangled power lines and the lack of action would ring a familiar alarm bell for many Calcuttans. After Cyclone Amphan had hit the city on May 20, Metro had published several reports on how lack of coordination between the linemen and the authorities responsible for trimming or removing uprooted trees was hurting the efforts to clear the debris left by the storm. CESC wanted the trees removed first and the tree removers wanted the power lines checked and the area declared safe first. In May, a young fireman was electrocuted in Belur while trying to saw the branches off a partially uprooted tree that had got entangled in electrical wires, allegedly after CESC had told his team that the supply to the area had been cut off. The death of the fireman had prompted a revised protocol among fire officials that they would not cut trees after a power cut, unless a technician of the power supply agency tests the line himself and declares it safe. The place where the incident happened on Thursday is frequented by hundreds of morning walkers. It was deserted on Thursday because of the lockdown. After the deaths, residents demanded “stern action” against the technician who had first visited the spot in the morning. Morning walkers demanded compensation for the families of the dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta|| Jadavpur University to conduct digital classes to clear backlog||Jadavpur University will conduct regular classes through “distance digital mode” from August 23 so that students of the intermediate semester can be compensated for the classes they had missed out on in the previous semester because of the lockdown. Half the classes of the previous semester could not be held because the campus had to be shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. The compensatory classes will be held for arts and science students. As for the engineering students, the date of commencement of such classes will be decided later. “Ahead of the start of the classes of the next semester from September 14, the teachers will hold classes through distance digital mode so that the students could make up for the classes they had missed,” said vice-chancellor Suranjan Das. An official said in the “distance digital mode”, study materials such as notes, soft copies of textbooks, and audio and video demonstrations would be made available to the students through email and WhatsApp. After a student goes through the study materials, he or she will get an opportunity to interact with the teacher concerned through email or WhatsApp to clear doubts. Teachers can form sub-groups of students and engage with each through conference calls to clear doubts. “Since making a conference call does not require any Internet connectivity on the handheld device, we want to apply this model,’’ said Partha Pratim Roy, an associate professor of physics department. The university is raising funds to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to 800-odd students who have poor Net connectivity at home, so they can attend classes from September 14. Will these students be left out of the compensatory classes? “It is unlikely they could be given the devices or data packs before August 23. We have left it to the teachers to decide how to reach out to the students,” said VC Das. “If nothing can be done, then additional classes should be held for these students when they will be handed the devices and the data pack.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Two workers at Alipore zoo electrocuted||Two men, part of a group of labourers putting up hoardings at the Alipore zoo, were electrocuted on Thursday morning. A third was injured and is in hospital. An official of the hospital said his condition was critical. The deceased have been identified as Tarani Ghosh, 31, from Murshidabad, and Pradip Das, 45, from Odisha. The men were electrocuted around 11.30am, opposite the elephant enclosure. The chain of events leading to the deaths was not immediately clear. The group had been camping on the zoo premises for several days, said zoo officials. “Continuous process industries and industries with in-house workers” are exempt from the lockdown curbs, according to the state government guidelines. The team was working for a contractor, who had been hired by an outdoor advertising agency, sources at the park said. “The labourers were electrocuted while doing some maintenance work. Two of them were declared brought dead at the hospital. The third is undergoing treatment,” a police officer said. An official of the Delhi-based outdoor agency said: “From what I have gathered, the men were not erecting a hoarding on Thursday. The accident happened when they were collecting materials lying on the ground….” Asked if safety protocols were followed, the official said: “It is not possible for us to keep tabs on the minute details of every project. The contractor had hired the men.” The zoo is shut for visitors because of the pandemic. Only a handful of keepers and guards are now engaged, mostly for daily maintenance. “There was no keeper or guard at the spot at the time of the incident,” zoo director Asis Kumar Samanta said. “I was alerted around noon. The men were shifted to hospital immediately on a zoo vehicle.” “We have started a probe into the incident,” said VK Yadav, member-secretary, Bengal Zoo Authority. “Electrical engineers will visit the spot tomorrow to find out how the labourers came in contact with a live wire,” said a zoo official. “Prime facie, it seems to be a case of electrocution. The zoo authorities will conduct their own probe,” a police officer said. Asked why the police were not registering a case of negligence suo moto, the officer said: “Someone has to first allege there was negligence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Livelihood trauma for Calcutta bar employees||Till March, a 38-year-old man used to stir martinis and rustle up mojitos at a Theatre Road pub. For the past few months, the out-of-work Barrackpore resident has been scrambling to get a job. That includes trying in vain for a guard’s job at a housing complex. A 23-year-old man from Hind Motor had joined a Camac Street bar earlier this year after a short stint at a Park Street café. After a hotel management diploma, he had done a professional bartending course and liked to call himself a “mixologist”. His salary of “Rs 16,000” was a glimmer of hope for his parents, who had paid through their nose for his courses. Since April, the youth is “on furlough”. The pandemic has not only dashed the family’s hopes but posed a serious challenge in meeting daily expenses. The bar shutdown because of the Covid pandemic has robbed many Calcuttans of their weekend fun. But for thousands of people, it means loss of livelihood and an uncertain future for their families. Behind the tinkling of glasses, psychedelic lights and trippy music, these places also provided bread and butter to many families. “I have been working as a bartender for close to a decade. There is hardly anything else I can do. But I cannot sit at home, whimpering. I have to do something. I have not been able to pay my daughter’s school fees for the past two months,” said the Barrackpore resident. His wife is a homemaker. His daughter studies in Class XI. The man used to get a salary of Rs 22,000. He said he had not been paid anything since the pub downed shutters in March. The Telegraph spoke to many such people. They have lost their jobs or are on unpaid leave or furlough. A few lucky ones have been getting a small part of their salary. Most of the people this newspaper spoke to requested anonymity. They feared revealing their names would jeopardise the chances of getting back to work when the situation improved, as promised by several owners. The owners said they were struggling to stay afloat. Rent licence fees and other fixed cost components are continuing to deplete their coffers. Their revenue has been zero since March. “What options am I left with? I have to pay a huge rent even when the place is shut. I have to renew my excise license, trade and fire licences,” said a young bar owner, who has been “forced” to cut jobs and send employees on unpaid leave. The “uncertainty” is most disturbing, the owners said, especially when retail liquor shops have reopened. When the curbs were first imposed, they thought the shutdown would be short. Many bar owners did not go for layoffs or furloughs for initial months. But the prolonged ban on bars has left them with no other option, said the owners. “Had we known the burnout, it would have been easy to calculate our losses and go ahead. Gradually, all other businesses are opening up, except bars,” said the owner of a microbrewery that has remained shut. The lid on bottles has also affected revenue and footfall at some of the traditional favourite restaurants on Park Street, forcing owners to reduce staff strength. “If I am allowed to serve fresh lime soda on a table, what is the problem in serving a bottle of beer,” asked the owner of a Park Street bar-cum-restaurant. An informal association of bartenders in Calcutta has been trying to raise funds for out-of-work bar employees. “We have over 120 members. But thousands of bar employees are out of work,” said a member of the association. Sagar Daryani, the chapter head of the National Restaurants Association of India in Calcutta, said the number of places that served alcohol in the city would be over 1,000. “The lives of tens of thousands of people are at stake.” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Rain alert sparks flooding scare in Calcutta||Steady rain since Wednesday afternoon and the forecast for more showers over the next five days have triggered fears of waterlogging in the city. Calcutta has remained drenched since Wednesday under the influence of a low-pressure system over the north Bay of Bengal, a cyclonic circulation over the Bay that can turn into a low-pressure system by the weekend and an active monsoon trough. “Because of these consecutive two low-pressure systems, widespread rainfall is very likely to continue over the districts of south Bengal till August 25,” a Met office statement reads. The statement warns of a “rise in water level in different rivers of south Bengal and water-logging in city and suburban areas”. Between Wednesday and Thursday evening, the Alipore Met office recorded around 60mm of rain in Alipore. Dark clouds hovered over the city sky since Thursday morning and the rain came in multiple spells. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s measuring station at New Market recorded 55mm of rain in 24 hours from 6.30pm on Wednesday. The corresponding figures at Jora Bridge (Santoshpur) and Joka were 60mm and 49mm, respectively. In Met parlance, 60mm of rain or more in 24 hours qualifies as heavy rain. The roads were deserted on Thursday because of the lockdown. Friday is expected to be similar. But people stepping out next week will face problems if the rain persists. “If the rain continues, several low-lying pockets of the city could be flooded,” said a civic official. Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the civic body who is in charge of drainage, said: “We can drain out 12mm of water in an hour. But if the rain is heavy and persistent, there is little we can do.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Fire at tea auctioneer's office in Park Mansions||A fire broke out in the office of a tea auctioning company on the third-floor of Park Mansions on Thursday morning. No one was injured. Security personnel of the building rescued two men before the fire brigade reached. “When we reached the spot, thick smoke had filled the affected portion of the third-floor. We had some difficulty getting access to the office initially,” a fire brigade officer said. The fire was doused within an hour and a half. The office, a roughly 3,000sq ft space, was partially damaged. “The air-conditioned office had tea tasting facilities, furniture and documents,” the officer said. A few families live in the building but the fire did not affect those portions, said Susmita Bhattacharya, the outgoing councillor of Ward 63, which covers Park Street. Three fire tenders reached the building, at the junction of Park Street and Free School Street, within a minute of a call reaching the headquarters of the fire brigade, said an officer at the fire brigade’s control room. “We received a call at 7.15am.... Three fire tenders reached the spot within a minute and the fire was doused by 8.40am,” said the officer. The four-storeyed building has many commercial establishments, including outlets of Starbucks and Hard Rock Cafe and a Nexa dealership. The fire did not spread to the other parts, the officer said. “The primary objective was to ensure the fire could be arrested within the four walls of the tea auctioning company,” another officer who was at the site said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Survey to identify at-risk Calcuttans||The state government will conduct a survey in Calcutta to find out the extent of co-morbidities in the city's population because such people are vulnerable to Covid-19, officials said. As asked by the state government, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will send teams to houses across 144 wards in the city to ask residents whether they suffer from medical conditions listed as co-morbidities. The conditions include hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer and tuberculosis. According to the state health department, Covid-19 has claimed 2,634 lives in Bengal till Thursday. As many as 2,316 of the victims — 87.9 per cent — suffered from co-morbidities. State government and CMC officials decided at a recent meeting that the civic body would send teams to as many houses as possible to prepare a list of people suffering from co-morbidities, a government official said. “More than 2,000 workers of the CMC will be involved in the survey, which should be over in three weeks to one month,” the official said. Once the database is created, people suffering from co-morbidities will be asked to inform the authorities about any symptoms of Covid-19. “We have seen that many people with co-morbidities and symptoms of Covid-19 like fever and respiratory distress did not go for a test till their conditions became critical. The survey is aimed at preventing such delays. Health workers will reach these people proactively and ask them whether they have any Covid symptoms,” a health department official said. He, however, admitted that it might not be possible to reach every household and identify all people with pre-existing conditions. “But even if a percentage of such people could be identified, that would help save many lives,” he said. According to the official, when a Covid-19 vaccine becomes available, such a database could be used to prioritise the list of beneficiaries. A study conducted in Birbhum that showed non-communicable diseases to be the leading cause of mortality in the district could serve as a model for the new study. That study, conducted between 2012 and 2017, had recorded 2,320 deaths during the period. Over half the deaths were attributed to non-communicable diseases such as cardiac ailments, cerebral strokes and ischemic heart diseases. The study, authored by Rajesh Kumar Rai, senior research scientist at the Society for Health and Demographic Surveillance; Wafaie W. Fawzi, Richard Saltonstall Professor of Population Sciences at the department of global health and population, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health; and Prashant Mathur, director, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research, Bangalore, among others, concluded: “NCDs (non-communicable diseases) are the leading cause of death among adults in a select population of rural Birbhum. Health programmes for rural India should prioritize plans to mitigate deaths due to NCDs.” “We wanted to highlight the importance of identifying and protecting the population with co-morbidities,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, member of the expert committee on Covid set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a co-author of the study.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Signals flouted, cop hit amid lockdown in Calcutta||Two men, who were neither from an essential service nor in any emergency, allegedly jumped the lights at the Hudco crossing and in Kankurgachi and hit a traffic sergeant who tried to stop their car for violating the lockdown on Thursday morning. Police said the two were driving down from Kolaghat. The vehicle fled Kankurgachi leaving the sergeant bleeding. The police said he suffered a fracture in the shoulder. Hours later, the car was tracked down to Parnasree in Behala. The two men - Akash Halder, 24, a resident of a highrise in Behala, and Titash Mitra, 33, from Basudevpur Road in Parnasree – were arrested. A preliminary investigation suggests that the Toyota Corolla Altis belonged to Mitra but Halder was at the wheel when it knocked down the sergeant. Both have been booked for attempt to murder, rash and negligent driving and common intention and also under the Disaster Management Act. “Neither could give a reasonable explanation for violating the lockdown. They should have stopped at the first crossing. Instead, they tried to flee and when the message to stop this car was aired so that the vehicle could be intercepted at the next crossing, the vehicle sped past that cordon too,” said a senior police officer. “Not stopping at one crossing could be a mistake, but repeating the same at the next crossing and physically hurting someone amounts to a serious offence,” the officer added. Hundreds of policemen were on the roads on Thursday to enforce the lockdown. Friday, too, is a complete lockdown from 6am to 10pm. Rain, the men in uniform and Covid scare managed to keep people indoors on Thursday. Vehicles across the city were stopped to ask why they were outside. At the Shyambazar crossing, around 2pm, a man driving a private car said he was on his way home after dropping a doctor at his workplace but could not produce any documents and was prosecuted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||IIEST drafts hostel-wise exit plan||IIEST, Shibpur, has issued a hostel-wise exit plan that its graduating students have to follow to take away their belongings from the campus. The institute has asked its outgoing students, who had left their hostels in the third week of March following the outbreak of Covid-19, to clear their belongings by August 31. “The exit plan, which has been uploaded on the institute’s website, specifies when students from each state will arrive on the campus to collect their items,” said an official of the institute. At the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), half the students are from outside Bengal. The plan has been prepared after students shared information, on a Google form created by the university, on which states they are from, whether their homes are in containment zones and how they will travel to the campus. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, chief warden, IIEST, said in a notice that the students had been asked to complete the process of removing their belongings in an hour. The reporting time at the hostel is 10am to 4pm. “The student can accompany one of his/her parents to facilitate the process. An intimation through e-mail by the concerned student must reach the respective warden with a copy to the chief warden at least 24 hours before his/her arrival,” says the notice signed by Mukhopadhyay. The exit plan has the names of graduating students from each state and the respective dates that have been finalised for collecting the belongings. Until the belongings are removed, the rooms cannot be sanitised, said an official of the building. In the next phase, the institute will ask the students in the third year and second year to take away their belongings. First-year students have yet to move in as the JEE-Main exams, through which the institute admits students, have not yet been held because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Business||Airlines seek government support||The civil aviation ministry will pitch for some relief to the battered aviation sector following several rounds of meetings with the airline operators. Officials of the aviation  ministry plan to meet their finance counterparts to take up the proposal of the airlines, which includes loan waivers, soft loans and deferment of payment to airports for six months. Sources said private airline operators such as SpiceJet, IndiGo, Air Asia, GoAir and Vistara have met the ministry officials several times since the Rs 20-lakh-crore stimulus package was announced by the government. The package did not have any specific relief for the industry and the operators have been calling for some kind of sector-specific measures similar to the ones taken in other countries. The ministry officials hope some hand-holding measures could be worked out for the sector. They expect air bubble pacts to be signed with more countries and hope a reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases would spur air travel within the country. Analysts, however, feel the finance ministry does not have much elbow room to offer relief. Any support is likely to be in the form of liquidity measures either through fiscal or monetary policies. “The industry’s financial challenges will become increasingly apparent from September/October. Promoters, bankers, private equity and the government are all unwilling to provide support given the demand risk and uncertainty,” CAPA India said. This could have an unprecedented impact on air connectivity, and on economic recovery. “The two critical elements for the industry to survive and navigate this crisis are demand (traffic risk) and capital,” it said. Rating agency Icra said in a report that the domestic aviation industry had operated at a passenger load factor of 55 per cent in July against 86.3 per cent in the same month last year. “Icra maintains that the second half of 2020-21 will witness some recovery with the fourth quarter witnessing a contraction year-on-year of just 3-14 per cent in domestic passenger traffic with improved passenger load factor... Domestic passenger traffic is likely to contract 41-46 per cent in the whole of 2020-21,” it said. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said 2020 is the worst year in aviation, and airlines in the Asia-Pacific region alone are expected to report losses of $29 billion. Indian carriers are estimated to lose revenues of $11.61 billion in 2020 compared with 2019, and this is expected to impact 3.06 million jobs. “On an average, every day of this year will add $230 million to industry losses. In total that’s a loss of $84.3 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA director-general and CEO, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court fears loss of telco dues||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it was “extremely worried” that the AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues of the telecom players under bankruptcy would be “wiped out” if they were allowed to proceed with their insolvency claims before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The court had earlier in October 2019 directed the operators to cough up their dues — aggregating Rs 1.47 lakh crore — but operators such as Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Aircel had referred to their insolvency proceedings at the NCLT for their inability to pay the dues, which the apex court views as an attempt not to comply with its ruling. “We are extremely worried that all AGR dues will be wiped out in the IBC process… After the spectrum sale, the new user will deny pending demands against the said spectrum,” Justice Arun Mishra, who heads the three-judge bench, said. The bench, which includes Justices Abdul Nazeer and M.R.Shah, said, “Spectrum trading is different from spectrum sale under IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code).  Nobody can use spectrum without paying past dues.” Justice Mishra asked senior advocate Ranjit Kumar appearing for the Committee of Creditors (CoC) of Aircel whether “liabilities be wound up under the guise of selling spectrum under IBC”. However, Kumar defended the insolvency proceedings. He told the court that the insolvency laws in India were present from the 1920s. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is the latest amongst the evolving company laws, Kumar told the court. He argued that spectrum is a raw material for the telecom service provider and was a valid security for banks. According to Kumar, the various agreements signed earlier by the operators with banks and the government recognised spectrum as security before banks. Such payments due to the financial creditors should have a preference over operational creditors in the proceedings under IBC. “Banks’ dues are similar to AGR dues, IBC doesn't allow AGR payment before paying banks. If all proceeds are used to satisfy AGR dues, banks won’t get anything, will lose public money. If government allowed spectrum as security, it can’t backtrack now. Even the ministry of corporate affairs wanted spectrum sale under IBC,” Kumar argued. He argued that banks, government need to coexist. “Let's not forget the strain on the economy. Government uses proceeds for public, banks use it for economic purposes.” The senior advocate argued that Section 238 of IBC prevails over any other law such as the Trai or Telegraph acts. The senior advocate appearing for Bharti Airtel in his brief submission told the court that the company had paid all dues related to spectrum trading including the  Rs 18,004 crore of AGR dues. The arguments would continue on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Telecom operations face greater licensing||The telecom regulator has floated a discussion paper on the unbundling of different aspects of telecom operations such as infrastructure, network, services and applications through differential licensing. The consultation paper proposes a system of unbundling wherein there will be an independent network service provider/operator, which will establish the network and sell the services on a wholesale basis to the service delivery operator to retail. The consultation paper, which asks for opinions of stakeholders on the issue, explains that unbundling of different layers would offer opportunities to share telecom resources and lead to optimum utilisation. “This will further help in catalysing investment and innovation, cost-cutting, and effective utilisation of infrastructure,” Trai has said in the paper. The consultation paper comes after the telecom department in May 2019 sought the regulator’s recommendation on the issue of unbundling of different layers. Trai has set a deadline of September 17 for written comments and October 1 for counter comments on the issue. “What incentives (lower licence fee, lower spectrum usage charges) could be provided to licensees in the new unbundled licensing regime to encourage the investment,” Trai has asked. It has sought industry feedback on what should be the scope for network layer licence and service category licences in case the two elements are separated. The regulator seeks to explore if a network services layer licensee should be permitted to take the service delivery category licence and the restrictions and safeguards that would be imposed to protect the competition and innovation in the service delivery segment. “Out of various responsibilities and obligations enumerated in the unified licence, what should be the respective responsibilities and obligations of network layer licensees and service delivery category licensees,” said the consultation paper. Trai had earlier come out with a pre-consultation paper on the issue where it sought inputs from stakeholders on the broad framework for unbundling of licence. Other issues up for debate include whether certain obligations should be imposed on network layer licensees to provide the network resources in a time-bound, transparent and non-discriminatory manner, as also mechanisms to regulate the access to network services by the service delivery category licensees. "Whether the existing Unified Licensees should be mandated to migrate to the unbundled licensing regime, or the new regime should be introduced, while keeping the existing regime continued for existing licensees till the validity of their licence, with an option of migration," TRAI asked. Another question is on whether service delivery category licensees should be permitted to parent with multiple network service layer licensees. The telecom department in May 2019, had informed that the National Digital Communications Policy (NDCP) under its ''Propel India'' mission, envisages one of the strategies as ''reforming the licensing and regulatory regime to catalyse investments and innovation and promote ease of doing business''. "Enabling unbundling of different layers (example, infrastructure, network, services, and application layer) through differential licensing is one of the action plans for fulfilling the aforementioned strategy," the TRAI release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Liquor firms asked to give cost breakup||The Bengal government has proposed a change in the sourcing policy of liquor asking companies to disclose information relating to a buildup of costs that will determine ex-distillery price. The change comes as part of a 22-slab consolidated excise duty structure discussed with the industry on Wednesday, which is likely to come into effect from next month. The first slab for Indian-made foreign liquor and overseas liquor bottled in India is up to Rs 499 and the last slab is Rs 15,001 and above. In the changed sourcing policy, when liquor firms have to re-register their brand and get a no objection certificate from the State Beverages Corporation. In order to obtain that, certain disclosures such as a break-up of costs of materials that together determine the ex-distillery price (EDP) of liquor has to be submitted besides documents such as brand ownership certificate, trade mark registration and FSSAI licence. The government has also sought a comparison of EDP with other states. The industry has welcomed the decision of the government to withdraw the Covid-19 related additional tax of 30 per cent. But the move to introduce slabs, comparing EDP with other states and confidentiality of cost data are key concerns. “We welcome the move to simplify the tax structure by linking it with EDP though we think pricing slabs are far too many and may increase compliance burden. The decision to link EDP with that in other states is misplaced as it does not factor in local costs and tax structure in those states,” said Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies. “We are also concerned whether the government has put in sufficient measures to protect confidentiality of the cost data that it is seeking from the companies. The privileged information should not fall in competitive hands,” he said. The government has urged the industry to liquidate the current stock over the next two weeks so that the new duty can come into effect. As part of the proposed changes, the margins for the wholeseller (the state beverage corporation) and the retailers are also expected to increase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||RBI scouts for escape hatch to kickstart economy||The Reserve Bank of India’s policymakers are grappling with a stark dilemma. If they do not cut interest rates, it may be hard to kickstart a moribund economy. But inflation is ruling at 6.93 per cent and will run away unchecked unless the RBI raises rates — which isn’t an easy option to exercise in the current economic situation and will spark a caterwaul of protests if it does so. The policy mandate requires the wise men on Mint Street to hold inflation at a mid-point of 4 per cent, with a tolerance limit of 2 per cent on either side. If inflation stubbornly stays above 6 per cent for three consecutive quarters, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das must write to the Centre and explain why the central bank failed to do its job. The pandemic is a great excuse — but the RBI is understandably reluctant to admit failure. Retail inflation has stayed above 6 per cent for two quarters. In July, it surged to 6.93 per cent, which means it has two more months before it hands in a botched report card. It is this dilemma that seeped into the discussions of the monetary policy committee meeting held between August 4 and 6. The minutes of the meeting, which were released on Thursday, show that the policymakers were casting about for an escape hatch to avoid having to make that dismal report of failure. The MPC noted that the imputed inflation numbers for April and May mark a “break in the CPI series”. RBI deputy governor Michael Patra warned that if inflation persists above the upper tolerance band for one more quarter, the monetary policy will be constrained by the mandate to undertake remedial action — which means raise rates. Ravindra Dholakia said imputation of the inflation numbers may provide misleading signals and it is prudent to ignore them and wait for more reliable estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Tatas upbeat on Port Talbot||Tata Steel chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran said the company was in “intense discussion” with the Boris Johnson government to find a sustainable and structural solution to the UK steel business of the company. Facing a barrage of probing questions from the shareholders at the company’s 113th annual general meeting where they expressed doubts over the future of the European business, the chairman said the “hope and aim is to find a solution by the end of the fiscal year”. Chandra said the company had a target to bring down debt to Rs 75,000 crore and have a debt-to-EBIDTA ratio of “3 or less” for a size and magnitude of the company’s operation “as soon as possible”, as shareholders questioned the elevated debt level of Tata Steel, which is over Rs 1 lakh crore now. “It can be a matter of months before we can have a decision but if we have a successful outcome, then it is good. We are also thinking of alternative options. But our interest and focus is to see that we find a solution that is lasting,” Chandrasekaran informed the shareholders. The statement comes amidst intense speculation over the future of the UK business as British media reported that the UK government has declined the request of Tata Steel to provide financial assistance. At least one potential suitor, Liberty House of Sanjeev Gupta, has said it was open to acquiring the Tatas’ UK steel business — including the main production site Port Talbot — if they sell it. The Tatas’ operations in Europe are spread between the UK and the Netherlands, the latter being a more modern and efficient plant with positive contributions. Chandra explained that there was nothing wrong with the European business operationally. “In Europe, the cost structure is such that we need a good spread, at least in excess of 260 euros (per tonne), which we have not been able to achieve. The last time we touched it was in 2018-19. But in 2019-20, it was around 230 euros per tonne. Now it is further lower to 200 euros per tonne. So, the steel price has to operate at a particular level to support that cost structure. This is where the losses are happening,” Chandra said. The shareholders of Tata Steel India, the listed and holding company, are upset as the profitable domestic operation is continuing to fund the loss making European business and pulling down the stock price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||India||Retired bureaucrat Rajiv Kumar appointed election commissioner ||Retired bureaucrat Rajiv Kumar was on Friday appointed election commissioner in place of Ashok Lavasa who resigned. President Ram Nath Kovind cleared his appointment with effect from the date he assumes office. His appointment is in place of Lavasa who resigned with effect from August 31. “In pursuance of clause (2) of article 324 of the Constitution, the president is pleased to appoint Shri Rajiv Kumar (IAS retired) as the election commissioner with effect from the date he assumes the office vice Shri Ashok Lavasa, election commissioner who has resigned with effect August 31,” an official notification of the ministry of law and justice said. Rajiv Kumar is a retired IAS officer of the 1984 batch of Jharkhand cadre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Facebook says it’s a non-partisan platform||Facing allegations of bias in handling hate speeches, Facebook on Friday said it is an open, transparent and non-partisan platform, and will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India that are in violation of its community standards. The statement from Facebook India head Ajit Mohan comes against the backdrop of a political row following a Wall Street Journal report that alleged that the social media platform’s content policies favoured the ruling party in India. “Facebook is and always has been an open, transparent and non-partisan platform where people can express themselves freely. Over the last few days, we have been accused of bias in the way we enforce our policies. “We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form,” Facebook India vice-president and managing director Mohan said in a blog post. He also emphasised that the company has an impartial approach to dealing with content and is strongly governed by its community standards. These standards outline what is and is not allowed on Facebook. Facebook’s Oversight Board has said it will be within its scope to examine how the social media giant treats posts from public figures that may violate community standards and are the type of “highly challenging cases” that the board expects to consider once it starts functioning. Asserting that Facebook’s commitment to India is unwavering, Mohan in the blog post said the company’s aim is to be an “ally” for India where its platforms preserve the “pluralistic character of a democracy by offering the freedom for people to express themselves and for entrepreneurs to build new things while also protecting society from broader harm”. “Our Community Standards define what stays on our platform and are enforced globally... We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief. We have removed and will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India when it violates our Community Standards,” he said. In the wake of the WSJ report, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has summoned Facebook on September 2 to discuss the issue of alleged misuse of the social media platform. On Friday, Mohan also said that many questions have been raised specifically about enforcement of Facebook policies around hate speech and pointed out that it has made “significant progress” in removing hate speech and other harmful content over the past few years. Mohan said the company had removed 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content in the second quarter of 2020, up from 1.6 million pieces of hate speech removed in the last quarter of 2017. He also admitted that while the platform has made progress in tackling hate speech, it needed to do more and welcomed the opportunity to engage with all parties -- political or otherwise -- who want to understand its content policies and enforcement more. Mohan noted that the policies are “ever evolving” to take into account the local sensitivities, especially in a multicultural society such as India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Rahul attacks govt on state of economy, unemployment ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday again attacked the Narendra Modi government over the state of the economy and unemployment, accusing it of spending public money on “image correction”. Citing a news report which claimed the government is seeking to plan a media blitz for its “image correction” to help improve India’s rankings on various indices, Rahul tweeted: “Economic slump, unemployment, Chinese aggression ail our country. GOI: Let’s spend taxpayers’ money on ‘image correction’.” The Congress has also demanded answers from the government on its plan to “improve the economy and employment generation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Nine dead in Srisailam power plant blaze||Nine people have died in the fire accident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant, on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border on Friday, a senior government official said. Six bodies have been recovered by rescue teams so far and efforts were on to pull out the others from the underground plant, Nagarkurnool District Collector L Sharman said. The fire broke out late on Thursday night when at least 17 people were inside the plant and eight of them managed to escape, officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed the accident 'unfortunate' and wished a speedy recovery to the injured.  "Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest," the PM said in a tweet. President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said he was pained by the loss of lives in the tragic fire accident at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. "Pained by the loss of lives in the tragic fire accident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured," Kovind tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Voting in Covid times: gloves for all, patients only in last hour of polling||Voters will be provided with gloves to press the EVM button and COVID-19 patients in quarantine will be allowed to vote at the last hour of the polling day, according to broad guidelines issued by the Election Commission on Friday for polls to be held during the coronavirus pandemic. A separate set of guidelines would be issued for voters who are residing in areas notified as "containment zone”, the EC said. Bihar will be the first state where assembly elections will be held amid the pandemic. The polls are likely to be held sometime in October-November. The commission has recommended mandatory sanitisation of polling stations, preferably a day before the polls. Thermal scanners would be placed at the entry point of every polling station. Polling or paramedical staff will conduct thermal screening of voters at the entry point of a polling station, it said. The gloves for voters will most likely be disposable. "There shall be a maximum of 1,000 electors, instead of 1,500 electors, in a polling station," the guidelines said. A group of five people, including candidates but excluding security personnel, is allowed to take part in door-to-door campaigning. For roadshows, the commission said, convoys of vehicles should be broken after every five vehicles instead of 10 (excluding security vehicles). Public gatherings and rallies can be held subject to adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The district election officer should identify in advance dedicated grounds for public gatherings with clearly marked entry and exit points. In all such identified grounds, the district election officer should put markers in advance to ensure social distancing norms are followed by those who attend. The district election officer and district superintendent of police should ensure that the number of attendees does not exceed the limit prescribed by the State Disaster Management Authority for public gatherings, the commission said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Rain: tales of agony all around||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: Special court rejects bail plea of key accused||A special court in Kochi on Friday dismissed the bail plea of Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling scandal, in a case registered by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the money trail of the illegal trade. The special PMLA court dismissed her bail plea on the ground that the accused, in a statement given to the ED under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), has admitted that she had roles in hatching the conspiracy and smuggling the gold from the foreign country. Opposing the bail application moved by Suresh, the ED had said that the accused had disclosed to it her association with the other accused and some of their aides who are involved in the crime. Noting that the revelations made by her indicates that she had 'considerable influence' in the office of Kerala Chief Minister, the ED said if she is released on bail, there is a chance of tampering with evidence and also influencing the witnesses. The Investigating Agency said it apprehends hurdles in the progress of investigation, if the petitioner is enlarged on bail now. The investigation is progressing and persons connected with the crime and having influence have also to be questioned, the ED said. Earlier, an NIA court and an Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Economic Offences, had also dismissed her bail pleas in separate cases registered by NIA and Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate. Multiple agencies including NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate are probing the case of smuggling of gold worth over Rs 100 crore through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Sushant case: CBI starts investigation||After the Supreme Court's nod, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday started its probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case in the city as it collected relevant documents and reports from the Mumbai police, officials said. A special investigation team of the CBI, consisting of officers, other personnel and also forensic experts, landed in Mumbai on Thursday evening to take over probe into the high- profile case which has received much media attention. Getting down to business, CBI officials on Friday morning brought Rajputs cook for enquiry at DRDO and IAF guest house in suburban Santa Cruz, where the visiting probe team members are staying. A vehicle, in which the cook was seen sitting next to a CBI official, was spotted entering the guest house complex. The probe team will record statements of people connected with the case, sources said. It will also scan financial transactions of the 34- year-old actor, who was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14, they said. Another team of the CBI, led by a superintendent-rank officer, reached the Bandra Police Station, where an ADR (accidental death report) was registered after the alleged suicide by the actor, an official said. The team collected case diary of the ADR and other important documents related to the investigation of the case, which included autopsy and forensic reports, he said. The CBI team also met DCP Abhishek Trimukhe, who was heading the Mumbai police probe team, the official said. The CBI squad will also visit Rajput's flat in 'Mont Blanc' building where he was found hanging, he said. The team will recreate the crime scene at the spot during the investigation, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee remains 'haemodynamically' stable||There was no change in the condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee and he remains haemodynamically stable and on ventilatory support, the hospital said Friday. Doctors attending to him said his vital parameters are being maintained. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He was also tested positive for Covid-19. Thereafter, he developed a lung infection and is being treated for the same. His health parameters are being closely monitored by a team of specialists at the hospital. "The medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains the same. He is being treated for lung infection and continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital parameters are being maintained and he is haemodynamically stable," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Fire breaks out at Srisailam hydel power plant in Telengana||Nine persons are feared trapped in Srisailam hydroelectric plant located underground on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border after a fire broke out on Thursday night and "huge smoke" was preventing rescue personnel from entering in, officials said on Friday. Nagarkurnool district Collector L Sharman said three fire engines were engaged in extinguishing the huge smoke emanating from the plant's premises. While Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was monitoring the rescue work through his cabinet colleague, Union Minister of State for Home, Kishan Reddy, said he has asked NDRF to join the rescue efforts. "There is huge smoke and because of it we are not able to enter into the plant premises. By 11 am we expect to enter the plant," Sharman told P T I, adding, nine persons including seven staff members are stuck. Those stuck include a Deputy Engineer and an Assistant Engineer. "Our main target is to rescue them...we are not able to contact them because they are not carrying mobile phones and there is no mobile network," he said. Quoting preliminary information, he said a short- circuit is suspected to have caused the fire. According to B Suresh, Chief Engineer of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (GENCO), there were nearly 25 people at the powerhouse when the mishap took place. However, about 15 or 16 managed to come out. A police official said six persons have been admitted to local hospitals for treatment for suffocation. Built on river Krishna, the Srisailam Left Bank power station, about 200 km from Hyderabad, is operated by the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (GENCO). The plant has six units with combined capacity of 900 MW (6X150). The power generation was in full swing following the incessant rains during the past few days. Power generation has been suspended following the fire mishap. The fire has been brought under control but thick smoke engulfed the underground area of the powerhouse making rescue operations difficult, officials said. Two of the nine who are trapped belong to a private firm that maintains batteries, officials said. "There are three emergency exits in the pant. There is a possibility that they (trapped) can come out through them. But we cannot say until the smoke is cleared and the rescue teams can go inside," Suresh said. The plant is located in a one km long tunnel and the fire is suspected to have broke out at the service bay area in the Main Control Room, a Fire Department official said. "We were not able to reach the site as dense smoke engulfed the area. As of now we are trying to put off small patches of fire here and there at the transformer area," the official said. Telangana Energy minister Jagadish Reddy said personnel from Police, Fire and Emergency services department are involved in the rescue operations. Officials of the Singareni collieries have also been contacted for their help since they have expertise in underground rescue operations, he added. Chief Minister Rao expressed shock over the accident. "The CM is eliciting information on the accident on a regular basis. The CM wants all those who are trapped in the plant to come out safely," a press release from his office said. Rao spoke to Minister Jagdish Reddy and Transco, Genco CMD D Prabhakar Rao who are at the site and reviewed the relief measures taking place there, it said. Kishan Reddy said he spoke to the NDRF personnel and directed them to immediately get involved in rescue operations. "Saddened by the fire accident in the Hydel Power Generation Unit on the left banks of Srisailam, Telangana, late night. Spoke to the NDRF personnel and directed them for immediate rescue operations. Prayers for early recovery of the injured" he said in a statement. Telangana BJP in a statement demanded the government to put to use all resources to provide medical support to the injured immediately, and ensure the rescue and relief are undertaken on war footing to find those who are still stuck inside the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Diplomatic talks between India and China flounder||Diplomatic talks between India and China on Thursday failed to achieve any breakthrough, amid indications that Beijing was still resisting New Delhi’s demand for a restoration of status quo ante on the border and setting conditions for disengagement. A brief statement the Indian foreign ministry issued after the talks seemed to suggest, for the umpteenth time, that achieving complete disengagement from all the friction points along the Line of Actual Control continued to be a challenge. The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement spoke of “progress” in disengaging troops but twice mentioned “remaining issues”, deepening apprehensions about Beijing’s game plan among the Indian security establishment and military veterans. While India too spoke of the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily “in accordance with the existing agreements”, this was seen as an acknowledgement of the difficulties of restoring full status quo on the border. China’s mention of “remaining issues” evoked memories of how, two days before the July 14 military talks, Beijing had laid fresh claims to the Pangong Lake areas where its army has reportedly occupied an 8km stretch within India-claimed lines. Beijing’s statement said: “The two sides reviewed the recent situation in the border areas between China and India, positively evaluated the progress made in the disengagement of the frontline forces of the two countries, exchanged candid and in-depth views on the remaining issues on the ground, and enhanced mutual understanding.” The two sides, it said, “continue to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, (to) further cool down the border situation”. The Chinese statement also said that the two sides would “properly handle the remaining issues on the ground, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. India’s statement said: “The two sides will continue to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in the western sector. In this context they agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols.” The statement said the two sides were in agreement that the restoration of peace and tranquillity at the border was key to the overall development of bilateral ties. “The two sides further acknowledged the need to maintain close communication through both the diplomatic and military channels so as to ensure complete disengagement,” it said. Two months ago, on June 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had claimed that no one had crossed into Indian territory or held Indian posts. Sources in the security establishment and army veterans have long been saying the Chinese are working to establish a “revised status quo” that will allow them to hold on to their newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines. During the last military talks, the Chinese are said to have asked the Indians to retreat further from their present positions at the Pangong Lake as a precondition for disengagement. Despite a series of military and diplomatic talks since May, the Chinese have not disengaged from the areas they recently occupied along the Pangong Lake or in Hot Springs or the Depsang Plains. A security official attached to the Union home ministry said the Chinese had “rushed in additional high-speed boats to the Pangong Lake to strengthen their positions and patrol more aggressively”. He said India too had brought in a few boats to counter them. “Tension is simmering and another round of conflict at the lake looks inevitable.” The current standoff had first escalated with a battle of stones and fists near the Pangong Lake on May 5 that had left several Indian and Chinese soldiers injured. A military veteran accused both sides of trying to suggest normality in relations through choreographed statements but underlined that this was more surprising on India’s part since it had lost territory. “It’s shocking that even after a series of unfruitful meetings, including the latest one, India continues to project an ‘all is well’ picture,” he said. “Denial seems to have become our policy. Our top political leadership has long decided not to acknowledge the Chinese incursion. But it has boomeranged and may lead to (permanent) territory loss.” On Thursday, the Indian delegation was led by the joint secretary (East Asia) from the foreign ministry while the director-general of the boundary and oceanic department of the Chinese foreign ministry headed the Chinese team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Attorney-general speaks, not on government behalf||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave Prashant Bhushan “two to three days” to consider apologising for his tweets and avoid being sentenced for contempt, which the lawyer-activist agreed to contemplate with much reluctance. The day witnessed attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, one of the senior-most members of the Bar, pleading before the court: “I request your lordships not to punish him (Bhushan).” Venugopal, who had come in answer to a court notice, clarified he was appearing not on the Centre’s behalf but as attorney-general of India (whose presence is customary at contempt hearings). The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari did not readily accept Venugopal’s plea to forgive Bhushan. “We cannot consider your proposal unless he rethinks his statement,” Justice Mishra told Venugopal. “We will have to consider whether his statement was defence or aggravation.” The bench, which had convicted Bhushan criminal contempt for two tweets, was on Thursday scheduled to pronounce the punishment. Bhushan initially felt that no purpose would be served by deferring the matter, saying he was not inclined to change his statement. But he later agreed to think it over. The court is expected to hear the case again on Monday. Bhushan had said: “It would be insincere and contemptuous on my part to offer an apology for the tweets that expressed what was and continues to be my bona fide belief.” Earlier, senior advocate and Bhushan’s counsel Dushyant Dave had pleaded the case be heard by another bench, which the court nixed. It also rejected a plea for deferring the matter until Bhushan had filed his review petition challenging his conviction. One of Bhushan’s tweets had asserted that democracy had been destroyed during the tenures of the last four Chief Justices of India (CJIs) and the other had referred to present Chief Justice S.A. Bobde mounting a Harley-Davidson in public without a facemask on while he had closed physical hearings because of the pandemic. On Thursday, Justice Mishra asked Venugopal: “Should we not give an opportunity to Mr Prashant Bhushan to think over and come back to us after 2-3 days?” When Venugopal concurred, Justice Gavai asked Bhushan whether he would “like to reconsider” his statement. “I don’t want to reconsider the statement. As regards giving time, I don’t think it will serve any useful purpose,” Bhushan responded. “But we would like to give you time,” Justice Mishra said. “Later on, there should not be a complaint that time was not given.” Bhushan submitted his statement was “well-considered and well thought out”. “If your lordships want to give me time, I welcome it. But I don’t think it will serve any useful purpose and it will be a waste of time of the court. It is not very likely that I will change my statement,” he said. Justice Mishra persisted: “We will give you two-three days’ time. Think (it) over.... We should not give the verdict right now.” Bhushan then said he would think it over and consult his lawyers again. During the arguments, the bench had restrained Bhushan’s counsel Rajeev Dhavan from naming the four former CJIs his client had apparently referred to. Dhavan asked the court to “examine the person” and lauded Bhushan’s “character and contributions” by citing how he had without charging fees argued cases of public interest, from the coal-block allocation controversy to the 2G spectrum case. “So, please consider: is this person simply attacking the court or is (he) criticising (it) for improving the administration of justice?” Dhavan said. Justice Mishra said: “We are quite impressed by the list (of cases fought by Bhushan pro bono). This will weigh in your favour (with respect to sentencing).” Dhavan said: “When your lordships’ August 14 judgment reaches various academies, it will be severely criticised.” To this Justice Mishra replied: “Don’t worry about that. We don’t mind fair criticism.” He went on: “You are part of the system. In your zeal of overdoing, you cross the Lakshman rekha. Nobody should cross (it). Doing good things is welcome. We appreciate efforts of filing good cases.” Justice Mishra added: “I have not taken contempt against a single person in my judicial career....” Dhavan then referred to how Justice Mishra had, as chief justice of Calcutta High Court, refrained from initiating contempt proceedings against chief minister Mamata Banerjee for her remarks against judges. The bench of Justices Mishra and Joymalya Bagchi had in December 2012 declined to act against Mamata but advised her to “lace her speech with moderation”. Dhavan contended it was not enough for the court to say a remark was scurrilous, it had to state the comment had “substantially interfered with the administration justice”. “As some commentator had said, how can a comment about the CJI seated on a bike affect the administration of justice?” he said. Dhavan referred to Section 13(2) of the Contempt of Courts Act to say that “truth is defence” in contempt proceedings. But Justice Mishra said: “When it comes to sentencing, we can be lenient only when the person tenders apology and realises the mistake in the real sense…. The fact that you are doing many good things does not mean that your wrongs can be neutralised.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav's relative quits RJD, joins JDU||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) received twin jolts on Thursday with Chandrika Rai, party chief Lalu Prasad’s daughter-in-law’s father, joining Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United along with two other MLAs, and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party quitting the Opposition grand alliance. Ministers and senior JDU leaders Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Sharwan Kumar welcomed Chandrika and MLAs Faraz Fatmi and Jai Vardhan Yadav to the fold at a function at the party’s state headquarters here. All three legislators hail from well-known political families. Son of Yadav politician and late chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai, Chandrika is a seven-term MLA from the family’s pocket borough Parsa constituency in Saran district. His daughter Aishwarya Rai got married to Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav, a legislator from Mahua, in May 2018. The match was considered coming together of two of the most well-known Yadav families of the state. However, just five months later, Tej Pratap filed a divorce petition in the Patna civil court. The case is pending and the couple is living separately after Aishwarya was allegedly thrown out of her in-laws house by former chief minister and Tej Pratap’s mother Rabri Devi. Aishwarya registered an FIR against Rabri, husband Tej Pratap and sister-in-law Misa Bharti in December 2019 accusing them of physical assault, mental torture, domestic violence and demanding dowry. Chandrika had tried his best to resolve the situation for the sake of his daughter but had failed. Speaking to mediapersons later, Chandrika asserted that he had become disillusioned with the RJD. “The old and loyal party workers are disregarded and sidelined. The RJD is no longer a party of the poor. It has become a commercial party. Some rich person comes from Mumbai and is given a ticket to contest election. That party is not fit for people like us,” he said. Chandrika also praised Nitish for his vision and work. “He (Nitish) has changed Bihar a lot from what it used to be 15 years ago.” He also said he has heard that Lalu’s sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav were searching for safe seats to contest the upcoming Assembly election. Jai Vardhan is the grandson of late Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, popularly called “Sher-e-Bihar”, and considered one of the tallest Yadav leaders. Faraz is the son of former Union minister Ali Ashraf Fatmi. Last week, three other RJD legislators — Maheshwar Prasad Yadav, Prema Chaudhary and Ashok Kushwaha — had also joined the JDU. Top JDU leaders said inducting these leaders into the party will help make inroads into the RJD’s Yadav vote bank that accounts for around 14 per cent of the total 7.2 crore voters in the state. On the other hand, Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular, after a meeting of its core committee held here on Thursday decided to leave the grand alliance headed by the RJD. The Congress and a few smaller parties are its constituents. “A single party (the RJD) is trying to assert its supremacy on all other members of the grand alliance, thinking that they will follow it. This is unacceptable. We demanded that a coordination committee be formed to steer the alliance but it was ignored. There is also no talk of a common minimum programme. The circumstances have forced us to quit the alliance,” party national general secretary Santosh Manjhi said. Though indications are there that HAMS may join the NDA ahead of the polls, its leaders did not confirm it. “Where will we go or what will happen in future will be decided by our leader Jitan Ram Manjhi. The core committee has authorised him to take a suitable decision,” party spokesperson Danish Rizwan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Bhushan invokes Mahatma, says he is not seeking mercy but will pay penalty||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Thursday invoked Mahatma Gandhi to tell the Supreme Court that he was not seeking “mercy” or “magnanimity” in the criminal contempt proceedings against him as he was neither a “courtier” nor a “cheerleader” but would “cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted”. Bhushan, convicted of criminal contempt of court, said it would be “insincere and contemptuous on my part to offer an apology for the tweets that expressed what was and continues to be my bona fide belief”. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari gave Bhushan two to three days to reconsider his “defiant statement”. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt of court is six months’ imprisonment or a fine or both. The bench had on August 14 convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt of court for two tweets. During the “Great Trial” of 1922, Gandhi had used words similar to what Bhushan has paraphrased in his statement in court. Gandhi had been arrested from the Sabarmati Ashram in March 1922 for certain articles published in the Young India newspaper and charged with “bringing or attempting to bring into hatred or contempt or exciting or attempting to excite disaffection towards His Majesty’s Government, established by law in British India”. While pleading guilty to the charges, Gandhi had said: “I do not ask for mercy. I do not plead any extenuating act. I am here, therefore, to invite and cheerfully submit to the highest penalty that can be inflicted upon me for what in law is a deliberate crime and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.” Judge C.N. Broomfield sentenced Gandhi to a cumulative six years in jail but added that “if the course of events in India should make it possible for the government to reduce the period and release you, no one will be better pleased than I”. On Thursday, Bhushan, who has been held guilty of charges that the top court feels need dealing with “an iron hand”, said that expressing his “bona fide beliefs... must be permissible in any democracy”. As senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave were arguing on his behalf during the hearing, held via videoconferencing, Bhushan made the statement. The written statement was issued on Bhushan’s behalf by advocate Cherryl Dsouza. Bhushan’s statement is reproduced below verbatim: “I have gone through the judgment of this Hon’ble Court. I am pained that I have been held guilty of committing contempt of the court whose majesty I have tried to uphold — not as a courtier or cheerleader but as a humble guard — for over three decades, at some personal and professional cost. “I am pained, not because I may be punished, but because I have been grossly misunderstood. I am shocked that the court holds me guilty of ‘malicious, scurrilous, calculated attack’ on the institution of administration of justice. I am dismayed that the court has arrived at this conclusion without providing any evidence of my motives to launch such an attack. “I must confess that I am disappointed that the court did not find it necessary to serve me with a copy of the complaint on the basis of which the suo motu notice was issued, nor found it necessary to respond to the specific averments made by me in my reply affidavit or the many submissions of my counsel. “I find it hard to believe that the court finds my tweet ‘has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of Indian democracy’. I can only reiterate that these two tweets represented my bona fide beliefs, the expression of which must be permissible in any democracy. “Indeed, public scrutiny is desirable for healthy functioning of the judiciary itself. I believe that open criticism of any institution is necessary in a democracy, to safeguard the constitutional order. “We are living through that moment in our history when higher principles must trump routine obligations, when saving the constitutional order must come before personal and professional niceties, when considerations of the present must not come in the way of discharging our responsibility towards the future. “Failing to speak up would have been a dereliction of duty, especially for an officer of the court like myself. My tweets were nothing but a small attempt to discharge what I considered to be my highest duty at this juncture in the history of our republic. I did not tweet in a fit of absence mindedness. “It would be insincere and contemptuous on my part to offer an apology for the tweets that expressed what was and continues to be my bona fide belief. “Therefore, I can only humbly paraphrase what the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi had said in his trial: I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Rahul sounds alarm on jobs, blames Modi||The Congress on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why he had stopped talking about employment generation, and Rahul Gandhi predicted a grim scenario as the “destruction” of the informal sector would make job creation impossible in the near future. Participating in a party programme organised by the Chhattisgarh unit through videoconference, Rahul said: “Around 90 per cent jobs are created by the informal sector. Who are these people? They are small and medium businessmen, farmers, etc. Narendra Modi has destroyed them. You will see in months that the small and medium enterprises will be ruined. It has already started…. This country won’t be able to give employment to its youths.” The former Congress president added: “For the first time in the history of India, our country will not be able to create jobs. Companies will collapse one after another. Don’t trust me. Reject my assessment; like the media made fun of me when I said the coronavirus would play havoc with the economy. Wait for six-seven months. It will be visible. The MSMEs and the agriculture sector will not be able to generate jobs because they are themselves in trouble.” The Congress maintains that Modi’s demonetisation exercise in November 2016 had delivered a debilitating blow to the informal sector, and then the unplanned and sudden lockdown earlier this year because of the pandemic had devastated the small and medium enterprises. The party has made impassioned appeals to the Prime Minister to offer financial aid and salary support to the MSMEs to ensure they remain afloat. Rahul himself has cautioned that small and medium businessmen will not be able to sustain themselves in the aftermath of the months-long lockdown. The Congress MP had tweeted on Wednesday: “In the last four months, around two crore people have lost their jobs. The future of two crore families is in dark. The truth of destruction of economy and unemployment can’t be hidden from the country by spreading fake news and hate on Facebook.” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi raised the job issue at a media conference on Thursday. “July figures show 1.75 crore salaried jobs were lost. This has become 1.9 crore till the last week of August. These are not migrant labourers who may find livelihood avenues again, but these salaried jobs won’t come back. We want to know from the government what is the blueprint for job creation and why does the Prime Minister not talk about creating jobs these days?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||BJP spies a chance to settle Sena scores ||The Supreme Court’s permission to the CBI to investigate the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput could trigger a fresh and intense round of political clashes between the BJP and its former ally Shiv Sena, sources said. The top court’s verdict has come as an opportunity for the BJP to politically target the Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra, BJP insiders said. Late last year, the Sena, which had been the BJP’s oldest and most ideologically amenable ally, broke ranks after fighting the elections together and joined hands with Sharad Pawar’s NCP and the Congress to form the government in Maharashtra, handing the BJP its rudest shock so far. The BJP had desperately tried to wrest power without the Sena by attempting to split the NCP but failed miserably. Since then, the BJP has been seething and looking for an opportunity to settle scores with the former ally. Privately, many in the BJP feel the handover of the Sushant probe to the CBI has come as an opportunity. “The Sushant Singh Rajput case was politicised to malign Mumbai police and the Maharashtra government,” the editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said on Thursday, apprehending a political backlash from the BJP. “There is no harm in the CBI taking over any case from any state. But this would be an encroachment on the state’s rights,” the editorial added, highlighting how the recommendation for a CBI probe had been made by the Bihar government and not Maharashtra. Sushant, who lived and worked in Mumbai, had been brought up in Bihar, where his family is based. Apart from chief minister Uddhav, the BJP also appears to be targeting his son Aditya Thackeray, who is being groomed to take charge of the Sena. The name of Aditya, a minister in the state government, has cropped up in connection with the Sushant episode. BJP leader Narayan Rane, a former Maharashtra chief minister who had begun his political career with the Sena, and his politician son Nilesh Rane have pointed fingers at Aditya, raising questions over his silence. A whisper campaign has also been launched by the BJP claiming that the Uddhav government was opposed to a CBI probe to save Aditya. The political campaign against Uddhav and Aditya has been so strong that it has forced the son to respond. In a signed statement in Marathi early this month, Aditya rubbished the accusations and termed them “dirty politics” to target the state government. “There has been unnecessary mud slinging on me and the Thackeray family. This is nothing but dirty politics out of frustration,” Aditya had said. Privately, BJP leaders suspect a money-laundering angle to the case involving people who had backed the Sena’s efforts to come to power in Maharashtra. The Enforcement Directorate has been deployed in the Sushant probe and many in the BJP feel that soon the noose will tighten around many “invisible players”. “The Shiv Sena couldn’t have mustered the courage to take on the BJP without backing from some powerful quarters. Those invisible players will soon feel the heat,” a BJP MP from Maharashtra claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Kids can carry higher Covid loads than adults||Children may serve as silent carriers of the new coronavirus infection, showing no symptoms but possessing viral loads even higher than adults hospitalised with severe coronavirus disease, new research released on Thursday has suggested. The study by doctors at the Massachusetts General Hospital in the US has revealed that children may be a potential source of the infection, capable of spreading the virus that causes Covid-19 even though they may have mild or no symptoms. The study, published in the Journal of Paediatrics on Thursday, has shown for the first time that the viral loads in children without symptoms can exceed those in hospitalised patients and challenged current ideas about Covid-19 in children. “We find that in children, the presence of the virus does not correlate with symptoms,” Alessio Fasano, professor of paediatrics at the Harvard Medical School and MGH who led the study, told The Telegraph via email. Fasano and his colleagues also found that only around half of the infected children they examined had fever — the vast majority of the children had no symptoms or only mild symptoms such as a runny nose, cough or low fever. The researchers said their findings imply that in school settings, scans for body temperatures and the search for symptoms such as fever would not be reliable methods to identify children who might be infected. “Fever and symptoms will not identify children infected with Covid-19,” Lael Yonker, a paediatric pulmonologist at MGH and first author of the study, told this newspaper via email. “Therefore, all children should follow strict precautions — wear masks, follow physical distancing, practise good hand hygiene and consider remote learning.” The researchers caution that hurried reopening of schools without adequate planning could result in a rise in infections. “If schools were to reopen fully without necessary precautions, it is likely that children will play a larger role in this pandemic,” Fasano said. Their study, described as the most comprehensive on Covid-related paediatric patients yet, looked at 192 children from infancy up to the age of 22. Of them, 49 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and 18 other children with Covid-19-related illness. They found the viral loads measured through concentrations of SARS-CoV-2 in nasal and throat swabs in asymptomatic children or in the early phases of infection were significantly higher than in hospitalised adults with over seven days of symptoms. Some paediatric patients showed no difference in viral loads compared with even some adults who required ventilator support because of serious disease. The findings have surprised researchers. “We also found that age does not affect viral load in respiratory secretions,” Yonker said. “Young children or infants can carry as high a viral load as older children,” she said. Their study has also challenged the current hypothesis that children are less likely to become infected or seriously ill because they have fewer numbers of ACE receptors or the molecular gateways that SARS-CoV-2 uses to enter human cells. The researchers found that although younger children have lower numbers of the virus receptor than older children or adults, this fewer number does not mean lower viral loads. This finding suggests that children even with fewer virus receptors can carry high viral loads and thus be contagious, the researchers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Career and education disruptions take toll on youths||Every second youth in 112 countries, including India, has been possibly subjected to anxiety and stress while one in six youths has probably been affected by depression because of an uncertain career and disruptions in education, a new global survey has found. The Global Survey on Youth and Covid-19 conducted by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and partners covered 12,000 youths in the age group of 20-29 years between April and May this year when the pandemic had perpetrated an economic crisis. The online survey asked the respondents about employment, education, mental well-being, rights and social activism. It found that one in six young people who were employed before the outbreak had lost their job. The working hours among employed youths had fallen by nearly a quarter, which is about two hours a day. Two out of five young people, 42 per cent, reported a reduction in their income. The findings of the survey released last week suggested over 70 per cent of the respondents who were either studying or combining study and work had been adversely affected by the closing of educational institutions. About 65 per cent of the respondents reported to have learnt less since the onset of the pandemic because of the deep digital divide. Severe disruptions to learning and working, compounded by the health crisis, have led to a deterioration in young people’s mental well-being, the survey found. One in two young people are possibly suffering from anxiety or stress, of which 17 per cent have probably been affected by depression. “Thirty-eight per cent of young people, globally, are uncertain about their future career prospects and 16 per cent fearful,” the survey said. The report underlined the importance of safeguarding the mental well-being of youths through mental health services and psychosocial support. Dr Sanjay Gupta, professor of psychiatry at Banaras Hindu University (BHU), explained the aspects of mental stress and precautions to be taken in the context of the global survey’s findings. Gupta said every individual lives in a milieu defined by various domains like personality, job life and past history. Problem in any of these domains may lead to stress and later anxiety disorder or depression. “The 17 per cent youths having anxiety disorder is normal but 50 per cent youths facing stress is very high. There is a high degree of risk of mental disorder in this 50 per cent population. The need is stress management,” Gupta said. He said a majority of people in the age group of 20-29 that this study had captured were engaged in higher studies or qualified. Their next step is entry into the job market and it is clear the Covid crisis has led to increased stress, the professor said. “The formula is DEPSAFE, which means determination to defeat depression, engagement in fruitful activities of choice, exercise, both physical and mental, positivity, self-talk by chanting five times a day the mantra ‘Aaj jo hoga, achha hoga, aaj jo hona hai, bahut achha hona hai (whatever happens today will be for the good, what actually happens will be very good), sanitation and social distancing, accept and adapt to the situation, flexibility to listen to other persons’ views, explore new avenues for growth, and creating the environment to be sensitive, supportive and caring,” Gupta said. Labour economist Prof. Ravi Srivastava said the findings of the global survey were very much evident in India. He said education of youths and jobs had been the major casualty of the pandemic. “Digital learning needs handholding in addition to gadgets and good quality Internet connection. In developing economies like India, access to online education has been a major issue ever since the pandemic started,” he said. About the decline in formal jobs, Srivastava said the ongoing process of retrenchment and salary cuts were unlikely to stop for the next several months till economic activities were restored. The survey also found that one in three young people felt a significant impact on their ability to participate in public affairs, including peaceful protests. “More than one-quarter of young people (27 per cent) stated that the pandemic had significantly impacted their ability to exercise the right to freedom of religion or belief,” the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Flyers to pay higher aviation security fee from September 1||The civil aviation ministry has decided to charge higher aviation security fee (ASF) from domestic as well as international passengers from September 1, government officials said on Thursday. Making air travel slightly costlier, the officials said the ASF for domestic flyers will be increased to Rs 160 from Rs 150 starting next month while international passengers will pay $5.2 instead of $4.85. Airlines collect ASF from passengers when they book their tickets and then give it to the government. The fee is used to fund the security arrangement at airports across the country. The ministry had increased the fee last year, too. On June 7, 2019, the ministry said domestic passengers would be charged Rs 150 instead of Rs 130 as ASF and international passengers $4.85 instead of $3.25 from July 1, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||First meeting by a major Kashmir-based group’s leadership since August 5, 2019||The Valley on Thursday witnessed the first meeting by any major Kashmir-based political group’s leadership since the scrapping of Article 370 last August, the gap reflecting the long freeze on political and civil rights in Jammu and Kashmir. Senior National Conference leaders including all the three Lok Sabha members from the Valley — Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah, Baramulla MP Mohammad Akbar Lone and Anantnag MP Hasnain Masoodi — met in Srinagar late in the afternoon and later addressed a news conference. An unannounced ban has stifled political parties’ activities across the separatist-mainstream divide in the Valley since the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year. The only exceptions have been meetings by the BJP or small formations sponsored by the Centre that have chosen not to oppose the August 5 changes. On Thursday, the National Conference had invited four of its leaders — said to be under house arrest but whose freedom the government has vouched for in court — to a meeting at party chief Farooq Abdullah’s home. All four — party general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and former ministers Mohammad Shafi, Abdul Rahim Rather and Nasir Sogami — made it to the meeting. Farooq later told reporters the meeting had been called “merely to see whether our friends can come out”. The party had in July filed a habeas corpus petition in Jammu and Kashmir High Court claiming 16 of its leaders, mostly former ministers and MPs, were being illegally kept under house arrest. In response, the government had last week told the court the 16 were “free to move” and were not under any kind of detention. “The government would say they are free but they were not free. They could get out of their homes (only) today,” Farooq said, thanking the courts and the lawyers for the meeting having taken place. “I hope it is not going to be just one time…. I want they should be permanently free.” Farooq, the National Conference president, had himself been booked under the Public Safety Act and kept in detention for seven months. Lone and Masoodi had not faced arrest or any unofficial detention. Farooq chose not to speak on political matters, saying the party would show its cards at the appropriate time. He, however, swore commitment to the Gupkar declaration, signed last year by all the major pro-India parties ahead of the August 5 upheaval to oppose any move to scrap the state’s special status. Asked whether the events of August 5 had proved the National Conference’s brand of pro-India politics wrong, Farooq said: “We have never been proved wrong. We will never be proved wrong and we will say to our death day what we believe should be done.” Asked about IAS topper turned politician Shah Faesal’s decision to quit politics and acquiesce in the scrapping of the special status, Farooq hit out at those who had “switched sides”. “If somebody’s faith is weak, Farooq Abdullah is not responsible for that. That is his conscience; he has to answer to his conscience and his God,” he said. National Conference general secretary Sagar later visited the mausoleum of Sufi saint Hazrat Yaqoob in Srinagar. In response to pictures of the visit uploaded by Sagar’s son, former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “How sad that we have normalised this illegal detention! That we have to be ‘allowed’ to meet freely in spite of the government claiming in court that none of these leaders are detained is a blot on Indian democracy & rule of law.” Thousands of politicians and activists were arrested or put under house arrest on and after August 5 last year. Many of them have been released but several, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, continue to be in detention or under undeclared house arrest. The government has constantly denied some of these house arrests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Indore India’s cleanest city for 4th year||Indore was adjudged India’s cleanest city for a fourth straight year while Surat and Navi Mumbai grabbed the second and third positions, respectively, as the Centre announced the results of its latest annual cleanliness survey on Thursday. Varanasi, represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha, was adjudged the “Best Ganga Town” in the country, followed by Kanpur, Munger, Prayagraj and Haridwar. Chhattisgarh was given the “Cleanest State” award in the category of states having more than 100 urban local bodies, followed by Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 — the fifth annual cleanliness survey of the country — were announced by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a ceremony where 129 awards were given in different categories. The survey brochure describes the New Delhi Municipal Council as “India’s Cleanest National Capital (National or State Capitals/UT)”. The NDMC comprises large part of Rajpath and the VIP zone of Lutyens’ Delhi. A total of 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 97 Ganga towns were surveyed, and 1.87 crore citizens participated in the exercise, according to the government. Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh has been ranked the cleanest city in the category of 1-10 lakh population, followed by Mysore in Karnataka and New Delhi Municipal area. The Jalandhar cantonment board had been ranked first while Delhi cantonment board and Meerut cantonment board have grabbed second and third positions, respectively. According to the survey results, Jharkhand was adjudged the “Cleanest State” in the category of having less than 100 ULBs, followed by Haryana, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, Assam and Himachal Pradesh. Indore has topped the ranking in the cleanest city category (having more than one lakh population), and is followed by Surat, Navi Mumbai. Vijaywada and Ahmedabad in that order. Nasik has been ranked 25th, while Bihar’s Patna 47th, North Delhi and East Delhi 43rd and 46th positions in the cleanest city category. In the category of population of less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra’s Karad bagged the first position, followed by Saswad and Lonavala. After announcing the results, Puri said, “Swachh Survekshan (cleanliness survey) will continue to help us in sustaining the gains made under Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban, while providing a comprehensive road map to institutionalise the concept of total swachhata among all our cities.” Greater Hyderabad has been given the “Best Mega City” award in the category of “Citizen Feedback”. Chandigarh has been awarded as “Best Union Territory in Citizen Feedback”, while Gandhi Nagar has been ranked as “Best State Capital in Innovation and Best Practices”. Union housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said that “Swachh Survekshan 2020 had an overwhelming scale with the survey team visiting over 58,000 residential and over 20,000 commercial areas covering over 64,000 wards in a mere 28 days”. Jharkhand’s Madhpur Nagar Parishad has been awarded as “Best City in Citizen Feedback — East Zone”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Mastermind of Agra bus hijack held after ‘encounter’||One of the four men who had hijacked a passenger bus in Agra on Wednesday was arrested on Thursday morning after a brief gunfight, police have said. “Pradeep Gupta, the mastermind, was arrested during a police encounter near Chitrahat police station (in Agra),” Agra senior superintendent of police Bablu Kumar said. “He has suffered a bullet injury in his right leg. His associate Yatendra Yadav escaped. A police constable too was injured.” Kumar said Gupta was an agent at the regional transport office in Etawah. He had allegedly fired at the police after the motorbike on which he and Yadav were travelling was stopped at a checkpoint. “We have identified 12 accused and begun the process to book them under the National Security Act,” Kumar said. Police sources said a hunt was on for the remaining 11 accused, who they said included a few transport department officials. The bus was travelling from Gurgaon in Haryana to Panna in Madhya Pradesh with 34 passengers when it was hijacked on the national highway near Agra city on Wednesday morning. The four hijackers told the passengers they were recovery agents of a private finance company and were seizing the bus because its owner Deepa Arora had not repaid the loan taken against the vehicle. But Pawan, son of Deepa, told reporters no loan had been taken to buy the bus, belonging to a transport company that his father Ashok ran before dying of Covid-19 recently. “The bus is registered in Etawah and we live in Gwalior, where we have been in isolation since my father’s death,” Pawan said. “Some criminals associated with the Uttar Pradesh transport department had been trying to extort money from us for allowing the bus to pass through Etawah. Now they have hijacked the bus with passengers on board.” The hijackers allowed the passengers to get off some 20 minutes after the hijack and drove away with the bus. The passengers later persuaded a Jhansi-bound empty private bus to ferry them against a payment. From Jhansi, they took other buses home. The hijacked bus was found abandoned near a dhaba in Etawah on Wednesday afternoon — apparently a result of the hijackers panicking after the police got active. Officers said Gupta and Yadav had no past criminal record.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||UP medical officer ‘kills’ doctor after relationship turned bitter||A medical officer with the Uttar Pradesh health department has been arrested on the charge of throttling, stabbing and shooting dead a gynaecologist after their relationship allegedly turned bitter over marriage. Police in Agra said the medical officer, Vivek Tiwari, had confessed to the murder, committed in his car late on Tuesday night. According to Tiwari, he and Yogita Gautam, 26, had been in a relationship for the past seven years. Tiwari, posted at Orai in Jalaun district, had been a year senior to Yogita, a resident doctor at SN Medical College in Agra, during MBBS at a private medical college in Moradabad. Tiwari was booked on a complaint from Yogita’s elder brother. According to the investigators, hair and skin samples collected from the victim matched those of Tiwari. Tiwari told reporters at the police station on Thursday morning that he had been carrying a knife with the intention of killing Yogita, who was from Delhi. “We had been in a relationship for the past seven years. She had been mounting pressure on me for immediate marriage. I had asked her to wait till my younger sister got married. After a fight in the car, I throttled her before stabbing her in the neck with the knife and throwing her out,” Tiwari, who hails from Kanpur, said. The police said there was also a gunshot wound in the neck. However, Yogita’s family denied that she had ever forced Tiwari for marriage, saying that it was Tiwari who had been putting pressure on her for marriage and that their relationship had gone bad because of this. The crime came to light when villagers of Bamroli Katara informed the police on Wednesday morning about the body of a woman lying in a bush. Yogita’s elder brother Mohindar Kumar Gautam had come to Agra from Delhi on Tuesday night along with their mother, Asha Gautam, to meet her but found her house locked, following which they spent the night in a hotel. Mohindar told reporters that personnel at MM Gate police station had refused to accept a complaint when he went there at 9am on Wednesday to lodge a missing person’s diary, alleging that it was only nine hours later, around 6pm, that they told him to go to the post-mortem department of a nearby hospital to see if a body found at Bamroli Katara was that of his sister. “It was after I identified my sister that the police registered a case on the basis of my complaint, in which I mentioned my suspicion that Tiwari had kidnapped her,” said Mohindar, also a doctor in Delhi. “Tiwari had called up my mother around 5am on Wednesday and claimed that he had been trying to call Yogita for the past several hours but the calls had not gone through. He claimed he wanted to find out if everything was fine. I think he had killed Yogita before calling my mother,” Mohinder said, adding that Yogita had blocked Tiwari’s number a few days ago and told her mother that she didn’t want to talk to him. “Tiwari was a year senior to Yogita in medical college. Of late, he had been putting pressure on her to marry him. Tiwari had tried to convince us also. But my sister had started disliking him,” Mohindar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Airport showdown in Kerala over Adanis||The Adani group’s proposed takeover of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, cleared by the Union cabinet on Wednesday, has hit political headwinds with the Left government in Kerala and the Opposition Congress coming together to resist the privatisation of the public sector facility. The showdown comes at a time the CPM-led government is caught in a scandal over a gold smuggling racket in which a key accused has been linked to a top IAS officer who enjoyed immense clout in the chief minister’s office. The battle has a few unusual dimensions. The Kerala government itself had taken part in the airport bid and lost to the Adanis. If a private party that lost a tender had sought to block the winner, it would have had other implications. Another stand-out factor has been the decision of Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor to swim against the political tide with which his own party is moving. “The people of Thiruvananthapuram want a first-class airport worthy of the city’s history, status and potential. In this context, a decision, however controversial, is preferable to the long delay we have suffered,” Tharoor said. Chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, stating that it would be difficult for Kerala to cooperate when a decision goes against the people’s wishes. Vijayan also requested the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision to lease the airport to Adani Enterprises under a public-private partnership model for 50 years. “In view of the unilateral decision taken by the government of India without giving credence to the cogent arguments put forward by the state government, it will be difficult for us to offer cooperation to the implementation of the decision, which is against the wishes of the people of the state,” Vijayan wrote. The Kerala government on Thursday held an all-party meeting, chaired by Vijayan, to discuss and protest against the Centre’s decision. So far, the sole party that has backed the planned takeover by the Adanis is the BJP. The Ahmedabad-based Adani group had last year won the rights to operate the airports at Thiruvananthapuram, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, Guwahati and Mangalore, which are now run by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal to lease out the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through the PPP model. Although the Kerala government had participated in the tender, the Adani group won the bid. The Centre has ignored the Kerala government’s pleas to form a state public sector consortium to run the airport. The Centre remained firm on its stand on Thursday. Minister of state for external affairs V. Muraleedharan told a media conference in New Delhi: “Neither the Supreme Court nor Kerala High Court has objected to proceeding with the agreement (with Adani). Any further decision to stop the deal will be taken on the basis of the high court’s order.” The Kerala government and the Airport Employees’ Union had challenged in the Supreme Court the authority of the AAI to lease the facility to a corporate company. The apex court had sent the case back to Kerala High Court, which has not been able to take up the matter because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. Asked how prudent it would be to hand over a profit-making airport to the Adani group that has yet to take over the Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Mangalore airports even after signing the binding concession agreement on February 15, Muraleedharan said: “Each of the airports is an independent bid.” The Adani group was supposed to execute the final agreement with the AAI in 180 days and take over the airports in another 45 days. The airport at Thiruvananthapuram, the state’s first, was established in 1932 by Col. Goda Varma Raja, the consort prince of Travancore queen Karthika Thirunal. While the first flight took off from the airstrip on November 1, 1935, carrying mail to the then Bombay, it became a domestic airport after Independence. It was accorded international airport status in 1991, although international operations had been initiated by Air India to West Asia in the late 1970s. The CPM state secretariat on Thursday urged the Centre not to hand over the airport to the Adani group and echoed the state government’s proposal to modernise it on the lines of the international airports at Kochi and Kannur. “Strong protests have to rise against the Modi government’s decision to hand over the airport worth Rs 30,000 crore to Adani. The Kerala people will never allow this airport to be Adani’s,” the party said in a statement. “The airport has an annual profit of Rs 170 crore,” the CPM said, adding that the state government had over a period of time acquired land for its expansion. “Thiruvananthapuram airport privatised to Adani rejecting the claim of Kerala govt, even after offer to match Adani’s rate. PMO’s promise to accept Kerala proposal broken. People of Kerala will not accept this act of brazen cronyism. #Airportprivatisation,” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac tweeted on Thursday. Tharoor’s stand has courted controversy. “My position on the airport has been consistent since before the elections. I am not a politician who says one thing to the voters and something else afterwards for political convenience,” he tweeted on Thursday. He also had a word for his party colleagues who have opposed the handover to Adani. “Had my colleagues consulted me before taking a negative stand, I would have explained my views to them. I am speaking in the best interests of my constituency. As its MP, that is my job,” Tharoor tweeted, tagging the Kerala unit of the Congress. But the Congress made it clear that it would not support the takeover. AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal accused the Centre of indulging in “massive corruption” in privatising public sector airports. “The Centre has ignored the Kerala government’s objections and offers to run the airport while handing it over to Adani,” he said. “This takeover will be stopped at any cost. We will stage strong protests in and outside Parliament,” Venugopal added. The leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress, said “the dictatorial act” could not be allowed and “must be resisted”. “The Union Government’s decision to award operations of Trivandrum Airport to Adani Group on a 50-year lease amidst the Covid crisis is a deplorable move. The airport is the state’s property, and must not be privatised,” he tweeted. “The decision to go for PPP mode despite state govt’s readiness to operate and manage the airport shows how the Central Govt is trying to use the Covid pandemic to hand over all PSUs to the private sector,” Chennithala added. The Thiruvananthapuram district secretary of the CPM’s Centre of Indian Trade Unions, V. Sivankutty, told The Telegraph that they would stand by the state government’s efforts to stop the takeover. “The Kerala government cannot even think of handing over the airport to Adani, and Citu will back that position,” he said. “We won’t cooperate with the necessary land acquisition for the expansion of the runway,” Sivankutty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Labelling scan on imported tea||The Tea Board of India has come up with a notification mentioning tea imported into the country should be properly packed and labelled with details related to the brew before it is sold here or exported to any other country. There had been a long-standing demand that steps be taken to prevent indiscriminate import of tea from neighbouring countries like Nepal and its sale in India. “This is the first time that the Tea Board has acted on this issue and we welcome it,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers. In the notification, it has been mentioned that according to the Food Safety Standard (Packaging and Labelling) Regulations of 2011, it is necessary that if any food item that is manufactured outside India and is packed or bottled in the country, should carry details like the name of the country or the origin of the food article, the name and address of the importer and also the “premises of packing or bottling in India.” Tea meant for sale in India attracts an import duty of 100 per cent. However, if it is meant for export, no duty is charged. Also, tea produced in Nepal can be brought in, both for sale or export, without any import duty. “As a result, over the past few years, tea from Nepal was being imported and sold in the domestic market. There are instances that the imported tea was passed off as Darjeeling Tea. This has been largely affecting our market,” said Chakraborty. The Tea Board has found in the past three years, 60.35 million kg of tea had been imported into India, out of which only 23.43 million kilos were exported to other countries. This means, the remaining 36.92 million kilos were sold in India. For quite some years, the Darjeeling Tea Association that represents tea companies which produce the world famous brew that also has the Geographical Indication tag, had been drawing the attention of the central government and the Tea Board to look into the issue of import of tea, particularly from Nepal. They had also pointed out that large quantities of tea were being imported into India without checking whether the product passes all parameters of food safety as had been stipulated by the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). “It was clearly mentioned that such tea might be unsafe for consumption and can pose health hazards to people in our country,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. In the notification, the Tea Board has also highlighted this issue and mentioned that it is also aware that tea imported into India is sold without complying with the food safety standards. “That is why people who deal with such tea have been asked to follow all such parameters while selling such tea in the country,” said a source in the tea board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
21-08-2020||West Bengal||BDO’s transfer lifts Opposition eyebrows||The state government on Wednesday transferred Sanjay Sikdar, the Sutahata BDO in East Midnapore, as Darjeeling (headquarters) deputy magistrate, amid questions on whether he was “punished” for filing a police complaint against a Trinamul-backed panchayat pradhan over Amphan relief irregularities. Though state government officials on Thursday claimed Sikdar’s transfer was “routine”, a source in the district administration said there could be more to it than met the eye. Sikdar’s complaint was used by Trinamul’s rivals to justify their charges of corruption against the ruling party over Amphan dole. As reported by The Telegraph, Sikdar on July 2 sent a complaint via email to Sutahata police asking for a formal probe into panchayat pradhan Shibani Bakuli’s beneficiary list, with alleged inconsistencies. “Sikdar was the only member of the administration who did this. TMC district leadership may have put pressure on the state government for his transfer,” a source said. A senior district officer dismissed any political angle. “He completed his tenure as BDO, he was supposed to get transferred to a higher post.” Sikdar said the transfer “was according to protocol”. Opposition leaders were blunt. “Sikdar’s stand against corruption led to his transfer,” said BJP district president Nabarun Nayak. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi termed it “political revenge”. District Trinamul leaders said they had nothing to do with the transfer. Trinamul’s Sutahata working president Tapas Maity said: “Darjeeling is a beautiful place.” The state government on Wednesday transferred 36 West Bengal Civil Service officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
21-08-2020||West Bengal||ED versus police on Visva-Bharati turf||The Trinamul-BJP face-off over vandalism at Visva-Bharati triggered yet another battle on campus between the Enforcement Directorate, a central agency, and the state police. Amid murmurs that the saffron camp was determined to nail Trinamul on vandalism, the ED tiptoed into the campus on Wednesday to probe if money had been spent to mobilise the mob on Monday. A day after the ED sought all complaints related to the contentious Pous Mela boundary wall from Bengal police, the latter on Thursday summoned the officiating chief security officer of Visva-Bharati, Ganesh Malik, to appear at Santiniketan police station in connection with a criminal case of forcibly taking away a cellphone from a freelance photographer earlier this month. VC Bidyut Chakrabarty had been named in the FIR of this case as well. “We summoned the security officer as security personnel were involved in the case,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum district police chief. Sources said the state police took exception to the entry of the ED, which probes economic crimes, in the case of campus vandalism that Birbhum police had been investigating. The police got a letter from the ED seeking copies of complaints and action-taken reports in all five complaints filed in connection with the wall issue. “We will write to the ED to know why,” said a senior police officer. Sources said the state police would start probing all pending criminal cases against the VC and other officials filed in the past year or so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid cases jump by 3,197 in a day||Bengal’s total number of Covid-19 infections went past 1.29 lakh on Thursday with another highest single-day spike of 3,197 cases. Of the 1.29 lakh cases, nearly 99,000 are recoveries and 2,634 are deaths. The state also reported 3,126 recoveries and 53 deaths in the 24-hour period ending at 9am. Eleven persons died in Calcutta and 14 more in North 24-Parganas. Bengal also reported 35,059 more tests, which took the total number of tests past 14.51 lakh, at 16,129 tests per million people. “Our testing performance has improved substantially and we are working hard to complete 10 lakh tests in August alone,” said a minister. Bengal has conducted 5.58 lakh tests in August so far. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.89 per cent, which was 6.45 per cent a month ago. Of the 3,197 new cases, Calcutta alone reported 583 and North 24-Parganas 747. But Calcutta reported 755 recoveries and North 24-Parganas 746, so their total number of active cases fell again. “Since August 9, except for marginal deviations on one or two days, the total active cases of these two most high-incidence districts has been falling. On August 9, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases, North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,238, while North 24-Parganas has 5,608,” the minister said. “As we get a grip on the outbreak in these two districts, we can replicate measures that worked here in other parts of the state such as north Bengal,” he added. The share of these two districts in the total active cases fell since August 9 from 48.58 per cent to 42.77. The recovery rate of these two districts put together has gone up from 70.58 to 78.09 per cent in that time. Bengal’s recovery rate now is 76.51, still ahead of the national rate of 74.12. Of the total 2,634 deaths reported, Calcutta accounted for 1,132 so far and North 24-Parganas 610. The state government reported 2,316, or 87.9 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In one month, there have been 1,452 deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 1,324 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 2.03, still behind the national rate of 1.89 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.26. The state reported 36.24 per cent occupancy in the 11,935 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 86 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 1 lakh persons, including 4,437 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||What Santiniketan thinks||Tagore’s abode of peace is torn between condemning Monday’s vandalism over the boundary wall on Pous Mela ground and expressing sorrow over Visva-Bharati authorities’ alleged estrangement from the culture of coexistence that defined the university town for decades. Many students, teachers and alumni of Visva-Bharati, and old-timers of the township accused Visva-Bharati authorities, led by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, of distancing themselves from Tagore’s values. This “deliberate estrangement, many residents and students said, was one of the reasons behind the vandalism that Tagore’s town witnessed on Monday. Some 5,000 people, allegedly backed by Trinamul, came to protest against the proposed wall on Pous Mela ground and damaged parts of the campus. Hours later, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna that the wall went against Tagore’s philosophy. The incident — the latest in a series of unsavoury ones in the past couple of years — turned the central varsity, of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the chancellor, into BJP-versus-Trinamul battleground. Visva-Bharati Students’ Unity, formed by students of various political alignments, said through a news release that the vandalism was the result of “outrage” of many against “autocratic” moves of “attempted saffronisation” by the varsity’s current authorities during the tenure of VC Chakrabarty, who joined in November 2018. “After this VC joined Visva-Bharati, we saw autocratic decisions such as a lecture in support of the CAA, despite huge student protests. A student was ousted from the hostel because he recorded the VC’s speech...,” said Falguni Pan, an economics student and a member of the students’ group. The “direct politics” in the boundary wall impasse came to the fore, students said, because a group led by the VC to resume the work on the boundary wall on Sunday comprised BJP workers as well. Somnath Sow, an SFI leader and students’ group member, said they “condemned” Monday’s violence but “there was provocation from authorities”. Visva-Bharati claimed they asked the district administration to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said that request through email came at 10.18am on Monday, by which time the vandalism was almost over. Members of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA) said the incident could have been avoided through discussions. The VBUFA has protested against many decisions of Chakrabarty’s alleged attempts to saffronise the varsity and town. Traders had stopped work on the Pous Mela ground on Saturday, which triggered the events on Sunday and Monday. Some students on campus said that the trading community in Bolpur and Santiniketan were angry with Visva-Bharati as it did not hand over “refundable” security deposits of 1,400 traders during last year’s Pous Mela, amounting to Rs 1 crore. Varsity officials justified the “partial” confiscation of deposit as traders “did not vacate the ground in time”. Kuntal Rudra, alumnus and retired Bengali professor of Bolpur College, said much had changed in two years.  “There used to be cultural and social communication between Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan residents. During this VC’s tenure, that has ceased.” “Interestingly, he has started attacking all stakeholders, including ashramiks (old residents) in his recent missives,” Rudra said. Visva-Bharati officials claimed that the anger among the “so-called” stakeholders culminated in “Trinamul-backed vandalism” because Chakrabarty “started speaking the truth about them”. “The VC has unveiled the real faces of these so-called stakeholders in Visva-Bharati. So they’re targeting the campus and VC,” said an official. “There is no reason to discuss the wall with others as the land is the varsity’s property.” Aminul Huda, a leader of the traders, who along with others of the Bolpur Traders’ Association stands accused of Monday’s vandalism, said traders requested varsity authorities to return the deposit money to no avail. “We had to move consumer court to seek refund…. We don’t support violence, but we support the protest against the varsity’s unilateral decisions to divide the people of Santiniketan.” Officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not respond to calls or text messages from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Girl with cancer dies in mishap||An 18-year-old girl from Murshidabad’s Samserganj, who excelled in this year’s higher secondary examination despite undergoing treatment for cancer for nearly seven months, was killed in a road accident early on Thursday on her way back home from Tata Medical Center in Calcutta. Nabima Tabassum, 18, was killed instantly when the SUV she was in rear-ended a stationary lorry on NH12 near Chaksapur village around 4am on Thursday, said a source. Her father Shahidul Islam, 50, succumbed to his injuries a little later while on his way to a hospital in an eyewitness’s private vehicle. Her mother Nasima Biwi, siblings Asif and Noorain, who were in the SUV, and the vehicle’s driver are admitted to Murshidabad Medical College in Behrampore in a critical condition. It has been learnt that Nabima and her family went to Calcutta on Wednesday for her treatment at the cancer hospital. “They decided to drive back the same night because of the statewide lockdown on Thursday and Friday,” said a source. About seven months ago, she was diagnosed with a cancerous growth above her ear, which was in remission the past couple of months after treatment. This March, Nabima had passed her HS exam in the science stream getting 90 per cent marks. She had been studying for medical joint entrance exams scheduled for September this year. “There was traffic on the part of the road where the mishap occurred, and eyewitnesses slowed down to help the injured,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Gorumara’s gaur killed, 1 arrested||A gaur (Indian bison) was poached and its meat taken away by a group of people from the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday night. Foresters, who have started investigations, on Thursday arrested a man, Somra Munda, from Tilabari of Matialli block on the fringes of the park. Raw and cooked meat and a horn of the gaur were seized from him. Search is on for others involved in the crime. Janmejay Dutta, the additional divisional forest officer of Gorumara wildlife division, said a group of people from Tilabari entered the Gorumara park and killed the wild gaur with sharp and blunt weapons. “Our guards found the carcass of the animal. We found that its flesh was taken away. We started searching in adjoining areas for the culprits and arrested Somra Munda from Tilabari,” said Dutta. “During interrogation, Munda admitted he had entered the national park with some others. After killing the gaur, they took away its meat and on Thursday he cooked a part of the meat,” the forester added. Sources said the department has also engaged Orlando, a trained sniffer dog, to trace the culprits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Rivers in spate, earthen dam damaged||Several areas were inundated creating a flood-like situation in Minakha and Haroa block of North 24-Parganas and Roydighi in South 24-Parganas district because of overflowing of Bidyadhari and Mani rivers in incessant rain since the early hours of Thursday. In Minakha and Haroa at least 15 villages were inundated at Bachra-Mohanpur panchayat when two stretches of an earthen dam over a 5-km stretch of the Bidyadhari were washed away. The dam had suffered serious damage during Cyclone Amphan. The fresh damages caused on Thursday prompted the villagers to join hands with the local administration to undertake immediate protective work so that large tracts of agricultural land and fisheries, apart from residential areas, could be saved. The 5km-long dam was built a couple of years ago to prevent saline water from the river reaching the adjacent agricultural land and fisheries. Farmer Sariful Biswas said: “Amphan had caused irrecoverable damage and nature struck us again by spoiling our agricultural and inundated land with saline water.” Sources said vast agricultural land and fisheries suffered damage due to infiltration of saline water in several areas of the two blocks in Basirhat sub-division. Trinamul’s Minakha block president Mrityunjoy Mandal said: “The increased the water-level in the river damaged the dam.” North 24-Parganas zilla parishad member Sanjoy Biswas said: “As an immediate measure to protect the area we have started to repair the dam using bamboo structure and sandbags. Major repair works to be executed later.” Several areas in Roydighi in South 24-Parganas were inundated causing a flood-like situation due to high tidal waves that led Mani to overflow. The water entered Roydighi town inundating at least eight wards, including the main market. In Sagar, several areas under Muriganga-I panchayat were inundated since a stretch of an earthen dam over Muriganga river was washed away in Kachuberia due to the river’s increased water-level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||CM district review to resume||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||North East||BJP praises N. Biren Singh after trust win||The stocks of Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh in the ruling BJP appear to be soaring after he won the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls and the August 10 trust vote. He not only managed to keep the coalition intact but also dealt a severe blow to the Opposition Congress that was fancying its chances of unseating the state government due to the turmoil in the ruling dispensation, BJP and Congress insiders said. BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav lavished praise on him during the induction of five of the six Congress MLAs, who had resigned soon after the August 10 trust vote in Manipur. The newly inducted members include Okram Henry Singh, the nephew of former Congress chief minister and incumbent CLP leader Okram Ibobi Singh. Madhav said at the induction the “respect” of the people and the MLAs of the state towards the Narendra Modi government and Biren Singh has thwarted all attempts by the Congress to dislodge a popular government. The chief minister took the new members to Delhi on a chartered flight on Sunday. The sixth MLA who resigned from the Congress, Muhammad Abdul Nasir, along with MLA R.K. Imo Singh, also accompanied Biren Singh. Imo Singh, son-in-law of the chief minister, was on Thursday expelled by the Congress for six years for “anti-party” activities.  The five former MLAs who joined the BJP are Henry Singh, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, Ngamthang Haokip, Ginsuanhau and Paonam Brojen Singh. They were inducted in the presence of party vice-president Baijayant Panda.Later, they met BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Talking to The Telegraph, state BJP president S. Tikendra Singh said that the developments since June are a “part and parcel” of politics. “We have been able to successfully overcome these challenges. I have tried my best to bridge the gap between the government and MLAs and the party. Our efforts have yielded results,” Tikendra said when asked about government’s future. The development has strengthened the hands of Biren Singh, who was in spot before the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls, when nine MLAs supporting his coalition government withdrew support. But he not only ensured that the BJP won the polls 28-24 but also the trust vote on August 10 by voice vote 28-16 after eight Congress MLAs abstained from the proceedings. Ibobi Singh had dubbed the “undemocratic trust vote” a “murder of democracy” because the Speaker, Y. Khemchand Singh, did not allow division of votes despite a demand by the Congress. Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei, reacting to the development, said, “Those who left Congress to join BJP have betrayed the voters and party workers who have elected them on Congress tickets. Manipur’s BJP government can’t face division vote in the House and it has failed to transfer Zou drugs case to CBI. People will reject betrayers.” The strength of the 60-member House is now 47. There will be bypolls to 13 seats later this year. The Biren Singh-led coalition government came to power in 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
21-08-2020||Opinion||Future concerns: Indian independence and Modi governance||Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s technique of analysing history to derive lessons for the future makes his articles particularly interesting. In his latest article, “Two anniversaries” (Aug 15), Guha reflects on the sixtieth anniversary of Indian Independence, and compares the achievements and aspirations of the country at the time with those of today. Clearly, a lot has changed between the two anniversaries. In 2007, when the United Progressive Alliance formed the government at the Centre, the economic growth rate of the nation was higher. Democratic institutions, too, were perceived to function with more fairness and freedom. However, the second phase of the UPA government under Manmohan Singh witnessed a decline, with a rise in corruption cases involving massive amounts of public money and several instances of misgovernance on account of the lack of a strong political leadership. This paved the way for the Bharatiya Janata Party to come to power in New Delhi. The previous spells of the BJP regimes had been marked by relatively liberal and erudite leaders, such as Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Murali Manohar Joshi. But, with the induction of Narendra Modi into national politics, a new set of tactics was introduced. Modi promised an immediate cleansing of black money and corruption from the economic and administrative systems of the country. However, these claims were far from effective. Hasty decisions — demonetization, for instance — left a deeply negative impact on the economy. Under Modi’s leadership, autonomous institutions have ceased to function freely and the space for dissent and pluralism has diminished. But authoritarian tactics cannot substitute democratic processes. At present, the sufferings of the people have been further compounded by the pandemic. In its 74th year of Independence, the country must emerge from the pervading “doom and gloom”.P.N. Pal,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Ramachandra Guha has rightly highlighted the flaws in the BJP’s governance. Indeed, the ruling party is trying to mislead people by diverting their attention from the burning issues of the day. For instance, the BJP’s claim that India would become ‘Vishwaguru’ or ‘the teacher of the world’ in the near future sounds ridiculous today when the country is attaining alarmingly poor ranks in almost all parameters of international assessments. The sensationalization of the Ram mandir issue is yet another diversionary tactic employed by the ruling dispensation to garner votes in the upcoming elections. During his term in Vellore jail, the freedom fighter, C. Rajagopalachari, had written in his diary that independence from colonial rule would only amount to freedom from subordination by outsiders, and not from corruption or abuse of power. It seems that he had correctly foreseen the tragedy of modern India. Mrityunjoy Chakravarty,Calcutta Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s article reminds the readers of the disastrous impacts of some of the decisions taken by the current government, such as demonetization, the abrogation of Article 370 and the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. However, the consequence of the sudden announcement of the lockdown, with a notice of only four hours, has been equally grave. This led to a severe crisis, leaving millions of migrant labourers high and dry. It appears as though under the present dispensation, accountability has truly ceased to exist.  P.T. Mallik,CalcuttaGreat loss Sir — The demise of the maestro, Pandit Jasraj, will be mourned by followers of Indian classical music everywhere (“Pandit Jasraj passes away in New Jersey”, Aug 18). He belonged to the Mewati gharana and was widely regarded as one of India’s greatest vocalists. He infused life into the most complex ragas and mesmerized the audience with his unique style. Jasraj also made a mark for himself as a mentor to many noted vocalists. He received several honours over a career spanning 80 years, including the Padma Vibhushan and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. His loss will leave a deep void in the cultural sphere.Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore Sir — The tradition of Indian classical music thrives on live performances and has been particularly affected by the onset of the pandemic and the need for social distancing. In the midst of this gloom, the passing of Pandit Jasraj, one of the most celebrated live performers of Hindustani classical music, is lamentable. Ritwika Sen,Calcutta Pet theory  Sir — North Korea’s supreme leader, Kim Jong-un, has reportedly ordered dogs-owners to surrender their pets to the government to alleviate a national meat shortage, as the ownership of dogs is a ‘bourgeois privilege’. This can hardly be justification for separating people from their emotionally dependent pets, and the plan to use them to supplement the meat industry is nothing short of barbaric. The decision is even more deplorable in view of the blatantly lavish lifestyle of the leader himself, who is infamous for his love of private jets, imported food and designer clothes. People must not turn a blind eye to this. Asmita Mishra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Narrow lens: Employment bias in government jobs||India proclaims itself to be a constitutional democracy. But some of the proclamations of its elected representatives reveal — worryingly — that the spirit of constitutionalism may be on the wane. Consider the announcement by the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, that government jobs would be given to the “children of the state”. Mr Chouhan’s declaration is likely to trigger a furious debate concerning the scope of fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. The Constitution, supposedly the bedrock of this democracy, expressly forbids discrimination in employment on the grounds of the place of birth, residence, religion, caste, among other factors. Several legal judgments have clearly reflected the judiciary’s unwillingness to extend this kind of reservation to public employment. For instance, in 2002, the Supreme Court did away with the appointment of teachers in Rajasthan after the then selection board decided to give preference to candidates belonging to particular districts or rural areas. But neither legal precedents nor the constitutional ethos have been able to stymie the politics that feeds on distinctly parochial sentiments. In fact, quite a number of states have introduced additional criteria in order to bypass constitutional checks and balances. Uttarakhand, for instance, prefers residents of the state for specific posts; Bengal insists on the knowledge of Bengali among those applying for certain positions; eligibility in Maharashtra — the son of soil theory has particular potency here — can depend on the tenure of residency as well as on fluency in Marathi. The subterranean tension, in every case, is between the political imperatives of populism and the broader, inclusive vision of accommodation that the Constitution and the courts have fought to uphold. Pandering to this kind of myopia in the name of federal autonomy or provincial pride runs the risk of balkanizing the idea of India itself. What makes Mr Chouhan’s utterance in MP all the more glaring is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s double standards on the matter. Last year, Narendra Modi decided to unilaterally do away with a similar proviso in Kashmir that recognized the claims of local residents on land and jobs. This kind of exclusivity, Mr Modi had reasoned, went against the doctrine of integration. The BJP, evidently, does not mind when other states — be it Madhya Pradesh or Nagaland — lay claim on a similar kind of problematic entitlement. The prime minister and his party should remember that this kind of duplicity could erode the BJP’s credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Free of fear: Prashant Bhushan on SC judgement||The health of a democracy is at risk when its people fear that criticism is being silenced. It is even more intimidating when institutions upholding justice are perceived to be using the law for this purpose. The debate that has exploded around the use of the law of criminal contempt of court, though, gives reason for hope. Civil liberties organizations, lawyers, former Supreme Court judges, and eminent figures from different fields have spoken up against the conviction for criminal contempt of the senior lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, for two tweets, one criticizing the present Chief Justice of India and the other deploring the destruction of democracy that was helped by CJIs in the last six years. While agreeing that the content of the tweets may be debated, the objections question the use of the contempt law against criticism of the judiciary. The lawyers have said that an independent judiciary does not mean that judges are free from scrutiny and comment. The Bar should be free to point out shortcomings in the functioning of the court to the bench and the public; an independent Bar with independent judges makes for a strong court. Only a relationship of mutual respect, not coercion, between Bar and bench makes effective delivery of justice possible. This debate in the public domain is a reassertion of the spirit of democracy, especially when people are feeling that all democratic institutions are busy punishing dissent. The objections to the conviction state that respect is commanded, not demanded through the intimidation implicit in the contempt law, which has been abolished in most countries. The law against criminal contempt clearly needs review. For the court it was reportedly not just the concern about damage to public confidence but also the shaking of the foundations of constitutional democracy through the criticism of its central pillar that constituted criminal contempt. Yet this brought forth more criticism, which pointed out that the court damaged its image and lowered its dignity in the eyes of the people by the conviction, especially by moving suo motu on two tweets when cases regarding the rights of numerous citizens were on hold. It is heartening that the freedom to question has been upheld in face of the application of the contempt law. Politicians are noticeably silent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Cause, not method: Protest movements in history||On June 1913, at England’s most prestigious horse race, a woman ducked under the guard rail and ran onto the race course, stepped out right in front of the speeding King George V’s horse, brought it down, and succumbed to her injuries. The woman was Emily Davison, an English suffragette, who championed and fought ‘militantly’ for the voting rights of women in 20th century Britain. Davison had been arrested nine times for her confrontational tactics. Women demanding political rights since the 1800s were called Suffragists. Upon failing to convince the legislators, a group of women branched out to become ‘militant suffragettes’. To make themselves and their demands visible, they started burning mailboxes and vandalizing shop windows. This watershed event seems relevant to comprehend the nature of demonstrations and political assertions around the world today. Following the vicious killing of the Afro-American, George Floyd, in Minneapolis by white police officers, there has been a tremendous global outrage against institutional racism. The Black Lives Matter movement has attained considerable global traction. However, shops have been looted and confederates’ statues toppled in the course of the movement. India, too, has been in ferment. The discriminatory Citizenship (Amendment) Act spurred nationwide discontent earlier in the year. These protests featured the blocking of roads, street demonstrations and, allegedly, incidents of destruction of public property. Instead of addressing the principal concern, the government and the media criticized the ‘violent’ nature of the protests. One aspect that has not changed in the course of a century is the brouhaha around the modus operandi of protests. The State can and has obliterated protests through ‘legitimate coercion’ by arguing that it has the authority to do so through the summation of power and legality. A confrontational demonstration from a disaffected people is deemed illegitimate by State institutions. This has led to the derailment of the demands and the legitimacy of the protesters on account of the charges of damage inflicted upon public property. The onus quickly shifted to the marginalized to work within the ‘social contract’ of the institutions that deprived them the rights and justice in the first place. The key question, however, is this: to what extent are the demonstrators represented in the social contract they have signed up for? This is not to suggest that absolute impunity be given to those who damage public property. This may deflect attention from the cause of protest to its methods. What must be examined are the causes that force protesters to adopt a confrontational attitude. When the State legitimizes coercion by citing the principle of law and order, power groups controlling State institutions should be asked why they violated the sanctity of the social contract. The coercion of the people should bring an element of introspection for the State apparatus, which is keen on branding protesters as recalcitrant and delegitimizing their protests. To be political, Hannah Arendt asserts, is to decide everything through words and persuasion and not through violence and force. From its evolution as a process of decision-making in society, the expression, ‘political’, aligned itself with a set of institutions that were vested with the power to take such decisions. With the shift of power from society to State, the latter has acquired a significant political role as well as the responsibility to ensure justice. From the suffrage movement to Black Lives Matter, each mobilization has made our inability to address and resolve the root of resentment conspicuous. The tendency to focus on the strategies adopted by protest movements signifies the failure of political maturity in modernity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Recover memory||Anniversaries tend to get repetitive and nagging in their emptiness. Independence Day, in particular, becomes problematic as both past and future look ambiguous. Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru look like distant figures, creatures at the wrong end of a telescope. The immediacy of events like Covid-19 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act seems starker, creating a general sense of helplessness. One looks around for the regime’s thinking on critical issues, like education, environment, security and what one discovers is a variety of reports. I was reading about the government’s ‘gift’ to the nation on this anniversary, the National Education Policy, based on the Kasturirangan Report. One of the saddest things about our policy reports is that they become outdated in thought by the time of publication. The outdatedness is disguised by the presentation of ideas in the form of an intellectual salad. There is a little bit for everyone, each one picks his/her favourite hobby-horse of morsel, then speaks of it with relish. One realizes that there is no rethinking of fundamental issues, even in the most touted of reforms. The Kasturirangan Report has to be read at three levels. First, K. Kasturirangan is a major policy-maker, having chaired both the reports on the Western Ghats and the National Education Policy. The connectivity between the two is critical. Unlike Madhav Gadgil, Kasturirangan wanted development over diversity. In doing so, he stated two norms in general — the forest was a resource open to mining by industry rather than a commons of trusteeship. Second, the inhabitants living in it have little to say about the future. Kasturirangan’s marginalization of the forest and the tribe is lethal. The education report merely follows the logic of development. Here, he again pretends to be concerned about education, but his real concern is industry and the workforce for industry. It represents the Human Relations School of education, which has little to say about Taylorism or the invidiousness of class conflict. It creates a domain of social work where students play as NGOs, dabbling with the informal and the obsolescent as bits of nostalgia before they acquire corporate positions. Philanthropy plays happily, indifferent to the damage its corporate arm creates. The second point one has to emphasize is that the Kasturirangan Report on the NEP echoes a liberal arts view of education, stressing key words like ‘options’, ‘fluidity’ and ‘freedom’. The liberal arts schools are homes for elite children, but offer little else. They claim to be interdisciplinary, but are merely a goulash of subjects. The menu card of subjects is picked randomly. There is no sense of concept or cohesion. There is even less an idea of the debates that took place around the national movement or the great dialogue of religions that made India a syncretic society. Liberal arts is supposed to create a sense of civilization and memory, but the syllabus has little sense of both. It encourages dilettantes, but has little sense of rigour or scholarship. I was reminded of the liberal arts experiment while reading the Kasturirangan Report. It is amazing how accolades flow, from the elite, from IIT directors to management gurus. The elite likes the report, because it does not threaten their position. They love a report with a few key terms that they can bandy about like skill, multidisciplinarity, fluidity, and is garrulous on policy. Third-rate acclaims cushion second-rate thought, and we are content with the happy mediocrity it offers. Meanwhile, India is a nation which is being outthought and outfought on every front; creative originality is a discomfort we would rather be without. The third aspect I wish to emphasize is that we have missed out on the great intellectual revolutions. We keep talking about the industrial revolution but have little sense of the later intellectual revolutions that followed. We have, despite our linguistic diversity, little sense of the linguistic revolution and, therefore, are blind to the brilliance of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, or to the work of Ferdinand de Saussure. Saussure was an originator of structural linguistics and a professor of Sanskrit in Geneva. Sapir-Whorf felt that original ideas could only be worked by innovative groups like the theosophists in India, but we played deaf to them. Idiotically, we still define language as a form of life, which needs a script and, thereby, we have destroyed over 2000 oral languages with an illiterate callousness. Strangely we have paid little attention to epistemology and the knowledge revolution, to the ecological revolution, or even to the debates on the Anthropocene. The elite feel content with the Linus blanket of mediocrity, callous about their own great innovators, from C.V. Seshadri to Amulya Reddy. India was home to so many diversities. Yet diversity in an epistemic or a cultural and linguistic sense is not part of our policy or the intellectual frameworks of our universities. India is not bothered whether it is home to 150,000 varieties of rice or over 2000 languages. Where do we have an education policy that says every school and every educational institution is to save at least one dying language, one obsolescent craft, or one near-extinct species? We talk pompously about skill, but never about competence as plurality. We tout skill as a poor man’s solution to livelihood, without linking skill and livelihood in any systematic way to the knowledge revolutions. Sadly, we have missed out on the epistemic debates that have involved scientists, from Michael Polanyi and James Lovelock to Isabelle Stengers. Our scientists miss the excitement of the quantum revolution; we still treat science as a corset of Victorian methods we call the scientific temper. The science of complexity, risk and uncertainty eludes our policy-makers. We have destroyed the sense of play and childhood to create IITs, which add little to the research imagination. We have created an elite, which is instrumental about science, fetishizing technology. As a result, we have devalued science as a sense of play, as a cultural system, and overvalued technology. Now Indians prefer to be imitative by choice. As a leading scientist from Bangalore put it, “We have no original thoughts, but we can summarize other people brilliantly.” The kunji is in our genes. We are the greatest bowdlerizers of the West, from Nehru to Modi, but unlike the national movement we have no sense of the other West, of the defeated West. We swallowed the hegemonic West in vitaminized quantities and thought we would survive. It has created an insidious mediocrity. Yet, while we by-hearted the West, we ignored the dialogues of our own civilization. India could have been a great Islamic society, but we destroyed the possibility, thinking only of the minoritarianism of Islam or Christianity. Our civilizational syncretism would have challenged the Judeo-Christian idea of nature as commodity, and saved the tribal and the forest. We museumized living tradition, while the West museumized debt cultures. We were taxidermists of living cultures, which help create our fundamentalism. Our dialogue of civilizations with the West, as one option, would have created the new Santiniketans of the future. The loss of memory, the devaluation of morality as an epistemology of communication and community, is something we have to rethink. Democratic India has to rethink the contract among orality, textuality, and digitality. Modern India seems to have little sense of the future as a possibility. Our illiteracy about technology makes us technologize every future, reducing it to a unilinear, monotheistic, monolithic exercise. Our sense of modernity, which is part Victorian, ties us down. We cannot think of the future in the plural. As a society, our policy-makers as pedagogues have no sense of alternatives. As a result, our tribes, our crafts, our forests are fading before us. Our tragedy is that we have no dream of alternatives to challenge fundamentalism, or the empty secularism of modernity. This autism of the future goes back to our thinking in straitjackets, confusing options as choices, and restricting freedom to picking choices in a fixed choice questionnaire. As a society, we no longer dream of alternatives and we treat dissent and alternatives as unpatriotic. The depth of our mediocrity adds to the depth of our emerging authoritarianism. The uniqueness of this era is in the mediocrity of authoritarianism. India needs to dream and think differently, reinvent all its basic concepts — from democracy to development. If democracy cannot restore dream-time, it is doomed to the banality of authoritarianism. This was the message of Gandhi’s concepts of swadeshi and swaraj, which we need to revive today. This is the challenge of independence anniversaries, to recover memory so we can reinvent the future. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Rain: scenes from around the state||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||309 new cases in Dhanbad, highest one-day spike so far||As many as 309 new coronavirus positive cases were reported in Dhanbad on Thursday, the highest in a single day so far, prompting the district authorities to increase the number of beds available for Covid patients to 1,000 from the present 750. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh issued instructions to set up Covid health centres at various departments of Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), including gynaecology, anaesthesia, ENT, opthalmology, paediatrics and general medicine. “With the rapid increase in Covid cases, the need for more dedicated health centres is being felt. So, it has been decided to develop more Covid treatment centres in various departments of PMCH," Singh said, adding that he has sought detailed proposals to ensure the additional facilities can be developed as per guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research. Dhanbad is in the midst of a two-day special testing drive that began on Thursday with the aim of testing 10,500 people. Deputy commissioner Singh also instructed officials to ensure the completion of all civil work at the new Covid care centres in addition to setting up drinking water facilities, sanitation and internet connectivity. He also asked them to ensure there was an adequate number of para medical staff at these centres. On Friday, the district administration appointed two nodal officers to monitor the entire process of sample testing, including registration of names of patients, at PMCH and Dhanbad Sadar Hospital. “The process with regard to entry of names, addresses and mobile phone numbers of patients undergoing swab sample tests at PMCH and sadar hospital is not being followed properly, leading to anomalies in generating specific IDs. Hence, Dr Rajkumar Singh has been appointed nodal officer at sadar hospital and Dr Anupam Kishore as nodal officer for PMCH,” Singh said. The deputy commissioner said that the same procedures were to be followed while conducting tests at camps held at various blocks. The medical officer in charge of respective blocks will act as nodal officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||JFC sign ISL Golden Boot winner Valskis on a two-year deal ||Jamshedpur FC has added sheen to its forwardline by signing Nerijus `Nerka’ Valskis for two seasons. The Tata Steel-owned club on Friday announced its second acquisition in a span of a week as Valskis put pen to paper confirming his arrival to the Furnace. Valskis is the current Indian Super League 2019-20 Golden Boot winner. He led his former club Chennaiyin FC to the ISL final, scoring 15 goals and providing six assists on course. All of his goals came through open play. The Lithuanian forward announced his delight at signing for Jamshedpur and said: “I am thrilled to be playing for a football crazy city like Jamshedpur. The city has a huge legacy in football and I want to add silverware by winning the coveted ISL trophy for the fans. It is unfinished business for me and I hope to work hard towards contributing and making Jamshedpur FC win the coveted crown. This club has huge ambition and I can’t wait to kick-start an exciting future.” The forward comes with a proven track record,  having scored plenty of goals for his previous clubs. Valskis has plied his trade at clubs of Lithuania, Israel, Belurus, Latvia, Romania and Poland. He enjoyed his best season personally at FK Suduva in the 2013 A Lyga campaign in the Lithuanian top flight. Last season’s heroics by the sniper was not the first time he had taken a league by storm. JFC head coach Owen Coyle was thrilled to be working with Valskis again, as he said: “ Nerka is a seasoned striker with goal scoring prowess and hunger to attack the opposition at all times. His  link-up play, agility and finishing is of the highest order, probably the best in the league, and he was a Golden Boot winner for a reason. His performances last season were so powerful and lethal that his mere presence in the dressing room and the pitch automatically lifted everyone around him. I look forward to working with him and have another successful season.” Valskis also spoke about continuing his journey in India under the tutelage of Owen. “We worked wonders as he lifted and motivated a squad that was struggling, resulting in a turnaround that helped us reach the final. I am looking forward to achieving more success with him,” he added’ Jamshedpur CEO Mukul Choudhari underlined the Club’s ambitions as he said: “We are incredibly pleased to have signed Valskis. He is a player with proven quality. We have watched and admired him for some time as he had all the attributes we are looking for to fulfill our requirements. He is a great team player behind the scenes resulting in a healthy camaraderie within the squad. It’s an exciting day for all of us at Jamshedpur as I believe Valskis is one of the league’s top players.” Nerka will be wearing the coveted number 9 jersey for Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||3 convicts among 12 test positive at Ghaghidih Central Jail||East Singhbhum recorded 130 new Covid-19 cases, including 12 in Ghaghidih Central Jail, during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 4,780 in the district. Of the 12 who tested positive in the jail, three are prisoners. The rest are guards and administrative staff of the jail. The three prisoners who tested positive are among five who have served 20 years in jail and were about to be released as per a decision by a prisoners’ review committee. Ghaghidih jail superintendent Narendra Kumar Singh said they have now decided to get all prisoners tested. "There are about 300 guards and administrative staff in the jail. As there was no coronavirus positive case among prisoners in the jail, we started testing jail guards, administrative staff and their families from Wednesday. From about 60 staffers, nine tested positive on Thursday,” he explained. The jail superintendent said the prisoners who tested positive have been kept in isolation within the jail. The other two prisoners will be allowed to leave once their release orders are processed. Singh said they had initially decided to test all staff members first. “But after three convicts tested positive, we have changed our decision. We will now ensue all prisoners, including undertrials, undergo Covid-19 tests from Sunday," the superintendent said. As of now, Ghaghidih jail has 1,797 prisoners, including undertrials. Additionally, there are about 200 undertrials who are under quarantine at the Sakchi jail. They will move to Ghaghidih after their quarantine period ends. According to sources in the district civil surgeon’s office, of the 130 new Covid positive cases, 26 are the Rapid Action Force jawans who were stationed at the CRPF's Sundernagar camp in the steel city. One person is a worker at Mathura Mishtanna Bhandar, the sweet shop at Kadma owned by the family of state health minister Banna Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||BIT to conduct employability improvement test ||Intended at improving the employability of its engineering undergraduate students, the training and placement cell of lone state-run engineering college BIT-Sindri has decided to conduct a pre-employability test for its students. The test aimed at assessing the aptitude capabilities of the students, and  comprising questions based on quantitative aptitude, logical reasoning and verbal ability,   will be jointly organized with Career Launcher. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Ghanshyam Rai , professor-in-charge of the training and placement cell of the institute said, “The online pre-employability test has already started, and we will be conducted for all the 2nd and 3rd year B. Tech students. “The test will help us to assess the lacunae of each and every student before they appear for the placement interview and will also help us take corrective steps to improve their employability, by conducting refresher courses or special training to improve the skills,” he said. “Though our students are technically sound, they often lack some skills, including communication skills, as some of them belong to rural backgrounds. So we will groom the student accordingly and provide necessary add-on classes,” said Rai. “Campus selection test questions have changed, so the need of the hour is to provide tailor-made training to the students so they are not deprived of plum employment opportunities, despite having good technical ability,” he added. Ghanshyam said that despite the lockdown and economic recession, the placement scenario was more or less satisfactory as 310 students of the previous batch (2019-20) have already secured jobs. Placements for the batch of 2020-21 batch is likely to begin in a day or two. Out of 310 placements, 250 were conducted before the lockdown period, while 60 other were lapped up afterwards via online tests. The biggest recruiter of the last session was TCS which took in 60 students. “We are taking all possible steps to ensure better placement for our students during the present batch. Talks are already on with Hindustan Unilever Limited and students' data has been sent to the recruiter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||This Ganesh Chaturthi, idol makers rue they have little to do||Low-key Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, have struck a body blow to idol makers whose business has shrunk manifold. Ajit Paul, one of the oldest idol makers of steel city, has got orders for making only about a dozen Ganesha idols this year, that too of sizes ranging between 3 feet and 4 feet. Last year, Paul, who made a 15feet idol for a Telco puja, had orders for over 40 big-size idols. Raju Prasad, another idol maker, faces the same dilemma. He got orders only for a handful of Ganesha idols this year. Big idols fetch him, and other idol-makers like him, somewhere between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 whereas each order of a smaller idol gives them a paltry Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500. "We are facing a shortage of work as orders have reduced by more than 60 per cent in comparison to last year,” rued Paul. “Also, on an average every year, there used to be an addition of more than 100 pujas and, hence, orders were plenty. But this year, because of the Covid situation, there is no new puja,” he said, adding that several organisers had decided to skip Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations altogether. Paul makes idols at his home at Chandinagar in Sakchi. The family is into idol making for the last 70 years. He learnt the craft from his father Jeevan Paul, who was a very popular artisan. Raju Prasad said, "There's not much work this year. I have got a handful of orders only for small idols." S.K. Banerjee, who owns an art workshop at Sonari, said workers were reluctant to come to the steel city because of the pandemic. “Every year, I invite 10-12 artists from Purulia and Midnapore to make idols for Ganesh Puja as well as Durga Puja. But this year they were hesitant," he said. A. K. Dey, an idol maker of Sakchi, said they were going through tough times. "Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja are the two occasions when idols are in huge demand. Unfortunately, this year things are in a mess due to the pandemic," said Dey, who has been making clay idols for the last 25 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi’s Getalsud dam issues flood alert after heavy rain||Authorities at Getalsud reservoir, one of the biggest water bodies of the capital, issued a flood alert on Friday, asking those living in the neighbourhood and the dam’s catchment areas to remain vigilant in view of incessant rains that began on Thursday due to a low-pressure system over Bay of Bengal. In the last 24 hours, Ranchi received 60mm rain, filling up Getalsud dam, also known as Rukka dam, by 1.5 feet which is near about its total storage capacity. Executive engineer of Getalsud dam Prabhat Singh said, “The water level in the dam as of Friday morning is 1,930 feet, an increase of 1.5 feet since Thursday. Going by the predictions of the Met department, rains are expected to continue for few a more days. This will further increase the water level in the dam.” Singh said the total capacity of the dam is about 1.935 feet, but after the water level goes beyond the 1,930 feet mark, the situation turns risky. “As a precaution, we have issued an alert to all those living in and around the dam’s catchment area, asking them to be cautious in the event of a flood-like situation if we have to release water from the dam,” he explained. According to Singh, over the years, the dam’s catchment areas have seen indiscriminate and illegal construction, primarily makeshift houses and buildings. Those living in these places could be at the frontline of risk once the gates of the dam are opened. “We are asking all such people to relocate to safer places as the water from the dam is already getting evacuated slowly, which is also leading to a rise in the water level of the Subernarekha river. The water resources department will not be responsible in case of loss of lives and property because of flooding,” he said. The Getalsud dam is spread over an area of 766 sq km. It is a major source of water for he the entire capital. Two other dams, Gonda (Kanke) and Hatia, that are smaller in size, however, were yet to reach the danger mark, Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||9 security guards assigned to Lalu Prasad at RIMS test positive||As many as nine security personnel deployed for RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s security have tested positive for Covid-19, authorities at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Friday, adding that Ranchi police had been sounded out for replacements. Dr Umesh Prasad, who is taking care of Lalu’s treatment at RIMS, said, “Nine security personnel (cops), who were posted at Director’s Bungalow here for Lalu’s security, have tested positive for the coronavirus. They are being replaced by Ranchi police on priority basis.” Lalu, who is undergoing a prison sentence after his conviction in fodder scam cases, is suffering from multiple ailments. The doctor, however, said that the RJD leader would not need to undergo fresh Covid-19 tests as the guards who tested positive did not have direct access to him. “All of them were basically posted at the picket on the outer ring of the bungalow on RIMS premises. Moreover, we don’t see any symptoms that would require him to undergo a Covid test immediately. He is stable, and doing fine,” said Prasad. Since his conviction in multiple fodder scam cases over a year and-a-half ago, Lalu has spent most of his jail term at RIMS to undergo treatment for various ailments including diabetes and hyper-tension. On August 5, Lalu was shifted from RIMS Paying Ward to the Director’s Bungalow owing to a threat of infection after a couple of his helpers, besides security guards, tested positive for the coronavirus. Moreover, the Paying Ward building also housed Covid care wards on its upper tiers which further increased the risk of infection. Dr Prasad said they were taking all possible precautions to prevent Lalu from any kind of infection at his new place of residence. “Currently, he has two helpers assigned to him. They had undergone Covid tests before being put on duty. He isn’t being allowed to meet anyone and the bungalow where he is lodged has sufficient space for him to take walks and stay fit,” said the doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau Tiger Reserve’s check dam breaches due to rains||Rains have washed out a major portion of an earthen check dam at Garu Dohar in Garur West range of the tiger reserve Palamau. Sources said more than 35 feet of this earthen check dam have been washed away resulting in the loss of water meant for wildlife, birds and for a nearby grassland there. The water body was designed to coexist with the grassland, so that herbivores can drink from it after feeding. Sources said the Garu and Bareysarn ranges in the Palamau tiger reserve are ‘resorts’ for wildlife during summer due to the greater retention of the surface water here. The Telegraph Online phoned field director and chief conservator of forest Palamau tiger reserve YK Das to know what this breach of the earthen check dam was all about to which Das said, “I am in a meeting.” Deputy director south of Palamau tiger reserve Mukesh Kumar said he will seriously look into this matter and seek a report from the range officer. “Plugging has to be done on a priority,” he said. Garu forest range officer S Kumar was also approached. “There is a huge break in this old earthen check dam. All efforts are on to plug it,” he said. He said rains have been quite heavy there in the past weeks and this has resulted in this damage of the check dam, which he said was a “pretty old one”. The ranger admitted that the damage occurred a few days ago. DS Srivastava secretary of the Nature Conservation Society and a crusader of Palamau tiger reserve said, “Breakage in an earthen check dam is no unusual thing. It can happen,” adding that the broken parts should be plugged without further delay. “Every drop of rain matters to the Palamau tiger reserve as it reels under water crisis of different magnitudes every summer and this wastage of surface water is a huge loss,” said Srivastava. “Loss of natural water can be replenished with only natural water,” he said. Sources said about three or four years ago, a massive breach had occurred in the Tino check dam in the Palamau tiger reserve which was plugged with a mix of sand, water and cement bags. Bags of the mixture solidify to become impregnable concrete and that helps retain and detain the gush of water, which goes beyond the retention capacity of an earthen or concrete check dam due to heavy rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 754 patients recover, 517 found infected||At least 754 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Thursday, surpassing the count of citizens who tested positive for the virus during the same period, data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, Ranchi again witnessed a triple-digit increase in the number of Covid cases in a span of 24 hours but registered relatively fewer recoveries, the NHM figures stated. As per government data, out of the 6109 people who were tested on Thursday, as many as 517 were found infected. At least 114 of the fresh cases were from Ranchi, while 84 were from Dhanbad and 61 from East Singhbhum. These three districts account for more than 40 per cent of 26,938 Covid cases reported in Jharkhand so far. East Singhbhum reported six Covid deaths for the second consecutive day, taking the toll in the district to 118. As per government data, as many as eight Covid patients died during treatment on Thursday, taking the total count of Covid casualties in Jharkhand to 286. East Singhbhum, Ranchi and Dhanbad not only account for over 40 per cent of Covid cases, but also more 50 per cent of Covid fatalities in state. Ranchi and Dhanbad have so far reported 45 and 25 Covid deaths respectively, highlights government data. While the cases of Covid infection have soared in Jharkhand since June, the state has also achieved a recovery rate of nearly 65 per cent. As per government figures, only 2490 cases of Covid infection were reported in Jharkhand by June 30. The count of cases witnessed a ten-fold increase and reached close to 27,000 by the time this report was filed on Thursday. However, 17,320 people have recovered from the infection since the entry of the virus in Jharkhand in March, data with the health department highlights. By 10pm on Thursday, there were 9332 active cases of SARS-COV-2 viral infection. The number of cases, health officials say, are likely to shoot further up as the government has intensified testing. Meanwhile, the second phase of sero survey has also begun in three districts of Jharkhand to check the prevalence of the virus in the state. The government has so far collected swab samples of 5.30 lakh people and tested 5.23 lakh of them. By June 30, the government had tested only 1.44 lakh people. As per figures with the health department, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 64.29 per cent on Thursday, while the mortality rate in state was 1.06 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-327
21-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mixed bag for Jharkhand at Swachh Survekshan 2020||It was a mixed bag for Jharkhand at Swachh Survekshan 2020, the pan-India cleanliness survey, whose results were announced on Thursday by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri in Delhi. Among the big cities, only Jamshedpur salvaged the state’s reputation by being adjudged the best medium city (with a population of 3-10 lakh) in citizen feedback category. Overall, Steel City ranked 13th among the urban local bodies (ULBs) covering 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 Ganga towns. Jharkhand, which has 41 ULBs, was adjudged the best performing state in a category of states having less than 100 ULBs with a score of 2,325.4 out of 6,000. Haryana and Uttarakhand bagged the second and third spots in the same category. Three other ULBs of Jharkhand bagged the top slot in the east zone category. Madhupur nagar parishad (in Deoghar district) was adjudged the best city in citizen’s feedback among ULBs having a population between 50,000 and one lakh. Khunti nagar panchayat bagged the top spot in citizen’s feedback in east zone among ULBs with a population less than 50,000 while Jugsalai municipality bagged the top spot in the same population segment in innovation and best practices section. However, none of the other civic bodies, including capital Ranchi, featured anywhere on the top 25 list. While Ranchi was ranked overall 30th among civic bodies having a population of more than 10 lakh, coal town Dhanbad was placed 33th in the same category. Ranchi had an overall score of 3,431 out of 6,000 while Dhanbad had 3,226.31. “We have rooms for improvement especially in the solid waste management and waste processing segment and hope to improve further our ranking in the next annual survey. The state has achieved ODF+ rating in January this year and now we will be going to achieve ODF++,” said state urban development agency (SUDA) director and nodal officer of Swachh Bharat Mission, Amit Kumar. ODF+ and ODF++ are aimed towards proper maintenance of toilet facilities and safe collection, conveyance, treatment/disposal of all faecal sludge and sewage. While ODF+ focuses on toilets with water, maintenance and hygiene, ODF++ focuses on toilets with sludge and septage management. The SUDA director, however, said several smaller municipal bodies had shown improvement, which is reflected in the state being adjudged the best improved state. “It is the cumulative effort of all ULBs,” Kumar added. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) special officer Krishna Kumar, though happy at the improvement in overall ranking to 13 from 15 last year, felt more thrust should be given on solid waste recycling. “We have won the first position in the citizen’s feedback owing to people’s participation. We will be opting for some innovative concept on better solid waste recycling with mini compost and recycling plants. We hope to break into the top 10 next year,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-328
