22-08-2020||Calcutta||CESC issues monsoon safety guideline||A CESC team on Friday went to Botanic Garden Lane, in Shibpur, to trim branches that had entangled in electricity wires or been touching lamp posts, a day after two men were electrocuted after accidentally touching a post in the lane. Residents rued that Suman Sharma and Srikanta Das, who were on their way home through a flooded Botanic Garden Lane when they met with the accident, could have been still alive had the branches been trimmed on Thursday. They alleged that a CESC team had inspected the spot on Thursday morning following a complaint of a loud sound from a lamp post and declared that the post was safe. The team from the power utility allegedly left the spot telling people that some branches needed to be trimmed. However, no one arrived to trim the branches. Seven hours later, the two men in their 30s were electrocuted after touching the same lamp post. On Thursday, CESC officials had told The Telegraph that the incident of electrocution was “not related to tree trimming” and that an investigation had been started to ascertain the cause of the incident. On Friday, none of the CESC officials commented on the investigation. The utility during the day came out with a “monsoon safety guideline”, whose first point urged people to avoid coming in close proximity with electrical poles, stray wires, distribution boxes and kiosks during rain. People have also been warned against touching electrical switches with wet hands and using mobile phones when they are being charged. Residents of Botanic Garden Lane said the two men possibly could not have averted coming in contact with the lamp post as the entire lane was waterlogged. “A drain on the other side of the lane was overflowing. The entire lane was flooded. Only a small patch around the lamp post was dry as it was situated on a higher level. The men had stepped on the dry patch and came in contact with the lamp post,” said Sarada Pasi, who lives in a house in front of the spot where the fatal accident happened. On Friday, when two CESC men wearing gum boots and helmets appeared with a ladder, some residents complained how this act, if done 24 hours before, could have saved two lives. “They trimmed most of the branches that fell on the electrical wires. I wish this work were done yesterday,” one of them said. Power supply to the lamp posts in the lane was cut off on Thursday night. Residents said supply had not been restored on Friday. The Howrah City Police said they had started an unnatural death case but no “specific case” was initiated in the absence of a formal complaint from the families of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
22-08-2020||Calcutta||An appeal with a thought for others: ‘Eat out to help them’||Eat out to help those who are feeling the economic heat of the pandemic, a government agency that runs three restaurants in the city has appealed to people. The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), custodian of properties like Eco Park and the Biswa Bangla Gate in New Town, has come out with an advertisement that mirrors the plight of most restaurants as they struggle to cope with low footfall. “The chef, the server, the manager and a lot of people whom you see or who work in the background are facing the heat of the pandemic. Eat out to help them,” says the appeal. The three Hidco restaurants employ about 200 people. Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, told The Telegraph on Friday that the appeal was prompted by someone he knew losing his job. “The man I know had moved on from our restaurant for a better career. But a few days ago, he wanted to meet me again. He had lost his job during the pandemic. The sector is bleeding and since we run three restaurants, I felt like making this appeal,” he said. Hidco officials ruled out immediate job cuts and said the workers’ salaries would not be affected although revenues had not kept pace with expectations so far. Many thousands who worked at other restaurants and bars across the city lacked a similar cushion. Many have lost their jobs or are on furlough, and the luckier ones have had their salaries cut. On June 8, during the second phase of Unlock, restaurants had resumed business with a “lot of hope”. However, with a spike in Covid-19 cases since late July, the number of people stepping out to eat, especially after dark, has dropped again although Unlock III did away with the night curfew. “The fear is there. People are thinking twice before dining out,” said Debraj Bose, who runs Pa Pa Ya on Park Street. A doctor at the Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital said: “There is no problem eating out if one follows the safety protocols and maintains social distancing. But safety has to be ensured at both ends, by the customers as well as the restaurants. It is a continuous process that has to be followed while travelling to the restaurant, eating there and returning home.” Nitin Kothari, who owns Mocambo and Peter Cat, said people’s fears had deepened after Amitabh Bachchan fell ill. “Now that he is home and safe, things are looking better,” Kothari said. Many places, including star hotels, have started food delivery and are texting promotional and curated menus to patrons. Some are offering discounts on weekdays. Weekends are drawing diners to Dhaba Ajante, the open-air restaurant at Eco Park. “People are preferring to eat in a non-enclosed space. But in our indoor restaurants we have movable partitions that are installed between two adjacent tables the moment they both get occupied. So, people can safely come and eat,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Yellow bins not meant for kitchen waste||The yellow bins put up across Calcutta to collect Covid waste have been filled with food, vegetables and construction waste. Cleaners of the private agency that has received the contract to clean the yellow bins were stumped when they went to clear them in some places on Friday. The bins were filled with fruit peels, vegetables, cooked and discarded food. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has installed 2,000 such bins across the city. The bins have clearly written on them what can be dumped but people haven't followed it, an official of the private agency said. The dumping of kitchen waste in the bins shows the lack of waste segregation culture in Calcutta where all kinds of waste are packed together and dumped in wheeled carts every morning. “People should dump only biomedical waste in these yellow bins. They should throw their used masks, face shields, hand gloves and PPEs in these bins. The bins are not meant for kitchen waste,” Ramakant Burman, the managing director of GreenTech Environ, the private agency, said. The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, applicable across the country had mandated that household waste be segregated at source. The waste must be divided into biodegradable, non-biodegradable and domestic hazardous waste. But the segregation did not take off in Calcutta barring in seven wards in the Calcutta municipal area. The CMC is now extending the segregation at source infrastructure in 20 more wards. Still that covers only 27 of the 144 wards of the CMC. Sourabh Manuja, a fellow at the Centre for Waste Management at The Energy and Resources Institute, said the municipal corporation should conduct an extensive awareness campaign to let people know the purpose of the yellow bins. “Effective waste management is dependent on awareness among people.” Greentech Environ is collecting biomedical waste from close to 4,000 homes where Covid patients with mild symptoms are in home isolation. The company is charging Rs 500 for each yellow bin. It will get an additional payment if the weight of the waste in a bin exceeds 1kg, an official of the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Antigen test focus on mobile groups like household helps and toto drivers||Rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 are being conducted in New Town with a focus on household workers in senior citizen’s homes, construction labourers, shopkeepers and e-rickshaw drivers. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and the state health department have opened a testing centre between the Condor building and the Rosedale Garden complex in Action Area III. The tests, which started on Thursday, are being conducted free and results are available within 30 minutes. One can turn up at the centre between 10am and 2.30pm any day to get tested. “We are focussing on household help, shopkeepers and e-rickshaw (toto) drivers because they come in contact with a large number of people daily. If they are infected by the coronavirus,  the risk of it spread among a larger group is high. Construction workers are also being given priority because many of them, engaged at various sites in New Town, have tested positive,” an NKDA official said. The NKDA will reach out to these groups and try to convince them to get tested. “We want to get domestic help, especially those hired by senior citizens, because they move from one house to another,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The agency will approach residents’ associations and block associations to prepare a list of domestic help. A cell will be set up to trace contacts of those testing positive and arrangements will be made to get the contacts tested as well, the official said. If any of those testing negative has mild or moderate symptoms of Covid-19, he or she will be subjected to the confirmatory RT-PCR test after a check by doctors at the centre. “The move will bring tests closer to doorsteps so more people can be brought under surveillance. We want to increase the number of tests in all hotspots,” an official said. Residents who want to get themselves tested can do so by calling the 24X7 New Town helpline — 1800-103-7652. After getting an appointment, one can download a form from the Hidco or the NKDA website. The forms can also be downloaded from https://www.wbhidcoltd.com/uploads/announcement/Ann841.pdf. “To save time, one can take a printout of the filled-in form and report at the testing centre,” an official said. Twenty-eight tests were performed on Thursday and Friday. One person’s report came positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Doctor panel advice to free up ICU for critical patients  ||A panel of government doctors is visiting hospitals and requesting authorities and doctors to shift Covid patients out of intensive care units when they show signs of improvement. The move will help hospitals in admitting more critical patients to ICUs, the panel has said. Hospitals in several countries have faced shortage of ICU beds during the pandemic. In countries like the US and Italy, many hospitals have said they could not provide critical patients with proper care for want of ICU beds. “In India and Bengal, the situation is still not that bad. But with thousands of fresh cases being reported in our state daily, keeping ICU beds available, as many as possible, is one of our top priority,” a health department official said. “We cannot force doctors to shift critical patients out of ICUs but we are advising them how they can be less rigid in evaluating the criticality of a Covid patient.” Had Covid not struck, such patients would have been in ICUs till they became completely stable, the official, who is a public health expert as well, said. “But Covid treatment should be a mix of scientific decision-making, pragmatism and humane approach.” If a patient’s oxygen requirement drops to less than two litres a minute for the past few days and his/her oxygen-saturation level in the blood doesn’t fluctuate, that person maybe shifted out of the ICU, Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital, said. “He needs intensive bedside monitoring either in a cabin or a ward.” Dhali is leading the panel of government doctors to check if treatment protocols are being followed in Covid hospitals. “It is important to create facilities for more serious patients who require immediate intervention.” The panel has been suggesting to doctors that elderly people who don’t show any major fluctuations in their oxygen saturation level in the blood can be shifted out of ICUs if their blood pressure stabilises. “Patients with no reports of any organ distress and who don’t require high-flow nasal cannula for their oxygen support and can do with an oxygen mask maybe considered for shifting out of ICUs,” a health department official said. “Once out of ICUs, nurses have to continuously monitor them.” An increasing number of asymptomatic or mildly-infected Covid patients are suddenly developing breathlessness because of a fall in the saturation level of oxygen in blood. Such patients can recover fast if they are shifted to ICUs, the official said. “The idea is to start non-invasive ventilation at the earliest for critically ill Covid patients. This can prevent rapid deterioration where the patient might need invasive ventilation,” the official said. “So, ensuring a bed in an ICU remains vital. Doctors can’t shrug their responsibility and keep a patient in ICU to play safe.” Several senior doctors said ICU management had emerged as the most vital element in treating serious Covid patients with pneumonia. If these patients are shifted to ICUs in the early stage, they can recover fast, the doctors said. “We have seen close to 50 per cent of Covid patients in ICUs recovering fast and moving out,” Sumit Sengupta, a senior pulmonologist in Calcutta, said. “Usually, ICUs have trained nurses to constantly monitor patients and alert doctors about their condition. That makes all the difference. So, if a patient has to be shifted out, the monitoring has to be ensured.” One problem of shifting such patients to general wards was the lack of infrastructure, the CEO of a private hospital said. “The wards and private cabins don’t have high-flow oxygen supply system that is there in an ICU. High-flow oxygen supply means more than 20 litres of oxygen can be supplied in a minute. Also, many crucial monitoring gadgets are not there that record a patient’s vital parameters. But if experts advise, we have to see how this can be managed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||State-aided colleges to upload admission data||Every state-aided college in Bengal will have to upload the details of students’ admissions to undergraduate courses on the state higher education department’s portal on a daily basis from the day admissions start till the process is completed. As part of the move, aimed at ensuring transparency in the admission process, the colleges will have to state the number of students admitted every day in each subject. They will also have to enter the number of male, female, SC, ST, OBC and physically handicapped students admitted. Undergraduate admissions will start on September 1 and continue till September 25. “The colleges have been asked to upload the details of each day’s admission from 5pm that day till 5pm the next day on the portal Banglar Uchchashiksha,” an official in the higher education department said. “Once a college submits a day’s details, the module for that day will be locked and the data cannot be changed. Once all details are uploaded, the admission data will be matched with the merit lists,’ the official said. Each college will have to post the merit list on its website on August 28. The higher education department sent the guidelines to every college this week on how they will have to submit the admission details on the portal. This is the first time the department will monitor college admissions centrally. “The main intention of the government’s move is to ensure transparency in admission and prevent colleges from admitting students in excess of their capacity,” the higher education department official said. Before starting admissions, every college has to upload on the Banglar Uchchashiksha portal it’s intake capacity in each subject, infrastructure available for each course and teacher strength and also mention whether the courses are self-financed or run with assistance from the government. Such data have to be uploaded from August 18 to September 1. Till last year, the colleges were required to send admission details to their respective affiliating universities, which would forward the data to the higher education department. But most colleges would allegedly not follow the instruction. Many would send admission details of a particular day seven to 10 days later, an official said. Some colleges would allegedly keep seats in certain subjects that were in demand vacant in the initial stage of admissions. These seats would later be offered to students with low marks on recommendation of local political leaders or student unions. The colleges have been accepting application forms for admission from August 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Showers and tide  threaten waterlogging||Parts of Kalighat and Bodyguard Lines in Alipore were flooded on Friday and several other pockets of Calcutta could witness such inundation as the weather office forecast more rain from Sunday, officials and engineers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have warned. The continuous rain for several days has already raised the level of the Hooghly. The height that the Hooghly’s water reaches during high tide in August and September is more than that in the rest of the year. “There could be waterlogging if it rains heavily and during the high tide hours,” a CMC engineer said on Friday afternoon. “During high tide, the sluice gates that drain out water from the city’s drainage network are kept closed to prevent entry of Hooghly water into the network. Usually, the sluice gates are kept closed for at least an hour before and after the peak of the high tide,” said a CMC engineer. “But in August and September, the gates are kept closed for a longer duration as the level of water is higher during high tide.” The sluice gates are operated to drain out water from the underground drainage network into the Hooghly in the west and Bidyadhari river in the east. The city received over 115mm of rain between August 17 morning and August 21 morning under the influence of a low-pressure area that had formed over the Bay of Bengal on Wednesday. “The system has lost strength and travelled towards central India. But a new low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal on Sunday. Under its influence, widespread rain is expected in south Bengal. One or two places, including Calcutta, might get heavy rain from Sunday,” said a Met official. “The monsoon trough still passes through south Bengal. The monsoon currents are strong and are expected to trigger rain on Saturday as well,” said G.K. Das, the director of IMD Calcutta. The city sky remained overcast throughout Friday and there were multiple spells of rain. The incessant rain that the city had witnessed over the past few days was missing. A resident of Kalighat said water in the Adi Ganga had breached banks and flooded roads nearby during high tide on Thursday. “It happens every year quite a few times in August and September. And if high tide is accompanied by heavy rain, waterlogging endures for some time,” said the resident. Tarak Singh, a member of Calcutta Municipal Corporation board of administrators in charge of drainage, said the civic body had kept ready 650 portable pumps to drain out water from low-lying areas. “All 74 drainage pumping stations have been kept ready, too, so they can work in full capacity,” he said. The civic body also employs teams of people who clean the mouth of gully pits on flooded roads so the accumulated water could flow into the underground drainage network. The men also open man-hole covers to quickly drain out water. “There is some shortage of personnel because of the pandemic but we have kept teams ready in the boroughs,” said one CMC engineer. Vast portions of the Sunderbans riverine belt were inundated because heavy rain, accompanied by tidal waters, breached earthen embankments in North and South 24-Parganas. The water levels in the Roymangal, Bidyadhari, Kalindi and Goureshwar rivers have risen, said district officials. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Writing on the wall nets ‘killer’||A threat message to a CID officer written on the wall of a pulse mill where a labourer was found murdered on Wednesday gave away the killer, police said. Cops matched the writing of the message, “CID officer Raj Sadhan…. Agar zyada chalaki karoge toe khud fas jaoge”, with that of the jottings in a notebook, the police said. Suman Sheikh, 29, who is a labourer at the mill in Ultadanga has been arrested in connection with the murder. Sheikh, who hails from Birbhum, could not flee the city because of the lockdown on two consecutive days and he spent two nights inside Deshapriya Park, the police said. He was picked up from the park on Friday morning. “He wanted to warn cops to stay away from him. He had made up the CID officer’s name,” an investigator said. “There were two writings on the wall. One was about the ‘CID officer’ and the other about another labourer, Kanbali. Initially, we had detained Kanbali and questioned him. But we realised the culprit was trying to divert us.” Rakesh Shaw, 30, was found dead with multiple injuries inside the mill on Wednesday. Kanbali had told cops that Sheikh used to jot his songs down in a notebook. “We got the handwriting sample from the notebook... prima facie it matches with the writing on the wall. He has confessed to the crime,” an officer said. Shaw and Sheikh had an old quarrel and on Tuesday night, Sheikh had tried to take some money out of Shaw’s pocket, the police said. He woke up and resisted and got killed with a knife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Alipore zoo death focus on cable below ground||The two workers electrocuted at Alipore zoo on Thursday might have come in contact with an underground cable, CESC sources said. A team from the power utility visited the site, near the elephant enclosure, on Friday. “A portion of the ground was dug up. Prima facie, it seems the workers had come in contact with an underground wire that was damaged while digging the ground,” a CESC official said. “The hole was filled with water because of rain and the team could not access the wire. The team is likely to visit again on Saturday.” Two contractual labourers were electrocuted and a third was injured after 1pm on Thursday, a zoo official said. Metro erroneously reported that the accident had occurred around 11.30am. The injured person, Liton Das, was brought out of ventilation on Friday. Tarani Ghosh and Pradip Das had been declared dead on arrival at a private hospital. A contractual labourer who was part of the group said on Friday that Ghosh had come in  contact with the wire first. Pradip Das had tried to save him and Liton Das had tried to save Pradip Das. The Bengal Zoo Authority has ordered a probe. A team comprising electrical engineers was to have visited the spot. “They could not come today because of the lockdown. They will come tomorrow,” said Asis Kumar Samanta, the zoo director. Police have registered a case of unnatural death. “The post-morten report is awaited. There is no complaint of negligence till now,” said an officer. Calcutta High Court advocate Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee said the absence of a complaint did not prevent the police from registering a case suo motu. “Two people have lost their lives. The police cannot wait for the zoo to conduct a probe. They should have registered a case of death due to negligence and started a probe to ascertain what happened,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Career webinar on law and liberal arts||Students aspiring to pursue law and liberal arts can get an insight into career opportunities by joining a webinar on Saturday. The webinar will help them analyse the way forward during the pandemic, an organiser said. What: Adamas University in association with Anandabazar Patrika presents #StandOutWithAU, a webinar on Law & Liberal Arts Education Today When: August 22, 5.30-7.30pm For: Plus II pass outs Panel: Justice Pradip B. Majmudar, former judge, Gujarat and Bombay high courts; and (from Adamas University) Mrityunjoy Chatterjee, dean, school of liberal arts & culture studies; Jyotsna Yagnik, pro-VC and dean, school of law & justice; Sumona Datta, assistant professor, department of psychology; moderator: Ujjwal K. Chowdhury, pro-VC and dean, school of media, communication & Fashion, Adamas University Log on to: bit.ly/standout withAU_5||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur students can pay fees in instalments||The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, will let students pay tuition fees in instalments in the coming semester. Hostel and some other fees have been brought down considering the hardship students are facing during the pandemic, an institute official said. The normal practice is paying the fees in full at the start of a semester. An exception has been made for the autumn semester, scheduled to start from September, the official said. A meeting of the NIT’s Deans council decided that 60 per cent of the tuition fees of Rs 62,500 has to be paid by September 30. The remaining by December 15. Hostel and other fees can be paid by December 15. The hostel fees of Rs 7,300 has been brought down to Rs 2,800 and that of the other fees of Rs 5,300 to Rs 2,850. “The revised fees structure for the upcoming semester will be announced after the NIT’s board of governors approves it,” Anupam Basu, the institute director, said. The revised structure is likely to be uploaded on the institute’s website next week. “The pandemic has caused economic stress to families across the country… we are trying to give them as much relief as possible. Although the decisions will impact our internal revenue generation, we will allow payments in instalments,” director Basu said. Basu, on lien from IIT Kharagpur, has been helming the institute since 2018. “We have reduced the hostel and other fees as well.” A few students wrote to teachers, seeking relaxation in fees citing family hardship. The hostel fees in each semester comprises, seat rent, electricity and water charges, hostel employees’ welfare fund, students’ aid fund, maintenance and development charge, an institute official said. The other institute fees include library charge, computing charge, students’ health care, examination fee, students’ activity fund, and comprehensive insurance premium, including medical insurance. The fees under all heads have been reduced, he said. The institute plans to start online classes in September and will offer its 350-odd students with connectivity issues the option of attending crash semester on the campus to make up for theory classes they might miss out. “We will help those grappling with connectivity problems… similarly we are trying to help all amid the crisis with a revised fee structure,” another official said. Several institutes have revised their fee structures during the pandemic. Students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, will not have to pay the mess advance and water and electricity charges this semester. IIT Kharagpur has waived mess fees and hostel overhead charges, along with some other charges. In every instance, students have cited online classes as the reason behind their demand to reduce fees, another official of the Durgapur institute said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Durga to reach doorsteps||If visitors are unable to step out of their homes during Durga puja, the puja will reach their doorstep. Jodhpur Park Saradiya Utsab Committee is rolling out Durga Gari which will take the Goddess on tour across the city. This is the second Covid-19 induced innovation coming to light after the drive-in darshan announced by another south Calcutta puja hub of Badamtala Ashar Sangha-66 Palli-Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club triad, reported earlier in Metro. “Every year, people visit us from neighbourhoods near and far. But with the pandemic raging, many will be scared to go pandal-hopping. This is one way we thought they can have a feel of the Pujas without any risk,” said general secretary of the Jodhpur Park puja Sumanta Roy. The concept was mooted by theme-maker Bapai Sen. “The inspiration is the chariot of Lord Jagannath. I thought if He can roam the streets and grant darshan to devotees on Rathyatra, why not Devi Durga?” said Sen. He is carving an idol out pf wood to protect against the elements. “The first vehicle with the goddess will be decorated with patachitra carrying visual messages to defeat the coronavirus demon,” he added. The second will carry the dhaki, residents’ body members and the theme-maker. There will be theme music and lights too. The tableaux will be out on the streets from Panchami to Dashami. “The bodhon can happen in say, Shyambazar, the Saptami arati  in Garia and the Ashtami anjali in Howrah,” Roy said. “If we get requests from any locality, we will try to reach there. Our  slogan this year is Jodhpur Park paray paray (in every locality).” If travelling Durga is a part of the 68th edition of the puja, virtual Durga is another. Visitors brave enough to reach the puja site will watch the puja on screen. The rituals happening behind closed doors will be beamed live on half a dozen  giant LED screens set up close to the pandal. “The kind of footfall we get will make it impossible for us to maintain social distancing in the visitor queue. We do not want any infection-related accidents,” said Roy. An app will  stream the puja live, as will the puja committee’s website www.jodhpurparkdurgapujo.com. Sen said he is not charging any remuneration this year. “I have been earning from this festival for 22 years now. This is my turn to give back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
22-08-2020||Business||Vodafone faces showcause||Trai is considering issuing a showcause notice to Vodafone Idea over the priority plan issue as the telecom regulator is not satisfied with the response given by the company on the matter so far, according to a source. Airtel — which has stopped onboarding new customers on its platinum offering after an earlier Trai directive — may not be served a showcause notice. A regulatory source said that Vodafone Idea has not been able to satisfactorily respond to many of the issues raised by Trai, including two major concerns on how the company will ensure priority services and speeds to select customers who opt for the premium offering, and how the priority plan will not adversely impact services and experience of non-premium users. The source said the company has not been able to offer clear answers to the issues raised by the regulator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||24 lakh taxpayers get refunds||The income tax department has provided refunds worth Rs 80,000 crore to over 24 lakh taxpayers so far this financial year. This includes personal income tax refunds of Rs 28,180 crore issued to over 23.05 lakh taxpayers and corporate tax refunds of Rs 60,472 crore to over 1.58 lakh taxpayers during this period. “CBDT has, so far, issued refunds of over Rs 88,652 crore to more than 24.64 lakh taxpayers from April 1, 2020 onwards,” the income tax department said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) is the apex decision-making body in direct tax matters and administers personal income tax and corporate tax. The finance ministry had earlier said that keeping in mind the situation arising out of the spread of Covid-19 and the related lockdown, emphasis was laid on releasing all refunds at the earliest possible time. All refund related issues are being taken up as a priority and was likely to be completed by August 31, 2020. The income tax department has asked taxpayers to provide immediate response to emails of the I-T department in order to facilitate faster processing of refunds. Since only about 0.5 per cent of the returns is selected for scrutiny, refunds are issued expeditiously at the time of processing itself for the bulk of the taxpayers. Refunds are now directly credited to bank accounts of taxpayers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||TCS wins respite in US case||Tata Consultancy Services on Friday said a US Court of Appeals has held that the punitive damages award of $280 million (around Rs 2,098 crore) on the Indian IT major in an intellectual property rights case with Epic Systems was “constitutionally excessive”. “In the Epic Systems Corporation matter, the US Court of Appeals, 7th Circuit, Chicago, returned a verdict on the appeal filed by TCS, reducing the damages award. “The court held that the punitive damages award of $280 million is constitutionally excessive and directed the Trial Court to reassess the punitive damages,” Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) said in a regulatory filing. The court has, however, upheld the compensatory damages award of $140 million (approx Rs 1,049 crore), the filing added. “TCS is exploring the options available to it as it believes that there is no evidence of misuse of Epic information by TCS. TCS will vigorously defend its position before the relevant court,” the filing noted. The matter relates to a US grand jury order that slapped two Tata group companies — TCS and Tata America International Corp — with a $940 million fine in a trade secret lawsuit filed against them by Epic in April 2016. On April 16, 2016, TCS made a disclosure to the stock exchanges regarding a US court verdict related to an intellectual property rights case with Epic Systems. On October 1, 2017, TCS said the court significantly reduced the compensatory and punitive damages of $940 million to $420 million. In May this year, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) had warned TCS to be careful in dealing with disclosure of material information to investors after the watchdog found that the IT major did not prominently display the extent of damages related to a case in the US. Shares of TCS were trading 0.20 per cent lower at Rs 2,247.60 apiece on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||SC to look into spectrum pacts||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the department of telecom (DoT) to place before it details of the spectrum sharing agreements between different telecom operators to determine their liabilities towards the payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore in AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues to the government. The top court asked the DoT secretary to file a specific affidavit apprising it about who was using the spectrum from the date of grant of licence and from which date the respective sharing of spectrum took place. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S. Abdul Nazeer and M. R. Shah posted the matter for further hearing on August 24. The bench also asked the DoT about the amount paid by Reliance Jio for using 23 per cent of Reliance Communication (R-Com’s) spectrum. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Jio, said that the company has not received any notice from the government on any additional claims by the DoT. He said the DoT had earlier told NCLT that spectrum can’t be traded. “If spectrum is not traded, it goes back to the government, it doesn’t get any dues,” Salve told the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Banks require Rs 2 lakh crore||Public sector banks need to raise as much as Rs 2.1 lakh crore in external capital over the next two years to tackle the funds shortage that will only be exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic, rating agency Moody’s said. According to Moody’s, the sharp slowdown in India’ economic growth, made worse by the virus outbreak, will hurt the asset quality of public sector banks (PSBs) and drive up credit costs. “We expect to see PSBs’ already weak capital buffers to be depleted, with Rs 1.9-2.1 lakh crore ($25 billion-$28 billion) in external capital needed over the next two years to restore loss-absorbing buffers,” Moody’s vice-president and senior credit officer Alka Anbarasu said. PSBs dominate India’s banking system, meaning any failure could jeopardise financial stability, Anbarasu added. “As such, we expect government support will remain forthcoming,” she said. In a report titled “Coronavirus fallout will leave banks with capital shortages again”, Moody’s said the asset quality will deteriorate, led by retail and small business loans. Most of the capital required by the public lenders is likely to come from the government. While a large number of private sector banks have already undertaken capital raising in an effort to tackle the headwinds that may emerge in the medium-term, their public sector counterparts are yet to do so. Private sector lenders ICICI Bank, Yes Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Axis Bank and IDFC First Bank have raised capital over the last few months in various means. According to Moody’s, the Indian economy will contract sharply in financial year ending March 2021 (fiscal 2020) before returning to growth, though modestly, in fiscal 2021. The country’s largest lender SBI on Friday said its board has approved a proposal to raise Rs 8,931 crore by issuing Basel III compliant bonds to investors. The committee of directors for capital raising at its meeting held on Friday accorded its approval to allot 89,310 Basel III compliant non-convertible, taxable, redeemable, subordinated, unsecured, fully paid-up debt instruments aggregating to Rs 8,931 crore to bond subscribers on August 21, 2020, SBI said in a regulatory filing. The bonds in the nature of debentures qualifying as tier 2 capital of the bank have face value of Rs 10 lakh, bearing a coupon of 6.80 per cent payable annually for a tenor of 15 years. Additional reporting by PTI in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India focuses on exports||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) will focus on exports with its new range of BS-VI vehicles which are equivalent to the Euro-V emission norms of advanced markets. At present, the company exports only three per cent of its total volume to a few countries such as Sri Lanka and Nepal. Talking to reporters, Atsushi Ogata, the new managing director, president and CEO of HMSI, said: “I have watched India transition from BS-IV to BS-VI, while working in Thailand. I have seen how HMSI has started to dispatch its BS-VI models. We now have the quality and capacity to deliver anywhere in the world. We can export completely built and completely knocked-down models. The percentage of exports will definitely see a substantial increase within three years.” Ogata takes charge of HMSI in the midst of the pandemic. The new CEO remains optimistic about the two-wheeler market’s revival. “We are witnessing a recovery in the high-speed market. The demand for motorcycles and scooters is beyond expectation. Customers are trying to get personal mobility to avoid mass transit. We see demand going back to normal sooner than later,” said the new CEO. On his thoughts about the Indian market viz-a-viz the other markets that he has worked in, the president said: “India is a big market in terms of size and volume. It gives Honda an opportunity to grow. In markets such as Indonesia and Vietnam, Honda has a huge market share of 70-80 per cent. There are only Japanese makers there, no local or Chinese makers. In China, the major makers are from Japan who has to compete with copycat makers. In India, Honda has a marketshare of less than 30 per cent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Crude import falls 36%||India’s crude oil imports fell in July to their lowest since March 2010 as fuel demand slowed. Crude oil imports last month slumped about 36.4 per cent from a year earlier to 12.34 million tonnes, or 2.92 million barrels per day, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the ministry of petroleum & natural gas showed. The lower import marked a fourth straight monthly decline. Fuel demand in the world’s third-biggest oil importer and consumer also fell, posting a fifth consecutive year-on-year drop. Analysts said state-run refiners, which control around 65 per cent of the refining capacity, have been forced to run at around 75 per cent of their capacity during the nationwide lockdown. Monsoon in several parts of the country also eroded some demand. The consumption of petroleum products in July 2020 fell 11.7 per cent compared with July 2019 as volumes dropped to 15.7 mt in July 2020 from 17.7 mt in July 2019. Consumption between April and July 2020 contracted 22.5 per cent compared with the same period a year ago. Data showed that crude oil imports decreased 23.6 per cent during April-July 2020 compared with the corresponding previous period. “Lower economic growth means less demand for imports, which is already visible in our trade numbers,” analysts said. Refined product imports surged 46.4 per cent to 4.07 million tonnes year-on-year, mainly due to a sharp jump in fuel oil imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||G-Sec yields harden||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond on Friday breached the 6 per cent mark as elevated retail inflation led to concerns that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will continue with its pause on interest rates. The fall in government security prices (yields are inversely related to prices) comes at a time the corporate bond segment is showing some life with players such as Patanjali Ayurved tapping the market. While bond prices had come under pressure after the outbreak of the coronavirus, aggressive interest rate reduction by the RBI and  enough liquidity from targeted long term repo operations (TLTRO) led to the softening of yields despite a Rs 12 lakh crore borrowing programme by the government. However, high retail inflation amid forecasts that it would stay elevated have led to yields on government bonds rising from around 5.8 per cent last month. The RBI has not announced an open market operation (secondary purchases of bonds), which jacked up yields. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond on Friday ended at 6.08 per cent. Incidentally, it came on a day RBI governor Shaktikanta Das told a television channel that room still exists for an interest rate cut. He reiterated that policy space remains and that the central bank is only keeping its arsenal dry to use it judiciously in the future. Earlier this month, Das had said that after Operation Twist and TLTRO improved the liquidity situation, spreads of three-year AAA-rated corporate bonds over similar tenor government securities have declined from 276 basis points on March 26, 2020 to 50 basis points on July 31, 2020. He added that spreads on AA+ rated bonds softened from 307 basis points to 104 basis points, while spreads on AA bonds narrowed from 344 basis points to 142 basis points over the same period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||NCLT order to recover Rs 1200cr from Anil||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday set the stage for insolvency proceedings against Reliance Communications chairman Anil Ambani after it appointed a resolution professional to recover Rs 1,200 crore from him under the personal guarantee clause of the bankruptcy law. Anil Ambani had given a personal guarantee to the loans given by State Bank of India (SBI) to Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Reliance Infratel (RITL) in August 2016. Both R-Com and RITL had defaulted in the payments in January 2017 and the accounts were declared as non-performing accounts. SBI invoked the personal guarantee and issued an invocation notice on Ambani. The NCLT order given on Thursday said that despite various correspondences between the bank and the personal guarantor no repayment was made on behalf of the latter. “The applicant (SBI) apprehends that it would not be able to recover the claim amount from the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) or from the borrowers R-Com and RITL,’’ the order said. SBI had issued a demand notice dated February 20, 2020, to Ambani demanding payment. When he did not respond, SBI accordingly filed the petitions under Section 95 of the IBC. According to IBC, the tribunal shall direct the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) within seven days of filing of such application to nominate the name of the RP. The IBBI will have to nominate a resolution professional (RP) within 10 days of receiving such a direction. The order disclosed that Jitender Kothari has been appointed as the RP. A spokesperson for Ambani said the industrialist was reviewing the order and was taking advice on filing an appropriate appeal before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal against the appointment of the RP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Banks can do debt recast right away ||Banks can hit the ground running on the debt resolution of accounts mauled by the Covid-19 pandemic without waiting either for the end of the existing loan moratorium on August 31 or for the K.V. Kamath panel to give its recommendations by the deadline of September 6, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said on Friday. Bank boards will decide by the end of this month on their eligibility criteria to decide which borrowers — retail and business —  will qualify for resolution. Banks can pick and choose these borrowers based on their internal assessments and the broad criteria remains: that the account should have been recognised as a standard account on March 1 this year. The RBI had announced the new debt resolution norm earlier this month. The banks can provide a debt resolution tenure of up to two years and decide whether or not to extend a moratorium of three, six or 12 months. The Kamath committee will only deal with a certain class of business borrowers, having fund and non-fund exposure of over Rs 1,500 crore to the banking sector. It will decide on financial parameters only such as the debt service coverage ratio, the acceptable debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio relating to a resolution scheme. The entire process of submitting the report and the issue of the RBI’s notification will be completed in 30 days, which is September 6. Pre-Covid stressed accounts will need to be resolved under the RBI circular issued under June 7, 2019 Das told a TV channel that the six-month loan moratorium that ends this month was only a temporary relief and  the one-time restructuring mechanism which replaces it would help revive several units that are under stress because  of the pandemic. Das said the new mechanism was drafted after lot of thought and the central bank considered both the health of the banks and the difficult conditions faced by individual and business borrowers. He pointed out that if nothing was done, bad loans would spike which will have an adverse impact on financial stability. The RBI governor reiterated the latest resolution framework was only for Covid-19 related stress. “The moratorium was a temporary response to the lockdown.. but we need to find a durable solution where the retail and business loans are resolved,” he said. Das said three new members will join the rate-setting monetary policy committee to replace three external members whose tenures have come to an end. An RBI panel will internally review how inflation-anchored policymaking mandate has worked. It will also review the need to widen the inflation targets using CPI (consumer price index), core CPI and WPI (wholesale price index). At present, it is entirely dependent on CPI combined with a mid-point of 4 per cent with a tolerance level of 2 per cent on either side. Das disclosed that such a review of the target will be done by the government. Under the 45ZA of the RBI Act, the government can reset the mandate every five years. The monetary policy panel arrived at a status quo on rates earlier this month on August 6 after considering numerous factors  such as retail inflation, growth, food inflation, core inflation, wholesale prices and supply chain cost. The Reserve Bank is at the end of its rate cutting cycle as inflation is unlikely to decline materially from the current level, and the onus of economic recovery has now shifted to the government, economists at SBI said on Friday. “Fiscal policy should play a decisive role, if we have to nurture any hopes of a fast-paced recovery,” the economists at SBI said. “We now believe that we are at the end of the rate cut cycle and expectations of large cuts must be anchored as inflation is unlikely to decline materially from current level,” the SBI economists said. They said large procurement by government could further push inflation up by 35-40 basis points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
22-08-2020||India||Ganesh chaturthi: Celebration amid precaution||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Forced to travel 50 km for online classes, students reach out to to NCPCR for Internet||Around 200 children were forced to travel 50 kilometers everyday to reach an area with Internet connection to attend online classes from their remote coastal villages in Maharashtra after they were hit first Covid-19 lockdown and then cyclone Nisarga. Hit by a pandemic and then a natural disaster, the children from remote villages in Maharashtra had to deal with Internet disruptions since early June when connectivity along the coastal area of Ratnagiri district became scratchy. But when even after a month the situation did not improve, one of the students finally reached out to the apex child rights body NCPCR for help. The National Commission for Protection Child Rights, in turn, ensured that the connectivity is restored in the fastest possible manner by reaching out to cellular companies and the district magistrate of the area, NCPCR Chairman Priyank Kanoongo said. In his letter to the district magistrate of the area, Kanoongo stressed that the authorities must ensure that the issue gets resolved at the earliest. "The commission has taken cognizance of a complaint received regarding poor and disrupted network connectivity along coastal area of Ratnagiri District, Maharashtra, particularly in the area of PIN Code 415714, which was deadly hit by cyclone Nisarg on June 3, 2020 and since then, the residents of area do not have mobile and data connectivity," Kanoongo said in the letter to the district magistrate on July 25 and sought the immediate intervention from the Ratnagiri district magistrate on the matter. Speaking to news agency PTI, Kanoongo said the NCPCR continuously followed up with the authorities and finally the Internet connection in the area was restored by one of the cellular networks while the rest of them assured that they will resolve the issue at the earliest. "We intervened and wrote to the district magistrate and cellular companies and we dealt with it as a policy intervention in which NCPCR has to play a role in helping children. As a result, action was taken on a priority basis and internet connectivity of the village was restored," he said. He further stressed that it is very important to ensure barrier-free Internet facility for the children in these times. "It is very important that if children are dependent upon the Internet for their education then it needs to be ensured that they get barrier-free Internet facility," he said. The nationwide lockdown induced by Covid-19 in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. But a weak internet penetration has turned e-education into a distant dream for many children in the rural areas. According to official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Suspected ISIS operative nabbed in Delhi||A suspected ISIS operative, armed with explosives and a weapon, was arrested in Delhi last night after a brief shootout, the police said, adding that he was plotting a "lone wolf attack". Abu Yusuf, the accused, was arrested at around 11.30 PM in the national capital's Dhaula Kuan area. Two pressure cookers, turned into IEDs (improved explosive devices) with about 15 kg of explosives in them, and a pistol were recovered from his possession, the police said. "One ISIS operative was arrested with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) by our Special Cell after an exchange of fire at Dhaula Kuan," Pramod Singh Kushwaha, Delhi DCP (Deputy Commissioner of Police) Delhi Police Special Cell, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The police believe the suspect visited several places in the city and was plotting a lone wolf attack. The matter is being investigated further, the police said, to determine if the suspected terrorist had accomplices in other parts of the city or country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Covid: Highest single-day spike in cases||With a record spike of 69,874 infections in a day, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the recoveries surged to 22,22,577 pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.87 per cent, it said. There are 6,97,330 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 23.43 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. A cumulative total of 3,44,91,073 samples have been tested up to August 21 with 10,23,836 samples being tested on Friday, the highest done in a day so far, Lokesh Sharma, scientist and media coordinator at ICMR said. Of the 945 fresh deaths, 339 are from Maharashtra, 101 from Tamil Nadu, 93 from Karnataka, 91 from Andhra Pradesh, 64 from Uttar Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 34 from Punjab, 15 from Jammu and Kashmir, 14 each from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Delhi, 12 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan and 11 from Jharkhand. Ten fatalities were reported from Odisha, nine from Goa, seven each from Haryana and Telangana, six each from Assam, Bihar and Puducherry, five from Uttarakhand, two each from Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh and Tripura have registered one fatality each. Of the total 55,794 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 21,698 followed by 6,340 in Tamil Nadu, 4,522 in Karnataka, 4,270 in Delhi, 3,092 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,867 in Gujarat, 2,797 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,689 in West Bengal and 1,185 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 991 people have died of Covid-19 in Punjab, 933 in Rajasthan, 744 in Telangana, 593 in Jammu and Kashmir, 585 in Haryana, 498 in Bihar, 390 in Odisha, 297 in Jharkhand, 227 in Assam, 203 in Kerala and 192 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 180 deaths, Puducherry 143, Goa 135, Tripura 70, Chandigarh 33, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 32, Himachal Pradesh 25, Manipur 20, Ladakh 19, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Opposition slams Nitish for ‘dirty’ cities||A day after the Centre announced the results of its annual cleanliness survey (Swachh Survekshan), the Opposition raised a stink over the dismal performance of the cities in Bihar in a bid to corner chief minister and Janata Dal United chief Nitish Kumar, leaving the ruling NDA trying to save its face. State capital Patna has achieved the dubious distinction of being the dirtiest among the 47 cities having a population of more than 10 lakh. Similarly, Gaya was ranked at the bottom among 382 surveyed cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh. In fact, five other cities — Buxar, Bhagalpur, Parsa, Biharsharif and Saharsa — joined Gaya to figure among the bottom 10 out of these 382 cities. Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad was among the first people to attack Nitish and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi over Bihar’s performance on the cleanliness index. “What’s up Nitish, Sushil? Won’t you blame me for this? The people of this alleged good governing and self-advertising government will not be feeling ashamed over this,” Lalu tweeted on Friday along with a map showing six Bihar cities ranked among the dirtiest 10 in the survey. Lalu’s son and leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also took potshots at Nitish over Patna being ranked as the dirtiest among bigger cities. “Crores of congratulations to 15-year chief minister Nitish Kumar over Patna achieving the number one position in dirtiness in the country,” Tejashwi tweeted. Not to be left behind, the Congress also denounced the Bihar government and questioned Nitish over the state’s dismal performance and where the huge sums of money spent on the cleanliness drive went. “The Nitish (Kumar) government has claimed that thousands of crores of rupees have been spent on the cleanliness drive and smart city initiatives but Bihar is at the lowest rung in the cleanliness survey done by the central government and smart city Patna is the dirtiest. The survey has not been done by the Congress but by the BJP-led government at the Centre. Has the expenditure been carried out only on paper? Nitish should answer this question,” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said. The Congress leader demanded that urban development minister Suresh Sharma be sacked and Nitish own responsibility for the dismal performance by the state. Sharma, a senior BJP leader, appeared to be on the backfoot, when asked about the poor performance of Bihar cities on cleanliness parameters. “Patna ranked low because the entire city witnessed massive drainage works in the wake of last year’s deluge. The entire focus of the municipal corporation was on the drainage work. It was but natural that other areas would become neglected. We have been victorious in controlling water-logging to a large extent. We have purchased various cleaning machines for the city and its cleanliness rankings will improve,” the minister told The Telegraph. Asked about the poor performance by several other cities, he admitted that there was a “need to work harder” on this front. He pointed out that the cities should have a garbage management plan to improve cleanliness. “Unless there is a proper garbage management plan and bioremediation plants to turn garbage into fertiliser is not installed in the cities, their cleanliness rankings will not improve. We have called for tenders for such plants. We are sure that their rankings will shoot up in next year’s survey,” he added. Calls to JDU spokespersons were not answered. Sources said that Nitish was peeved at the low ranking of Bihar cities in the cleanliness survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Manoj Jha writes to the president on academic witchhunt||Rajya Sabha MP and Delhi University professor Manoj Jha has written to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding “the government stop the farcical media trial” of Apoorvanand Jha, his colleague who teaches Hindi at the same varsity. Jha had previously spoken out against alleged police atrocities on those protesting against the new citizenship matrix and the force’s purported complicity in the February communal riots that killed 53 people. He wrote to the President on Thursday after two news channels aired purported excerpts of confessions by two youths in police custody, accused of instigating the riots. News channels, including one that described Apoorvanand as “Dilli dangon ka professor” (the professor of Delhi riots), cited unnamed police sources to say that 28-year-old Gulfisha Fatima had confessed that Apoorvanand was the main instigator of the riots. Fatima has been booked in four FIRs on the charges of murder and Arms Act violations, and under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Earlier this month, another channel had reported that Jamia Millia Islamia student Meeran Haider — a local leader of the youth wing of Jha’s party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, who too has been booked under the UAPA— had confessed that the riots had been planned on the campus with funding from the Popular Front of India, a volunteer group that focuses on Muslims and Dalits and holds RSS-like drills in uniform. Manoj Jha wrote: “I write this to you to express my concern at the openly vengeful investigation being carried out by Delhi police in the matter of an alleged conspiracy to instigate and execute violence in Delhi.” Jha added: “The latest in the list is Professor Apoorvanand, public intellectual and renowned academician from the University of Delhi…. The invocation of anti-terror laws against the student activists, floating in the media the alleged ‘disclosures’ and ‘confessions’ by Gulfisha, Meeran Haider and several others who are in judicial custody, only strengthens our belief that these investigations are vindictive and biased.” Jha continued: “You may recall the Delhi High Court’s recent directives against publication of the police versions against accused under-trials. These would apply with greater force to those who are not even accused. We hope that looking at things as they appear, you will direct the government to stop the farcical media trial and drop these false charges against human rights activists, students and academicians.” In July, Delhi High Court had reprimanded police for trying to sway public opinion against Jawaharlal Nehru University student Devangana Kalita — in jail after three FIRs were registered against her, including charges under the UAPA — by issuing media releases with selective information of the probe. On Friday, the high court reserved its order on Kalita’s bail plea after the police said they were a kilometre away from her and unable to record videos of her alleged inflammatory speeches. Kalita’s defence counsel and Congress leader Kapil Sibal, however, showed the court videos of police personnel video-recording the protest. The MP, in his letter, added: “We cannot help but remind you of the horrendous video from 24th February, which showed policemen forcing injured and bleeding Muslim youth to sing the national anthem. All patriots will be revolted at the debasing of the great song by the actions of these policemen. One of those injured young men later succumbed to his injuries. We do not know if any departmental action and criminal proceedings have been initiated against the guilty police officers. Following the violence, the Special Cell (of the police) has been spinning a theory that the violence was a result of a conspiracy planned and executed by those who have been part of the protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act.” He said: “By arresting and linking students and activists involved in the protests with the outbreak of violence, Delhi police (are) firstly criminalising the democratic right of the citizens to protest with the intention of silencing the voices against CAA. Secondly, this deflects attention from the role of the police and the administration who stood by and watched as houses burnt and people were killed.” Manoj Jha has taught at the department of social work in DU since 2002 and did his MA and PhD from the university. Before that, he taught for eight years at Jamia Millia Islamia. Apoorvanand has taught at DU since 2004, before which he taught at Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishvavidyalaya, Wardha, and Magadh University, Bodh Gaya. Earlier this month, he was interrogated by the police for five hours and his mobile phone was seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Teachers’ online misery revealed||Many teachers, including from quality schools, are struggling to impart online teaching, a survey has found, which implies ominous consequences for their pupils. One in seven teachers at central government schools and one in five at other schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education have said they find online classes “difficult” or “burdensome” to conduct. Overall, 17.6 per cent — more than one in six — teachers are uncomfortable with online education, according to the survey, designed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and executed by the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS), Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) and the CBSE. Education experts said these teachers’ struggles may stem from poor training and preparedness, and would result in deficient learning among a sizeable segment of their students. Schools (and higher education institutions) have been closed since March because of the pandemic, and all classes are being held online. Based on the survey’s findings, the NCERT has recommended training the teachers to hold online classes, providing students with the devices to attend these classes, if necessary, and pairing students without gadgets with neighbourhood children who have them. A total of 3,543 teachers participated in the survey along with 18,188 schoolchildren, 253 principals and 1,26,124 parents. Kendriya and Navodaya schools are funded by the central government, recruit well-qualified teachers after rigorous screening, and are generally thought to be better than the average CBSE or state government school. If an average 15 per cent of these central schools’ teachers are finding online classes difficult, the figure would be much higher among teachers in state government schools in the rural and tribal areas, said N.K. Ambastha, former chairperson of the National Institute of Open Schooling. “If a teacher is struggling, all the students in their class would be deprived of learning,” Ambastha said. “As a result, a big chunk of the students will be left with learning deficiencies in these (central) schools, which are better than state government schools.” P.V. Chhikara, a teacher at the Kendriya Vidyalaya, Bathinda Cantonment, said the KVS had not trained its teachers in managing online classes. “Teachers aged above 45 or 50 have had little exposure to such online transactions before. They are taking the help of friends and relatives,” Chhikara said. Negative feedback on online education came also from 32.4 per cent of the students at the Kendriya schools, 28 per cent at the Navodaya schools and 39 per cent at the other CBSE-affiliated schools. Among the principals, about 11 per cent from the Kendriya schools, 13 per cent from Navodaya schools and 25 per cent from the other CBSE schools expressed discomfort with online education. Among parents, the figures were 31.6, 28 and 35.3 per cent, respectively. “My classes have seen only 30 per cent attendance. The families haven’t enough mobile phones with Internet connectivity to help their children. Sometimes the network is down; sometimes the electricity is fluctuating,” Chhikara said. Apart from these issues, Ambastha said, online classes face another problem: the teacher’s inability to pay enough attention to each student according to their requirement. The NCERT has recommended online programmes to train teachers in alternative (non-classroom, non-online) ways of imparting education to children who may lack smart phones, laptops or quality Internet connectivity. These children can, for example, be supplied periodically with work sheets (exercises) and reading material by the school through volunteers, and the teachers may pay periodic visits to teach and assess their progress. These teacher training programmes may be conducted by the State Councils of Education Research and Training or the District Institutes of Education and Training, the NCERT has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Russia seeks to mass produce candidate vaccine in India||Russia views India as among potential “international hubs” for the mass production of its candidate vaccine against the new coronavirus disease and is talking with four possible “partners” in India, Russian officials have said. The officials said Russia hoped to use production facilities in India, Brazil, South Korea and Cuba to meet the global demand for the vaccine, but senior Indian officials said the Russians had not yet approached India’s health ministry for discussions on the vaccine. Russia had earlier this month surprised the medical community by announcing that its regulators had approved the candidate vaccine made by its Gamaleya Institute after early safety and efficacy trials, and without the mandatory final round of large-scale efficacy studies. “Production of the vaccine is a very important issue. Currently we are working with four partners in India,” said Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive officer at the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), a sovereign wealth fund created by the Russian government for joint partnerships. “We believe they are capable of production of the Gamaleya Institute vaccine,” Dmitriev said in a media briefing for reporters from around the world. He said Russia had received requests from various countries for more than a billion doses of the vaccine. The RDIF declined to provide details of the discussions with Indian entities but a senior RDIF executive told The Telegraph that the agency’s “Indian track is one of the strongest”. The executive added that the RDIF was hoping to be in a position to provide more details about its India engagement next week. Russian officials said large-scale efficacy trials of the vaccine were expected to begin next week at 45 medical centres across Russia, and would seek to deliver the vaccine to 40,000 healthy volunteers. However, senior Indian officials told this newspaper that neither the Union health ministry nor the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation, India’s regulatory agency for drugs and vaccines, had been contacted by the Russians about the vaccine yet. A senior pharmacological medicine specialist and expert on regulatory affairs said the Russian entities and their Indian partners would require approval from the drug regulatory authorities to either conduct a clinical trial or mass produce the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||‘Limited options’ before SC on Prashant Bhushan||The crackdown on two tweets has reached such a pass that the Supreme Court is left with limited options to uphold the “majesty of the court” if lawyer Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologise before Monday, sources in the top court told The Telegraph on Friday. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari will assemble on August 25 (Tuesday) to consider an order only if Bhushan does not apologise for his tweets on the judiciary. A revised order uploaded on Friday said: “…Arguments have been heard in the main matter, on sentencing. Order reserved. We have given time to the contemnor to submit unconditional apology, if he so desires. Let it be filed by 24.08.2020. In case apology is submitted, the case to be posted for consideration on the same, on 25.08.2020….” The final order in the matter is expected to be delivered by September 2, the day Justice Arun Mishra, who heads the bench, is scheduled to retire. The original order, issued late on Thursday night, had mistakenly omitted the name of attorney-general K.K. Venugopal from the list of advocates present during the day’s hearing. The revised order corrected the mistake. Venugopal had said he was not representing the Union government on this matter. So far, neither Bhushan nor those who know him well have dropped any hint that he is considering an apology. On Thursday, after much persuasion by the bench to take a few days to consider the proposal for an apology, Bhushan had agreed to think it over. Sources within the Supreme Court believe that if Bhushan does not apologise, the bench will have no option but to pronounce a sentence of imprisonment. The maximum punishment is six months in jail. The sources feel that if the Supreme Court fails to act despite Bhushan sticking to his tweets, the highest court of the land could be viewed as powerless. Further, any leniency might embolden others to criticise the judiciary in the future, the sources said. The view within the top judiciary is that the matter could be given a burial after a censure or a fine if Bhushan tenders an unconditional apology in the spirit of “give and take”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Diaspora organisations in US call for one-day fast for Bhushan||Six diaspora organisations in the US have called for a one-day fast on Saturday in solidarity with advocate Prashant Bhushan who has been held guilty of contempt of court by the Supreme Court and is awaiting sentencing. All six organisations representing India’s diversity in the US jointly held a press conference this week and issued detailed statements urging the Supreme Court to reconsider and withdraw the contempt charges against Bhushan, pointing out that this could otherwise become a classic case study on free speech. “Should these contempt charges be upheld, we remain concerned of this judgment becoming a classic case study on ‘free speech’ and the intersection of current political environments in many courses of jurisprudence — asking the question where is the fine line of upholding constitutional guarantees?’’ said Manish Madan of Global Indian Progressive Alliance. Raju Rajagopal of Hindus for Human Rights said Bhushan had only articulated the sense of despair among the people. Recalling how the Supreme Court’s verdicts in the privacy and Sabrimala cases had raised expectations from the judiciary, he said its rulings on NRC and Ayodhya disabused any notion that the court was moving away from legitimising the fungible notion of “community sentiment’’. Seeing a pattern in Bhushan’s case and the arrest of students and activists, Aminah Ahmed of Indian American Muslim Council said: “Truly free speech in India is increasingly becoming less and less free... With the worrying rise of students as well as activists charged with sedition we see an effort to stigmatise them and create a narrative where any form of dissent is marked as ‘anti-national’. This notion that one cannot call out and question a higher authority surely has deep implications for where India is headed in terms of guaranteeing the rights that it claims to secure.’’ While Students Against Hindutva Ideology said the Supreme Court’s decision “undermines the legitimacy of democracy and the independence of the judiciary’’, Rohit Tripathi of Young India said contempt of court has no place in a mature democracy like India. Echoing Rajagopal, he urged the court to distinguish itself by reconsidering its earlier conviction of Bhushan. Over the past few weeks, many of these organisations have been repeatedly organising joint actions; first to protest the spectacle organised by some Right-wing groups in New York’s Times Square to celebrate the foundation stone laying of the Ram temple and then again to celebrate Independence Day. Besides raising their voices to stand up for the Indian Constitution, their effort is also to drive home the point that the diaspora is as diverse as India itself and not just made up of those who support the Right-wing agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||SC rejects plea seeking inquiry into conduct of ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea seeking setting up of a three-judge panel to inquire into the conduct of former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi as a judge of the apex court. Gogoi is now a Rajya Sabha MP. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra termed as infructuous the public interest litigation (PIL), and said the petitioner did not press for a hearing in last two years and moreover, now Justice (retd) Gogoi has already demitted office. Why did not you (petitioner) press it for hearing in the last two years? This plea has become infructuous as he has demitted office, the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said. Sorry we can't entertain, the bench told petitioner Arun Ramchandra Hublikar, who had sought inquiry into the alleged omission and commission by Justice (retd) Gogoi as a judge of the apex court. The petitioner claimed before the bench that he had met the secretary general of the top court for listing of his plea but it was not listed. Justice Gogoi, the first person from the northeast to reach the top of judiciary and credited for bringing the curtains down on the decades old politically and religiously sensitive Ayodhya land dispute, had retired as the CJI on November 17 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Srinagar does well in cleanliness survey, reasons puzzling||Some are bristling at the Srinagar administration’s preening over the city’s dramatic rise up the cleanliness rankings. Some are wondering if the yearlong lockdown held the key, sarcastically thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for “making it happen”. The city has jumped 321 spots from 357 last year to 36 in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the fifth edition of the Centre’s countrywide annual cleanliness survey. Srinagar ranked 241 in 2017 and 281 in 2018 — the year the WHO declared it the 10th most polluted city in the world. When the latest Swachh survey was conducted in January, the Valley had spent months under a government clampdown and then a shutdown over political disturbances, which had given city authorities little time to focus on cleanliness. Since then, Srinagar has mostly been under a pandemic-induced lockdown. So, when the district administration posted a self-congratulatory tweet -- announcing Srinagar’s rank and adding “Isn’t that commendable!” – many feathers were ruffled. “Of course, a city shut down by almost a continuous yearlong lockdown will be very clean,” tweeted journalist Muzamil Jaleel. Former minister Nayeem Akhtar posted: “No denying credit but yearlong lockdown, all pollutants off scene, educational institutions closed, economic activity frozen, hotels, tourism and even normal travel stopped, must all have contributed to this spectacular performance.” Saleem Beg, convener of the Jammu and Kashmir chapter of heritage promotion body Intach, however, said the ranking was “absolutely untrue”. He told The Telegraph the water quality in the city’s lakes and tanks was poor and its solid waste management pathetic.“They haven’t provided credible data. They should say in tangible terms where any improvement has happened,” Beg said. Members of the central government and the BJP have been claiming all-round improvement in J&K since the scrapping of Article 370 last August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Vinod Dua in Supreme Court: Criticism of Modi not sedition||Journalist Vinod Dua on Friday told the Supreme Court that criticism of the Prime Minister does not necessarily mean criticism of a lawfully elected government, also reasoning that he cannot be prosecuted for sedition in a democracy for expressing his opinion. Dua has challenged in the Supreme Court the move of Himachal Pradesh police to book him for sedition over a March 30 video in which he had been accused of saying that “Narendra Modi has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes” and creating panic by “spreading false information that the government does not have enough testing facilities” for Covid-19. The case was started on the complaint lodged by a man who claims to be a BJP leader. In the video, however, Dua did not explicitly say Modi “has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes”. He had said the Pathankot and Pulwama terror attacks and the Balakot air strike had been “politicised” to seek votes. Appearing for Dua before a bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit, senior advocate Vikas Singh pleaded that if freedom of press was not guaranteed to journalists, then democracy in the country would be “under threat”. “Any criticism of the government cannot be sedition unless it instigates violence. Moreover, if I criticise the Prime Minister, it does not come under criticism of the government,” Singh said on behalf of Dua. “In a democracy a citizen has a right to say or write whatever opinion he holds about the government or its measures by way of criticism or comment, so long as he does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder,” Singh told the bench, also having Justices M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran. The court adjourned the matter to September 2. On June 14, the apex court had restrained Himachal police from arresting Dua but had refused to stay investigations into the sedition case against him. It had allowed the police to interrogate him through videoconferencing since the senior journalist was a Delhi resident and had expressed inability to go to Himachal due to the pandemic. On July 8, the court had told Dua not to answer a second questionnaire sent to him by Himachal police and made it clear that it would quash the FIR if there was merit in his contention that he was being harassed. During Friday’s arguments, Singh said that freedom of press should also be extended to social media, where Dua’s video had been uploaded. “If freedom of speech is not specifically guaranteed to the press, things will take a degenerative turn in the country. If press is not allowed to be free, our democracy will be under threat…” Singh said. The senior counsel submitted that “…disloyalty to a government established by law is not the same thing as commenting in strong terms on the measures or acts of the government or its agencies so as to ameliorate the condition of the people”. Singh pointed out that while Dua’s video had been aired in March-end, the FIR was lodged on May 6, and that there had been no violence till now. The spread of violence is a key clause for a person to be prosecuted for sedition. Pleading that no case under IPC Sections 124A (sedition) or 505(2) (statement creating enmity, ill will or hatred among different classes of people) could be made out, Singh urged the court to quash the FIR immediately. He also wondered how Himachal police could invoke provisions of the Disaster Management Act, under which the pandemic-induced lockdown is in force, against Dua. “The FIR says that Mr Dua’s statements were of the nature intended to spread fear and panic and defeat the purpose of the lockdown…,” Singh told the court, pointing out that a case under the Act could be lodged only with the permission of a court. Singh referred to the 1995 Balwant Singh and Another vs State of Punjab case in which the Supreme Court had held that mere raising of a slogan, which did not result in violence, would not constitute sedition. “We find it difficult to hold that upon the raising of such casual slogans a couple of times without any other act whatsoever, the charge of sedition can be founded,” advocate Singh quoted from that judgment. Justice Lalit asked: “Would it be a case for evidence (to assess if sloganeering led to violence or could lead to violence), or for quashing of FIR at initial stages?” Singh replied that as per the law, inciting violence is an offence. “In this case also, the complaint was filed belatedly.… His (Dua’s) show has a shelf life. The complainant said that he found the show while surfing the Net and found that it could be inciteful,” the advocate said. “Our democracy in true sense is in threat if our press is not allowed to function freely,” Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||EC guidelines to conduct polls during the pandemic||The Election Commission of India on Friday issued guidelines for the conduct of polls during the pandemic, incorporating a host of precautionary measures but not banning convicted leaders from being part of online campaigns as proposed by the BJP. The guidelines will apply to the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections and the bypolls to 57 state and Lok Sabha seats that are expected to take place after September 7. The guidelines do not touch upon online campaign at all, which would mean the existing laws on political advertising that put no bar on convicted leaders from being aired on the virtual medium would continue to be in place. Many had linked the BJP’s proposal to a purported plan to prevent jailed Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Lalu Prasad from being part of the campaign in Bihar. Lalu, a former chief minister and the leader of a party that has the most number of seats in the Bihar Assembly, is serving a sentence in a fodder scam case in Ranchi, where he is currently admitted under incarceration at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences for several ailments. Lalu had been out on bail during the last Assembly elections in 2015 and had campaigned for the then Mahagatbandhan, an alliance of the RJD, JDU and the Congress, that had emerged victorious. Besides existing guidelines such as social distancing and wearing of masks, Friday’s order lays down that election authorities will have to carry out thermal scanning of every voter at the entrance of each polling premise. Guideline 10.4 says: “If temperature is above the set norms of MoHFW (health ministry) at first reading, then it will be checked twice and if it remains, then the elector shall be provided with token/certificate and will be asked to come for voting at the last hour of poll. At the last hour of poll, such electors shall be facilitated voting, strictly following Covid-19-related preventive measures.” Gloves will be given to every voter, and sanitisers will be available at every booth. No polling station will cater to more than 1,000 voters. Previously, the upper limit was 1,500 voters. Nomination forms will be made available online. However, they will still have to be submitted in person, but only two persons will be allowed to accompany the nominee. Only groups of up to five persons will be allowed to campaign door to door. For road shows too, only convoys of five vehicles will be allowed, and there will have to be a minimum gap of half an hour between two convoys. Rallies will take place at designated grounds, with markings made for social distancing. The venues will be monitored by officials, including health regulators. Parties and candidates have to ensure thermal screening, masks, and sanitisers at rallies. Election officials will be using larger halls for polling, counting and other activities to ensure social distancing. Counting is expected to take longer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||India can lose 1,200 female foetuses daily over next decade||India could lose on average more than 1,200 female foetuses daily over the next decade, researchers have forecast in a study that underscores the failure of the country’s ban on prenatal sex disclosure to stop selective abortion of female foetuses. Their study has estimated that the average annual number of missing female births up to 2025 through sex-selective abortions would be 469,000 from 2017 to 2025 and 519,000 from 2026 to 2030, resulting in around 6.8 million prevented births of girls. The sex ratio at birth (SRB) by 2030 — the proportion of boys to girls — would, as it does now, vary across states, from 1.035 in Chhattisgarh, the state projected to have the lowest, to 1.037 in Kerala to 1.149 in Uttarakhand and 1.184 in Haryana, the highest SRB. The study has predicted that after Chhattisgarh and Kerala, Bengal, Karnataka and Odisha would by 2030 have the next lowest SRBs ranging from 1.05 to 1.07. The northwestern states of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Gujarat would have the highest SRBs, all above 1.13. “Our projections could help direct policy planning to focus on states where female foetuses are most vulnerable to sex-selective abortions,” Fengqing Chao, a biostatistician at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia who led the study, told The Telegraph. While multiple scholars have earlier attempted to predict trends in female foeticide, Chao and her colleagues in Austria and France say their projections are the first based on reproducible statistical models rather than on ad-hoc assumptions. Their findings, published this week in the journal PLOS One, have predicted that Uttar Pradesh will account for the largest number of missing female births between 2017 and 2030 — nearly two million, or close to 30 per cent of the estimated 6.8 million nationwide. Doctors and health researchers tracking SRBs in the country said the projections were not surprising and highlight the country’s failure to stop female foeticide despite the ban on prenatal sex disclosure enacted in 1994. A report from the Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, had two years ago also found that sex ratios at birth had worsened in 17 of 21 states between the period 2012-14 and 2013-15. “There is no fear of the law, there is no deterrence,” said Puneet Bedi, a foetal medicine specialist in New Delhi who has been among doctors concerned about female foeticide for over three decades. Although health authorities have over the years initiated legal proceedings against dozens of doctors across India for violating the prenatal sex disclosure law, Bedi said, there have been few convictions. Doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, had in 2017 documented the existence of secret mobile medical teams that visit the homes of pregnant women during the nights to provide ultrasound scans and even on-the-spot abortions. The PGIMER doctors had in a medical journal in November 2017 described the plight of one such woman brought to their hospital after she suffered bleeding after a botched-up abortion attempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
22-08-2020||India||Puri government-owned pilgrim lodge sale protest ||A part of the sprawling premises of Puri’s lone government-owned lodge for pilgrims, the century-old Bagala Dharamsala, has been sold to six private hoteliers by the district administration, triggering protests by social activists and political parties. The critics’ point is that the building and the land had been donated to the government 115 years ago to provide cheap accommodation to pilgrims, and so no portion of it can be sold to people who will use it to earn a profit. What has deepened their anger is that the authorities demolished a part of the dharamsala in 2018 citing the need for renovation — and have now sold the part of the plot on which the demolished wing stood. On Friday, Puri MLA Jayant Sarangi of the BJP and his supporters launched an agitation demanding cancellation of the sale deeds. The Bagala Dharamsala charges just Rs 20 to Rs 100 a day for accommodation. Spread over 2.574 acres in Grand Road, about 300 metres from the Jagannath temple, the dharamsala could accommodate over 300 lodgers at a time before the 2018 demolition reduced its capacity. A devotee, Seth Kanheyalal Bagala, had built it in 1904 to provide lodgings for poor pilgrims after buying the land from the then government in 1899. He donated the building and the land in 1905 to the Lodging House Fund Committee, a government body headed by the Puri collector. Jagannath Bastia, a social activist and journalist, said he had late last year moved a public interest plea in Orissa High Court challenging the district administration’s decision to sell the land. “The high court has issued a notice to the state government and the matter is sub judice. At this time, the land’s handover between August 5 and 12 to the six lodge owners is illegal,” he said. The land sale comes at a time the administration has begun evicting about 100-odd lodges, shops and other establishments from near the temple to create a 75-metre-wide “security corridor” around the shrine. Lodges owned by the six land buyers are among those being evicted. “The state cabinet decided on August 12 to allot alternative land in Mangalaghat mouza, about 3km from the temple, to the displaced people (traders and businessmen),” Bastia said. “But just ahead of the cabinet’s meeting, the Puri collector illegally handed over 340 decimal land from the Bagala Dharamsala’s premises to the owners of six of the displaced lodges.” However, sources said the government had earmarked another 26 plots within the dharamsala premises for the displaced traders. An advocate, Priyadarshan Patnaik, said the land sale went against the spirit of a Supreme Court directive to the state government last November, asking it to arrange affordable accommodation for 60,000 tourists in Puri. The directive came on a petition from a concerned citizen, Mrinalini Padhi. “Now, instead of taking steps to build more dharamsalas in Puri, land has been sold from the lone existing dharamsala to private parties,” Patnaik said. “This is against the principles of law: the land was given as a gift to the collector for a particular purpose and cannot be transferred or used for any other purpose.” Puri collector Balwant Singh told The Telegraph: “Our additional district magistrate, who is in charge of rehabilitation and resettlement, has already explained that the sale deed had the state government’s approval.” He added: “Those who have made sacrifices for the beautification of the pilgrim town have been given land. I have no personal agenda in it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
22-08-2020||India||Srisailam hydel plant fire kills 9||A fire that broke out in the Srisailam hydroelectric plant on Thursday night has left nine persons dead, most of them engineers, with thick smoke hampering rescue operations for over 12 hours. Three people were badly injured in the blaze at the plant on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border. Telangana energy minister G. Jagadish Reddy said the fire broke out late on Thursday night when 17 people were inside the plant, run by the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation. Eight employees managed to come out, he said. Thick smoke engulfing the area hampered immediate rescue operations, the minister said. “A total of 17 employees were at the plant at the time of the accident. Eight of them were able to come out. But the remaining nine (seven Genco employees and two private firm employees) who were trapped were tragically killed. They tried to save the plant till their last breath,” Reddy told reporters at the plant. A fire department official based on preliminary assessment said the blaze started in the battery area apparently due to “over voltage”, which needs to be established after a thorough investigation. Telangana chief minister K. Chandrashekar Rao ordered a CID inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
22-08-2020||India||Supreme Court opens 3 Jain temples in Mumbai||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed devotees to offer Paryushan prayers for two days in three Jain temples in Mumbai amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, was hearing an appeal against the high court order that it did not wish to interfere with the state’s decision of not permitting temples in Mumbai to open for devotees during the eight-day Paryushan from August 15 to 23. “We direct the petitioners shall follow the SOP (standard operating procedures),” the bench said, permitting devotees to visit Jain temples at Dadar, Byculla and Chembur. It, however, said that permission for the Ganpati festival will have to be taken on a case-to-case basis from the Maharashtra Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
22-08-2020||India||Karnataka doctor kills self, colleagues threaten indefinite strike ||A government doctor in Mysore district was found hanging at his lodgings on Thursday amid allegations that a senior administrative official had insulted him for not performing enough Covid-19 tests. Dr S.R. Nagendra, taluk health officer for Nanjangud, was in his 40s, sources said. His colleagues staged a massive protest on Friday during a visit by medical education minister K. Sudhakar. They threatened an indefinite strike from Monday unless the accused official and a local body chief were suspended and booked for abetment to suicide. The protest brought Covid-related work to a standstill in the taluk. Television channels have aired an audio clip in which a male voice, purportedly of the accused district official, is heard shouting — apparently at Nagendra. “How many swab tests are you doing? Is this a joke? You are playing with the patients,” the voice says. “For a week you have been doing 25 or 26 tests a day. I will teach you a lesson — you are supposed to do 150 tests a day.” A senior police officer requested the media not to reveal the official’s identity. The police have seized Nagendra’s mobile phone, which apparently has the recording. The protesting doctors told the minister that Nagendra had not taken a single day off since the outbreak of Covid-19. He had rented a small house in Nanjangud and was staying there, away from his family who lived elsewhere in the district. Before the pandemic, Nagendra used to commute to Nanjangud every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
22-08-2020||India||Official suspended in UP for mask assault||A sub-divisional magistrate has been suspended and a police case registered against him for assaulting people in the name of implementing Covid-19 protection guidelines in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district. While Ashok Chaudhary, the SDM of Belthara Road, had been suspended on Thursday evening, he was booked on Friday under IPC Sections 323 and 504 for voluntarily causing hurt and intentional insult and provocation to break public peace after videos of him assaulting people on the road, inside offices and at shops sparked outrage and threats from local traders to down shutters. Many of these people had been wearing masks and there was at least one woman at the receiving end of the blows. Video clips of Chaudhary and four home guards, who too have been benched and booked for the same offences, brutally assaulting shopkeeper Rajat Chaurasia and his younger brother Ashu have been widely shared on social media and have attracted condemnation. Chaurasia, who has been left nursing a broken arm, had posted the videos on Twitter and tagged chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s office. A Hindi tweet from the chief minister’s office on Thursday announced: “Taking cognisance of the misbehaviour with the people, Ashok Chaudhary, SDM of Belthara Road, Ballia, has been suspended and attached with the Revenue Board.” Chaurasia, 28, alleged that Chaudhary and the home guards had entered his grocery store and abused him for wearing a handkerchief instead of a conventional mask. “When I told him that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said people could also wrap handkerchiefs or towels or cloth around their face, the officer got infuriated and dragged me and my brother out of the shop and beat us with batons,” Chaurasia said. “They continued to assault us for about 20 minutes. My brother was also beaten although he was wearing a conventional mask,” he added. A police officer at Belthara Road told reporters on the condition of anonymity that Chaudhary had claimed he brought the suspension upon himself by assaulting people. “He said he wanted to be suspended so that he could take some rest during the pandemic,” the police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
22-08-2020||India||Study to test health staff HCQ shield||Private health researchers have announced plans for a study on 7,000 healthcare workers across India to determine whether the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine can lower the risk of the coronavirus infection as claimed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, will collaborate with doctors at the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai and New Delhi and others to conduct the study for which the institute had unsuccessfully sought funding from two government agencies more than three months ago. “We’re using our internal resources to try and find an answer to this important question,” Vivekanand Jha, executive director of The George Institute, told The Telegraph on Thursday. The ICMR had earlier this year recommended that all healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duties should take hydroxychloroquine as a prophylactic — a preventive medication — to reduce their risk of contracting the infection. The ICMR, the country’s apex health research agency, has justified this recommendation citing lab studies and limited evidence. But some doctors have questioned the decision saying there is inadequate evidence to prescribe hydroxychloroquine to healthy persons as a preventive medication. But everyone agrees that healthcare workers need to take special precautions to protect themselves from Covid-19. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, has estimated that around 200 doctors in India have died so far after becoming infected by the coronavirus. In the planned trial, The George Institute and the Apollo doctors hope to classify 7,000 healthcare workers — doctors, nurses and paramedics — into two equal groups, one half will receive the prescribed hydroxychloroquine dose, the other half will not. All the healthcare workers will be expected to also follow standard protective precautions, including the use of personal protective equipment. The researchers plan to follow up the 7,000 healthcare workers for six months and count Covid-19 infections among both groups. If hydroxychloroquine protects healthy persons from the infection, Jha said, the number of Covid-19 cases should be significantly lower in the group that received hydroxychloroquine compared to the group that did not. “The study will also monitor hospitalisation, admission to intensive care units, and the length of stay in hospitals (among any Covid-19 patients that emerge in either group),” said Bharath Kumar, a critical care consultant at Apollo, Ch-ennai, and study collaborator. The George Institute had earlier this year approached the ICMR and the Department of Biotechnology, a unit of the Union science and technology ministry, seeking funding for such a study without success. But, as reported in this newspaper earlier this year, the ICMR had cancelled an expert panel meeting called to evaluate the proposal and a DBT panel rejected the proposal saying that while the trial was “well-designed”, the ICMR would itself probe the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine. Senior ICMR officials had said earlier this year that its recommendation for hydroxychloroquine as a protective medication against Covid-19 was based on limited evidence and needed to be validated through larger randomised control trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid patient found hanging||A 45-year-old Covid-19 patient was found hanging from the ceiling of a cabin in West Mindapore’s Salboni Covid Hospital around 2am on Friday. Gopal Ghorai, a resident of Kharagpur’s Sultanpur village, had been admitted to the hospital on August 12 after tests in the course of a sepsis infection treatment had led to Covid diagnosis. Ghorai was found on Friday morning hanging by a piece of cloth from the ceiling of a private cabin adjacent to the 200-bed main ward. Hospital sources said prima facie it seemed Ghorai had committed suicide. Ghorai’s son, however, alleged that it was a “murder” given that his father could barely walk on his own. “I refuse to believe my father could take this step himself since he could barely walk. He was murdered first and then hung,” said Biswajit Ghorai. Biswajit is also a Covid patient undergoing treatment at Midnapore town’s Ayush hospital. “My father had been suffering from crippling sepsis in his foot since July. So, how could he walk?” Biswajit added. Hospital officials on Friday said they were treating the incident as suicide, but sources said later on Friday that health officials had asked Salboni police station to start an investigation in connection with Biswaji’s complaint. “Since a formal complaint has been lodged by the son, we have requested police to do the needful,” said chief medical officer (health), Nimai Mondal, adding that a post-mortem had been completed. Hospital sources said Ghorai did not have any known problems with other patients in the ward, adding that investigations would cover all angles. The sources added that Ghorai’s body was being handled according to the Covid protocol. The 200-bed Salboni Covid hospital, sources said, was at its full capacity as of Thursday night. Total Covid cases in the district as of Friday stood at 2,500 with 1,706 having recovered and the death toll was 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Con bid in name of Covid-hit cop||Fraudsters have opened a social media account asking the public to donate money for the treatment of North Dinajpur superintendent of police Sumit Kumar who tested positive for Covid-19. After coming to know about the con, Kumar, who has been under medical supervision at his residence after being detected with Covid-19 on August 13, made a social media posts, asking people not to fall prey to the fraudsters. “A few days back, I had come to know that an account had been opened in the social media by some fraudsters who made posts mentioning my illness and appealing for money to bear my treatment cost. A number of such posts were made to draw money from people in my name. I have asked the cybercrime police station of the district to find out who all are behind it,” Kumar said over the phone. Police sources said the SP himself had made it clear that it was an old trick to ask for money from friends in the name of illness. “The tricksters asked for money to hospitalise the SP whereas he is in isolation at his residence,” said a police officer. The police said they had been informed by some residents of Raiganj about the social media account. Officers at the cybercrime police station said they were trying to track down those who had opened the account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Mud dams breached in tides||Vast portions of Sunderbans riverine belt were inundated and large stretches of agricultural land and fisheries damaged after earthen dams in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas districts were breached since the early hours of Friday. Heavy rainfall, triggered by low pressure and accompanied by spring tide, over the past few days has triggered the breach. Stretches of earthen dams along the Roymangal, Bidyadhari, Kalindi and Goureshwar rivers in several blocks of North 24-Parganas, including Haroa, Minakha, Sandeshkhali, and Hingalganj, have been washed away by tidal waves. Saline water has entered the areas damaging agricultural land and fisheries, while flooding residential areas and markets. According to preliminary estimates, at least 20 gram panchayats in the two districts have suffered fresh damage in the inundation. The situation has turned so serious that both the district administrations have been preparing to evacuate a large number of people from the affected zones apprehending increase in the water levels in the rivers. Hingal resident Azahar Mandal said: “We are apprehending bad days again after Amphan. The water level in the river is increasing at an alarming rate. If it continues to rain, the area will be flooded damaging houses and properties.” In South 24-Parganas, water level has been increased in several rivers, including Muriganga, Gangasagar, and Moni. This has led to damages to thatched dams at many places. On the Ghoramara island of Gangasagar, vast stretches of agricultural land has been inundated by saline water after a thatched dam was washed away. Officials of the irrigation department visited several affected places on Friday, but repairs could not be taken up because of high water level and incessant rain. “The water level is rising and nothing can be done at the moment,” an irrigation official said. Trinamul MLA Bankim Hazra, who is also the chairman of the Sunderbans Development Board, said: “Irrigation officials will undertake the job on an emergency basis to address the damage caused to the dams.” In East Burdwan’s Kalna, people put up bamboo railings for a 1km stretch along Bhagirathi to avoid accidents. The embankment has eroded following heavy rainfall. The villagers took the decision as a portion of mud road at Chak-Kamalpur village in Kalna’s Purbasthali 2 block was washed away. Soumik Bagchi, the block development officer of Purbasthali 2, said: “We have already sent a proposal to the state government for the repair of the embankment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Devastation revisits Mousuni Island||A large part of Mousuni Island in the Sunderbans was flooded by saline water on Wednesday and Thursday, leaving homeless hundreds of people who are yet to recover from the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan. Local panchayat functionaries said embankments surrounding the island — which is encircled by two rivers, Muriganga and Chinai, and Bay of Bengal — were breached in at least six points and water surging over the dykes in other areas caused the damage. Nearly 3,000 people were rendered homeless. The Mousuni island is located at the southern edge of Bengal. “It all started from Wednesday with eastern wind coupled with high tide breaching the embankments in at least six points on the island… Close to one fourth of the island have been fully flooded, leading to around 3000 people being severely affected and many mud houses getting flattened,” said Suvendu Maity, a member of Mousuni gram panchayat, on Friday. South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan, however, said there was no breach of embankment in the island. “Water overflowed because of rise in the water levels of the rivers in turbulent weather. There was no breach in embankments as they were recently repaired after Amphan. We have evacuated 150 families and taken them to nearby flood shelters.” He also said a team of engineers from the irrigation department had been sent to the island and they would undertake a survey to find out whether any of the embankments had been weakened because of the sudden rise of water level of the rivers. Local residents alleged that the maximum damage had been caused near the signal point in Mousuni mouza, where a stretch of 1.5km doesn’t have any embankment. “For the past four years, we have been constantly demanding the embankment in that area. Former irrigation minister Rajib Banerjee took an initiative to build an embankment for a few kilometres, but nothing has happened since he was removed from the department”, said a local resident. The latest disaster adds to the wounds of people living on the island, located close to Sagar Island, as they were yet to recover from the devastations caused by cyclones Amphan in May and Bulbul in November last year. “I had lost my house during Bulbul in November and partially rebuilt it by taking a loan. But again, the roof blew away during Cyclone Amphan. Now this has happened. Can’t the government ensure safe homes for us?” asked Muslima Bibi of Baliara Mouza on the island. G. K. Das, director of IMD, Calcutta said wind speed of about 40km to 50km per hour coupled with high tide had led to the situation. According to the oceanographic department of Jadavpur university Mousuni, along with Ghoramara and Sagar, is one of the most climatically impacted islands in the Sunderbans. The island, spread over barely 28sqkm, has lost about 5.8sqkm in the past five decades. “The rate of relative sea level rise in the area is about 8 to12 millimetres per year, which is three to four times over global average,” says Sugata Hazra from Jadavpur University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid recoveries cross 1 lakh in Bengal||Over 1 lakh people were cured of Covid-19 in Bengal with 3,082 recoveries being reported on Friday. As the total number of recoveries rose to 1,01,871, the state also recorded yet another 24-hour high in tests at 36,229. The day’s death toll was 55. Bengal also logged 3,245 novel coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest intra-day count so far. Of the new cases, the city reported 462, while North 24-Parganas had 764. The highest number of new cases recorded on a single day previously had been Thursday’s 3,197. The maximum single-day test tally earlier was 35,107 reported on Tuesday. Out of the total 1.32 lakh cases, Bengal now has 1.01 lakh recoveries and 2,689 deaths. The recovery rate is at an all-time high of 76.96 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 74.52. “The first Covid-19 case in Bengal was found on March 17. Till July 31 — 136 days since then, we had 48,374 recoveries in total. In 21 days of August so far, we added 53,497 recoveries,” said a Bengal minister, underscoring the “whopping” 8 per cent rise in recoveries achieved in the three weeks of the current month. Asked whether the surge was largely on account of the altered hospitalisation protocol for Covid-19 patients, the minister said it was “only one of many” factors, including newer steps for “better, more timely” medical intervention before, during and after institutional medical care ensured by the state government. In the new hospitalisation protocol, fewer days of hospitalisation are required for those doing better. “For the three-week window between July 10 and 31, the percentage of recovery in comparison to new cases was 72. That, for these three weeks, is 86,” said the minister. The 36,229 tests took the total to past 14.87 lakh, at 16,532 tests per million people. “The World Health Organisation advisory specifies 140 tests per million, daily. Now, we are at 403, nearly thrice of that. Just to give an idea of how much ground we have been covering, rapidly… we were at 211, even on July 31. A month ago, we were at 156,” said the minister. “We are looking at getting at least 18.5 lakh tests (in total) done by the end of this month,” he added. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.9 per cent, which was 6.63 a month ago. Of the total 2,689 deaths reported, Calcutta accounted for 1,154, with 22 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 620 deaths, 10 of them on Friday. The state reported 2,360 (87.8 per cent) deaths as those with comorbidity “present”. In the three weeks of August, 1,108 Covid patients died and 992 fatalities, according to the government, were comorbid. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 2.03, still behind the national rate of 1.88 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.28. The state reported 35.84 per cent occupancy in the 11,935 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 86 dedicated hospitals. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to 1.05 lakh people, including 4,511 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||New angle to Darjeeling railway in UK documentary||A British documentary maker who shot videos on the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway with active help from the UK-based Darjeeling Himalayan Railway Society just before the lockdown, has released the first part of his project. Peter Middleton, who had been making videos on railways for over three decades, came up with a unique documentary which shows the mountain railway from the seat of the loco pilot. “For the first time ever, an extensive video on the DHR has been released which showcases the railway from a driver’s eye. It has been planned to publish the video in two parts. One part would comprise the route from New Jalpaiguri to Tindharia and the other from Tindharia to Darjeeling. Recently, the first part, that is, the journey from Tindharia to Darjeeling has been released,” said Paul Whittle, the vice-chairman of the DHRS. The representatives of the DHRS also pointed out that it was more fascinating to see the DHR tracks and the idyllic landscapes in the surroundings from the front of a loco in a video, rather than videos which are shot sideways from the carriages or from chase vehicles. Some clips, which were shot from a chase vehicle or through drones, have added to the attraction of the documentary that is two hours and 24 minutes long. “It was in March that the team came here and shot the video in a charter train with steam loco. It is nice to see that despite having a short time, they could manage to get their job done and now a portion of the video has been released,” said Partha Pratim Roy, a DHR enthusiast based in Siliguri. Roy said it was a challenging task for the team to mount video cameras in front of the loco because of the vibration and swaying caused by short wheels of the loco. “It took time to place the cameras in such a way that there was no jerk. The efforts worked and the videos were found to be of good quality. It was nice to see the DHR from a different camera angle,” he added. The video, that is available with the DHRS, has yet another attraction – a narrative by Jonathan Kydd, a British actor who is also a prominent voice actor in the UK. “He has lent his voice in similar railway videos earlier. This time, he has narrated the beauty of the DHR and the landscape of Darjeeling,” said a DHRS member. The initiative has also earned appreciation from DHR officials. “In the past few years, we have seen a surge in the number of passengers and last year, the number crossed one lakh for the first time in the history of DHR. Such videos always help us in getting more tourists on board,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Murmurs over BJP seat scan  in Bengal||A section of Bengal BJP functionaries has started raising questions on the ongoing assessment of the party’s position in 154 Assembly seats as they think the state leadership, aided by district presidents, is rolling out a rosy picture by sweeping under the carpet its organisational weaknesses. “We couldn’t put up agents at over 30 per cent of the booths during the general election. Still, we won 18 seats primarily because of the public’s mood in favour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said a party source. “Any fair assessment process should have started with the first question of whether we are now in a position to put up agents at 77,000-odd booths in the state,” the source added. On August 18 and 19, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, party’s co-in charge for Bengal Arvind Menon and other senior leaders like Rahul Sinha and Mukul Roy initiated the second round of a meetings to assess the party’s position in 154 Assembly constituencies. Some party sources present at the assessment sessions — conducted at Dilip Ghosh’s Rajarhat address — said that the leaders were in a “self-congratulatory” mode. “The district presidents were presenting rosy pictures claiming that the situation is favourable for the party. Both state and central leaders present at the meeting took the district reports for granted, without asking many questions,” a party leader said. This section of leaders believes senior leaders like Ghosh are hoping for a rerun of the general election. But a series of events took place since then, which suggest Trinamul’s resurgence in several areas. Not only the BJP failed to win in any of the three seats — including Kharagpur Sadar from where Ghosh was previously elected — in the Assembly bypolls, the political dynamics also changed in vast stretches of Bengal. Trinamul successfully launched anti-NRC and anti-CAA campaigns. Besides, hundreds of BJP supporters switched over to the Trinamul Congress at several places. “Our leaders don’t appear to have taken note of all of these events, which indicate Trinamul, at least to some extent, is recovering the lost ground,” said a source. Speaking of Trinamul’s recovery, a BJP leader referred to the Arambagh Lok Sabha constituency, which the BJP had lost by a margin of around 1,100 votes. “We have reports that Trinamul is leaving no stone unturned to cement its base in Arambagh. If we don’t start building our organisation from now, it will be too late for the polls,” this leader said. This person reminded that a BJP supporter had been murdered on August 15 in Khanakul — which comes under the Arambagh constituency — in Hooghly and suggested that this incident was a proof of how desperate Trinamul had become. “What are our leaders doing? Have you seen a single centralised rally over this death? Why will common worker support us if we don’t support them?” the leader asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Girl’s body found, rape suspected||A 16-year-old girl who had gone missing on August 10 evening was found dead in a septic tank on Thursday evening. Police have arrested three persons who are residents of villages in the girl’s neighbourhood. The police claimed the trio had admitted to abducting, raping and killing the Class X student and dumping her body in the septic tank. Rehman Ali, Zamirul Haque and Tamirul Haque were produced in the chief judicial magistrate’s Court in Jalpaiguri on Friday and remanded in police custody for eight days. A section of villagers demonstrated in front of Rajganj police station, alleging that the law enforcers hadn’t done enough to trace the teen. Local Trinamul MLA Khageswar Roy demanded the transfer of all those police officers who were involved in the probe. He reached the police station and spoke to the protesters. The MLA assured them that proper punishment would be meted out to the accused. Pradeep Kumar Yadav, the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri, said: “Senior officers will probe the charges against the Rajganj police personnel. If the allegations are correct, they will face action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Protests lined up against varsity VC in Santiniketan||The student and youth wings of the CPM will hold protests in Santiniketan on Saturday against the recent vandalism and alleged attempts by Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and other varsity officials to saffronise Rabindranath Tagore’s institution. The twin protests by the SFI and the DYFI are among so many programmes lined up by political parties in Santiniketan over the next few days. “We condemn the vandalism, for sure. But we would also protest against the practices of the current VC, his bid to ruin the legacy of Tagore and his ideology here to saffronise the campus,” DYFI Birbhum district secretary Manotosh Majumdar said. The SFI highlighted several allegedly biased moves by Chakrabarty, such as disallowing a lecture by eminent Marxist economist Prabhat Patnaik and inviting Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, a saffron ideologue for a talk on the controversial citizenship matrix. The Congress is also planning a movement against the proposed boundary wall. “Our Bolpur unit would conduct a protest on Sunday against Visva-Bharati by putting up walls,” said Birbhum district Congress president Sanjoy Adhikary. The BJP is yet to start a structured movement as the party wants to test the waters on the emotive issue of the wall, in particular, and Chakrabarty, in general, before taking a proper plunge. “We have been getting divergent opinions. We will have a meeting on Saturday with leaders of Bolpur and decide on the political course of action on the matter,” Birbhum district BJP chief Shyamapada Mondal said. Trinamul leaders said they would support all movements, irrespective of political affiliation, in protest against the varsity’s moves to “ruin the culture” of Santiniketan with walls and alleged saffronisation. “We are in favour of Tagore and his legacy, which Santiniketan and Visva-Bharati stand for. We will oppose whoever tries to act against them,” said Abhijit Sinha, a district coordinator of Trinamul. The SUCI, a Left outfit traditionally opposed to the CPM, issued a news release, demanding an end to politicisation of the campus by both Trinamul and the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Cash nod for land purchase  in Bengal||The state finance department has allowed expenditure on acquisition and purchase of land by government departments, the first such relaxation since Nabanna imposed a blanket ban on all non-Covid-19 expenses. An order issued by finance secretary H.K. Dwivedi on August 17 said that in partial modification of an earlier order, all expenditures on land acquisition and purchase would be allowed with prior approval of competent authority. Sources in the state administration said the August 17 order held significance as it made it clear the government was set to give a big push to projects that had got stalled midway because of Covid-19. The timing of the order is also significant, feels officials, as it was issued just ahead of the chief minister’s district review meetings, which would start from Monday through video conference. “A lot of ongoing projects of departments like public health engineering, irrigation and public works have come to a halt because of unavailability of land. The exemption given by the finance secretary would help the departments go for purchase of the land required for the projects,” said a senior government official. The chief minister’s office and the chief secretary’s office have asked the district magistrates to send progress reports on the ongoing projects ahead of the meeting. “The reports have started reaching Nabanna. The reports hinted that many projects could not be completed as land could not be arranged,” said a bureaucrat. Sources also said Mamata Banerjee was keen on completing the projects by year-end so that their benefits could reach people before the 2021 Assembly polls. The pending projects include pipeline-based water supply to homes, repair and restoration of several district roads and embankments and connecting farmland to irrigation facilities. “The projects don’t need huge quantum of land,” said a source. A senior bureaucrat, however, said lifting the ban alone would not help the districts at all. “The finance department has to allot funds for the land purchase. But I am not sure whether the government would be able to release funds immediately to buy land for projects given that the state’s revenue generation has dried up significantly since April.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||North East||Nagaland government at odds with governor again||The strained ties between the People’s Democratic Alliance (PDA) running the Nagaland government and governor R.N. Ravi have resurfaced. The PDA adopted a resolution on Thursday evening saying Ravi’s “negative” observation about the state in his Independence Day speech has “not been well received by the people”. After a meeting in state capital Kohima, the PDA, comprising the NDPP, BJP and Independent members, adopted four resolutions, one of which said that it was “compelled to voice the feelings of people” over Ravi’s message. The last para of the PDA statement said the alliance has “taken note of the people’s concern” on the contents of Ravi’s Independence Day message wherein “negative observation” was made against Nagaland. “The PDA observes that the speech has not been well received by the people. Though Nagaland may not be the best performing state, we are making every effort to take the state forward on all development fronts. As representatives of the people, the PDA is compelled to voice the feelings of the people,” the statement said. The PDA statement was signed by state BJP president Temjen Imna Along and Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) president Chingwang Konyak. Imna is also a minister in the Neiphiu Rio (NDPP)-led coalition government. The ruling alliance’s reaction, sources said, is a reflection of the governor’s strained ties with the state government. Ravi’s ties with the NSCN (I-M), too, nosedived to such an extent that the outfit has sought his removal. The Centre has tasked senior Intelligence Bureau officials with keeping the talks going. In his Independence Day message on Saturday, Ravi had said that “waves of positive change and growth seem to have been bypassing” the state because of a “deeply entrenched network” of vested interests that has “misappropriated” the dividends of peace and did not allow them to reach the people. Ravi also pointed out how Nagaland has earned the “dubious distinction” of the “worst-performing” state in the country on almost all the “significant” indicators of human development, including education, investment climate, agriculture and horticulture, despite the security forces and Naga armed groups being in ceasefire. “Incongruously, a deeply entrenched network of vested interests has emerged during the period which has misappropriated the dividends of peace and did not allow them to reach the people. “There is mass-scale mayhem and miscarriage of dreams and expectations of the people of Nagaland. It is unendurable and unacceptable,” Ravi had said. This is the second time that the ruling dispensation has not agreed with Ravi’s observation. In a June 16 letter to Rio, Ravi had criticised the “grim law and order” in the state and how “armed gangs” were indulging in “rampant extortion” with the government virtually looking the other way. However, the state government, in a detailed rejoinder, said Ravi’s observations “do not appear to be factual” while the NSCN (I-M) had taken offence to the “armed gangs” reference, asserting that they “levy taxes” but have never indulged in extortion. The Rio government had also said that its move to profile government personnel having links with underground outfits was being carried out on the direction of Ravi. The move was widely criticised. Apart from voicing people’s concern over Ravi’s message, the PDA statement also touched upon the floundering peace process by welcoming the Centre’s initiatives to resume the Indo-Naga political dialogue. The ruling alliance has also requested the Opposition Naga People’s Front to rejoin the Joint Legislators Forum (JLF) in the “greater interest” of Naga society and for lasting and genuine peace. The NPF had quit the JLF on Tuesday, alleging that the forum had been rendered “ineffective” by the Neiphiu Rio government. It was formed to facilitate the peace process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
22-08-2020||North East||AASU stands vindicated by MP government's job scheme||The All Assam Students’ Union, which has been advocating jobs for locals, on Friday said its stand has been vindicated after the Madhya Pradesh government announced that government jobs would only be given to “the children of the state”. AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya on Friday told The Telegraph that jobs for locals has been one of their key demands in view of unemployment in the state. Assam last year had around 17 lakh educated unemployed people. The effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy is likely to add around 4 lakh more to the list, sources said. “The move by the Madhya Pradesh government shows our demand is justified. We stand vindicated. The BJP-led government in that state has realised the importance of reserving jobs for locals. We have to see when the BJP-led Assam government and the Centre realise that we need to secure the future of our people first,” Bhattacharjya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
22-08-2020||Opinion||Safe bet: Merkel and Macron greet with folded hands||Sir — The images of the French president, Emmanuel Macron, and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, greeting each other with folded hands — akin to the traditional Indian greeting of ‘namaste’ — at the presidential palace in France were rather amusing. The Western world, which has long prided itself on being the fount of civilized behaviour in the global order, suddenly finds itself in the middle of a crisis that is forcing it to acknowledge the practical and hygienic nature of the practices of the Eastern civilizations. Jokes aside, however, all world leaders would be wise to set an example for their citizens to greet one another in ways that do not involve physical contact.Jessica Gomes,Mumbai Melt away Sir — It was deeply distressing to read that Greenland’s immense ice sheet suffered a record net loss of 532 billion tonnes last year. The figure amounts to an additional three million tonnes of water streaming into global oceans every day, or six Olympic-size swimming pools every second. Last year in July, Icelanders gathered to mourn the disappearance of one of the country’s 300 glaciers, all of which are melting. Given that places like Greenland and Iceland are relatively untouched by pollution and the ravages of human activity in comparison to the rest of the world, it is evident that the acute effects of climate change plaguing the two regions are the result of the blithe disregard for global warming of other countries. Climate change adversely affects all. World leaders now no longer have any excuse left to deny the cataclysmic effects of global warming. It is high time they started working on a war footing towards saving the planet from a climate disaster.Malini Bose,CalcuttaSudden affection Sir — Cricket is known as a gentleman’s game, and the former skipper of the Indian men’s team, M.S. Dhoni, embodied this description. But it was quite a surprise to hear that the prime minister, Narendra Modi, wrote a letter — it was shared on his Twitter page — to Dhoni, calling him “one of the important illustrations of the spirit of New India, where family name does not make young people’s destiny but they make their own names and their own destinies”. Lovers of sport will be aware that the prime minister has, thus far, never really showed any real interest in sports, including football, which is dear to a lot of Indians. If he did care about sport, then why is it that the demise of two of the country’s most valuable sportspersons — the legendary players, Chuni Goswami and P.K. Banerjee, whose contributions to India’s football legacy are immense — went unacknowledged by him? Modi wrote a praise-filled letter for Dhoni on the latter’s retirement, but has he shown the same enthusiasm for appreciating some of India’s hockey captains, or even when a tennis great like Leander Paes retired? It would not be unreasonable to surmise that the prime minister’s display of great fondness for Dhoni was purely politically motivated — after all, there are some crucial state assembly elections around the corner, and the addition of someone like Dhoni to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign would be a masterstroke. Modi is a seasoned politician: he is unlikely to extend such gestures without a reason. Dhoni is, and will likely remain, in the limelight for a while, and the prime minister’s fondness for the cameras is well-known. Modi’s motivations aside, if the former cricket captain does decide to join politics, then cricket lovers will hope that he has a fulfilling and grace-filled innings, much like those that he had out on the field.Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — It was amusing to read the letter on the prime minister’s Twitter page for M.S. Dhoni on the occasion of the latter’s retirement. Rarely, if ever, has Narendra Modi shown such appreciation for a sports personality when they bid adieu to the game that they played. This sudden display of admiration makes one wonder whether the BJP, which always has a — usually insidious — agenda, is pulling out all the stops to woo Dhoni into its fold. Ragini Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
22-08-2020||Opinion||The golden oldies: Calcutta’s heritage list||There is a lot more worth saving than meets the eye — or, more accurately, than the eye has been willing to see. That is why it is heartening to hear that Calcutta’s heritage list, which has been lying dormant and unchanged since 2000, is finally set to be updated by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The inordinate delay notwithstanding, the revision is a welcome move, as it will add greatly to the representational nature of the list with the inclusion of more structures of cultural, economic and historical value. It is no secret that in spite of its diverse culture and history, Calcutta, much like other Indian cities, is known for doing precious little to preserve and protect the remnants of its past. This disregard has been amply reflected in the apathetic response to conservation; as recently as 2018, the old Kenilworth Hotel was razed to the ground after its heritage status was quietly downgraded. Well before that, the exquisite Darbhanga palace on Chowringhee was demolished; in its place today stands Calcutta’s ‘tallest building’, promoted by the same consortium that acquired and demolished the old Kenilworth Hotel. In the light of this, it is reassuring that the practice of downgrading heritage buildings without public knowledge is set to end and, more important, public participation is to be made a significant part of the municipal framework of conservation activity. In this case, archivists, heritage enthusiasts and activists will be able to identify not just mansions but also entire precincts within the city that deserve to be preserved for their unique cultural and historical dimensions. This kind of cohesion and dialogue between administrative bodies and experts is rare in Indian policy-making; and yet, it is crucial for firing up the bureaucratic imagination to transcend established codes of conservation. After all, heritage is a fine mesh of the tangible with the intangible. It is an endangered space where old buildings and edifices jostle for survival along with cultures and livelihoods. This ecosystem is in dire need of regeneration. Calcutta’s Chinatown, a vibrant but marginalized hub, is a case in point. There is an added advantage to this nimbler comprehension of heritage. The preservation of livelihood, integral to heritage precincts, could, in turn, strengthen local — neighbourhood — economies, bolstering public mobilization to demand conservation. Heritage then can turn truly participatory and democratic. This momentum must be widened in its scope. The burgeoning vision of heritage preservation must expand to districts and villages. Apart from Serampore or Chandannagore, places such as Tamralipta and Chandraketugarh — from where there is archaeological evidence to suggest a sea-faring history of the region’s people — as well as Bengal’s crumbling terracotta temples must be brought within the ambit of a collective culture of conservation. The future of heritage and its protection in India rely on enterprises that are modern, well-funded and truly participatory in character.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
22-08-2020||Opinion||One in a million: MS Dhoni retires||On hearing that Mahendra Singh Dhoni was retiring from international cricket, Nasser Hussain declared: “This will be a massive, massive story in India. The only story in India.” Hussain called MS “probably the best white-ball captain there has ever been. A great finisher. It wasn’t over until you got Dhoni out. A phenomenally calm, cool customer.” According to another former England skipper, Michael Vaughan, “you could argue the greatest ever white ball captain & finisher”. In The Guardian, Kevin Mitchell said that Dhoni “changed the game forever and captured the hearts of all India fans” and wrote about “his elegant, murderous hitting nearly everywhere he went”. And in The Daily Telegraph, Tim Wigmore called MS “one of the most iconic Indian cricketers of all time and the cricketer who made India fall in love with Twenty20 cricket. Dhoni’s career also embodied the democratization of Indian cricket.” I was delighted when the former English left arm spinner, Monty Panesar, was moved to get in touch out of the blue and offer me an intriguing assessment of Dhoni’s position in the Indian pantheon: “Now the question is, will we have another cricketer of Dhoni’s mindset? Now, I don’t know if we’re going to get another MS Dhoni from Ranchi or from another non-cricket town. That is going to be very difficult. The BCCI should develop coaching programmes, educational programmes, sports courses or university courses where there’s actually a module on Mahendra Singh Dhoni, the cricketer, his strategic mindset and business ideas. They should maybe call it the MS Dhoni coaching programme. “Then you may develop more people who have the mindset of MS Dhoni. But if not, you’ll end up just seeing MS Dhoni and that was it — this rare talent and one of the most intelligent cricketers who has ever played the game. He was a once in a century cricketer. You may not see another MS Dhoni again.” Loaded words Thanks to the way Father Cleary taught us The Jungle Book at St Xavier’s School in Patna, I won’t hear anything against Rudyard Kipling, though these days he is condemned as a racist and an imperialist. At the Victory over Japan Day commemoration on August 15, his poem, “Mandalay” was dropped from the event after the Jamaica-born operatic bass baritone, Sir Willard White, who was going to sing the words at the Cenotaph in Whitehall, objected to the reference, “An’ a-wastin’ Christian kisses on an ‘eathen idol’s foot”. The protagonist in “Mandalay” (1890) is a Cockney working-class soldier, back in grey restrictive London, recalling the time he felt free and had a Burmese girlfriend, now unattainably far away but whom he had once kissed. When Boris Johnson was the foreign secretary in 2017, he had tried to recite the poem while on a visit to the sacred Shwedagon Pagoda in former Rangoon. He had to be sharply reprimanded by the British ambassador, Andrew Patrick, who told him he was “on mic” and the poem was “not appropriate”.Spoilt for choice The right-wing in Britain would probably like to see Donald Trump re-elected president in November but Joe Biden’s choice of Kamala Harris, with a Jamaican father and a Tamil mother, has caused huge excitement in the large Indian population in the United Kingdom. Many of them, especially in the Gujarati community, back Narendra Modi, who is presumably rooting for Trump, but they would be happy to see Harris become vice president. But they would also like to support whoever the Indian PM is supporting. Hence there’s a bit of confusion. I am getting my intel from a friend, Dinesh Sharma, an academic and author in New York who is fundraising for the Biden-Harris ticket. He tells me a baffling story about the cricket bat which Trump gifted to Imran Khan when the Pakistani prime minister visited Washington in July last year. This was interpreted as a token of great esteem by the accompanying Pakistani media. But Dinesh’s Pakistani friends have been telling him that “this is a slap in the face for Imran. The bat had been given to Eisenhower by the Pakistani generals when he had visited Pakistan. Why would you want to return a gift? They see it as an insult.” Back in November 2008, I wandered around New York trying to buy a copy of The New York Times but it was sold out. Finally, a friend gave me his copy which is now a treasured collector’s item. It has a one-word headline on the front page in large type: “OBAMA”. The previous night at the Rockefeller Plaza I heard one Indian instruct another on Obama’s real identity: “What you are seeing is Krishna.”Birds of a feather The “Indian influence” is now evident in the skies above London where it has become a common sight to see hundreds of parakeets in flight. Earlier this week I watched one in a neighbour’s adjoining garden, hopping from apple to apple clearly spoilt for choice. This is one immigration wave the Home Office has been unable to stop. When I first came to England the only place you saw a parrot or a parakeet was in a pet shop or the zoo. Now I would guess there are more parakeets in London than in Calcutta.Footnote Going back to read A Suitable Boy makes me appreciate what a difficult job Andrew Davies had in condensing the novel for a six-part TV series. I love the non sequitur ending of the letter Mrs Rupa Mehra writes to her daughter, Savita, and son-in-law, Pran: “Don’t worry about me, my blood sugar is all right.” She could be one of a million Indian mothers engaging in emotional blackmail. Tomorrow we see the penultimate episode with the shoemaker, Haresh Khanna (Namit Das), emerging as Lata’s third suitor after the cricketer, Kabir Durrani, and the poet, Amit Chatterji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
22-08-2020||Opinion||Deep afflictions||Given his wealth and philanthropy, Bill Gates will be heard respectfully when he says that millions more in India and Africa will die before the Covid-19 pandemic ends. Sceptical about India’s fatality figure (“The true number... is probably much higher”), Microsoft’s co-founder warns that the disease itself may account for only 10 per cent of future deaths — the knock-on effects will kill millions more. All the more reason, therefore, for using this interregnum to consider not only the threat of decimation but also the challenge of the new norm. It’s popular lore that the Mandarin word for crisis combines two characters standing for danger and opportunity. Where that heady mix will lead no one knows. Viruses have shaped history. Smallpox, measles and influenza epidemics helped European colonization of the Americas. The Spanish flu sparked an economic surge that shaped the Roaring Twenties. Much depends on how long the pandemic rages. Gates’s hope of an effective, mass-produced vaccine by the end of 2021 and the consequent immunization of enough people worldwide to halt the disease in its tracks seems reasonable now that Phase III trials of the Oxford vaccine are imminent. Our problem is with the government’s callously neglected human responsibilities. Covid-19 has exposed India’s scandalously inadequate healthcare system. Remedying this should be Delhi’s first task after the pandemic. Hunger spreads as jobs disappear and agricultural productivity declines. Lockdowns disrupt education. Other causes of death — malaria and HIV here, cancer in the West — are neglected. Amit Shah’s readmission to hospital raises the spectre of relapse after recovery. It’s an unfortunate reflection on public life that any mention of the home minister provokes controversy, and the anecdote with which Cyril Sam and Paranjoy Guha Thakurta opened The Real Face of Facebook in India is again news. It has Shah boasting in September 2018, “We are capable of delivering any message we want to the public, whether sweet or sour, true or fake.” Apparently, a fabricated post about Akhilesh Yadav slapping his father, Mulayam Singh, which went viral, was the handiwork of a “smart” Bharatiya Janata Party volunteer. It’s pointless accusing Facebook, the world’s largest social media company which owns WhatsApp, India’s most popular social messaging app, of bending over backwards to oblige the BJP. Businessmen always hitch their wagon to the ruling star. But the story does confirm the pathetic plight of politics, which seldom rises above one-upmanship and sleight of hand. The tensions of lockdowns don’t make man less ignoble, although fear, isolation and uncertainty may sharpen some existing characteristics as Bengal wonders if haphazard closures ever so often serve any purpose. The latest fad of yellow bins for coronavirus refuse will probably peter out like parking ticket machines whose disappearance allows attendants again to extort whatever they like and pocket the money. Everything is a little more bent in Bengal but national conditions are not much better. If the pandemic has brought out the best in some, it has also brought out the worst. Among the former, the Malappuram villagers who saved passengers after the Calicut crash or the kindness of neighbours who ever so often share their cooked meals with us recall Kipling’s faith that “so long as there is a morsel to divide in India neither priest nor beggar starves”. Among the latter, hoarders and black-marketers who were driven by profit during the Bengal famine are again exploiting today’s shortages. India isn’t alone. The American Federal Bureau of Investigation recorded a 75 per cent increase in digital crime after stay-at-home restrictions began. Interpol says “cyber-criminals are developing and boosting their attacks at an alarming pace, exploiting the fear and uncertainty caused by the unstable social and economic situation...” Retail fraud marches with the higher spending forced on consumers by extortionate sellers. Identity theft is rampant with anxious victims robbed of personal information, credit-card numbers and banking details. These are troubled times with email ‘phishing’, fraudulent websites and malicious domains mushrooming in dozens of countries, ransom demands for stolen personal information, and daylight dacoity like Wednesday’s hijacking of a crowded bus by a private finance company’s loan recovery goons. Instead of being havens of trust, even some banks are in the racket with touts designated ‘relationship managers’. Since shadow markets often follow real markets, the preference for computer payment by many legitimate authorities means an online boom enabling tricksters to demand money for non-existent goods, services or government schemes. Nothing could be more harrowing for governments that take their responsibilities seriously than to have to cope with security threats from a powerful neighbour in the midst of a pandemic. What inhibits realistic analysis is that, as in China, official propaganda is the only source of information. Moreover, our government speaks in so many tongues that the truth remains elusive. Narendra Modi’s Independence Day boast of a “befitting response” to “misadventures along the border” contradicted his June 19 claim that “no one has entered our borders”, “none of our posts has been occupied by anyone” and “not an inch of land has been occupied by anyone”. Trade is another source of confusion. India’s massive deficit and aspects of the trading pattern offend patriotic sentiment. Given our huge domestic need for grain silos, water supply lines and sewage pipes, exporting finished steel makes no sense unless cost effectiveness is pleaded. It’s more likely that as with so much else, decisions are influenced by individual operators without the discipline of an overarching policy in the country’s long-term interest. Can the two economies be disentangled without starving Indian consumers and crippling Indian industry? China’s Global Times responded audaciously that Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ dream could be realized if Chinese entrepreneurs manufactured in India. Perhaps properly managed Sino-Indian joint ventures might “revive the animal spirit” Manmohan Singh spoke of instead of reinvigorating only animals who batten on others. But many physical and psychological obstacles have to be overcome. Ambivalence about China has a long history. Needled by Hiren Mukherjee, Jawaharlal Nehru told Parliament in March 1950 that he had “the greatest admiration” for China which he would like to emulate but “that till only a year ago, China was looked upon as a country where corruption, black marketing and every kind of evil prevailed.” Do countries change? It was a licence-permit-raj era joke that India was more capitalist than out-and-out capitalist countries where everything had a price. In India not merely everything but everybody had a price. People, contracts, jobs were for sale. Politicians were products. The social distancing imperative has revived an old argument over lift protocol. Passengers in the first passenger lift in New York in March 1857 were asked to enter and leave swiftly, and face the door while inside. Since lifts could be considered both a private room and a public conveyance, the correct hat etiquette also provoked debate. Men wondered if they should doff their hats if a lady entered. The New York Times suggested a compromise: men could keep their hats on in lifts — sorry, elevators — serving public buildings, but should remove them in hotels and private condominiums. Gender generalizations are tricky. Women always walked behind their menfolk in pre-Second World War Yugoslavia. Noting the post-war reversal of roles, a visitor wondered if Yugoslavs had become chivalrous. “Chivalry be damned!” was the reply. “The land is full of mines”. The land is also too full of viruses that cloud the future. Not economies alone but the world is in a coma. But it seems undeniable that not much thought is being given to anticipating and shaping the awaited new norm to serve all Indians equally, and not only the privileged few, after everyone wakes up. Covid-19 may be no respecter of rank, but as Raghuram Rajan rightly says, it is “an ‘anti-Robin Hood’... it hits the poor even harder on every front.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur industrial authority office closed after Covid death||The office of the Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA) that coordinates activities of over 1,500 units in Adityapur was shut down for three days on Saturday after one of its staff members died of Covid-19 in late on Friday night. The 40-year-old, who was in the accounts department was at work till Wednesday. Office-bearers of JIADA (formerly known as Adityapur Industrial Area Development Authority) shut down the office as a precautionary measure. Entrepreneurs, who visited the JIADA office regularly after it opened when lockdown restrictions were eased, are in a state of shock. JIADIA regional deputy director  Ranjana Mishra said as the accountant worked alongside 30 others in the office. Hence, they have decided to get the premises fumigated and sanitised after which it would be reopened on Tuesday. "We have closed the JIADA office Saturday. We will get all staff and the family members of the deceased tested for Covid on Sunday. Others who may have come in contact with him may also undergo Covid tests,” Mishra told The Telegraph Online. Inder Kumar Agrawal, president of Adityapur Small Industries Association, said they too were worried. “Although the coronavirus outbreak does not seem to be widespread in Seraikela, especially in the industrial estate, after the death of this person working at JIADA, we will have to remain more cautious," he said. Barely 2km from the heart of the city, JIADA Bhawan is under Seraikela-Kharsawan district where the number of coronavirus positive cases has reached 700. In all, the virus has claimed eight persons in the district. In Jamshedpur, 13 people, including six women died in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths due to the coronavirus in East Singhbhum district to 166. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha said eight persons, three of them men, died of the Covid on Friday. Five others died till 5pm on Saturday. "Till date, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the district is 4,891 of which 132 were reported till late on Friday," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Plea to Centre to include 3 tribal languages in Eighth Schedule of Constitution||Chief minister Hemant Soren has written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah demanding the inclusion of three tribal languages — Mundari, Ho and Kuruk — in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution to the pave way for the promotion and development of these languages. Hemant also cleared a state government proposal for the Union ministry of social justice to include 36 castes in backward caste-1 (BC-1) and backward caste-II (BC-II) categories in the Centre’s OBC list. “Jharkhand being a tribal state has a large population speaking Ho, Mundari and Kuruk. For the development of these languages, I demand and hope that the three will soon find place in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. We had already accorded these languages the status of second language in the state.” A statement from his office also said that as many as 36 castes that are notified as BC-1 and II in Jharkhand are still to be included in the Centre’s list of other backward castes (OBC) due to which people belonging to these castes do not  get reservation benefits in the recruitment by the Union government and its affiliated entities. Head of Ranchi University’s tribal and regional languages department Hari Oraon welcomed state government’s move but said that regional languages also deserved urgent attention. “If the Government of India includes Mundari, Ho and Kuruk in the Eighth Schedule, it will give these languages the status of national languages which would lead to its promotion and development. Safeguarding languages are crucial for conserving and promotion of culture. Currently, 22 languages are in the Eighth Schedule of the Cconstitution,” he said, urging the Hemant government to pay attention towards four crucial regional languages of the state. “We would have been more happy if the state government also did something for Kurmali, Kortha, Nagpuri and Panchpargania, the four regional languages that are languishing because of lack of proper patronage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||National Teachers Awards for three from Jharkhand||Three teachers from Jharkhand will be receiving the National Teachers Award that is conferred annually by the Union ministry of human resources (MHRD). Two of them are government schoolteachers Smith Kumar Soni from Rajkiyakrit Madhya Vidyalaya, Bano in Simdega district and Nirupama Kumari from Ram Rudra Plus 2 High School in Chas, Bokaro. The third teacher is Ishita Dey from Tarapore School, Agrico, Jamshedpur. Usually, teachers are given certificates on Teachers’ Day in New Delhi but this year no communication has yet been shared about the awards ceremony. The recipients of the national ward are assessed on a number of criteria like innovative teaching programmes, achievements in professional development, community impact, contributing beyond the call of duty, academic reputation and genuine love for children. Those who have been selected from Jharkhand have made stellar contributions.  While Smith Kumar Soni worked hard to increase girls’ enrolment in schools and fought against human trafficking and child marriage, Nirupama Kumari focused on language learning, e-content and girls’ education. Dey, on the other hand, worked on innovative teaching in mathematics, introduced children to a charitable initiative called the wall of kindness and a concept of integrated projects. “I wanted to do something on human trafficking which is rampant in Simdega district. In the last school I was in, Project Balika Uchcha Vidyalaya, there were 67 girls when I joined on deputation. I made it a point to meet every villager and ensure that they enrol their girls. In two years, the number of girls was 252. I want to ensure people understand the importance of education,” said Soni whose school has also received the Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar. Nirupama Kumari has worked to improve the information and communications technology (ICT) and has handled the online classroom education and e-content effectively. “There were many students who did not have smartphones. So, we sought the help of students who were equipped with smartphones to share content. Also, we introduced cultural activities so that students stay in Whatsapp groups. We also gave them e-certificates,” said Nirupama, a Hindi teacher, who learnt and curated a website, www.econtenthindi.org, to share lessons. Ishita Dey, on the other hand, has passionately worked towards establishing a mathematics laboratory at Tarapore School. “It feels great. It’s an achievement of a lifetime. Whatever I have achieved is because of my management and principal Amy Billimoria. She has taught me and allowed me to mistakes while learning,” said Dey. After teachers are nominated by the state government and various boards, the Centre takes a final call. The award carries a medal, certificate and Rs 50,000 prize money. It is necessary for applicants to have at least 15 years of teaching experience to be eligible for the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Help stray animals in shower season, appeals city NGO ||Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation (JRPRF) on Saturday made an appeal to the citizens of the steel city to help stray animals during the shower season. The NGO, which works for stray animals, also came up with a few tips on how to help animals in need since most people think twice before offering help to strays. “They need a safe house, shelter or any physical structure – something that humans can afford to protect themselves but stray animals cannot,” said JRPRF founder Aniz Patel. During the monsoon season in India, stray animals suffer the most due to the absence of a permanent roof for them, he added. “The very least you can do is to provide shelter to puppies and dogs who are struggling to find cover. You can start by letting them in your garage and staircase area,” he suggested. Members of the NGO also came up with tips, which included building temporary sheds in public parks or in one’s locality. “Not everyone has the luxury of space and a majority of people in Indian cities live in crammed lanes and crowded areas. If you cannot afford to let a stray animal inside, you can do your bit by making a temporary shelter instead,” one of the members said. Animal care and treatment is essential during monsoon, when water-borne diseases affect a lot of people as well as stray animals. Dogs, cats, cows and bulls have wounds, which are further aggravated after they get drenched in rain, sometimes resulting in maggots. Applying anti-tick powder and providing dry spots for animals to sit can be an ideal way to avoid such possibilities, the member said. Members of the NGO members have asked citizens to reach out to them if they need any help with stray animals. “Many a time people are not adept to handle the situation or look after a suffering stray animal. On such occasions, people can contact us on 9386698020 and follow us on Facebook and Instagram,” Patel said. “In the case of altercations with any fellow resident, remember the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 which denies the right to kill, harm, dislocate and displace a stray animal. This means providing shelter to stray animals is a lawful act,” he added. JRPRF organised an anti-rabies vaccination drive and placed reflective collars on stray dogs last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Topchanchi Lake seems alive again, thanks to the rain||A bountiful monsoon has led to abundant water in Topchanchi Lake for the first time this season and more than five lakh residents of Katras that depend on it are happy with the knowledge that they are assured of regular and uninterrupted supply for the rest of the year. Employees of the water supply division of the local civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), are relieved too that the water level has gone up and are already chalking out plans to launch boat rides, something that had long been abandoned in the artificial lake set up by the British in 1924 by tapping streams flowing down Parasnath hills. On Friday, official said, the water level was at 58.6 feet, which was around 7.6 feet above last year’s highest level of 51 feet. JMADA executive engineer and technical member Indresh Shukla said the increase in the water level was significant as a massive desilting exercise had been carried out at the lake last year as a result of which there has been a significant increase in the catchment area of the lake. “Hence, if we are to compare the total volume of water since last year, then it can safely be concluded that there has been a considerable increase this year already. If the water level further increases, say, up to 72 feet, then we will have enough supply for two years,” he told The Telegraph Online. Shukla said over 5 lakh cusecs of silt had been removed from the lake as a part of the desilting project conducted by the minor irrigation department at a cost of Rs 13.5 crore. The lake starts to overflow if the water level increases to 78.6 feet, something that occurred last in 2011. “Currently, we are also supplying pit water in Katras areas through BCCL’s Dharmabandh mines. This will continue along with supply of lake water. After all, the requirement of water has also increased,” said Shukla, adding that JMADA was planning to reintroduce boating facilities to attract visitors. A water division employee deputed at Topchanchi Lake said the increase in the water level was good for JMADA employees too. “At a time when we are facing delayed salaries, and the major source of revenue is water charges, regular supply will ensure better revenue generation,” he said. Developed as an artificial lake by the British in 1924 by tapping the 10 natural streams flowing through the nearby Parasnath Hills, Topchanchi Lake is a major tourist destination along with nearby wildlife sanctuary spread over 8.75 sq k. Surrounded by several beautiful hillocks, the lake was once upon a time a favourite of filmmakers. Several Hindi and Bengali films, starring the likes of Dharmendra, Ashok Kumar, Uttam Kumar, Suchitra Sen and Girish Karnad, have been shot in these scenic locales. The lake also attracts a large number of migratory birds, including Little black cormorant, Pink duck, Black winged stilt, Common teal, Gadwall, Brown-headed gull, Spoonbill, Red crested pochard and Common coot. In 2018, the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation had prepared a Rs 85-lakh beautification plan for the lake. But it had to be shelved because desilting work was pending. JMADA sources said they were now working to repair the two guest houses near the lake to offer them to tourists for a night halt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Poisonous green pit viper caught in Hazaribagh town||A poisonous, rare green pit viper was caught from the densely populated Mariyam Tola mohalla in Deepugarha area of Hazaribagh town. Environmentalist and independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma who was called in said this was the first time he encountered this snake in the district. Sharma said local residents spotted the snake on a tree. “They all got scared seeing its unique colour after which they informed me,” he said. Sharma said the poisonous Russell ’s viper is found in the district in large numbers and this green pit viper is also from the same family. “But the green pit viper found in Assam, or in country like Thailand, where it is found there in large numbers,” he said. Sharma said snake rescuer Binod Miachel helped him to release the snake in the forests of Canary Hill. “We selected areas where bamboos are found as the serpent likes to live around it. This is the reason why, green pit viper also known as bamboo viper,” he added. Sharma said it's very surprising to see such a rare and poisonous snake in a mohalla of town. “These days, snakes are caught from many areas in town, which explains that the town has claimed a lot of forest land,” he said, adding that the forest department is not taking any initiative to catch snakes. Private rescuers who are doing this work complain of not getting any help from the department. “At least they should have provided us with a rescue kit for this work,” said one of them. “We are thanklessly catching snakes regularly risking our lives”, he added on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Koderma DC makes eco-friendly idol at home for Ganesh Chaturthi||Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap started his ten-day Ganesh Chaturthi puja at his residence, by making a small and beautiful idol of Lord Ganesha, which he finished in two hours. Gholap, son of a cycle repairman who passed away, and a bangle-seller mother, dealt with much adversity before he cracked the prestigious UPSC examination in 2012 to become an IAS officer. The Jharkhand cadre officer who originally hails from Maharashtra’s Solapur also happens to be a good painter since his college days. “At that time, I started making idols too,” he said talking to The Telegraph Online, adding that the idea to make the Ganesha idol came all of a sudden. “It’s a small idol made with clay and eco-friendly colours,” he said. After the ten days-long puja, he will immerse the idol at his residence. “I also have a guava sapling which I will plant somewhere in the campus of my official residence after the immersion,” said Ramesh. A history graduate, Ramesh worked for a few months as a government teacher before joining the IAs. His father died when he was in class 12. Ramesh, who is known as Ramu in his village Mahagaon in Barshi Taluka of Solapur, joined his mother in selling bangles despite one of his legs being affected by polio. He saw her mother running from pillar-to-post to get benefits under government schemes but denied always, which is why he patiently hears out people coming to him and provides solutions to their problems. “I enjoy my work and personal life as well. I make time to do work like idol making. It gives me immense pleasure,” he added with a smile of satisfaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Shibu Soren, wife Rupi Soren found Covid positive||Rajya Sabha MP and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) patriarch, Shibu Soren and his wife Rupi Soren have tested positive for Covid-19 in a first instance of the virus infecting members of the Soren family here, health officials said on Saturday. Shibu, one of the stalwarts of politics in the Bihar-Jharkhand region, is 76-year-old and is already said to be dealing with several age-related ailments. He has had a history of cardiac and kidney ailments. However, sources from JMM said that Shibu was stable and yet to complain of major symptoms of the infection. “Guruji is stable and has been isolated at home. We will take him to a hospital if he complains of any discomfort,” said JMM spokesperson Vinod Pandey. Shibu’s son, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, is also likely to be tested for SARS-COV-2 virus the third time after he attended a cabinet meeting last week and came in contact with state health minister Banna Gupta, who was found infected on the same day. Hemant and his spouse Kalpana Soren tested negative for Covid-19 twice, once in July and then in August. As per figures with the health department, Shibu was among the 990 people who were reported Covid-positive on Friday night in Jharkhand. Earlier on August 7, at least 12 staff in the former chief minister’s official residence at Morhabadi were found to be Covid-positive, sources said. Novel Coronavirus has infected members of the political fraternity across India, and Jharkhand was no different. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and JMM’s Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto were found infected last month. Earlier this month, health minister Gupta, AJSU Party chief and former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto, and Congress party’s Mahagama MLA Deepika Singh tested positive for Covid-19. AJSU Party’s Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Ranchi MLA CP Singh were also found infected by the notorious virus. Meanwhile, Covid cases across the state have skyrocketed with Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad accounting for over 40 per cent of the tally in Jharkhand. As per government figures, the Covid tally in Jharkhand was 28,231 by Saturday morning. As many as 297 people have died of Cpvid-19 infection in state, and more than 18,000 people have recovered. Nearly 10,000 people were infected in Ranchi and East Singhbhum alone, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||SE Railway launches child rescue initiative||A child rescue initiative, Operation Nanhe Fariste, has been launched South Eastern Railway in all its four divisions, including Ranchi and Chakradharpur, that have their headquarters in Jharkhand. “It was first introduced in South Western Railway in May 2017 that proved effective,” Prashant Yadav, Ranchi’s divisional security commissioner who has been assigned to oversee the campaign in the entire SE Railway jurisdiction, informed The Telegraph, explaining why they launched the phase II of the campaign. “Many traffickers choose railway stations as easy escape routes,” he further said, adding dedicated child rescue teams comprising Railway Protection Force personnel have been formed to keep a watch on movements of such traffickers with children accompanying them. Besides trafficked ones, the teams will also look for run-away children, orphans, lost children and child labourers and help them return to their guardians or take them to child welfare committees with help from NGOs active in the field. Jharkhand, like many other states, is a vulnerable area and many children are reported to be trafficked from here every year. “But the traffickers have also changed their modus operandi,” Yadav said, explaining they started moving with just two children or three instead of a large group and often claim them to be their close relatives. In many cases, even the person accompanying such children may not have any criminal record and he or she agrees to accompany such children for a small sum, he added. The teams will closely monitor their movement till the destination station to verify their claim, Yadav further said, adding an effective network of such teams would bring in desired results. They also planned to apply the change model suggested by former Harvard professor John Kotter for making the initiative effective. Creating urgency, powerful coalition, vision for change, communicating the vision and remove obstacles are some of the steps Professor Kotter had suggested for making an initiative effective. “We are trying to motivate our team members with those teachings and consolidate the resources to make the initiative a success,” Yadav further said. Besides Jharkhand, authorities in Bengal and Odisha where SE Railway operates have so far been cooperative and helpful, he replied when asked about inter-agencies coordination that is a major factor in making such an initiative effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Aloe Vera village beats lockdown blues||A tribal village branded as the state’s first ‘Aloe Vera village’ in Nagri block of Ranchi has been able to turn things around for its residents during the lockdown in stark contrast to the gloomy scenario in other rural areas. Dewri village in Nagri block of Ranchi was rechristened ‘Aloe Vera’ village after being taken up under Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)- Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) tribal sub plan (TSP) in December 2018. “We did a survey in this village and most of the villagers expressed interest in planting aloe vera medicinal plants and since it had a majority of tribal population, we decided to take it up in our project and named it aloe vera village to motivate more villagers to take up plantation of aloe vera and other medicinal plants to boost their income, which was primarily reliant on paddy. We are happy to hear that it has given them good dividends during the lockdown period,” said head department of forest products and utilisation, faculty of forestry, BAU, Kaushal Kumar. TSP is used to channelise the flow of benefits from the Union government for the development of tribes in the states. Areas included in the TSP are blocks or tehsils with over 50 per cent tribal population. “We decided on aloe vera as it requires less maintenance and less water. We provided nearly 6,000 plants along with fertilisers and also green shed net houses with sprinkler systems. Our students regularly visited the village and helped with training and technology. Usually aloe vera takes 18 months for its leaves to grow fully and the first lot of leaves were sold during the lockdown (after being planted in December 2018). Several NGOs and entrepreneurs have visited the village and taken the leaves for processing as it is in high demand for its medicinal and cosmetic properties. However, no big agencies could reach the village due to the lockdown,” said Kaushal Kumar. Villagers are happy with the increase in their income. “Earlier, we used to earn around Rs 3,000 per month from paddy cultivation if we were able to get work for all the 30 days. However, this year, apart from working in paddy fields, we were able to boost our income by selling aloe vera leaves. Our income has increased between Rs 5,000 and 6,000 per month,” said Manju Kachyap, mukhiya of the Dewri village and a woman farmer. Manju said out of the 90 families belonging to the Oraon tribe residing in their village, nearly 40 families had taken part in planting aloe vera. “The high income from selling aloe vera leaves (over Rs 40 per kg) is prompting more villagers to take up aloe planting vera along with the cultivation of paddy to boost their income,” Manju, 34, added. BAU expert Kaushal Kumar said setting up an aloe vera processing plant was also in the pipeline in the village as part of the TSP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Consumers oppose DVC and JBVNL tariff hike proposal||Consumers have vehemently opposed proposals to hike tariff by the two distribution companies, Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), that supply power in the state. The consumers registered their objections against the proposals by the discoms during the virtual public hearing organised by the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC). While the hearing on the DVC’s proposal was held on Monday and Tuesday, the hearing on the JBVNL’s plan began on Thursday. DVC supplies power to consumers in seven Jharkhand districts — Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Koderma and Chatra — while JBVNL supplies to the rest of the state. DVC has proposed a hike of 10 paise per unit and Rs 10 in monthly fixed charge in case of domestic and commercial consumers. But in the case of industries, it has proposed a hike from the existing Rs 2.95 to Rs 3.65 per kVAh (kilo volt ampere hour), besides increasing the monthly demand charge from Rs 600 to Rs 833. Participating in the hearing, the industrial consumers opposed the hike claiming it was “unrealistic during the pandemic” and that the tariff should rather be reduced. “We have shown that their average cost of supply is much less than even the existing rate,” said Hari Budhia, chairman of the association of DVC high-tension consumers, when asked why they demanded a reduction in tariff. He said the DVC already had revenue surplus of Rs 1,287 crore which was required to be adjusted. During the public hearing on the JBVNL’s proposal on Thursday, its executive director K.K. Verma and general manager (commercial), Rishi Nandan, strongly urged for the hike in tariff claiming that the cumulative revenue gap of Rs 5,514 crore made it inevitable. “JBVNL spent Rs 13,401 crore on capital expenditure and infrastructure development between 2018 and 2020 while it planned to invest another Rs 5,300 crore during the current fiscal (2020-21),” Nandan said, justifying the proposed hike of above 20 per cent in the existing tariff across various categories of consumers. Vinod Tulsyan, who represented the apex trade body of the state, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, opposed the proposal saying the lockdown had pushed the industries to the brink of disaster and that “most of them are functioning below 25 per cent of their capacity”. Anjay Pacheriwala of Jharkhand Small Industries Association also opposed the proposal claiming that “uninterrupted quality power supply is still a distant dream in Jharkhand as we experience 15 to 20 trips (power cuts) everyday”. The hearing is scheduled to continue till Saturday following which the regulatory commission will announce its decision on the proposal by the discoms after considering the arguments presented by both sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
22-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mild tremors in Jharkhand||An earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on the richter scale struck Sahibganj in Jharkhand on Friday afternoon. According to the National Centre for Seismology, the earthquake occurred on Friday at 12.07 pm at a depth of 10 km at Sahibganj in Jharkhand. Sahibganj deputy commissioner Chittaranjan Kumar said that there was not much effect of the tremor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-326
