23-08-2020||Calcutta||Kingston Educational Institute-Career Aspirant’s dreams and aspirations are our objectives||Dreams forms the basis of a career aspirant’s upward trajectory towards career related goals and milestones. These dreams ought to be given shape, and Kingston Educational Institute (KEI) has always been at forefront to provide the necessary support for the future professionals of India. KEI has several constituents in the same campus, based in the heart of the Educational hub of Barasat, North 24 Parganas. The sprawling, picturesque campus covering an area of 30 acres of land is located in a semi-urban place surrounded by lush green meadow in the serenity of pollution free and eco-friendly environment. Founded in 2004,  under the visionary leadership of Late Utpal Bhattacharjee, Founder President of KEI and Mrs Uma Bhattacharjee, Secretary of KEI, the different colleges under the umbrella of Kingston Educational Institute are--“Kingston Law College”  providing Law Graduate (5 years) and 3 years Post Graduate Degree Course, “Kingston Polytechnic College” offering Diploma Engineering Courses of different disciplines includingMechanical Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Computer Science & Technology, Electrical Engineering and Electronics and Tele-communications. “Kingston School of Management and Science” offers B.Sc in  Hotel Management course, Bachelor in Business Management and Hospital Management, and BCA.“Kingston College of Science” offers BA and BSc Honours program in Microbiology, Mathematics, Computer Science, Biochemistry, Physics, Economics, Geography, Electronics, Food & Nutrition, library and Information science. “Kingston Teacher Training Institute”offers two years full time B.Ed programs. Kingston Model School, is a ICSE affiliated institution providing value based education from nursery to class 10th.  A virtual tour of the campus as well as the detailed information of the courses and resources can be seen by clicking on www.keical.edu.in The aim and objective of the organization and management is to make the alumni employable and entrepreneurial while pursuing various academic programs at KEI.The institute conducts active projects and assignments by collaborating with the industry that provides the faculties to consult the industry practitioners, while making the students understand the practicalities through industry run projects, internships and on the job training exercises. All these have led to the students being placed in best of the organizations for internships and final placements year after year. The state of the art infrastructure, including the laboratories, equipment and business incubation center provide the learner the much needed resources so as to align with the employment related situations of this century. The faculty members comprises of senior professionals from the world of industry as well as academia along with academic advisories from India and overseas. This allow all the constituents to have a GLOCAL (GLOBAL plus LOCAL) model of teaching and learning culminating in making the graduates prepare for the national and international employment market. Even during the pandemic, all the constituents of KEI ensured there is a novel, uninterrupted education for all the students. All the constituents of Kingston Educational Institute (Kingston Polytechnic College, Kingston Science College, Kingston School of Management Science, Kingston Law College, Kingston Teacher's Training Academy, Kingston Model School, Kingtson's Skill Development Initiative) were one of the first educational institutes to embrace electronic learning. Kingston Educational Institute leveraged their pan-India and global contacts to use multi-platform based learning initiatives, including the likes of Learning Management System (LMS), YouTube Channel, Slideshare, Blogosphere, WhatsApp, Helpline and other multi-medias to provide quality education to the students, precisely following the college and school schedule, on a day to day basis. The academic rigour as well as the punctuality of the students and the teachers weren’t compromised and all the stakeholders understood the importance of work from home and college/school from home to a nicety. The classes were being conducted by the faculties through zoom, google classrooms, as well as the aforementioned tools after following the basics of instructional design as well as SCORM norms. Opines, Dr. Manishankar Chakraborty, Academic Advisor of Kingston, based in Dubai, "The effort put in by the KEI family to ensure none of the students are deprived of learning and growth during this moment of crisis speaks volumes of the commitment of the management as well as all the staff members". All the classes are being individually monitored by a crack team having hands on expertise in learning and development, so as to measure their effectiveness, from a qualitative and quantitative standpoint. Regular feedback is being sought through surveys, discussion forums from the students, their parents and peers from the academic fraternity, so as to ensure the quality is enhanced periodically. Mr. Tipam Bhattacharjee, President of KEI was forthright when we commented, KEI ensures that knowledge reaches every nook and corner of the country, in order to have the developmental curve of the pupils intact, even during this moment of crisis. This was evident from the process based approach followed by Kingston while ideating, customizing and implementing electronic learning, catering to the specific needs of their pupils. Value added initiatives by networking with industry professionals and academic experts, as well as professionals provided the students with numerous self-help developmental platforms. In order to reach out to the masses who are probably stranded at home, devoid of education, Kingston has also started free electronic tutoring, electronic mentoring and electronic counseling by their in-house experts as well as the external resources targeting all the class 10th, class11th and class 12th students of India. The students registered in https://keical.edu.in/elearning/ and sought need based educational as well as academic support at absolutely free of cost. Furthermore, the emphasis of holistic learning that has always been the key foundation at Kingston was brought to the fore when the group's secretary, Mrs. Uma Bhattacharjee provided with a competition based learning opportunity whereby, the students can develop their extra-curricular activities by registering in the link https://keical.edu.in/compete-for-excellence/.at no cost. She added that such activities are the fulcrum for the students to activate lateral thinking as well as the development of an analytical mindset. The group has also requested the governments of West Bengal, Tripura and Megalaya to provide free teaching-learning support to all the class 10th, 11th and 12th students of those respective states. The whole electronic learning experience and the sojourn thus far was aptly summed up by the Academic Chairman of Kingston Group, Prof (Dr.) Ambarnath Banerji when we said, Kingston is always for the students, who are the torchbearers of the society and Covid-19 cannot defeat us in achieving our objectives of being the facilitators of learning 24x7x365! Furthermore, all the constituents of KEI has ensured uninterrupted value added learning and development for the pupils, faculties and the community at large by roping in national and international experts from the industries as well as the world of academia. The dedicated YouTube channel , Facebook page(www.facebook.com/keduins) provide all the recordings of these events free for the usage of the in house audience as well as the society. Furthermore, a two day virtual symposium was also held on the 24th and 25th of July 2020, whereby,  a galaxy of national and international academic stalwarts presented their perspectives on uninterrupted education during and after COVID 19. This platform was also used to hone the abilities of the faculty members of all the constituents of KEI, by making them present their experience and opinions to a global audience. The institutes uses a host of platforms like Microsoft teams, Google Meets, Zoom, Google Classroom, LMS and numerous social media tools to make the teaching and learning simply simple for the learner. The college is well connected by suburban trains, public buses and other modes of transportation of Kolkata, and is very close to the international and national airport of the city. The details of the courses offered are given below:- For Free Career Counselling: Please Ping us on WhatsApp OR Apply Now The institute provides lot of impetus on co-curricular as part of holistic learning and this is made a reality through a football academy in the name “KINGSTON NIKHIL NANDY FOOTBALL ACADEMY” under the guidance of Sri Nikhil Nandy, veteran Olympian of India.  This football academy organizes  different inter college and inter school tournaments (“KINGSTON CHALLENGE CUP  INTER SCHOOL SOCCER ”) at the district level  every year to imbibe upon the spirit of unity , harmony and competitive environment among the upcoming generation. Likewise, KEI also arranges Annual Function in the name and style “KINGSTOXCATION” every year for showcasing latent abilities and talents of the students, teachers and people from the local community. In order to leverage its calm and serene atmosphere there is a Yoga Centre for enhancing mental peace and stability among students and teachers, with a multi gymnasium as well. KEI is committed to the dedicated to the well-being of the weaker section of the community KEI arranges functions to distribute clothes among people from different corners of the locality twice a year as part of their community imitative. Even during the COVID 19 pandemic the institution has organized such events that provides the learner as well as the staff members to undertake community services. The college has their in-house transportation system for the students and staff members. The buses ply to various parts to the city of Kolkata and the sub urban areas to bring students to the campus. The in campus food court and cafeteria also provides a wide range of cuisines to the students and staff at a very nominal charge. Apply Now : - https://keical.edu.in/admission-common/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid discount nudge to private hospitals||The state’s clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price (MRP) of medicines and consumables to lessen the burden of bill on patients or their families. The commission has fixed at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables. If hospitals are unable to offer the discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside where discounts are offered. The commission has found that medicines and consumables are among the costliest components of a Covid patient’s bill. The discounts will provide patients and their families with some relief, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Saturday. The members of the commission met at New Town on Saturday to discuss the matter, after which the commission issued a series of advisories, including the one on discounts. In another advisory, it asked hospitals to keep their bed charges at March 1 rates. “We know certain pharmacies and medicine stores offer discounts of up to 20 per cent. But hospitals are charging patients the MRP. So, we have asked hospitals to offer at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and at least 20 per cent discount on consumables on the MRP,” Banerjee said. “Hospitals should ask their pharmacies to offer the discount. In case the discount cannot be offered, hospitals should give a patient’s family the option of buying medicines and consumables from outside where discounts are available.” Medicines and consumables together make up between 25 per cent and 40 per cent of a Covid patient’s bill, an official of a private hospital in the city said. “If a patient is administered Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, the bill is bound to shoot up. A course of six doses of this drug costs Rs 40,000,” the official said. “We have to give Remdesivir to any patient with moderate symptoms but whose condition starts to worsen. This drug has to be given at that juncture so that the condition does not become critical,” he said. The consumables include masks, PPEs, syringes and catheter. The contribution of consumables is higher in the bill of a Covid patient compared to patients with other  illnesses as doctors have to wear PPEs to treat Covid patients. The state government has capped PPE rates at Rs 1,000 per patient per day. Metro had on August 14 reported that insurance companies were refusing to pay the money spent on PPEs, face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers. The commission has requested hospitals to display their treatment rates for Covid patients in three prominent places on their premises, Banerjee said. In one of its advisories, the commission allowed doctors to charge an additional Rs 1,000 if they had to examine a Covid patient more than once in a day. “There was a capping on doctors’ consultation fee at Rs 1,000 per day. It was brought to our notice that in many cases a doctor had to examine a patient several times in a day,” Banerjee said. “We have allowed a doctor to charge another Rs 1,000 for more than one examination in a day. But the Rs 1,000 additional consultation fee will include any number of visits after the first visit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients can’t be evicted: West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission||A private hospital cannot ask a Covid patient to vacate the bed if the person is unable to pay an advance, the Bengal health regulatory commission said on Saturday in the wake of criticism over an earlier advisory. The earlier advisory had said that if the deposit was not made within 12 hours of admission, “the hospital would be at liberty to cancel the provisional admission and ask the patient party to take back the patient within one hour thereafter”. The commission chairperson, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, said the “clarification” had been issued because the earlier advisory had been criticised. A senior doctor had told The Telegraph on August 10 that the legitimisation of “the deposit culture”, including the permission to ask for removal of patients within one hour after the 12-hour window, belied the commission’s mandate of protecting patients. After a meeting on Saturday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issued the clarification that made it plain that a private hospital cannot deny treatment to a patient “under any situation, whether that person has paid a deposit or not”. Banerjee, the chairperson, said the commission had never intended patients to be asked to leave a hospital. “There was criticism from one side as if we had said that after 13 hours the patient should be thrown out. No act or law has given any hospital the licence that a patient will be thrown out of the hospital only for money,” the retired judge said. The earlier advisory had allowed private hospitals to demand from patients an advance of Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment, whichever was less, at the time of admission. The quantum of the deposit stands unchanged after the clarification. Banerjee told a news conference on Saturday: “Taking into consideration the criticism, as a clarification we issued Covid Advisory 11 today where we said that under no condition can a patient be denied treatment, whether that person pays a deposit or not. If despite that a clinical establishment feels it is facing any problem, then that clinical establishment can get in touch with Swasthya Bhavan (the state health department headquarters) or our commission.” He added: “During this Covid situation, it has been stated by the government that if any patient comes to a hospital, that person has to be treated. If the hospital does not have the infrastructure to treat the patient, then the condition of that person has to be stabilised and then (he or she can be) sent to a hospital with better facilities. At no point can treatment be denied to that patient.” Banerjee continued: “We were hearing about some hospitals taking advantage of the situation, demanding abnormal amounts of money as advance. To prevent that, we had issued an advisory, No. 9. But we had said that because of (failure to pay) the deposit, the patient’s treatment should not face any problems. At least that person should be given ample time — we had said ‘12 hours’. If he cannot pay even after that, more time should be given so that they can arrange for treatment elsewhere.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Now streaming live: puja in the time of pandemic||A Salt Lake club on Saturday streamed live Ganesh Puja rituals to a giant LED screen near the PNB roundabout from a member’s house. The Yubak Sangha Club, which has held its puja at the same spot in the BA Block for the past 11 years, decided against erecting a pandal this year to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The giant screen has been fixed on a stage, along with speakers. As the streaming started in the morning, passers-by clicked photographs. Several residents in masks and caps stood with folded hands as club volunteers ensured there was no crowding. The men also put sanitisers on the hands of the visitors and asked everyone to maintain social distance. A set of masks was also kept at one corner and people could take one home. “The puja has become a regular fixture for people of our block. We were a bit sad that this year the organisers decided to do away with the pandal… but I quite liked the fact that all rituals were live-streamed here,” Rudrani Chatterjee, who lives in the AB Block, said. Chatterjee stepped out of her house in the afternoon, clicked a few photographs of the LED screen and a selfie with it in the background before going back home. At Maharashtra Niwas on Hazra Road, priests started the puja with a small Ganesh idol and a few devotees. The Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations organised by the Maharashtra Mandal is among the oldest in Calcutta, a tradition it has upheld since the 1930s. For Maharashtrians based in the city, the Hazra Road address is still the place to be during this time of the year. At Satyanarayan Park, the organisers of one of the biggest Ganesh Puja in the area decided to call off the celebrations. In Burrabazar, too, the celebrations were muted. In Salt Lake, the rituals were live-streamed to the LED screen from a house in the BB Block. A priest offered the puja to a small idol, along with a few puja organisers, one of whom acted as the cameraperson. “We set up a camcorder on a tripod. The images were streamed live to the screen… our regular electrician who deals in sound and video equipment helped us set it up,” Kaushik Chanda, one of the puja organisers, said. Another member of the club said the location of the house where the puja was held was “deliberately not made public”. “Many people would have landed up at the house to offer puja. We would not have been able to say no to anyone…. We did not want to take any chance during the pandemic.” A real estate developer in Salt Lake who is associated with the puja said the arrangement suited the club’s budget, which underwent a “huge cut” because of the pandemic. “We could not raise any subscriptions this year. We wouldn’t have been able to afford a large-scale puja,” the developer said. People can view the puja live on a Facebook page created by the organisers. Those willing to donate money can do so online; they will receive prasad, including khichdi, and hand sanitisers and masks delivered to their homes, an organiser said. The Salt Lake Maitri Sangha Club, which holds its puja in the CF Block, is doing with a small pandal this year. Former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Sabyasachi Dutta is the president of club. The club decided to do away with big celebrations as people “would not step out”, he said. “We don’t want a huge gathering. We have an open pandal where people can get a glimpse of the rituals as they pass by.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Hilsa seized by BSF from India-Bangladesh border||The BSF seized nearly 600kg of hilsa from the riverine India-Bangladesh border on Saturday. The consignment in jute bags was being transported by suspected smugglers swimming alongside. The men managed to flee, the BSF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta to witness increase in rainfall over next 2 days||An already drenched city will have to grapple with “an increase in rainfall” on Sunday and Monday. A low-pressure area is expected to take shape over the Bay of Bengal by Sunday evening, a Met official said. Under its impact, the intensity of the rain is likely to go up from the second half of Sunday. “The next two days are likely to see an increase in rainfall in the city. Heavy rain is not ruled out,” the Met official said. Heavy rain in the city is much more likely if the low-pressure area forms over the north Bay, the official said. The other possibility is the Northwest Bay, in which case Odisha’s coastal areas will be more affected. The whole city received rain on Saturday, mainly in the afternoon. A few areas in the south were more drenched. Saturday’s rain was triggered by the monsoon trough, which now passes over Calcutta on its way to the Northeast Bay of Bengal, the Met official said. “Because of very strong monsoon currents, many thunderclouds had formed over the city. Some parts in the south had more thunderclouds.” Some bylanes around Bansdroni market were waterlogged, residents said. Less than 3km away, stretches of Kalighat had knee-deep water in the afternoon. For a second consecutive day, the rain coincided with high tide and water in the Adi Ganga breached banks and flooded nearby roads, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. “In August and September, when the level of the Hooghly is already above normal, rain and high tide lead to more inundation,” said the official. Seven portable pumps had drained the water out by evening, said Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of drainage. The forecast for more rain threatens to flood more areas. Singh said there was little the civic body could do if heavy rain and high tide came together. “But the waterlogging will not persist for days. We have 650 portable pumps to drain out water from low-lying areas,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||NUJS cuts fees for monsoon semester||The National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) on Saturday reduced the fees for various facilities that students haven’t been using since the campus is closed and classes are being held online. The institute’s executive council, its highest policy-making body, decided to waive the fees for examinations, students’ welfare activities, moot courts, hostel accommodation and study materials. Students of all batches, excluding those of the incoming first year, will now have to pay around Rs 38,000 less for the July-December monsoon semester. “Students of all batches (excluding first year) will have to pay Rs 1.21 lakh instead of Rs 1.59 lakh for the current semester,” N. K. Chakrabarti, the NUJS vice-chancellor, said after the meeting of the executive council. Students, though, had demanded a waiver of up to Rs 48,000. “Several students have been talking of financial difficulties because of the pandemic. The executive council unanimously agreed to provide students with some relief. We have reduced the fees as much as possible,” Chakrabarti said. The institute does not receive any financial aid from the government. It depends entirely on student fees, a university official said. “It was not possible to accept all the demands of the students. The institute has been closed for five months. But we have had to pay full salaries to every member of our staff… and we will continue to do so in future,” the official said. “There was a proposal to reduce the library fees. But it could not be considered as ours is a law school and we have to maintain the library services even if the institute is shut.” Students had recently requested the authorities to reduce the fees under the heads they were not using because of online classes. The students’ proposal on the fee waiver has been placed before the institute’s finance committee. The committee had approved the proposal and forwarded it to the executive council for ratification. The vice-chancellor said a notice would be issued next week asking students to pay the reduced semester fees. Those who have already paid the fees will have the surplus amount adjusted with the fees for the next semester. The monsoon semester (July to December) online classes are being held from July. But the payment of semester fees has been kept on hold since July because of the students’ demand for a waiver. As of now the university has no plans to reduce the fees for the next semester that starts in January, the vice-chancellor said. “We will take a decision depending on the Covid situation at that time,” the vice-chancellor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||On request, CMC set for rapid antigen tests in housing complexes||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will conduct rapid antigen tests in housing complexes if residents request for the tests, Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. Residents, though, have to ensure at least 20 people would undergo the tests.  They must provide an AC room to conduct the tests, Hakim said. A request for the tests can be WhatsApped to 9830037493. There will be no charges for the tests. Civic officials will get in touch with the sender of the message and fix a date and time for the tests. “We have decided to conduct rapid antigen tests at housing complexes if at least 20 people agree to undergo the tests. Residents have to provide an AC room to conduct the tests… it is very difficult for a medical technologist to conduct the tests wearing a PPE in this weather,” Hakim said at the civic headquarters on Saturday. “The need of the hour is to conduct more tests so that those who test positive can be isolated,” he said. Conducting tests on a few people will be a waste of logistics; so, the minimum requirement of 20 people for the tests, a CMC official said. The civic body can conduct the tests in a locality as well if residents can provide an AC room and there are at least 20 people interested in taking the tests, the official said. The rapid antigen test is conducted to detect the presence of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in a person’s nasopharyngeal swab sample. The results arrive within 30-40 minutes whereas it takes one or two days for an RT-PCR test result. But the rapid antigen test is known to produce false negatives, which means someone who tests negative can actually be Covid positive. A symptomatic person who tests negative should undergo an RT-PCR test to confirm if she/he is actually negative, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines for rapid antigen tests. An asymptomatic person who tests negative in the antigen tests should be considered as not infected, the ICMR has said. Someone who tests positive need not undergo further tests and should be considered as Covid positive. Despite its deficiency, the ICMR has okayed rapid antigen tests because the results are available in 30 minutes. “Someone who tests positive in the test can be isolated soon. He/she will be asked to stay isolated at home if symptoms are mild. If such a person keeps mixing with others, he/she can spread the virus to more people. This is one of the reasons why antigen tests are being done,” a CMC doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Cycle row||In the 1950s and 60s, cars had expelled cyclists from the streets of Holland, but at great expense. By the early 1970s, road accidents were claiming thousands of lives every year and among the dead were many children. This led to a movement called Stop de Kindermoord, meaning stop child murder. In the Dutch capital of Amsterdam, activists adopted the bicycle in protest. Around this time, the Arab countries had imposed an embargo on export of oil to Holland and a few other European countries for supporting Israel. This led to a steep rise in oil prices. Even politicians began to see the advantage of a lifestyle not too dependent on oil. Holland, and especially Amsterdam, began to change. Amsterdam is currently known as the bicycle capital of the world. Calcutta today, despite all obvious differences, may be where Amsterdam was in the 1970s, feels Bicycle Mayor of Calcutta Satanjib Gupta. The title conferred on Gupta by BYCS, an Amsterdam-based global network that promotes the bicycle, may sound absurdly grand, but the lockdown has led to so many absurdities already. “Have you seen photographs of the Howrah Bridge during lockdown,” asks Gupta. “Full of bicycles, it was a wonderful sight.” The number of bicycles in the city’s streets, estimated to have been over three lakh before the lockdown, has gone up several times. Its sales have soared since June. “The cycle is not only helping maintain livelihoods but also opening up livelihood options,” says Gupta. It is helping the delivery of products and services. This, for Gupta, could be the moment of change for Calcutta. The bicycle is the perfect vehicle for social distancing, for exercise, especially for lung power — advocated during the Spanish Flu, too — and for immunity. It is fuel-free and hence an antidote to climate change; cheap and almost zero-maintenance. It ensures equality of all and had played its part in empowering women. And yet, how poorly it has fared in Calcutta, which also has the highest percentage (11 per cent) of bicycle commuters among all Indian metros. Over the last two decades, it has slowly been pushed off the streets by the authorities. A circular issued by the police commissioner in 2008 had banned bicycles, categorised as “slow-moving vehicles”, from 38 city streets. In 2013, another police circular raised the number of streets to an impossible 174. In 2014, that was brought down to 62 by yet another circular. Cyclists would complain of harassment by the police, who would stop them and impose fines arbitrarily. So this year, after a nod from the chief minister, on June 9, the latest police circular raised hopes. It stated that with public transport restricted because of the pandemic, all bicycles would be allowed in the lanes and bylanes. But the harassment of cyclists continues, claim enthusiasts, and there is no clarity about routes. “Why can’t the main thoroughfares be opened for now to bicycles,” asks Gupta. A humiliating fine had led Raghu Jana to found the Kolkata Cycle Samaj with his friends in 2009; its primary aim is to get the ban lifted. Jana, a private tutor, who took part in political movements, speaks about the peculiar position the bicycle occupies, or does not occupy, in the law and regulations of the city. The classic way to undermine someone is to look through. It applies to bicycles too. “The bicycle is never addressed,” rues Jana. It is only banned. “Two years ago, we saw a police notice asking cyclists to follow the rules. We were glad. They were speaking to us,” he says. Encouraged, he and his Kolkata Cycle Samaj colleagues met a senior police official. But nothing changed. Jana points out that the police circulars were issued under the West Bengal Traffic Regulation Act, 1965, and the West Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, but there is no specific body of rules in the city relating to the bicycle. “We are only told what we can’t do,” he says. The roads have only “No Cycling” signs. Sabuj Sathi, the state government showpiece programme, is far more successful in distributing bicycles among school students in the districts.  This is ironic for a city in which the bicycle, which became popular in its contemporary form from the 1880s, had enjoyed pride of place. It is even said that in 1870, a Santragachhi resident manufactured a bicycle that would require two persons to ride it, says Gupta. Eminent Bengalis, including Dwijendranath Tagore, J.C. Bose and his wife Abala Bose, P.C. Ray and Nilratan Sircar, had all patronised the bicycle, Gupta adds. In Rabindranath Tagore’s short story Ponrokkha (1911), a young man yearns for a bicycle, which promises him freedom and joy, at only Rs 125. Personal Assistant, a 1959 Bengali film, has a beaming Bhanu Bandyopadhyay breezing through the still elegant and roomy central Calcutta roads on his bicycle, at par with motor cars. “Just the joy of riding a cycle,” says Jana. “Your body develops a unique relationship with it.” He questions the right of the police to decide the fate of cycles in the city. “This is a matter of urban planning,” he stresses. And of policy. Yet he is hopeful. “This is a moment of transition. Many may not want to give up on the joy of riding a bicycle when things normalise,” he says. The bicycle just needs a little encouragement in the city.“At the moment, it will be enough if the guard rails, lying everywhere now, are used to mark off a part of street at one end for cycles,” says Jana. Official bicycle lanes can be created later. “This is also the best moment for the ban to be lifted,” he adds. State transport secretary Prabhat Mishra is happy that so many cycles are in the streets. “But finding space in the city (for bicycles) is the biggest challenge,” he adds. In Calcutta, roads constitute only 7 per cent of the city area. The larger issue is an absolute lack of transport policy, says leading environment activist from the city, Naba Dutta. Since the formulation of the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (2001-2025) and discussions around another plan in 2011, there has been no planning for the city,” says Dutta. Roads, flyovers, overbridges have been built, but in a piecemeal, ad hoc way. “CNG buses are yet to roll out in the streets and bicycle lanes were part of the original plan of the E.M. Bypass.” The lack of planning has been made worse by the lack of environmental concern, says Dutta. Like bicycles, trams have been removed from the city streets. The car culture has overtaken everything and the bicycle has become the poor person’s vehicle. All this despite the fact that vehicular emissions are the biggest contributor to air pollution in Calcutta. At more than 350 cars per kilometre, Calcutta is one of the country’s most car-dense cities. Since the lockdown, with many cars off the street, the air feels much clearer. A study by the Centre for Science and Environment shows that peak levels of particulate matter or PM 2.5 and nitrogen dioxide have dropped by 46 and 74 per cent, respectively, during the lockdown compared with pre-lockdown days. “The stretch from Sealdah to Dalhousie can be made car-free. Before the lockdown, lakhs of people walked down the stretch every day to reach their workplaces and back. Same for the Chitpore to Esplanade stretch,” says Dutta. Calcutta could also use its waterways, he adds. “From our environmental platform Sabuj Mancha, we have been repeatedly asking the government for a comprehensive transport policy,” says Dutta, a cyclist himself. Urban planner Tathagata Chatterjee, who is professor in the department of Urban Planning and Governance at Bhubaneswar’s Xavier University, also insists on an overall transportation policy, but with planned intervention. “Just setting up bicycle lanes is not enough. This happened in Bhubaneswar, where now they are mostly used as parking.” “Planning for cycle and pedestrian infrastructure needs to be addressed together,” says Chatterjee, stressing on a strategy that uses different modes of transport. He assesses the disadvantages of Calcutta to accommodate such transport: the population density, extreme low road space, mixed traffic, road condition, encroachments, car parking, garbage dumps, movement of pedestrians, chances of collision with motorised vehicles, particularly autos, scooters and motorbikes, weather conditions of rain and heat, and lack of supporting infrastructure. Where does one park the bicycle is an important question he raises. But Calcutta has its advantages. It is a city of small distances. An average trip length in Calcutta is about five to six kilometres. Chatterjee says that this and a system of feeder transport can help the bicycle here. “In Calcutta, cycles should be used for short neighbourhood streets, not main roads. Dedicated cycle lanes are more suitable for planned areas such as New Town and Salt Lake,” he adds. According to him, while treating trams as feeder transport, authorities need to focus on creating a non-motorised rail-based mass transit system linking suburban rail, Metro rail and trams. Attention should be paid to good pedestrian infrastructure too. Thought has to go into creating parking spaces for bicycles. Cycle-friendly cities such as Copenhagen, London, Singapore — have done all of this. “The Comprehensive Mobility Plan has to be revisited,” says Chatterjee. In the meantime, here, the public sector undertaking Hidco is encouraging bicycles in the New Town area and the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority has decided to take part in the national-level competition “Cycles 4 Change Challenge” organised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. A 56-year-old Calcuttan, Sudipto Roy, chief public relations officer of a multinational company that also manufactures car batteries, has turned cycle fan. He has taken to cycling to work every day during lockdown. He says, “In two months my blood pressure and blood sugar levels have come down.” He too has a question — “Why does this city reward the motorists and punish the cyclists?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Business||Godrey Phillips India profit down||Cigarette maker Godfrey Phillips India on Saturday reported a 53.56 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit at Rs 55 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, 2020. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 119 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Godfrey Phillips’ total income from operations during the April-June quarter stood at Rs 504 crore, down 41.33 per cent from Rs 858 crore in the same period of the last financial year, the company said in a BSE filing. During the quarter under review, overall expenses stood at Rs 440.85 crore, a decline of 35.55 per cent compared with Rs 681.75 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal. Godfrey Phillips manufactures cigarette brands, including Four Square, Red and White, Cavanders, Tipper and North Pole. It also manufactures and distributes Marlboro under a licence agreement with Philip Morris.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
23-08-2020||Business||Oil India suffers second quarterly loss in history||Oil India Ltd, the nation’s second-largest state-run oil and gas producer, has logged its second quarterly loss in history in the June quarter of 2020 after crude oil prices slumped to a level lower than the cost of production. OIL has suffered a net loss of Rs 249 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 compared with a net profit of Rs 625 crore in the same period of the previous financial year. “This is the second quarterly loss in OIL history. We had a quarterly loss in 2018-19,” OIL director-finance Harish Madhav said on Saturday. The price realised for the oil the company has produced dropped to $30.43 per barrel in the June quarter compared with $66.33 a barrel realised a year back, he said. “Our cost of production is around $32-33 per barrel and a drop in price was the primary reason for the loss in the first quarter,” he said. OIL produced 0.75 million tonnes of crude oil in April-June, down marginally from 0.81 million tonnes a year back. Natural gas output too was marginally lower at 0.68 billion cubic metres (bcm) from 0.71 bcm in the first quarter of 2019-20. He said natural gas price realisation during the reporting quarter reduced to $2.39 per metric million British thermal unit (mmBtu) from $3.23 in the previous quarter. OIL’s cost of production for natural gas is around $2.3 per mmBtu. “Gas price realisation was fine but it was the substantial drop in oil prices that resulted in loss in the first quarter,” he said. Turnover in April-June reduced to Rs 1,874.48 crore from Rs 3,496.10 crore in the same period last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
23-08-2020||Business||ICICI Lombard acquires Bharti AXA in all-stock deal||ICICI Lombard General Insurance is acquiring Bharti Enterprises-promoted Bharti AXA General Insurance in an all-stock deal. Shareholders of Bharti AXA will receive two shares of ICICI Lombard for every 115 shares of Bharti AXA held by them on the date the “scheme of arrangement” is approved by the board of both the entities, a statement said. The share-exchange ratio was recommended by independent valuers and accepted by the respective boards of ICICI Lombard and Bharti AXA. Bharti Enterprises at present owns a 51 per cent stake in Bharti AXA General Insurance, while French insurer AXA has 49 per cent. In ICICI Lombard, the ICICI Bank holds a stake of 51.89 per cent. The board of ICICI Lombard General Insurance “at its meeting held on August 21, considered and approved a scheme of arrangement among Bharti AXA General Insurance and the former company and their respective shareholders and creditors”, ICICI Lombard said in a late night filing on Friday. Post demerger, Bharti AXA General Insurance will cease to be a going concern and both Bharti Enterprises and AXA will exit the non-life business. The consolidation is beneficial for and in the interest of the policyholders as the demerger creates a more robust and financially strong insurer that can offer a wider product suite, more access points and comprehensive services to customers after the completion of the scheme, the general insurers said. “The proposed transaction provides a meaningful opportunity for ICICI Lombard to consolidate its leadership position in the non-life insurance sector, becoming the third largest non-life insurer. The combined entity shall have a market share of about 8.7 per cent on a pro-forma basis,” ICICI Lombard said. The board approved the proposed scheme of demerger, subject to all applicable statutory and regulatory approvals, including from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, the Competition Commission of India, stock exchanges, Sebi, shareholders and creditors of the companies involved in the scheme and the relevant jurisdictional benches of the National Company Law Tribunal, the company said. “We would also like to reassure Bharti AXA’s policyholders and channel partners of seamless business continuity and maintaining the highest standards of customer service,” ICICI Lombard CEO Bhargav Dasgupta said. Bharti Enterprises has been trying for quite some time to exit the financial services business. In 2011, Bharti Enterprises’ talks with Reliance Industries to sell its 74 per cent stake in Bharti AXA Life Insurance and Bharti AXA General Insurance could not reach the logical conclusion. For the fiscal year ended March 2020, Bharti AXA General Insurance reported a 38 per cent increase in its gross premium collection at Rs 3,157 crore against Rs 2,285 crore in the previous fiscal. Ernst & Young LLP (EY) was the exclusive advisor to ICICI Lombard for this merger. AZB & Partners acted as the legal advisor to ICICI Lombard, while Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas acted as the legal advisor to Bharti. Talwar Thakore & Associates acted as the legal advisor to AXA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
23-08-2020||Business||Insurers push guaranteed return plans||Life insurers are vying for a share of the rising investments in fixed deposits by pitching their guaranteed savings products. Despite a decline in the repo rate by 115 basis points since February, and private and PSU banks reducing their term deposit rates by 110 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively, over the past 12 months, the inflow into fixed deposits is going up. Time deposits have grown from Rs 112 lakh crore at the end of June 2019 to Rs 125.3 lakh crore as on July 17, 2020. In the past three-and-a-half months, the inflow has been worth around Rs 5.8 lakh crore, indicating that investors have parked their earnings in fixed deposits despite low interest rates. This trend has stirred the interest of life insurers who are pitching their guaranteed savings products as a long-term alternative to fixed deposits. In addition to an insurance cover, these products have a rate of return of 5-6 per cent and there are income tax benefits on the premium paid and benefits received. “Through guaranteed savings products, life insurers are offering a lock-in opportunity for 20-30 years in this low interest rate scenario. There is no tax incidence and there is benefit of protection, that is life cover with guaranteed savings,” said Kamlesh Rao, MD and CEO of Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance. “While we are seeing the need for liquidity on the rise, we have also observed that those customers who are willing to invest are looking for products that offer better after-tax guaranteed returns compared with other savings products,” said Bharat Kalsi, CFO of Bajaj Allianz Life. He added that the company has seen a 135 per cent increase in the issuance of guaranteed return policies. A typical guaranteed return policy from a private life insurer with a tenure of around 22 years has a premium paying term of around 10 years. Depending on the policy and the return, a 35-year-old individual investing Rs 10 lakh (Rs 1 lakh per annum for 10 years) can end up with a total benefit of around Rs 24 lakh after 22 years when he will be closer to the retirement age. Being a life cover, these policies also offer death benefit. The dependence on banks as a sales channel is also helping life insurers to analyse the investment pattern of the fixed deposit insurers and streamline sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
23-08-2020||India||BJP package blitz for Bihar elections||The BJP is gearing up to turn the Bihar Assembly elections into a mammoth public relations exercise for various central schemes and the battle against Covid-19. “Our party workers have to knock at every door and approach all sections of the society to take to them the work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the central government and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar. We have given a package of Rs 20 lakh crore to make the country self-reliant,” BJP national president J.P. Nadda said. He was speaking through video on the last day of the two-day BJP state executive committee meeting in view of the forthcoming Assembly polls. The tenure of the Vidhan Sabha ends on November 29. Nadda reeled off names of dozens of schemes and the amounts sanctioned for each of them by the Centre, including several meant for the poor, the migrant workers, youths, women, farmers, small entrepreneurs and the economy. He asked BJP leaders to focus on the Rs 50,000-crore Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana — a scheme meant to provide employment to the poor that was launched by Modi from Bihar. Senior party leaders, including Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh, Nityanand Rai and Ashwini Choubey, national general secretary and BJP Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, state BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal and several others joined the meeting from Patna and Delhi. “Every party worker has to tell the people how we fought against Covid to save 130 crore people and the economy, both under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, by taking the timely and bold decision to impose the lockdown,” Nadda said. He pointed out how over 1,500 dedicated Covid hospitals, 12.5 lakh beds and 2,000 testing centres with an overall testing capacity of 10 lakh per day had been set up across the country and highlighted that the recovery rate among Covid patients had improved to 74 per cent. “There was a time when not a single PPE kit was produced in the country. All PPEs were imported from outside. But our Prime Minister Modi encouraged entrepreneurs here and now 4.5 lakh PPE kits are produced daily. The country has manufactured 50,000 ventilators, too, so far,” Nadda said. The BJP national president drew attention to the fact that over 1 lakh Covid tests were being conducted daily in Bihar, in addition to a door-to-door screening that has covered 10 crore people so far. He said the state had fought aggressively against Covid under the guidance of senior BJP leader and health minister Mangal Pandey. Bihar has recorded over 1.2 lakh cases so far, including over 600 deaths. Though around 1 lakh tests are being conducted daily now after a sluggish start, the number of positive cases has shown a decline, triggering questions on the quality of the tests. The Opposition parties have publicly doubted the figures and alleged that the state government was tampering with data in a bid to hold elections on time to avoid President’s rule. Asking BJP workers to conduct small meetings and door-to-door visits to increase the effectiveness of the poll campaign, Nadda said victory has been achieved whenever the BJP, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) have contested the elections together. “This time also we will contest together and emerge victorious. The BJP will fight in every single booth and win. But this will not be enough. Our workers will have to ensure that our allies also win,” Nadda said. The BJP president claimed that the Opposition in Bihar was “a spent force, which has no strength, thoughts, vision, or the determination to serve the people. It just indulges in hollow politics.” BJP national general secretary and Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav attacked the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and its chief Lalu Prasad. Yadav said the party’s slogan for the impending polls would be “BJP hai taiyar, atmanirbhar Bihar (BJP is ready, self-dependent Bihar)”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Over 4,000 observe day-long hunger strike to postpone entrance exams||Over 4,000 students observed a day-long hunger strike on Sunday demanding deferral of various examinations, including NEET and JEE in view of rising Covid-19 cases. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the government must listen to the 'mann ki baat' of students and arrive at "an acceptable solution" and his party demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred. According to the All India Students Association (AISA), around 4,200 students observed the day-long hunger strike at their respective home demanding that CBSE compartment exams of Classes 10 and 12 be cancelled and entrance exams such as the UGC-NET, CLAT, NEET and JEE be postponed. Using the hashtag #SATYAGRAHagainstExamInCovid, many students also took to Twitter to appeal to the government to heed to their demands. Manoj S, a JEE aspirant from Karnataka, said, "We have to report to the JEE exam centre at 7 am. My centre is almost 150 kilometres away and there are no train or bus services available currently. "Many of my friends have said that their centres are 200 to 250 kilometres away. How are we supposed to travel? How will we write exams wearing masks for seven to eight hours?" He urged the government to postpone the exams till normalcy is restored. Anisha, hailing from Odisha, said with all the hotels and guest houses closed, where would they stay in case they have to travel for exams. "I am from Balasore and my NEET exam centre is in Bhubaneswar. I will have to travel for five hours to take my exam. There are no hotels or guesthouses that are open. Where will we stay?" she said. Siddh Dutt, who will be appearing for CBSE compartment exam, said, "I am an asthma patient. I am scared of what may happen to me if I catch Covid-19." Madhurima, who said she has to take four different entrance exams, wants authorities to listen to her appeal -- "Please produce a vaccine so that we can take exams. I am a JEE, IISER, DUET aspirant and also have to take another entrance exam," she said. Md Danish Khan from Bhagalpur in Bihar said he has been "allotted an exam centre in Patna, which is a Covid-19 hotspot". "I do not want to risk the lives of my relatives by staying at their place when I go to take the exam. I also stay in a joint family and if I contract the virus, it will create a chain of infection," he said. A Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) aspirant from Kolkata, who requested anonymity, said she fears for her parents' safety during this time. "My father is a diabetic and my mother just had an operation for a tumour. Even if they go to drop me to the exam centre using public transport, I will be putting them at risk. The government is not ready to listen to us. "We will have to sit and write the exams wearing masks, gloves and headgear under hot weather conditions," she said. Other students also shared similar woes and urged the government to postpone entrance exams and declare the academic year as a "zero year". A day ago, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had appealed to the central government to cancel medical and engineering entrance exams JEE and NEET in view of the Covid-19 situation. He also said an alternative admission methodology should be used this year and the exams should not be conducted. On Friday, Education Ministry officials had said the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day and threw economic activities out of gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Congress leaders seek party overhaul in letter to Sonia Gandhi||Ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, different voices have emerged within the party with one section comprising sitting MPs and former ministers demanding collective leadership, while another group seeking the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm. Two dozen Congress leaders, including some ex ministers, have written to party president Sonia Gandhi for overhaul of the organizational structure and changes to the leadership. Some leaders close to Rahul have also written to the CWC pressing for his return as chief. The letter by former ministers and some MPs is believed to have been written a few weeks ago and sets the stage for a stormy CWC meeting where issues flagged by dissenters are expected to be discussed and debated. The leaders have called for bringing changes in the organization by effecting reforms through decentralisation of power and empowerment of state units, besides setting up of the central Parliamentary Board, a body that existed in the party in the 1970s but was later wound up. The letter in question has also stressed collective decision-making with Gandhi family as its integral part. They have also called for the appointment of a full-time leadership which is active and which can be easily contacted by workers and leaders. The pro reform leaders are further learnt to have called for free and fair organizational polls from the block up to the working committee level. According to NDTV, Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi has told her aides that she would step down from the party's top post, after the letter became public.  NDTV also cited sources, saying Mrs Gandhi can stay on till the party finds a suitable candidate. A counter to the pro reform lobby arguing for collective leadership in the Congress has also begun with sitting MP Manickam Tagore calling for Rahul Gandhi's return as party president. “Gandhis are the symbol of sacrifice. Decision by Congress CWC was a majority decision reflecting the will of 1100 AICC, 8800 PCC members, five crore workers and 12 crore supporters who want Rahul Gandhi as their leader," Tagore said, referring to the 2019 decision of the CWC to name Sonia Gandhi as party president after Rahul declined to accept a unanimous CWC appeal to stay in the post. Apart from Tagore, Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy, ex Telangana lawmaker and AICC secretary in charge of Maharashtra has also asked for the promotion of Rahul Gandhi as Congress President without any further delay. In a letter to the CWC on Sunday, Challa Reddy said any delay in Rahul's reinstatement would be at the cost of the Congress. “In view of existing conditions any further delay in promoting Rahul Gandhi as AICC president can cause incalculable harm to the progress of Congress Party and can be dispiriting to the Congress family,” Reddy said in the letter. While the younger leaders in the Congress are expected to chalk out a strategy to push for Rahul's return to the helm, the leaders who earlier petitioned to Sonia Gandhi have called for contacting and winning back all those Congressmen who have quit the party and joined the BJP and expressed concerns over rank and file getting demoralised due to the drift in the party. They are also learnt to have pointed out that the CWC is not "guiding" the party effectively in mobilizing public opinion against the BJP. Among leaders learnt to have signed the letter are Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader of Congress in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, besides ex ministers Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, M Veerappa Moily, Shashi Tharoor, MP Manish Tewari, and former MPs Milind Deora, Jitin Prasada and Sandeep Dixit. The signatories are also said to include former party unit chiefs including Raj Babbar, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Kaul Singh Thakur besides leaders Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Kuldeep Sharma. These leaders argued that in the absence of a direct dialogue with the Congress chief over strengthening of the party, revival of the party has become imperative in the interest of democracy in the country. While most of the leaders who have written the letter did not answer calls on Sunday, some who answered remained tight-lipped on the issue having set the stage for a CWC debate on the need for a Gandhi vis-a-vis a non-Gandhi Congress president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Nitish will be CM face for Bihar polls, says Nadda||All the three NDA constituents in Bihar - the BJP, the JD(U) and the LJP - will together fight the coming Assembly polls in the state with chief minister Nitish Kumar as the face of the alliance, BJP president J.P. Nadda said on Sunday and expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious.  Nadda's remarks at a virtual address to the Bihar BJP executive meeting come amid a bitter war of words between Kumar's Janata Dal (United) and Chirag Paswan-headed Lok Janshakti Party amid speculation that BJP was reluctant to go to the hustings with Nitish as its leading partner.  Whenever the three parties have fought together, their National Democratic Alliance has notched up a big victory, Nadda said.  The coming polls will be the first time when the three parties fight together in an Assembly election after their superlative show by winning all but one seat in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha election as allies.  "We are going to the polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Our victory is certain," Nadda said.  While Chirag Paswan has often questioned the Nitish Kumar-led state government over a host of issues, the BJP has done the balancing act and maintained that the ruling NDA is intact in the state. It has also been endorsing Kumar as the alliance's chief ministerial face.  In his address from the national capital, where he was joined by several Union ministers elected from Bihar, Nadda also claimed that the Opposition in the state as well as elsewhere had become a "spent force" and asserted that the BJP was the only party which was being looked at by people with hope.  The Opposition had neither ideology nor vision nor any spirit to serve people, and it can't rise above petty politics, he added.  He praised the Bihar government's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and floods in the state, while noting that the Assembly elections are expected at a time when the state faces the twin challenges.  The Election Commission is yet to announce the election schedule, but there have been indications that it will be held on time. The Assembly elections in the state are due in October-November.  Nadda asked party leaders to organise small meetings and door-to-door campaigns in line with the COVID guidelines while preparing for the polls.  He said the special package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the state has been implemented in "letter and spirit" and asked party members to go to the people with its details.  Nadda also shared highlights of the Modi government's work to boost health care measures to battle the pandemic and to provide relief to people, especially the poor, with several packages.  The Modi government announced a 'Garib Kalyan package' of Rs 1.70 lakh crore and Rs 20 lakh crore package for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the BJP president noted. As many as 32 districts of Bihar are part of the government's Rs 50,000-crore package for the poor's employment.  The Bihar government, he said, had done a good job in battling the coronavirus and the state's recovery rate was over 73 per cent. Its infection positivity rate was only 2.89 per cent and the number of corona tests had risen to one lakh per day, he added.  Nadda also mentioned financial packages announced by the Nitish Kumar government in his address and asked BJP members to work for the victory of the saffron party as well as its allies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Congress: Unease ahead of CWC meet||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) is scheduled to meet on Monday morning amidst rising unease over the leadership question as Rahul Gandhi has so far not given any indication of his willingness to return as party president. There is a distinct possibility that the process for the resolution of the lingering crisis will be set in motion at the CWC meeting. It is unlikely that Rahul’s return would be announced straightaway but the roadmap for the appointment of a new full-fledged president is expected to be laid out. This meeting may be more about addressing the sense of uncertainty in the party than to decide the leader. But one section aligned with Rahul is working for his immediate return, fearing that conspiracies and factionalism would deepen if the uncertainty over leadership persists. Asked if Rahul would return within months, in 2020 itself, an aide told The Telegraph: “Why months and weeks? Why not days? Why not on Monday when the CWC meets? Although he hasn’t revealed his mind as yet, we all want him to return on Monday itself. All he has to do is withdraw his resignation.” This group of loyalists believes waiting for his return is the only option because they don’t want a cure that is worse than the disease. They insist that Rahul had not abandoned the ship and had continued to lead despite relinquishing the top post. But that is what has created so much unease because most other leaders feel back-seat driving is harmful both for the party and Rahul’s own leadership. These leaders, mostly seniors who have served the party for decades, are anguished by the stalemate, contending that the “drift” is weakening the political resistance to the Narendra Modi government. Ironically, while nobody is opposed to Rahul’s leadership, there is turmoil linked to his tactics and approach. One leader said: “We are not discussing Rahul’s credentials as a leader; we all accepted him as president and never wanted him to resign. He has damaged his own leadership by exiting mid-way, when the need for guidance and motivation was more than ever before. We are saying ‘you come back, this vacuum is terrible’. Is that a wrong demand? Is that an issue to create such serious rifts in the party?” Some younger leaders, however, have failed to read the nuanced positioning and presumed this group to be anti-Rahul. One leader said: “The party is not in turmoil; some leaders are in turmoil. These are the same people who enjoyed posts and political clout because of the blessings of the Nehru-Gandhi family. They are now restless because the new generation is trying to occupy their space. If they create nuisance at the CWC meeting, they will get a firm response. We won’t mind trouble-makers being expelled from the party.” The widespread unease in the party over the leadership question has created a crisis of sorts and the majority of leaders disapprove of forcing Sonia Gandhi to run a “stop-gap” arrangement. This vacuum has reduced the goodwill Rahul enjoyed within the party and triggered avoidable fissures. A party that required restructuring and rejuvenation after successive debilitating electoral defeats to take on the formidable rival is stewing in its own juice. Some seniors have proposed a collective leadership in case Rahul is still reluctant to return. That includes the formation of a top decision-making body called the Parliamentary Board and the appointment of zonal vice-presidents who can rev up the functioning of the organisation in the absence of an active president. Sources say that is not acceptable to Rahul, which is being seen as his refusal to accommodate some senior leaders in the system. This is another point of discord that has to be resolved. It is in this tense atmosphere that an extended CWC meeting has been called. While the regular members of the CWC are mostly senior leaders, younger leaders enter in large numbers in the extended meeting as office-bearers in charge of states, special and permanent invitees and heads of frontal organisations. That will ensure an overwhelming presence of Rahul loyalists, making it difficult for the seniors who would like to underscore the gravity of the situation. Another concern, though not very serious, is that the Election Commission of India may intervene to put the party in trouble over the leadership structure. Under the Representation of the People Act, every party has to submit to the commission the full list of its office-bearers and the details of internal elections. Although Rahul had been elected president till 2022, his resignation has created a situation that can enable the commission to step in. The Congress had formally informed the commission on December 11, 2019, that Sonia had been appointed interim president because Rahul had refused to withdraw his resignation despite a unanimous request by all office-bearers for his continuance. Sonia’s term was extended till August 10 and hence the commission can seek an explanation now. Party leaders are, however, ready to contest that legally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Publisher pulls Delhi riots book after backlash||A storm of tweets by authors breaking off ties with Bloomsbury, and readers threatening a boycott, has led to the British publisher withdrawing a book that blames the Delhi riots on the protesters against the new citizenship matrix. On Friday, the authors of the book   lawyer Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar had shared posters on social media of the virtual launch of Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story, published by Bloomsbury. BJP national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Bhupendra Yadav was announced as the chief guest who would release the book at Saturday afternoon’s event. The guests of honour were Nupur Sharma, editor of Rightwing website OpIndia, filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri who has been credited with coining the term “urban Naxal”, and BJP politician Kapil Mishra, accused by the Delhi minority commission of provoking the riots. Arora was a BJP candidate in the 2003 Delhi Assembly polls. Outrage poured in online. Sociologist Nandini Sundar, historian Suchetana Chattopadhyay, economist Jayati Ghosh, journalist Stanly Johny, and blogger Sumaiyya Naseem were among the many authors who spoke out against Bloomsbury, with whom they have been associated. Sundar, a Delhi University teacher, tweeted that she had refused to review a book for the publisher after it emerged that it “publishes a book that is full of lies about Delhi’s academics”. Chattopadhyay, who teaches at Jadavpur university, wrote on Facebook that she would not be writing a book on Islamists during the First World War in Calcutta for Bloomsbury since the publisher has “published a book justifying the recent pogroms in Delhi”. The book on the Delhi riots, the authors had explained during the virtual launch, grew out of a field study they had conducted under the aegis of an NGO, the Group of Intellectuals and Academicians. Their report, given to the Union home ministry in March, had blamed the riots on a “Leftjihadi model of revolution” and the “systematic radicalisation of the minorities by a far Lefturban Naxal network operating in universities in Delhi”. They had claimed that “jihadi mobs indulged in targeted killings, looting and vandalising shops” and that Mishra  who had issued an ultimatum to the antiCAA protesters just before the riots began – “was asked to help clear the place of locals since the police finds it difficult to protect locals from stone pelting from 2 sides”. The police have told the court they have found no evidence against Mishra, a video of whose speech was played by a Delhi High Court judge in the courtroom for the force's benefit. Several activists tagged other authors published by Bloomsbury and asked them to clear their stand on the book. On Friday night, Bloomsbury sent a statement to a few journalists dissociating itself from the book launch. A Twitter tag on Saturday afternoon called for a boycott of all Bloomsbury publications. Ziya Us Salam, author of two bestsellers on Shaheen Bagh and the Muslim practice of halala, published by Bloomsbury, clarified to several hurt readers on Twitter: "I have nothing to do with the Delhi pogrom book." Just before the launch on Saturday afternoon, Bloomsbury India said in a statement: "Bloomsbury India had planned to release Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors. "However, in view of very recent events including a virtual prepublication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society." The book had been listed as a bestseller in the preorder section of Amazon, but was labelled "currently unavailable" after the publisher withdrew it. Bloomsbury's move led to calls for a counter boycott. OpIndia CEO Rahul Roushan tweeted: "Bloomsbury should be banned from all libraries that 'RW' may control. I don't know how that works. I don't know if that's feasible. But costs have to be imposed." Bloomsbury has lately emerged as the publisher of choice for authors of books that glorify the ruling establishment or promote its worldview. These include Amit Shah and the March of the BJP by Anirban Ganguly and Shiwanand Dwivedi, Modi 2.0: Beyond the Ordinary by Sunil Sharan, and Gandhi's Hinduism: The Struggle against Jinnah's Islam by BJP parliamentarian M.J. Akbar. A source associated with the publisher claimed that at least one editor at Bloomsbury had washed his hands of the manuscript of the book on the Delhi riots when it was initially submitted. It was finally cleared by a team that included an editor whose expertise so far had been on books on sports and entertainment, the source said. "Besides giving its imprint, the company was not really doing anything to promote the book. The authors were managing this on their own. The legal team of the company spent three weeks on the manuscript and recommended several edits. In the light of the controversy, there is talk of redesignating an editor who vetted the book," the source said. During the virtual launch, Arora said: "This is the same cabal that tweeted with the hastag #HumDekhenge during Prashant Bhushan's contempt verdict…. You threaten people and call yourself liberal. This is no longer 1967 when the Congress held the political space and Leftists held the mind space." She added: "If one publisher withdraws, 10 will come forward. Thoughts are not dependent on any platform. The truth shall tear even 1,000 curtains and come out." Kapil Mishra said: "We have seen the dance of the international lobby that supports urban Naxals and Islamic jihadis since last evening. The moment they came to know of a book that exposes their propaganda, the custodians of the freedom of expression got scared and are running around to stop the publication of this book, to prevent it from being sold and read or seen." He added: "This book is feared by those who say it is the freedom of expression to abuse Mother India, deities, raise slogans of 'Afzal Guru zindabad' and consider Burhan Wani a son of their homes." Guru was convicted in the 2001 Parliament attack case and hanged in 2013. Wani, a young Hizbul Mujahideen commander, was killed by the security forces in 2016. On Saturday evening, the principal economic adviser to the Union government, Sanjeev Sanyal, tweeted: "A few weeks ago, I had raised the issue of how a tiny cabal controls Indian publishing and constantly imposes ideological censorship. We have just witnessed one example of how this insidious control is wielded. "I have not read the book in question & have no idea if it is good or bad. However, this is obviously not a quality control problem but about censorship. I commit to never publish a book with @BloomsburyIndia." Historian Audrey Truschke of Rutgers University said in a series of tweets: "For those not uptodate on Indian politics, a rough Western equivalent is this: Nazis commit a pogrom against Jews, then blame the Jews for it, and an international publishing house platforms and profits from this antiSemitism @BloomsburyIndia: Do you really want to do this? "A few followups, largely for the benefit of @BloomsburyIndia. They should see what they are doing with an unvarnished gaze. Many observers and scholars consider the Delhi riots a pogrom, i.e., an organised massacre of an ethnic or religious group. In this case, Muslims. During the 2020 Delhi riots/ pogrom, Hindu Rightwingers targeted Muslims with violence. This wasn't a debate; it wasn't a clash about which reasonable people can disagree. One group tried to massacre members of another, and succeeded in taking dozens of lives." She added: "Hindu nationalism (also known as Hindutva) is a political ideology with root."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Bombay High Court: Tablighi participants were made scapegoats||Bombay High Court has said the government made scapegoats of the foreign nationals who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi in March by accusing them of spreading Covid-19, and that there was a “smell of malice” in the action taken against them. “A political government tries to find a scapegoat when there is a pandemic or a calamity and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them a scapegoat,” the court’s Aurangabad bench said on Friday, quashing FIRs against 29 foreigners. The latest figures on the spread of the infection in India show such action against the petitioners should not have been taken, the court said. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country is now nearing 3 million. A division bench of Justices T.V. Nalawade and M.G. Sewlikar noted that while Maharashtra police had acted mechanically in the case, the state government had taken steps under “political compulsion”. The gathering of 2,300 people in mid-March was projected as a virus “super-spreader” in the initial days of the pandemic and its participants, and Muslims in general, vilified by the Right-wing ecosystem and sections of the media. The Union health ministry had at one point said a third of Covid-19 cases in India could be linked to the gathering. The Union home ministry had directed all states to act against the Tablighi Jamaat participants and blacklisted the foreigners. “The action of the central government was taken mainly against Muslim persons who had come to Markaz Delhi for Tabligh Jamaat. Similar action was not taken against other foreigners belonging to other religions,” the bench said. The bench referred to the protests against the new citizenship regime.  “Most of the persons who participated in the protests were Muslims. It is their contention that (the) Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019, is discriminatory against the Muslims…. It can be said that due to the present action taken, fear was created in the minds of those Muslims,” it said. “This action indirectly gave warning to Indian Muslims that action in any form and for anything can be taken against Muslims…. Thus, there is smell of malice to the action taken against these foreigners and Muslim(s) for their alleged activities.” The high court said: “It is now high time for the (authorities) concerned to repent about this action taken against the foreigners and to take some positive steps to repair the damage done by such action.” The 29 foreigners who had appealed to the high court had been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and the Foreigners Act for allegedly violating their tourist visa conditions by attending the event at the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. The court asked if the people of India had acted in keeping with the country’s great tradition and culture of welcoming guests. “During the situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to show more tolerance and need to be more sensitive towards our guests, particularly like the present petitioners,” it said. “Instead of helping them, we lodged them in jails by making allegations that they were responsible for violation of travel documents and that they are responsible for spreading the coronavirus.” The court further said: “The government cannot give different treatment to citizens of different religions of different countries.” Apart from the foreigners, the police had booked six Indians for giving shelter to the petitioners. The bench recalled Swami Vivekananda’s address at the Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893, where he had praised and congratulated America for hosting such a gathering. He championed universal brotherhood and believed that all religions are true, the court said. “We look towards America as an ideal democracy due to things like the aforesaid approach of America allowing the Parliament of Religions in that country. We have borrowed many principles and parts of the American Constitution, which include the Preamble, Fundamental Rights, independence of judiciary. All these things need to be kept in mind not only by the courts but also the executive before taking such action,” the court said. The bench noted in its order that there had been propaganda against the foreigners who had joined the gathering Delhi. “The propaganda against the so-called religious activity (Tablighi Jamaat) was unwarranted. The activity has been going on for more than 50 years and it is there throughout the year,” the court said, noting that Muslims from across the world come to India and visit the Markaz in Delhi as they are attracted to the reforms movement of the Tablighi Jamaat. At the end of the judgment, Justice Sewlikar said that while he agreed with the quashing of the FIRs, he had differing views on a few observations made by Justice Nalawade. However, Justice Sewlikar did not specify which observations he was referring to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
23-08-2020||India||Piracy hunt for BJP leader kin||The police are looking for the nephew of a BJP politician whom they accuse of illegally printing NCERT school textbooks in Meerut and selling them to wholesalers and retailers in several states. Sachin Gupta, the accused, is a nephew of Sanjeev Gupta, BJP Meerut city vice-president, who owns a printing press in the city. “Sachin somehow learnt in advance about the raid and tried to burn the books before the team arrived at one of his warehouses on Friday night,” Meerut senior superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Sahani told reporters. “We have detained 12 people and are trying to arrest the kingpin.” Police sources claimed Sachin had recently printed textbooks worth Rs 35 crore and sold consignments of them to suppliers and bookstores in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana. Sanjeev said: “My press has been closed since the lockdown began. We are not printing anything there. Sachin is my nephew but we have no common business interest.” However, Brajesh Kumar Singh, a deputy superintendent of police attached to the police’s special task force that carried out the raids, alleged the books were printed illegally in Sanjeev’s press in the Mohkampur area of Meerut city. He said the books were kept in the two warehouses Sachin owns in Achraura in Meerut and Gajraula in Amroha. Both warehouses and the press were raided. “They had tried to burn the books before the team arrived at the Achaura warehouse,” Singh said. A police source, requesting anonymity, said: “Someone had tried to contact the SSP while the raid was on but he couldn’t take the call because he was busy in a meeting.” Another officer said: “Booksellers are supposed to pay in advance for NCERT books, and are given a margin of 15 per cent. But Sachin supplied the illegally printed books without taking any advance.” He said the police had received a complaint from the Army School in Meerut that the NCERT books it had bought from a local supplier displayed a different typeface and pagination from copies supplied by a government-approved distributor. “The Army School conducted an inquiry and handed the case over to the district police,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
23-08-2020||India||Patna college assignment: the Prashant Bhushan case||A Patna college has set its students an assignment to read, research and comment on the Supreme Court’s contempt conviction of advocate Prashant Bhushan, reflecting how the issue has found resonance on campuses. St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology gave the assignment to its fifth-semester undergraduate mass communication students on Thursday afternoon. The same day the apex court met to discuss the quantum of punishment for Bhusan but ended up giving him a couple of days to consider expressing an apology. All the students’ opinions were digitally collected and edited under the guidance of a professor, Frank Krishner, before being compiled into a seven-minute video that ended with an appeal to save the Constitution. In the video, the majority of the students criticised the judgment as a violation of the freedom of expression but a few were unhappy with one of Bhushan’s two tweets while the odd one supported the Supreme Court judgment unreservedly. The college principal, Father T. Nishaanth, praised the students’ work but clarified that they would not be graded or marked on the basis of their performance in the assignment. He said the mass communication students were regularly given assignments related to current affairs but could not say whether a similarly contentious issue had ever been chosen before. Attempts to reach Krishner, who gave the assignment, failed. Father Nishaanth, however, appeared to align himself with the spirit of the assignment, saying the one thing that had made India’s democracy a “vibrant one has been the freedom of speech and expression — people have the right to express their views”. “Dissent is not destruction. It is just disagreement and should be viewed as such,” he said. “We have practised this in our country since ages and it got more amplified and focused since the time of Mahatma Gandhi.” He added that he was happy at the aptitude for critical thinking the students had shown. “(Bhushan’s tweets) are okay. They are justified. If we say about a politician that he should be answerable for his actions... the same goes for the Chief Justice of India,” Ishika, a student, said in the video. “This is an overreaction (on the part of the apex court) and a self-defeating exercise…. Just because a party or an organisation is in power they cannot think that people cannot criticise them.” Abhilasha Kumari echoed her: “Fair criticism of court should not be an offence; otherwise it will lead to abuse of power.” Bhushan was convicted of criminal contempt of court on August 14 over two tweets he had posted on June 27 and 29. One of them said that democracy had been destroyed during the tenure of the past four Chief Justices of India, while the other commented on current Chief Justice S.A. Bobde mounting a Harley-Davidson in public without a mask at a time he had suspended physical court hearings because of the pandemic. A few students argued that the provision of contempt of court was itself an attack on the freedom of expression. “Contempt of court should be removed and constructive criticism should be welcomed by the Indian judiciary,” said Aastha Kumari. A few students, however, supported the conviction or at least found one of Bhushan’s tweets objectionable. “The first tweet is not objectionable at all…. However, the second tweet is objectionable because the freedom of speech comes with certain responsibilities,” said Princemita.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
23-08-2020||India||BSF guns down five Pakistan intruders ||The BSF shot dead five Pakistan intruders along the India-Pakistan international border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district early Saturday, the force said. This is the highest number of intruders killed in a single incident along the over 3,300km-long border with Pakistan in more than a decade, officials said. Punjab shares a 553-km frontier with Pakistan, apart from Jammu, Rajasthan and Gujarat, which together constitute the remaining part of the international border. A BSF spokesperson said troops recovered nine packets containing over 9kg of heroin along with an AK-47 rifle, two magazines and 27 rounds, four 9mm Berretta pistols with seven magazines and 109 live rounds, two mobile phones and Rs 610 in Pakistani currency. The spokesperson said the force personnel “cordoned the area and challenged the intruders to stop and surrender” after suspicious activity was noticed near the border fence. “The Pakistani armed intruders did not pay any heed to the challenge and opened fire on the BSF troops,” the official said.  “Hence, to stop their further misadventure and in self-defence, the BSF troops retaliated with fire due to which the five Pakistani armed intruders succumbed to bullet injuries,” he said. A senior BSF official said the exchange of fire began around 4.45am near the Dal border post, which is close to Bhikhiwind town of the district and is guarded by the 103rd battalion of the BSF under the Ferozepur sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
23-08-2020||India||Anti-CAA protests: No clean chit yet for cops in Jamia action||Delhi High Court on Friday said a report of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had suggested that police did not handle themselves “professionally” while dealing with anti-CAA protests at Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia University last December, and that none had been given a “clean chit”. “It (NHRC) says law-and-order problem, but it also says inculcate professionalism (in the police). It (report) indicates that it (incident) was not handled professionally,” a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said. The police had been caught on camera brutally assaulting youngsters at Jamia to quell the protests against the Centre’s new citizenship regime, with some videos showing cops hitting unarmed boys with batons inside a library. The court’s observations were in response to the contention of additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi that the rights panel had found that there had been a law-and-order situation at Jamia and so police entry into the campus was legitimate. The law officer pointed out that the report had only mentioned that there were individual instances of police excesses and that it did not say that the action as a whole was unwarranted. Lekhi added that the commission had also left it to the police, not any outside agency, to inquire into the individual instances of transgression by its officers. To this, the bench remarked: “That is fine. But it (report) cannot be read as a clean chit being given to anyone either.” The high court was hearing a batch of petitions that have alleged that the police and paramilitary forces had used ruthless and excessive force on students at the university. The pleas have sought the formation of a special investigation team or a commission of inquiry to look into the violence at Jamia last December during the students’ protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Opposing the petitioners’ allegations, Lekhi argued that while they claim that the police action was unwarranted, the NHRC report does not say so. He said that the police action as a whole was “not disproportionate” to the violence on the campus and only in some isolated instances had disproportionate force been used. However, inquiry into these isolated instances have been left to the police by the NHRC and this indicates that the agency can be trusted, contrary to what the petitioners are claiming, Lekhi argued. He said that while the petitioners had claimed that the protests were peaceful, the NHRC report refers to it as “violent”. PTI The law officer iterated his argument during the previous hearing on August 14 that the police had entered the university to restore order, which had been disrupted by incidents of arson and destruction of public property during the students’ protests. Lekhi will continue his arguments on August 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
23-08-2020||India||International Labour Organisation flags holes in wage code rules||The UN’s labour arm has in a discussion paper expressed concern about gaps in the draft rules for India’s new wage law, set to be notified soon with the deadline for suggestions from the public passing on Saturday. “Discussion Paper: Wage Code and Rules”, published by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), has highlighted the lack of clarity on aspects such as how the floor-level wage should be fixed, how often it should be revised and how it would be made to apply to domestic workers. The paper has been authored by Xavier Estupinan, wage specialist with the ILO; Anoop Satpathy, Fellow at the V.V. Giri National Labour Institute; and Bikash K. Malick, an officer from the Indian Economic Service cadre. The Code of Wages looks to prescribe a floor-level wage that the minimum wage in every state must equal or exceed. The Union labour ministry will now examine the feedback received on the draft rules from the public and experts before notifying the final rules. All workers including domestic help are to be paid wages according to the notified rates. But the draft rules are silent on how a domestic worker can establish the employee-employer relationship since private households do not sign any written contracts with such workers. “The wage rules should ensure that no employee or wage earner falls outside the realm of the widely promulgated universal coverage. Vulnerable low-paid and informal workers, such as domestic workers, gig economy workers and home workers, should also be targeted under this coverage if there is an employment relationship in place,” the paper says. Satpathy told The Telegraph the rules should require households to sign some sort of document while hiring domestic workers. The paper has also flagged the absence of a specific formula to determine the floor-level wage. The rules merely suggest certain broad criteria on the basis of which the wage should be calculated — such as expenses on food, clothing, housing and any other factors considered appropriate by a tripartite body. “India, with more than 70 years of experience in implementation of minimum wage regulation and 24 years of implementing the NFLMW, cannot afford to leave the floor wage fixation criteria ambiguous in the wage rules,” the paper says. Satpathy had headed an expert committee that had in 2018 worked out a formula to calculate food expenses per adult per day on the basis of a balanced diet, expressed in specific quantities of carbohydrate, protein and fat. The committee had also included the expenditures on clothing, education and housing. It had then multiplied the final figure by 3.6 to include the worker’s spouse, two young children (together taken as an adult) and elderly parents (together taken as 0.6 adults). It had eventually suggested Rs 375 as the minimum wage per day, based on the July 2018 price index. The government did not accept the report. The ILO paper has highlighted that the rules vaguely say that the floor-level wage “may” ordinarily be revised every five years. “The use of uncertain terms opens the door to the delaying of revision. This may lead to stagnation of the floor wage in future, after its initial setting,” it says. Also, the paper has underlined, the rules do not specifically say that both the basic wage and the dearness allowance must be revised every five years. Satpathy said the states tend to increase the dearness allowance to offset inflation while refusing to touch the basic wage. “Both should change,” he said. However, the paper has lauded several aspects of the new wage code and the draft rules for trying to streamline the minimum wage policy and reduce the wage disparity between states. Some 1,915 minimum wage rates now prevail across the states along with 48 types of minimum wages notified by the Centre for various kinds of work, from railway projects to coal mining. Besides, the Centre notifies a non-binding National Floor-Level Minimum Wage (NFLMW) every two years, which states are expected to equal or exceed. The floor-level wage notified in 2017 — and not yet revised — was Rs 176 a day. Some of the states have lower wage rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Mahato clout with NIA poser||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s strategy of inducting Chhatradhar Mahato — the face of the Lalgarh movement — into her party seems to be yielding results, amid reports that the NIA is planning to nab him for two murder cases. But with Mahato’s entry, Trinamul managed to organise 12 large meetings in the Jungle Mahal in less than a month and got over 3,000 BJP supporters to switch sides. Mahato, who has some 39 cases pending against him including involvement in Maoist activities under the UAPA and murder of a CPM leader in 2009, was arrested in 2009. Out on bail on February 2,  within five months he got charge of strengthening Trinamul’s base in the Jungle Mahal where in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the saffron party won all four seats, including Jhargram, Mahato’s home district. “My first vision was to bring those back to Trinamul who joined the BJP...I got at least 3,000 BJP workers and leaders, who were my aides earlier, to join Trinamul,” Mahato told this reporter. But Trinamul leaders fear that the BJP would use the NIA against Mahato as he is helping TMC’s revival. The BJP dismissed this but said it condemned the Trinamul for using a “convicted man” to regain political clout. Recently, the NIA got a nod from Calcutta High Court to interrogate Mahato in connection with the murder of Prabhu Mahato, a CPM leader who was killed in 2009. “The NIA sleuths are moving around the area...  We think it is part of saffron strategy to use the agency against Mahato as the Trinamul is reviving in the area," said a Trinamul leader. Mahato himself admitted that the NIA is trying to ‘harass’ him to divert from ongoing political activities. “NIA is trying to harass me. They already summoned me to face the interrogation in calcutta. I skipped it because of the pandemic but not sure about their further plan. However, it would be good for Trinamul and me if the NIA arrests me," said Mahato. BJP’s Jhargram president Sukhamoy Satpati however said, “Chhatradhar has no impact on BJP's organisation at all at least in Jungle Mahal. But we condemn the Trinamu’s move of using a convicted person to regain political clout.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP supporter killed in clash||A BJP supporter was killed and 19 other party workers were injured allegedly in a clash that erupted on Friday night in East Midnapore’s Egra. Residents of Barida village said a clash broke out when Trinamul workers protested against BJP supporters’ efforts to build a new party office. “A clash broke out in which bricks and bamboo sticks were used. Many were injured,” said an eyewitness, adding two persons were grievously injured and rushed to Midnapore Medical College, but one of them died on the way. On Saturday, 19 others were admitted to a hospital in Egra with moderate to serious injuries. BJP sources said a group of recent joinees from the Trinamul had been “targeted”. “Trinamul resented that they shifted to the BJP and targeted them,” said BJP’s Contai district president Anup Maity. Trinamul sources denied the charges and called it a fall-out of “BJP’s infighting”. Confirming the death of a person in a clash at Egra’s Barida on Friday night, a police officer in Egra said: “We are probing the incident to see if there were political links.” At Basirhat in South 24-Parganas, a BJP activist who works as an office secretary at party’s subdivisional office, was arrested allegedly for selling firearms and ammunition. Bapin Das, 36, was picked up by a police team from his Colony Dalalpara home on Saturday. Police found one pistol and six rounds of live ammunition at his home. Das, who fought the civic poll as a BJP nominee from ward 13 in 2015, was produced before the ACJM court in Basirhat and remanded to police custody. The police said Das was named by recently arrested criminals in connection to an arms supply racket. A BJP leader said he was framed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Waves damage road to Digha park||A big part of the road connecting to a 10-acre recreational park, part of the Digha convention centre inaugurated by Mamata Banerjee last December, was severely damaged by strong tidal waves over Thursday and Friday night. The Dheu Sagar (Sea of Waves) park is a 10-foot-high, elevated park with murals, statues, benches and an amphitheatre and had played host to the chief minister’s guests comprising delegates and industrialists last year. Over 200m of the 3km-long road, spanning the Udaipur bridge, was damaged after the concrete guardwall took a beating from tidal waves spurred by a low-pressure formation and a new moon night. “We have asked the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority to start inspection and renovation of the road at the soonest as this is a question of Digha’s image,” said zilla parishad chief Debabrata Das. “Not only is it a major tourist draw, the park also lends an air of recreation to the business centre, through which the CM intended to turn Digha into Bengal’s business and tourist destination simultaneously,” he added. DSDA vice-chairman Akhil Giri said efforts with the irrigation department would be underway on this “post haste”. On December 11 last year, Mamata Banerjee had inaugurated the park after holding lengthy deliberations at the adjacent convention centre. Talks had resulted in pledges for at least two star-hotels in the area and was followed by a cultural programme at the Dheu Sagar amphitheatre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Sanctuary wild boar killed for meat, one held||State forest department officers arrested a casual worker of a tea estate in the Dooars for killing a wild boar from Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary, and cooking its meat, on Saturday. Foresters seized raw and cooked meat during the raid and Kilkott tea estate in Jalpaiguri’s Matialli block and arrested Romit Oraon, but others fled. Foresters said the wild boar was killed at Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary. On August 20, a gaur or Indian bison from Gorumara National Park was killed for meat. In the Dooars, instances of people killing wild animals for meat had been reported some five years ago, and people had been arrested for killing deer and even leopard for its meat. But foresters said such activities had stopped in recent years. “But now some desperate people on the fringes of wildlife habitats have started this again. We have put our men on alert,” he said. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee expressed his concern over the incidents. “Senior forest officers in north Bengal have been asked to probe the incidents and submit a comprehensive report to us,” he said. A python was rescued from a bamboo plantation at the Rakhalhat-Majumdarpara area of Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri on Saturday. Spotting the snake, people called up an outfit that works for wildlife conservation. A team of foresters also came to the spot. The rescue took two hours during which a member of the wildlife conservation team suffered a snakebite. The python was later released to Gorumara National Park, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||NIT Durgapur online classes from September 7||NIT Durgapur will start online classes from September 7. An academic calendar has been uploaded on the institute’s website, announcing the start of undergraduate and postgraduate classes. The decision to start classes online follows a survey among students regarding their Net accessibility, an official said. The survey revealed about 12 per cent of 3,000 students lack basic Net connectivity. The institute will offer them the option of attending “crash semester” classes on the campus. Live classes will be held on Microsoft Teams or Google Meet. But the institute will upload recorded lectures on Facebook and YouTube for the benefit of students in case their Net connectivity gets disrupted during lectures. “If a student fails to participate in live classes, he/she can go through the recorded lectures,” institute director Anupam Basu said. A link will be shared with the students for them to access the recorded lectures. After going through the recorded lectures, students can clear their doubts by speaking to teachers either on the phone or through email or on WhatsApp. At NIT Durgapur, online enrolment of first-semester MTech and MSc students are likely to start from the first week of September. “No physical reporting or verification of documents will be undertaken during the pandemic,” another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Why Ngultrum spells moneychangers||Illegal moneychangers are mushrooming at Jaigaon in Alipurduar district that shares borders with Bhutan’s commercial capital Phuentsholing. Reason: hundreds of traders in Jaigaon are helplessly sitting with Bhutanese currency for over 10 days now in the wake of Bhutan’s nationwide lockdown since August 11. Cash being in short supply, most Indian traders are desperately trying to exchange Bhutan’s currency — the Ngultrum — that they have on them with Indian currency notes. In Jaigaon, it is a common practice to transact with Ngultrum, though it is not officially recognised as legal tender in India. Bhutan, however, considers Indian currency valid. Usually, thousands of Bhutan residents visit markets of Jaigaon every day and pay in Bhutanese currency. Also, Indians who work in Bhutan pay the Ngultrum to Jaigaon’s traders. Once Jaigaon’s traders accumulate enough Ngultrum, they walk to Phuentsholing, where they have bank accounts, deposit the amount and get a demand draft or transfer the money to some other bank account in India. The lockdown in Bhutan stopped this. That’s where the illegal moneychangers stepped in. Indian traders are left with little option but their services as there is no money exchange counter on the Jaigaon –Phuentsholing border. Moneychangers offer Indian currency against Bhutanese currency but charge a hefty commission. “A section of people are minting money now, charging commission as high as 10 per cent, which means if I hand over 1 lakh Ngultrum, which is equivalent to Rs 1 lakh, I get only Rs 90,000,” said Rama Shankar Gupta, secretary, Jaigaon Merchants’ Association. But traders are desperate as they need to pay their suppliers in Siliguri and Calcutta, and run their families, Gupta said. “No bank here will accept Bhutan’s currency. There is no option other than to take the help of these people,” added Gupta. A trader said Indian and Bhutan currencies were transacted in Jaigaon and adjoining areas for years now without any hitch. But the novel coronavirus changed everything, he said. After the first Covid-19 case was reported in Bhutan, the entry of non-Bhutanese people was stopped in the country. “We started facing problems then but with the intervention of the administration, banks opened temporary counters right on the border where we could deposit the Ngultrum and collect bank drafts,” said a retailer. With the lockdown and Phuentsholing marked a red zone by the Bhutan government, temporary bank counters are gone. Jaigaon traders said money exchange counters on the border were needed. “That’s the only solution.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Red Stream to bridge CPM’s digital gap||The CPM seems to have woken up to the “better late than never” adage as it prepares to take the social media bull by the horns in a more organised way before the 2021 Assembly polls. Its rivals BJP and Trinamul enjoyed the first movers’ advantage in the digital world. To combat this, the CPM has decided to streamline its online presence through a network of WhatsApp groups and move towards an organised social media campaign — a first for the CPM in Bengal. “The BJP has successfully spread its hate campaign across Bengal, like in the rest of the country, through its digital sources. Trinamul has spent crores on Prashant Kishor to combat them. Both parties are spreading lies on social media platforms, we can’t sit back and watch,” a CPM leader said. He added: “The party has a fairly commendable online presence. But most social media posts and WhatsApp groups are either individual or group initiatives. A streamlined online presence will help us connect better with people.” The leader added that the exercise would also help collating demographic data on the prospects of the party ahead of the polls next year. In its latest communique circulated among party members about decisions taken at the state committee meeting, the CPM drafted detailed instructions on how to execute the digital outreach. The entire party structure — from the state level to booths — will be brought under the purview of the WhatsApp network named Red Stream. Party members at the booth level have been assigned the task of collecting mobile numbers of individuals to form WhatsApp groups. Collecting contact numbers, party workers will also collate data about the person’s language, gender, religion and age. “This programme will help our self-assessment. We may  figure out where we are falling short and work on it,” a CPM lawmaker said. The network will be headed by the Red Stream’s core WhatsApp group, which will include representatives from all district groups and those responsible for social media activities at state level. Similar structures will be followed at district and area levels as well. In July, the party held multiple meetings with members of the SFI and the DYFI, the party’s students and youth wings, on whom it is banking heavily to make the digital outreach a success. Party leaders said the drive is aimed at stemming the erosion in the CPM since its poll debacle in 2011. “We don’t have the kind of party machinery we once had. WhatsApp groups will help us bridge the gap,” one of the leaders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea estate shut amid clamour for dues||The management of Longview tea estate, on the foothills of Darjeeling hills, declared suspension of work since Friday, citing worker unrest for over 10 days. The decision drew flak from tea trade unions, which accused the management of trying to evade responsibility and pointed out that the management had not paid workers their dues amounting to nearly Rs 90 lakh. This forced workers to resort to hunger strike since August 19, leaders said. Longview, spread over 500 hectares and with some 1,200 permanent and casual workers, falls under Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling. It is one of the 87 tea gardens that make orthodox Darjeeling tea. Management sources said some workers resorted to protests since August 10, did not work, confined the manager a number of times and abused and intimidated him. “The garden can’t be run like this,” a source said, claiming that though efforts were on to resolve the issue through talks, most tea trade unions were not interested. “Wages of employees are up to date. But because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, work stopped and arranging funds to pay a part of the bonus became a problem. It was agreed that bonus would be paid in September but still workers acted this way.” Tea trade union leaders brushed aside these charges. Four trade unions, backed by GNLF, the Binay Tamang faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Trinamul and Citu, were organising the hunger strike and wanted the management to clear dues this month. Nima Lama, a senior GNLF leader in Kurseong, said payments of Longview workers were irregular since December, before Covid-19 problems emerged. The management declared a lockout and the garden was closed till January 30 this year, he said. “When it reopened, the management had said dues, including bonus dues, would be paid at the earliest. Seven months passed and dues are close to Rs 90 lakh now,” said Lama. “We want the state labour department to intervene and see that the garden reopens at the earliest,” another trade union leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid tests go past 15 lakh||Bengal held 36,318 Covid-19 tests on Saturday to go past 15 lakh in the total number of tests since the onset of the pandemic, 95 days after the first lakh and covering the latest lakh in three days. Bengal reported 3,232 new cases and 48 deaths on one hand, and 3,088 more cures, on the other, in 24 hours till Saturday 9am. Twelve died in Calcutta and nine in North 24-Parganas. The number of cases now is over 1.35 lakh, but nearly 1.05 lakh of those are recoveries, while 2,737 are deaths. The recovery rate is at 77.41 per cent, while the national rate is 74.84 per cent. In 22 days of August, the state has conducted around 6.31 lakh tests, after taking over six months to get past the 6 lakh tests mark, on July 11. “We are now looking to get past 40,000 in daily testing. Our tests per million has gone up from 9,927 at the beginning of August to 16,935 now,” said a minister. The state now has conducted 15,24,62 tests in all, having begun testing in early February. Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19, then 10-12 days each to cross the early milestones of 2-5 lakh tests. “At the 10-12 lakh levels, we covered each lakh (of tests) in four days. Now, we are taking only three days per lakh…,” said the minister. “A World Health Organisation advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. Now, we are at 404. We are looking to get past 500 soon. Even when August began, we were at 211,” he added. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.9 per cent. It was 6.83 a month ago. Of the 3,232 new cases, Calcutta reported 516 and North 24-Parganas, 547. But Calcutta also reported 708 recoveries and North 24-Parganas logged 651, hence the total active cases for the two high-incidence districts fell again, on the lines of the welcome trend that began on August 9. Of the total 2,737 deaths reported, Calcutta accounted for 1,166 and North 24-Parganas reported 629 deaths so far. The state reported 2,398, or 87.6 per cent of them, as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 2.01, still behind the national rate of 1.86 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.26. The state reported 36.71 per cent occupancy in the 12,035 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 87 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to 1.1 lakh, including 4,539 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Tagore too was an outsider: VC||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Saturday said Rabindranath Tagore “was an outsider himself” to Santiniketan, seeking to defend “outsiders” who have been blamed for fomenting the ongoing controversy over the Pous Mela grounds. In a “special missive” uploaded on the central university’s website, Chakrabarty said: “Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore was an outsider himself; had he not taken a liking to the area, Visva-Bharati wouldn’t have evolved. Besides Gurudev Tagore, his colleagues — who paved the way for Visva-Bharati to develop as a hub of knowledge creation and dissemination — all came from outside Bolpur.” The vice-chancellor sought to focus on two factors in his statement. One, “the sustained endeavour to alienate, exclude and ostracise those colleagues who are from outside Bolpur or West Bengal by labelling them as outsiders”. Two, the charge that the construction of the wall or fence was contrary to Visva-Bharati’s tradition. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said “some people and outsiders —whose presence was not right — were present to guard the construction” of the wall. The construction has been disrupted. The Trinamul Congress read a political message in the vice-chancellor’s statement uploaded on Saturday. Abhijit Sinha, district coordinator of the Trinamul, said: “The VC needs to support outsiders as he is keen to invite BJP leaders on the campus to saffronise Santiniketan. His idea just echoes the BJP’s theory. It is ridiculous that the VC has termed Tagore as an outsider. Even after the incident of vandalism, he stayed away from the meeting called by the state government to show his no-confidence in the state’s administration. His statement reeks of politics.” In the second part of the statement, Chakrabarty defended the plan for the wall. He cited several instances where playgrounds, including those at Santiniketan and Sriniketan, had been fenced off. He said the old Pous Mela ground had been fortified at least 30 years ago, adding that China Bhavan had been fenced off when Tagore was alive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Keepers. Preservers. Providers||In the last few weeks, the price of potatoes in West Bengal had gone up by 40 per cent, anything between Rs 30 and 40 a kilo. After weeks of negotiation between the state government and the Cold Storage Association of Bengal, the latter has just started releasing potatoes at Rs 23. These will be sold at Rs 25 by the state government retail chain. Bengal is the second largest producer of potatoes after Uttar Pradesh. While UP produces 1,50,00,000 metric tonnes of potatoes annually, Bengal produces 1,20,00,000 metric tonnes (1 metric tonne equals 1,000 kilos). Says cold storage owner Ramapada Paul, “Here, we need cold storages chiefly for potatoes. The crop is harvested in March. The farmers keep enough stock for April and May and put away the rest in cold storages for the rest of the year.” Paul owns three cold storages exclusively for potatoes and one for multiple things — dry fruits, oranges, apples, carrots, beetroots, frozen items, spices and so on and so forth. He set up his first cold storage in the small town of Gurap in Hooghly district in the late 1970s. Cold storages had by then mushroomed in several districts. Records confirm that cold storages debuted in the state in the early 1950s. At present, there are 585 such facilities, of which 483 are for storing potatoes, 23 that can store potatoes as well as other vegetables and fruits, and 79 of the type that can store multiple things. The cold storages are located in Hooghly, West Midnapore, Burdwan, Bankura, Howrah, Birbhum, Murshidabad, Dhupguri, Jalpaiguri, Malda, North and South Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas, Alipurduar, Coochbehar and Darjeeling, which also happen to be the major potato growing areas. In the early days, according to Paul, only Marwari businessmen could afford to invest in this business. “It requires a lot of money to build one himghar (cold storage). In the 1950s, one had to invest no less than Rs 10 lakh for a single cold storage.” Paul’s father used to trade in potatoes. He would buy the staple from cold storage owners and supply to retailers. Says Paul, “Many people come and deposit their products in a cold storage. There is the farmer who wants to preserve his produce after harvest; there are traders who have bought the produce from the farmers and now want to store and sell when prices are high, and there are cold storage owners themselves who buy the produce from farmers and store them to sell when the market is ripe.” He recalls the time when he opened his first cold storage. “Farmers used to queue up for some space. They would spend hours to collect bonds against their products,” he says. Every time someone needs space in the cold storage, one has to collect bonds. A bond works like a token and is meant to book space. The trader or farmer shows the bond at the cold storage, deposits produce/items and is handed a receipt. When time comes to collect the produce/items one has to show the receipt and pay the rent. The standard rent for a single packet — it equals 50 kilos — of potatoes is Rs 250 for six months. “This includes the cost of drying and sorting of potatoes,” says Lalu Mukherjee, who is the secretary of the West Bengal Pragatishil Alu Byabsayee Samiti. He also adds that one has to keep a minimum of 500 kilos of potatoes in the cold storage and the same amount has to be released at one go. Nothing less is allowed. “In the US, the cold storage is referred to as a refrigerated warehouse and in India and the United Kingdom, it is called a cold storage — a place where all kinds of perishable goods are stored for preservation,” says Ashish Jhunjhunwala, the owner of Hindusthan Ice and Cold Store in Alampur in Howrah. Jhunjhunwala explains how cold storages come in various sizes. The smallest are those found in hotels and restaurants, malls and supermarkets to store vegetables, meat, fish, and other frozen items. “They are called walk-in cold stores,” he says. Walk-in cold stores work on the same principle as refrigerators, the only difference being they are as big as a room and one has to walk in to collect things. The other types of cold storage are bulk cold stores, multipurpose cold stores, small cold stores, frozen food stores, controlled atmosphere stores and ripening stores. A single commodity is stored in the bulk stores — potatoes, chillies or onions. “Most of the cold stores in Bengal fall in this category,” says Jhunjhunwala. While the capacity of a cold storage can go up to 3,00,000 metric tonnes, Mukherjee estimates that one-and-a-half lakh tonnes is what is economically viable. This year only 440 of the 483 potato cold storages in Bengal are operational. It has to do with low production, a source in the state department of agriculture tells The Telegraph. No wonder the potato prices have soared. “The cold storages have played a key role not only in regulating market prices of fresh produce during the pandemic, but also in allowing the demand and supply chain to function undisrupted,” says Tarun Kanti Ghosh, who is the president of the West Bengal Cold Storage Association. He also points out how cold storages averted a food crisis post the Amphan. Jhunjhunwala agrees, but he is quick to point out that one must not assume cold storage owners have been immune to the pandemic or profited from the all-round distress. He says, “These last few months, the market has been erratic. Festivals — Bengali New Year’s Day, Ramzaan, Jamai Shashti — and weddings have been observed on a very small scale. Like every year, traders had stocked up in advance to meet the huge demand during these festivals but the lockdown happened and the markets shut down.” Syed Anwar Maqsood, who is secretary of the Howrah wholesale  fish market, had stored hilsa in the month of March expecting sale during the Bengali festivals. He says, “I have bought fish for Rs 1 crore. It is what I had paid for one container from Myanmar. But since sales were not as expected, I have to keep them in storage for longer than usual. And when the local catch comes in, where will I get storage space?” Then there is the added problem of labour shortage. Cold storages need labourers for stacking and loading. According to Paul, these labourers have the experience of handling items in a manner that is conducive to storage and easy access. But these men, who generally come from Jharkhand and Bihar, have all gone back to their homes. Even the usual maintenance staff stands reduced. Jhunjhunwala complains, “If a fan belt breaks down, repair takes more time than it used to take earlier and that might damage the products in the storage.” Jhunjhunwala tells us a story about the hilsa and the cold storage from 20 years ago. Those days, it seems, Bengalis were way less amenable to having frozen hilsa than they are today. Says the cold storage owner, “The standard practice then would be to release the fish the previous night, keep them in water for thawing and then have them masquerade in the markets next morning as taja machh.” He adds, “Now people don’t mind so much. And what is the alternative in times like this when Amphan has pushed all hilsa towards Bangladesh and robbed us of our season’s share?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||Opinion||Golden wings||Sir — Kerala in association with the World Wide Fund is all set to organize a dragonfly festival with training sessions and a ‘dragonfly backyard watch’. Citizen science projects such as this are perfect to build a bridge between man and nature, which is key to protecting the delicate ecological balance which, given a chance, can thrive. Considering the amount of space humans take up, man-animal conflict is now unavoidable. It is thus extremely important that people learn to cohabit with creatures. Insects are especially misunderstood and the dragonfly festival is thus a step in the right direction.  Rima Roy Calcutta Sir — A Supreme Court bench has said that it is “strange” that state governments are opening up activities that have an impact on economic interests but keeping religious places shut. But is this really so strange? Economic activities — even the running of malls and beauty parlours — have a direct effect on livelihood, something that puts food on the table and keeps people alive. Surely, the same cannot be said of religious worship? People can worship in private, do they really need to go to a temple to do that? Most religions say that god is omnipresent; where then is the need to place one’s faith in man-made stone idols? One must not forget that it is idolatry that led to the inception of one of the darkest periods in the history of independent India. Given that the destruction and hooliganism started by L.K. Advani’s rath yatra has now reached its culmination with the bhoomi pujan for the Ram mandir, perhaps one should not be surprised that religion is still considered on a par with — if not more important than — life and death. The only way to keep the virus at bay is to avoid social interactions. Essential activities cannot be stopped, but all other activities must be cut down upon as far as possible. Congregating in places of religious worship, in times like these, cannot but be considered an unnecessary hazard. Rishi Mathur Gurgaon Sir — One small hole is all it takes for a dam to break. Once one community is allowed to visit their places of worship — the Supreme Court has ordered the opening of some Jain temples in Maharashtra — other communities will ask for the same privilege. Soon, the request will not just be to visit temples but also to celebrate festivals — with Durga Puja around the corner, such requests are only to be expected. Since governments irrespective of their political colour pay more attention to pleasing populist sentiments, it is the duty of the courts to ensure that people do not get carried away. Religion cannot be allowed to get in the way of people’s well-being. It does not need to be practised in public with other people, it can very well take place within the safety of the home. Ashok Kumar Sen Kalyani Sir — Journalism is in a state of considerable flux. New digital platforms have unleashed innovative journalistic practices that enable novel forms of communication and greater global reach than at any point before this in human history. But on the other hand, disinformation and fake news have also increased and spread like wildfire. This is affecting the way people interpret news and daily developments in the country. Fake news and sophisticated disinformation campaigns are especially problematic in democratic systems. In order to maintain an open, democratic system, it is important that the government, businesses, consumers and hoi polloi work together to solve these problems. Governments should promote news literacy and a strong culture of journalism. The news industry must also step up and provide high-quality journalism in order to gain public trust and counter fake news and disinformation instead of legitimizing them to increase TRP. Mohd. Noor Calcutta Sir — Journalism and fake news have become near inseparable at present. This does not bode well. Roshni Sen Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||Bihar election and its conspiracy theories||Election season is the most salubrious time for conspiracy theories. Many political observers refuse to believe that assembly elections in Bihar will be held amidst the pandemic. They predict dramatic changes, including a collapse of existing alliances if not a realignment of forces. The political grapevine is abuzz with the possibility of a delay in elections because the Bharatiya Janata Party does not want to contest in alliance with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and it would like Bihar to be placed under president’s rule before campaigning starts. While Kumar’s clout will be whittled down considerably and the BJP will occupy the driving seat in such an event, conspiracy theorists also suspect the dynamics of the Opposition to change, forcing a multi-cornered contest. These observers believe that the BJP will become the front-runner if the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress fall apart and contest separately. This will split the Muslim votes among three parties — RJD, JD(U) and Congress. Although this sounds far-fetched at present, some old-timers claim forces were working on such a plan and nobody knows how effectively it can be executed. Since there are so many loose ends and so many divergent players involved, it is difficult to predict how this plot will unfold. But there is no doubt that the current leadership of the BJP is capable of thinking big and also has the courage and the wherewithal to implement even the most bizarre scripts. After all, luring Kumar away from RJD-Congress, too, was beyond comprehension before it actually happened. If such a four-way contest actually happens, Kumar can only pray for a hung assembly to get back in a position to bargain once again. The BJP claims time and again that Narendra Modi is the most workaholic prime minister the country has ever had. Modi, it is said, sleeps only for 4-5 hours. When Modi is such a hard worker, how can his closest confidante from way back in his Gujarat days, Amit Shah, be otherwise? Although there is nothing in the public discourse about how many hours the home minister sleeps, he is said to be no less than Modi. Recently, when Shah recovered from Covid-19 and had to be rushed to AIIMS again for “post-Covid care”, it was his obsession with work that was blamed for the visit. “Doctors had advised complete rest but Amitbhai spent long hours working from home,” one BJP leader said. Shah is much younger than Modi but unlike the PM he has other known health conditions. Even under observation at AIIMS, BJP leaders claim, Shah continues to discharge his duties. While past PMs and ministers have also been known to put in long hours, the BJP has succeeded in building a perception that those who ruled before them were only interested in enjoying the fruits of power. “Hum desh ke liye khapne aaye hain (We have come here to get spent for the country)”, the PM repeatedly claims. The former national security adviser, Shivshankar Menon, was in the crosshairs of the right-wing this week, purportedly for writing in Foreign Affairs, the American magazine of international relations, that the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, gave “the Modi government a free pass on its controversial domestic agenda”. This was interpreted by the right wing as an invitation to the US to interfere in India’s internal affairs but the sub-text of the criticism seems to be an effort to put some distance between Modi and his “friend”, Trump, as the US heads towards presidential polls. What really seems to have got the detractors’ goat is Menon writing that Modi shared Trump’s world view and politics. That this reminder to an American audience in election season is not something the ruling dispensation here wants right now from someone who is respected in foreign policy circles was evident from the counter written by another former foreign secretary, Kanwal Sibal, who claimed that it is absurd to say that “Modi shares Trump’s world view and politics”. The chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, has never been a media darling. But many Malayalis seem to be missing him ever since he went into self-quarantine last week. His typical style of delivering the latest numbers and addressing media queries has become a staple for many Malayalis. It would not be an exaggeration to say that a number of people are waiting for him to come out of quarantine in order to hear the staccato delivery of the latest Covid-19 updates again. A section of the BJP in Karnataka has been eyeing a change at the top by replacing the 77-year-old CM, BS Yediyurappa, with a younger leader. The talk within party circles is that the Lingayat strongman is not a strongman after all. But the larger question that is haunting everyone is who would replace the man who single-handedly brought the party to power in a southern state more than a decade ago. The BJP has perhaps been over-reliant on the ageing warhorse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||And other demons||This is a way to kill a wife with kindness. But when Petruchio, the canny husband of Katherina, or Kate, describes his own behaviour thus in The Taming of the Shrew, he adds that it is meant to “curb her mad and headstrong humour”. Not that such a Shakespearian situation is common in present-day India; it is the husband’s “headstrong humour” that society expects. Neither is there any need to attribute the Kate-like propensity for a waspish tongue to a woman who feels stifled by spousal kindness. Yet Shakespeare’s witty vision is unfailing: in the Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh, a woman married around 18 months ago asked the Sharia court for a divorce because her husband is too loving. He never shouts or quarrels, never blames or criticizes her. What is married life without a slugfest or two? The woman cannot stand it. The Sharia court was quite unable to address the complaint. The woman had no other reason for asking for a divorce. In a country where men are famed for beating up their wives and in a world where the distribution of daily tasks is still a subject of contention in numerous societies, this woman’s husband not only helps in the housework but also cooks for his wife from time to time. As determined as the Shakespearian heroine, the woman went to the panchayat to ask for a divorce when the Sharia court asked her to be reasonable. The panchayat refused her request too. Since all the husband is doing is trying to keep his wife happy, as he has said, how can a divorce be granted? Besides, the husband requested the court to ensure that his wife’s petition is dismissed. Surely that is love, and not control? Would Shakespeare have understood the woman’s ‘reason’? If she finds unwavering lovey-doveyness stifling, she is probably like the majority of human beings, unsaintly and erratic, and comfortable with similar fallibilities in her spouse. Everyday piety has the potential to set a partner’s teeth on edge, especially if it is directed towards pleasing him or her. That is not fair, just human. Women devastated by their husbands’ violence may find this petition for divorce incredible; they might ask whether the woman in UP would have complained if her husband was beating her up regularly. Others, who dream of an equal relationship, would agree that excessive peace may deaden a marriage. Disagreements are natural if two people living together speak their minds: they provide the spark that helps the relationship evolve as well as a bridge between two individuals trying to understand one another. Insoluble disagreements can destroy a marriage, of course, but then, marriage is a highly risky institution. Even an excessive desire to please may endanger it, as the inoffensive husband in Sambhal has found. Or is it because women in India are simply not used to tenderly loving husbands?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||One for all||Nature, a perceptive thinker has said, is always ahead of the avant-garde. Which is to say that even the ‘advance guard’ of artists and writers which thinks and expresses things before others do is behind nature. Art can be daring, writing audacious. For sheer originality, however, nature is not to be overtaken. Human nature, likewise, may be said to be ever ahead of those who try to understand it or dare to shape it. M.K. Gandhi, who tried to do both, has, not surprisingly, been described as one who was ‘ahead of his time’. I am not sure if anyone can, in the linear logic of chronology, ever be ahead of his time. But studying human behaviour as thoroughly as he did, ‘in foul weather and fair’, Gandhi had acquired the knack of anticipating collective responses to events and then either encouraging or resisting those responses. He knew in his bones that India’s struggle for freedom was a historical imperative and did all he could to take it forward. He knew likewise in the pulse of his being that partitioning India was wrong and did all he possibly could to avert it. He along with Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan knew that communal divisiveness would outlast the drawing of the Radcliffe lines. So much so that in the embers of 1946, while the subcontinent prepared itself for the transfer of power, he, with Ghaffar Khan, made sure that where the fires would rage — along the borders of the two coming-to-be dominions — they would be. As the “one man boundary force” (Lord Mountbatten’s description of him) that he became, Gandhi could not extinguish those fires but he did succeed in dousing innumerable flames — with the help of some incredible volunteers in the same cause, like Sachin Mitra and Smritish Banerjea of Calcutta who died by standing between two rioting mobs. Gandhi was in Calcutta in August 1947 to head for Noakhali where he had promised to return to quell the still-smouldering embers of violence against the minority Hindu community there. But the situation in the city was so explosive that its anxious residents, starting from Governor Frederick Burrows and the outgoing and incoming heads of government —Shaheed Suhrawardy and Prafulla Ghosh — to citizens’ groups, prevailed on him to remain among them awhile. He agreed provided he was enabled to stay in one of the city’s most endangered suburbs — Beliaghata was chosen — with Hindus working for the safety of that area’s, and the city’s, Muslim residents. He also asked the Muslims who had urged him to remain in Calcutta to do what they could to protect Hindu lives in East Bengal. These conditions accepted, he stayed in the city. Calcutta was tense beyond imagining at ‘the midnight hour’. But Gandhi’s presence was a balm and Suhrawardy, with Direct Action Day of the previous August haunting his conscience, stayed by his side in what now seems like a combination of motives — self-protection, expiation, admiration. On the evening of August 14, 1947, Suhrawardy took Gandhi on a drive through the city to show him the peace and camaraderie prevailing — doubtless with a view to saying wordlessly ‘See Gandhiji, this is the composed city I am handing over to Prafullababu’. All hell was to break loose in Calcutta not long thereafter but, for the while, there was calm. On this day — August 23 — in 1947 Gandhi woke as was his practice in his Beliaghata camp-house at 3.30 a.m. and after his morning quiet and in-house prayers spent time writing letters and then went for his pre-dawn walk, barefoot. “This reminds me of Noakhali,” he told Manu and Abha (his grand niece and grand niece-in-law). Except for an interval of half an hour to eat and an equal time for rest, he worked on papers until 2 pm when he gave interviews, mainly to volunteers, until 5 pm when he went for a prayer meeting open to all, held at ‘Woodlands’, the spacious garden-residence of the Maharaja of Cooch Behar. I do not know if there is a plaque at the hospital with the same name that stands today on that spot to commemorate that prayer meeting but there ought to be one. For just this reason that what Gandhi said that evening in Hindi at that congregation reads like it could have been written — ahead of the times — for us today. The Maharaja and his family were all present there with the great throng, as was Major General Shah Nawaz Khan of the Indian National Army. It was, in other words, a Hindu-Muslim gathering, just the kind that Gandhi would have liked to be with at that time.Manu has recorded in her diary entries published as Miracle of Calcutta (Navajivan, 1959): “Bapu spoke on unity”. Little else need be said. But she does more. She transcribes the words he spoke. They are worth reading verbatim in the following English rendering: “(Bapu said) Hindus should not object to the shouting of ‘Allahu Akbar’, nor should the Muslims object to ‘Vande Mataram’. The two slogans are however somewhat different. ‘Allahu Akbar’ means ‘God is Great’. What does it matter if the slogan is in Arabic? Is it sinful if it is in a foreign language? And ‘Vande Mataram’ means ‘I bow to our beloved Mother India’. Is anything wrong in this?” Gandhi then goes on to say something which all those who were viewing the proceedings at Ayodhya on August 5, 2020 on different screens should have heard: “But these days our minds are much confused. If your hearts are one I suggest that Musulmans should be free to worship Mother Kali and Hindus should go to the Masjid with equal freedom.” It is extremely unlikely that any Musulman hearing him would have wanted to worship Mother Kali or would want to do so today. And I do not know if many Hindus in that congregation would have wanted to go to mosques to pray or would want to do so today. But the far-seeing and foreseeing Gandhi knew that the spirit behind what he was saying, the idea underlying his spoken words, was sinking into those who were hearing him. And was crucial if India was to be and feel one as in ‘We the people of India...’ He knew that India has always had its discords, its communal divides and there will always be people who will turn their heads away when someone says Allahu Akbar and others who will do the same when they hear Vande Mataram. But then there will also be those many who will see the folly and the danger of that. He knew that Hindus and Muslims may not worship (or be permitted to worship) in each other’s shrines but that there will be many who will respect those shrines and the worship that takes place in those shrines not because they are their shrines but because they are sites of prayer and worship. For Gandhi, a temple was not Hindu nor a mosque Muslim. It was, like any chapel, an agiari, synagogue, chaitya or gurudwara, a place where god, not egos, dwelt. And where men and women went to seek light, not power. Which is why in the Ashram Bhajanavali that he inspired Pandit Narayan Moreshwar Khare to compile for the morning and evening prayers at Sabarmati Ashram, he included texts from all the major religions of the world as also the full song of which, years later, the major part was to become our national anthem. That song, in its unabridged form, has the line: “rakkha karile anke snehamayi tumi mata — Loving as you are, Mother, protect us, save us!” Us. That is what the avant-garde student of human nature in him saw us as — an us, with hearts that are one, needing our loving mother’s — India’s — protection from the ugly and the base in the same us. And that evening on August 23, he said what he said in a maharaja’s palace which is now a hospital where, as in countless other hospitals, stricken men and women and children come to be protected, saved, irrespective of what and where they worship or worship anything at all. He knew us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||How to fake an altruism||When a corporate house fakes an altruism it sounds like this --- “...an open, transparent and non-partisan platform... we denounce hate and bigotry in any form.” Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan's comment from last week follows a Wall Street Journal report alleging public policy director of Facebook India, Ankhi Das, opposed applying hate-speech rules to the BJP even after the matter was flagged internally. In May, soon after George Floyd’s murder, Trump posted on Twitter and Facebook “when the looting starts, the shooting starts”. While Twitter restricted the post, Facebook left it there. Furious Facebook employees staged a protest and there were a couple of resignations too. When Zuckerberg did a video conference with employees, and stumbled on being asked if the VP–Integrity had been part of the decision, one employee reportedly said, “How can we trust Facebook leadership if you show us a lack of transparency?” Facebook, its delights notwithstanding, was created with the express purpose of networking. A decade and a half on, there is no doubt it has made the leap from dorm to dominion in terms of ambition, scope and influence. But can the same be said for its mission, vision and sense of responsibility? Content is one part of the concern and another part is privacy. For a platform whose founder is "humbilically" attached to his hoodie, from the start Facebook has grappled with privacy issues. In 2006, users complained its news feed was too intrusive, then there was the time when companies could track purchases of Facebook users and intimate their friends. In 2011, there was a bug that revealed private contact info of users. That same year, Zuckerberg himself joined Google+, gained a following and then turned invisible using to the hilt the privacy settings. In 2013, Zuckerberg paid $30 million to buy four houses in the neighbourhood where he lived. For privacy’s sake, why else? But in 2018, when it came to be known that truckloads of personal data of Facebook users had been harvested and sold to Cambridge Analytica, Zuckerberg’s reflex was to go missing for close to a week. It is now known that employees had alerted the company about the goings-on as early as 2015. Facebook claims it took silent steps, but it parted ways with the data firm only after the Observer expose. Not long ago, when pushed to a corner about Facebook’s responsibility in influencing the 2016 US presidential polls, Zuckerberg said, “We can defend as best as we can, but our government is the one that has the tools to apply pressure to Russia, not us... That’s something that is a little bit above our pay grade.” Crass-sounding, it might be, and disappointing; but it is closer to reality than any platitude.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||Oh My Dil Is Garden Garden||And would it not be? The more I ravage about, the more they rave about me. The more I destroy, the more they deify me. The more I crush them, the more they crave. For Me. For Me. For Me. I am the Emperor of Ruins, I survey all that I have destroyed, I live in a garden redolent with the fragrance of flowers gone to rust. I cannot make it worse, and yet nobody can so much as touch me. It’s just the way it is, I have become the UntouchableOne, the UnputdownableOne. What would you put me down for, anyhow? There’s nothing to be gained. All is now lost. I saw to it, that’s the job you gave me and I grabbed it with both hands and a dagger. I plunged it everywhere. Everything bleeds, and the blood feeds everything. Just look around me, around this splendour of my conjuring, this splendoured desolation where nothing needs no more to be done because all of it is done. To dust. There is no more to be done. This place is to be the end of all places. This place is where I had set out to reach. This is the place from where there is no going on, nowhere to go. Such is the place I command. Like a King with a kingdom of the dead and the done. It’s where I flourish and nobody else, for it is all for me and not for you. I step out and I see everything wilted but me. That’s how it should be. If you do not wilt, you shall rise. And if you rise, you shall become to me what I do not wish you to become to me: a challenge. What part did you have in it? It is the part you shall one day regret. You chose. What part do you still have in it? Hmm. But you have a part. Your part is to wilt, and wither away so I may have sway. Your part is to hail or be hastened to your end. For there is no provision left for any other part. This garden, you see, is the garden of graves; I told you everything has been done. To dust. Or done in. Seek out your part, the part of you that remains. I didn’t bother putting names down, I am sorry, but there were so many of you. Too much work. There is too much else I need to attend to. More of you. That’s what. That’s who. I say all is done, and then there is more to be done. I contradict myself, but if I do not contradict myself how am I doing to you what I am doing to you when I had vowed only to do for you? But you won’t understand, you dunces. I never trusted you would. That’s the trust I rode all the way here, the trust of dunces, or the trust that dunces will be dunces. For every rusted rose in this garden I possess a less rusted one whose task it is to tell upon the more rusted one. And learning from the less rusted ones, I turn upon the more rusted ones. And then the less rusted ones turn more rusted and there are more less rusted ones and so, on and on. So on and on this goes on, this flourished garden of mine that I keep famished. Because when you bleed, it feeds my greed. And shall I tell you what that greed makes me want to do? Something has to be done with it because there are masses of it, the greed, and it cannot just be washed down the sink or that other thing with a gurgling orifice at the bottom of it. The greed needs attention and action. It needs to be exhausted for it to be done. And so would you be interested to know what I do with it? I shall cut you and hang you out to dry. And when that drying has happened, years and all, I shall come to shed the final drops on your cortège. Live. Televised. Tears of Blood. Thereupon I shall command the gardeners to commence their jobs — planting and plucking and pruning and cutting and casting away. So this place may prosper anew in the silence of its debacles and turn an even more uproarious celebration of unspeakable tragedy. Upon which I shall chisel an epitaph: And the cry rose But I am the real rose And that may make me curious Rose, might you just be spurious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding truck kills two in Ramgarh||A speeding truck on Sunday evening hit three scooters and a mini truck at Chuttupalu ghati on the Ranchi-Patna highway (NH-33) in Ramgarh district on Sunday, killing two people. Ramgarh police station officer in charge Vidya Shankar said the driver of the truck lost control and hit three scooters, killing two on the spot. The vehicle then hit a mini truck from behind. The dead were identified as Mahesh Mahto, 32, and Shyam Kumar Mahto, 24, both residents of Chuttupalu. The police have not been able to identify the person riding the third two-wheeler who was grievously injured and admitted to the local hospital. The driver and cleaner of the mini truck also sustained severe injures. The driver of the killer truck managed to escape. Social worker and the secretary of GM College, Ghanshyam Mehta, and a friend died in a road accident on Sunday afternoon when a speeding car hit their motorcycle on the Ranchi-Patna highway (NH-33) near a hotel at Ichak More, 11km from Hazaribagh. Police said Mehta, 62, was returning to his village, Hadari Chaprakh, in Ichak. Mehta died on the spot while his friend Surendra Prasad Mehta, 70, who was riding pillion, was grievously hurt. He was declared dead on arrival by doctors at the Hazaribagh Medical College. An FIR has been lodged against the car driver. The 35-year-old owner of a motorcycle showroom, Sunil Singh, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a fan at his home. The incident occurred at Shivpuri colony under Chas police station. The door of Singh’s room was locked from inside. The reason for the suicide is not yet clear. Police reached the spot and sent the body for post-mortem. The officer in charge of Chas police station, Amitab Rai, said a case of unnatural death had been lodged in this connection. Singh lived in a joint family with his brothers. According to police, Singh’s wife was at her maternal home for the past two months with their two daughters. Singh had a showroom in the Jainamoad area. The decomposed body of a 40-year-old Dalit man was found near a field where marijuana is grown at Khokhma under the Nawa Bazar police station in Palamau on Sunday. Police suspect that Dadan Bhuiyan, who according to villagers was addicted to marijuana, had been electrocuted. Dadan and another man, Bhola Bhuiyan, had left their homes on Thursday to have the drug and steal some of it from the field. This is when Dadan stepped on a live wire installed to ward of marijuana thieves from the field, the police said. Bhola escaped unhurt. The police have detained the marijuana field owner. Subdivisional police officer Surjit Kumar said: “We will lodge a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The wire had also been installed illegally.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Mentally ill man beats fellow patient to death in Chatra sadar hospital||An elderly patient in Chatra sadar hospital was beaten to death in presence of health workers and other patients on Sunday. No one intervened to save his life as he was attacked by a mentally ill man, also admitted at the hospital. Vijay Mahto (30), a resident of Kobana village, was admitted here by local mukhiya Sanjay Yadav a few months ago, after his mental health was severely compromised. Police officials said Mahto beat the senior citizen with a rod used to hoist the mosquito net on his bed. The elderly man, yet to be identified, was referred by Simaria hospital on August 20. Officer-in-charge of sadar police station, Luv Kumar said Mahto is in the hospital guarded by policemen. He also said that an investigation has been initiated and an FIR lodged. Health worker Brajesh Kumar said they tried to provide treatment to the injured man, but he succumbed to his grievous injuries. It also appeared that at the time of this incident, the civil surgeon and hospital superintendent were also present in their offices. Hospital authorities failed to reply as to why a mentally ill patient was kept in a ward with normal patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Class 9 deaf and mute girl found bludgeoned to death||The body of a 14-year-old deaf and mute girl, who was apparently bludgeoned to death, was found at a government middle school in Simanpur in Balbada police station area of Godda district on Sunday, triggering protests by local residents for over an hour in the morning. The heinous crime, which police believe could be rape and murder, has once again put a question mark over the state’s law and order, especially concerning the safety of women and minors, at a time when the Opposition BJP has been crying hoarse about a spurt in crime in the state. According to a local journalist, residents spotted the body lying in a pool of blood on the balcony of the government school when they had gone there to collect water from a hand pump. “Her face had severe bruises indicating that she may have been hit with a stone or heavy object,” he said, adding that the victim was a student of class IX. Sources quoting the girl’s parents said she left home for some work on Saturday but did not return. Her parents then informed local police. In the morning, her body was found in the school. Balbada thana’s officer in-charge Deep Narayan Singh said that an FIR had been filed against unidentified persons to begin a probe. “Prima facie it looks as though she was raped. But only an autopsy will confirm it. We have launched raids to identify and nab the culprits,” he said. Mahagama Congress MLA Deepika Pandey Singh demanded chief minister Hemant Soren’s intervention to ensure strict action against the culprits. “The incident has rattled me very much. The culprits should be traced quickly and the strictest punishment be given to them for the kind of violence they perpetrated against a physically challenged girl,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown: Absence of income pushes barber to death by suicide||A 35-year-old barber was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his salon at Khuntadih, under Sonari thana area, on Sunday morning. Renu Gupta, OC, Sonari thana, informed that this seems to be a case of suicide. "From preliminary investigation, it appears to be a case of suicide.  We have recovered the body and sent it to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem, and registered a case citing unnatural death," Gupta told The Telegraph Online. The deceased, identified as Shyam Thakur, was a resident of Road No 2 at Ramnagar in Kadma. Thakur was facing serious financial problems after his salon shut down over the past four months due to the lockdown. He was missing since Friday afternoon, prompting his family members to search for him. Thakur’s elder brother Naresh came to the salon and found it unlocked.  On entering, he found his brother's body hanging from the ceiling. "It appears that he committed suicide because of his financial problems, but the reason can be different which we are investigating.  The autopsy report will make things clear," Gupta added. Naresh had dropped his brother at Khuntadih market on his bike on Friday morning as he wanted to spend some time there. "Shyam was severely disturbed after losing his source of employment.  He would constantly enquire when salons will be allowed to open.  I dropped him at the market on my bike in the morning, but he did not return home in the evening.  When he did not turn up even at night, we enquired at houses of relatives he could have visited. Exhausting all possible options, I came to the market and asked around for him, eventually finding his salon unlocked,” Naresh said. Some of the shop owners in the market, who knew Shyam, said he was severely depressed due to lack of income and would occasionally consume country liquor in the marketplace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases cross 5,000 in 102 days in East Singhbhum||The number of Coronavirus cases crossed the 5,000 mark in East Singhbhum district in the last 24 hours, the tally notched up exactly 102 days after the first two cases were reported on May 12. Given the steady rise in the number of cases, the district administration has decided to set up 11 permanent sample collection centres. "One of the permanent sample collection centres will be somewhere in Jamshedpur. The others will be set up in as many blocks in the district,” East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “Those who will feel the need to get tested for Covid can turn up at the sample collection centres. These centres will most likely start functioning from Wednesday," he added. During the past 24 hours, 266 samples were tested for the presence of coronavirus, bringing the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 5,157 as of Saturday night. Of these, 2,603 people have recovered, while 2,422 are still under treatment. Till date, 151 people have died as a result of the virus. Superintendent of Ghaghidih Central Jail Narendra Kumar Singh said 38 inmates had tested positive. “On Thursday, a dozen people, including three convicts, had tested positive in the jail. The process of screening infected inmates is on," he said. Most of the new cases recorded in the district in the past 24 hours were from Ghaghidih Central Jail. A senior health department official pointed out that the number of cases had shot up to over 5,000 because people were reluctant to wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms. "Most people who are out, either in the market or on the streets, are violating social distancing norms. Shops are crowded with customers, roadside eateries are also crowded and at most places, people are not wearing masks properly," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Time to add counselling to Covid care regime, say experts||The suicide by a 32-year-old Covid patient at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences has not only exposed the glaring lapses at the state-run hospital but has also brought into renewed focus the need for counselling patients to build a sense of confidence in them. Since June, at least three Covid-19 patients have ended their lives at hospitals. On August 16, a 40-year-old patient, who was undergoing treatment at CCL Central Hospital at Nayasarai, Ramgarh, committed suicide by jumping from the hospital roof-top. On June 9, a migrant worker who had returned from Mumbai committed suicide at a Covid hospital in Lohardaga, hours after testing positive for the virus. Nishant Goel, a professor at Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Kanke, one of the top mental institutes of eastern India, said that while everyone was focussed on beating Covid-19 it was time to pay attention towards patients’ mental health. Recalling a recent campaign run by CIP in association with Unicef for Covid patients, he said, “After the suicide at a Lohardaga hospital, the administration approached us for devising a campaign for patients. Thereafter, we held one-to-one telephonic counselling sessions for a few weeks for about 24 patients in the first phase. We also red-flagged vulnerable patients who were then given special care by the authorities.” The campaign is still on for Lohardaga. Goel said fear and anxiety were natural fallouts of the ongoing global pandemic. “Fear isn’t always about one’s own self, but about family, jobs, relationships, society and so on,” he said, recommending that all district administrations appoint a liaison officer to coordinate with hospitals and mental institutes for organising counselling sessions for Covid patients at regular intervals. A district civil surgeon said the state government should also try to engage Covid patients in a constructive manner. “A majority of patients aren’t symptomatic in Jharkhand, which means they don’t necessarily have to be bed-ridden. Maintaining social distancing norms within wards, they can be engaged in constructive work like painting, stitching, etc, to keep them engaged positively,” said, adding that a policy decision was needed. President of the Jharkhand chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) A.K. Singh appealed to civil society members to help. “We can’t expect doctors on Covid duty to counsel patients as doctors themselves are working under immense stress. But civil society/NGOs should collaborate at various levels to create awareness among the public to curb the stigma associated with Covid,” he said, adding that there have been instances of doctors and health worker facing ostracism. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said he would soon speak with CIP and Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry & Allied Sciences (RINPAS) to explore the possibility of conducting mental health sessions for patients at Covid hospitals and care centres. “I will soon speak with Rinpas and CIP to see how we can tackle this problem. This apart, district police and RIMS have been asked to plug gaps in security to prevent a rerun of suicides,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Glaring lapses mar RIMS’s run as state’s largest Covid care hospital||The suicide of a Covid patient at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Saturday, the latest in a long list of glaring lapses in the government-run hospital, has once again brought the hospital administration in the crosshairs of the state’s health authorities. The patient, a resident of Garhwa, hanged himself using a towel at a stone’s throw from the main isolation centre where all Covid patients are treated, at 3am on Saturday. And none of the RIMS authorities got to know about the incident until dawn, sources working at the hospital said. While the local police lodged a case of unnatural death, there was no committee set up at the hospital level to probe the matter and troubleshoot the frequent lapses. RIMS acting director Dr Manju Gari refused to comment on Saturday’s suicide on the premises of the hospital. A member of the Covid-19 task force at RIMS said that the victim would have appeared in the CCTV camera installed outside the isolation ward, and proper monitoring of the CCTV footage could have saved his life. “We can call it a security lapse,” he said requesting anonymity. RIMS’s run so far as a Covid hospital has been riddled with similar incidents of negligence wherein patients could have been saved had health workers acted promptly. Till now, two Covid patients have died in the hospital after falling in the toilet. On July 19, a 70-year-old fell in the toilet of the ICU of RIMS and died. In a rerun of the incident, another Covid patient from Dhanbad could not survive a fall in the same toilet on August 13. The coordinator of RIMS’ Covid-19 task force, Dr Prabhat Kumar, said that the two patients died of hypoxia, a condition in which a person’s body or a particular organ is deprived of sufficient oxygen. “Since the virus affects the lungs of a patient, hypoxia can be a common cause of death for Covid patients,” said Kumar. “The chances of cardiac arrest also increase in Covid patients,” he added. Kumar said that a high-level meeting was held at RIMS after Covid patients died while using the toilet. “Learning from our mistakes, we have made it mandatory for every Covid patient to inform an attendant before going to the toilet,” he added. Incidents of patients fleeing the RIMS isolation centre have also been reported. On June 16, parents of a Covid-infected toddler fled the hospital with their child in an auto-rickshaw and were eventually held at Gomoh, about 130 km from the capital. Besides, RIMS has also reported cases of absconding Covid patients in the month of March. “The security has been beefed up after incidents of patients fleeing the isolation ward were reported,” said RIMS superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap. RIMS saw a change in senior management in the middle of a pandemic when former director Dr D.K. Singh was replaced by Dr Manju Gari as an acting director on June 27. Singh was spearheading the fight against Covid-19 since the first case of infection was reported here on March 31. He had also expressed his desire to continue serving as the director during the pandemic period. Gari, on Sunday, refused to talk about the recent incidents in the hospital and asked this correspondent to speak with the authorities of the concerned department. The largest state-run hospital has a 100-bed isolation centre for Covid patients. RIMS was also the first government hospital in Jharkhand to start Covid testing and treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Prisoner with ‘liquor bottle’ stirs up Dhanbad Covid hospital||A photograph of a prisoner apparently drinking liquor at the district’s Covid hospital that went viral on social media on Saturday night prompted the Dhanbad administration to order a probe and tighten vigilance at the BCCL-run health unit. A team of officials led by Dhanbad SDO Raj Maheshwaram visited the Dedicated Covid Hospital within the Central Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar and ordered a probe into the circumstances under which the prisoner was supposedly able to order liquor. Several photographs of the prisoner went viral. In one, he is seen showing off what looks like a liquor bottle, while he is seated in front of a table with food in silver foil containers. Another shows him drinking from the bottle with his open handcuffs hanging from his right hand. The photographs were tagged to chief minister Hemant Soren’s twitter handle on Sunday morning at 8.27am after which Hemant Soren directed Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh to investigate the matter. “We have carried out a detailed investigation into the issue and interacted with everyone, right from ward boys to others. We will submit a detailed report before the deputy commissioner,” SDO Maheshwaram told the media, adding that FIRs would be lodged against all those involved. The SDO said the administration would take strict action against the prisoner who was handcuffed again on Sunday morning. The prisoner, who was arrested for extortion and assault, however, tested negative for Covid after an RTPCR confirmatory test was conducted on Sunday.  "We will, therefore, hand him over to Katras officials who will send him to jail,” said nodal officer of the Covid hospital Dr Alok Vishwakarma. The prisoner, a resident of Shiv Muhalla locality of Katras, was questioned by the SDO and Baghmara DSP Nitin Khandelwal in the presence of the nodal officer. “During questioning, the prisoner said he requested a constable to loosen his handcuffs as he wanted to take a bath. That is how the handcuffs came off,” said Dr Vishwakarma. Maheshwaram explained the prisoner was subjected to a rapid antigen test for Covid as per norms. Once he tested positive, he was sent to the dedicated Covid hospital. Asked how he could organise liquor in the hospital, the SDO said he had asked Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) officials who run the hospital to better administer the premises. “We have asked them to note details of all those coming to the hospital to meet patients,” the SDO said. “We have also made arrangements for screening of material going inside the hospital so that incidents like this can’t be repeated in future” said Maheshwaram. Facilities at the dedicated Covid were always scant, patients have claimed. On July 7, a group of patients held a demonstration and threatened to go on hunger strike after insects were found in vegetables served for breakfast. The next day, a group of 23 journalists admitted there complained of irregular and poor quality of food and the lack of cleanliness. Again, on July 21, patients staged another demonstration renewing their complaint about poor hygiene and inadequate facilities, namely, lack of drinking water at night. Doctors have also complained about cleanliness. It was only after they raised a hue and cry, that BCCL authorities provided them with proper furniture which they could use for rest. BCCL has changed the catering contractor. But owing to repeated complaints about poor upkeep, a new house-keeping agency has been recruited. It will begin work from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Nilamber-Pitamber University looks for exam centres to accommodate student rush||Nilamber-Pitamber University is preparing to conduct its final year degree examinations in the month of September with Covid showing no signs of a let up. “The university is locating and identifying government schools where we can make our examinees sit and write their papers,” NPU vice chancellor Lakhan Singh told The Telegraph Online on Sunday, adding that they will be split centres “with no compromise on the sanctity of the examination”. Social distancing among the examinees will be maintained. “We do not want any compromise on social distancing and so we are looking for space and infra-structural facilities for the government schools which we will procure for the conduction of the examination,” he said, adding that the new centres will make space for a number of ‘over flowing’ students from their colleges. Sources said the government primary and middle schools may not serve the purpose of an ‘alternate examination centre’ of the university as there can be space crunch and size of desks and chairs may not be suitable for adult examinees to sit comfortably. Only secondary or high schools can be earmarked for this purpose, they said. The VC added that their officials are thus identifying high schools. However, no head of school can offer their school’s premises to NPU to conduct university examinations, as they have to obtain permission from senior officials of the education department. “We will send our letter of request to DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan with a copy of this letter to the district education officer (DEO) to permit us to use the premises or buildings of these schools,” said the VC. Registrar of NPU Jayant Shekhar said the principal of JS College, Rana Pratap Singh has been entrusted to get this school procurement business done in collaboration with university controller of examinations SK Pandey. “Ranaji has the experience of holding university examinations in schools in the past,” he said. Sources said the NPU is set to face a crunch of invigilators for its alternate examination centres as it is pinning all hopes on government teachers working there. “We believe the administration will give us the required workforce, such as four teachers, to act as invigilators for a set of 100 examinees,” said the VC. Sources said that the number is an ideal, but during the pandemic, three or two teachers per 100 students would do.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Chamber urges Jharkhand government to let malls open||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries has urged the state government to allow shopping malls to open and operate. “Since the government allowed many other trading activities to function gradually, it is high time they also allowed the shopping malls to do so,” the apex trade body of the state said after its meeting with representatives of the malls from Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro on Friday. “The malls in the state have been closed for the past five months since the lockdown was announced. They should now be allowed to function as some states have already done so,” said federation president Kunal Ajmani. “The malls are huge and they consist of a large number of shops and showrooms that are actually much smaller than many showrooms of renowned brands that have been allowed to function,” he said, emphasising the point that the shops would not attract big crowds and social distancing norms could be easily followed. “The businessmen opened their shops in malls after taking loans from banks. They have to pay the EMI again from September for repayment of their loans as the relief would expire this month,” Ajmani said. He said they also have to bear certain establishment costs and pay their staff. “Coronavirus may not go away overnight but the economy has to be brought back on track,” he said. “Many trading activities have already been allowed and the remaining few should also be considered without further delay,” said federation general secretary Dheeraj Taneja. “Buses, hotels, malls, cinema halls, saloons and spas are the few things that have not been allowed to operate and the businessmen running these services can no longer bear the loss they have been incurring due to the closure,” he said. Taneja said the remaining services and businesses should now be allowed to open so that the owners can at least try to move forward. “The businessmen are surely suffering but no one has ever thought about how we can survive,” said Rohan Sharma who runs a saloon near Main Road overbridge which can accommodate only two customers at a time. He said people like him could not afford to keep their shops shut any longer. “Many of them (barbers) are visiting their regular customers at their homes to offer their services,” he said when asked how they could continue for the past 5 months. “It’s true they are suffering a lot,” said Taneja. He said customers must be getting hair cuts at home as not many can do without it for such a long time. Some may have also got their hair cut with help from their family members but their number may not be too large, suggesting most others must have availed the service of barbers at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||Schools to remain shut, says Mahto||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Saturday said there was no plan to open schools in the state in September. He added that the Hemant Soren government would follow the Centre’s guidelines for the opening of schools. “The education department is waiting for the central government’s guidelines to open schools,” said Mahto while talking to journalists at his residence at Bhandaridah in Bokaro on Saturday evening. The state government is monitoring the Covid-19 situation. Attention is being given to students for better education through online classes. Teachers are providing e-content to children. Mahto said opinion had been sought from the parents of children studying in both government and private schools by the education department regarding the opening of the institutions. As per his assessment, parents are not in favour of opening schools. Therefore, no final decision could be taken at this point. Sixty-three people were discharged on Saturday from various Covid-19 treatment centres in Dhanbad after being cured of the infection. Those discharged include 42 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Dhanbad, 14 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Bhuli, five from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa polytechnic, Gopalpur, and one each from the sadar hospital, Dhanbad, and dedicated Covid-19 health centre at SSLNT Hospital. Those released will have to remain under home quarantine for 14 days. Police on Saturday arrested two Peoples’ Liberation Front of India (PLFI) extremists who were involved in collecting levy from coal companies in Barkagaon block of Hazaribagh. Subdivisional police officer Om Prakash said the duo were inducted into PLFI by the outfit’s chief Dinesh Gope and tasked with collecting levy in the area. Prakash said Ritesh Bhokta, 27, and Ashok Ganjhu, 24, are residents of Chirudih village in Barkagaon. He said they had admitted to threatening officials of Thriveni Sainik Pvt Ltd, an outsourcing firm associated with the National Thermal Power Corporation, for levy. “We have lodged an FIR against the duo under Sections 385, 387 and 34 of IPC,” he added. A high-level team of district officials led by Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheshwaram on Saturday visited Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and inspected the paediatric, gynaecology and ENT department building with the aim of developing dedicated Covid-19 health centres. With the recent rise in coronavirus cases, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday had instructed the PMCH authorities to develop new dedicated Covid-19 health centres. A two-day special drive conducted by the district administration on August 21-22 has led to detection of 556 new cases. BJP activists led by Dhanbad BJP MLA Raj Sinha on Saturday sported black badges to protest the delay in arresting the killers of the party’s Kendua Mandal vice-president Satish Singh who was killed by two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants on August 19 on the Dhanbad-Bokaro road in Matkuria. Singh, a resident of Kustore, was close to the MLA. Sinha had also visited PMCH when Singh was taken there. A meeting of residents of Dhanbad’s Sindri led by the president of All India FCI VSS Employees Association, Sewa Singh, was held on Saturday. During the meeting, the participants expressed concern over the pitiable condition of basic amenities such as water supply and power supply and decided to raise the issue with Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd, which is engaged in building a Rs 6500-crore fertiliser plant at Sindri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
23-08-2020||Jharkhand||32-year-old Covid patient hangs self at RIMS||A 32-year-old Covid-19 patient from Garhwa allegedly hanged himself to death on Saturday morning at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. The deceased, police said, was mentally disturbed as both his kidneys were malfunctioning, and he was not financially stable enough to get himself treated. “Both his kidneys were malfunctioning. He and his wife had separated, on top of which he got infected by the coronavirus,” said the officer in charge of Bariatu police station, Birendra Mahto. “He was also faced with unemployment and financial instability,” Mahto added. The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand jumped to 29,103 on Saturday as at least 872 people tested positive for the virus across the state, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi again reported the highest number of fresh cases of infection on Saturday among the 24 districts. As many as 188 people in Ranchi and 150 in East Singhbhum were found infected on Saturday, the NHM bulletin further said. Thirteen Covid-19 patients died of the infection on Saturday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 310 and the mortality rate to 1.06 per cent. East Singhbhum, which has reported the highest number of deaths in the state so far, registered seven Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday. The district alone has reported 128 of the 300-odd casualties in Jharkhand, government data revealed. The state also reported as many as 814 Covid recoveries on Saturday, taking the recovery rate to 65.92 per cent. However, Jharkhand’s recovery rate was still lower than the national average of 74.69 per cent. While Ranchi reported 188 fresh cases of infection, at least 369 patients recovered from the infection here, causing a dip in the count of active cases in the capital, the NHM bulletin revealed. As per figures available with the health department, there were 9,607 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. There were 2,506 active cases in Ranchi, the highest in Jharkhand, while with 2,243 active cases, East Singhbhum had the second highest count of cases by Saturday evening. The government has so far collected swab samples of 5.58 lakh people and tested 5.53 lakh of them. As per figures shared by the health department, the state on Saturday collected 13,251 swab samples and tested 11,434 of them. The government has intensified testing in Jharkhand in the past one month and tested more than three lakh people during this period, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-325
