24-08-2020||Calcutta||Razor attack in Calcutta hospital ||A man has been arrested for allegedly trying to kill his wife’s colleague who works as a Group D employee at a private cancer hospital in Nayabad, off EM Bypass, on Saturday evening. Police said the accused, identified as Lakshman Mondal, 50, a resident of Chawl Patty Road near Beleghata, was arrested from the hospital compound on Saturday evening after he allegedly attacked Ranjit Konar, 45, with a razor. Konar, originally a resident of Monteswar in Burdwan, suffered serious injuries on his chin and needed multiple stitches. Based on a complaint by hospital officials, officers of Panchasayar police station went to the spot and arrested Mandal. The razor that was allegedly used for the attack has also been seized, officers said. Investigators said they suspect the two had a personal enmity that led to the attack. Senior officers said an investigation had been started. Mandal has been charged with attempt to murder. The police said the victim had suffered injuries on the left side of his chin. He is admitted to the ICCU of the hospital where he works.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology allows staggered payments||Candidates who have been selected for the professional courses such as bachelor of business administration (BBA), bachelor of computer application (BCA) or master of business management under the state technology university can pay their semester-cum-admission fee in instalments. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), to which all private engineering and management colleges in Bengal are affiliated, has taken the decision keeping in mind financial hardships families are facing because of the Covid pandemic. A student who till last year had to pay Rs 32,000 for the BBA or the BCA course during admission is required to pay Rs 15,000 by August 25, according to a notice issued by MAKAUT registrar Partha Pratim Lahiri. The rest has to be paid by October 15. Till last year, a student of the master of business management programme was required to pay Rs 35,000 during admission. “This year, they can pay Rs 15,000 by August 25 and the rest by October 15,” said a university official. The August 25 deadline for payment of the first installment is for those who can pay online. One can also pay offline on the Haringhata campus of the university or at the Salt Lake office on August 25, 26 and 27. “Those having online payment related issues, can avail any of the places as per their convenience. The timings are from 11am to 1pm only as banking hours have been reduced to 2pm,” says the notice by the registrar. “This facility (staggered payment of the semester-cum-admission fee) is being extended only to those who are facing fund crunch due to this COVID-19 pandemic and not to consider this gesture on part of the university as a general one,” reads the notice signed by registrar Lahiri. He said that the university had received appeals from prospective students who have been selected through CET-1 (Common Entrance Test) and JEMAT (joint entrance management aptitude test) for a relaxation in payment of fees on the ground that they are facing financial constraints because of the pandemic. “After going through the appeal, the university decided to introduce the mechanism of payment through instalments,” said Lahiri. Many of the students who had appealed for relaxation have told the university that earning members in their families had a part of their salary reduced after the start of the lockdown. Some said their family members had lost jobs. The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, will let students pay tuition fees in instalments in the coming semester to give its students a relief amid the crisis. A meeting of the NIT’s deans’ council has decided that 60 per cent of the tuition fee of Rs 62,500 has to be paid by September 30 and the rest by December 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Hospital uploading order  on Covid patient vitals ||The health department has asked all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to ensure that the vital signs of all admitted to intensive care units, cardiac care units and high dependency units are uploaded on the Covid Patient Management System four times a day. The circular, sent to all government and private hospitals, says the vital parameters of critical patients have to be uploaded twice a day and those of others, once a day. The data will have to be fed into the patient monitoring score in the newly-launched software — Covid Patient Management System. Senior health department officials said the directive comes at a time when several hospitals were allegedly failing to upload the details, leaving a team of experts at Sasthya Bhavan in the dark about the condition of critically ill Covid-19 patients across the state. “Unless the parameters are uploaded, it is not possible to monitor whether a hospital is regularly checking all the vital parameters of a patient in ICU, such as his or her oxygen saturation level in the blood and electrolyte balance,” said a senior health department official. “Our team of experts wouldn’t know if a patient is getting the proper treatment or is fit enough to be moved out of the ICU.” A team of experts from the health department observed while visiting various Covid hospitals recently that nurses assigned the task of feeding information into the new software were not doing so at regular intervals. In a few cases, patients who could be moved out of ICUs were being kept back because the doctors were not ready to take the responsibility of continuous monitoring in wards. As a result relatives of patients were unable to ascertain their status online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta housing complex rapid tests begin||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) on Sunday started its drive to conduct the rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 in housing complexes by sending a team to Surjakiran, a complex in north Calcutta’s Paikpara. The civic body had on Saturday announced that it would conduct antigen tests for free at housing complexes if at least 20 residents in each were willing to be tested. Sixty-two residents of Surjakiran, on Umakanta Sen Lane, underwent the test. All were negative, a CMC official said. Residents of the complex requested the CMC to conduct the tests a few days back. On Friday, the CMC informed them that a team would visit their complex Sunday. “After the CMC responded to our requests, we spread the message around. Sixty-two of the 125-odd residents underwent the test,” said Amitabha Panda, the secretary of the residents’ welfare association of Surjakiran. The antigen test can detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, in a person’s nasopharyngeal swab sample. The result of an antigen test comes in 30 to 40 minutes, compared to one or two days it takes for the result of the more confirmatory RT-PCR test to arrive. For the RT-PCR test, a person’s nasopharyngeal as well as oropharyngeal swab samples are collected. The rapid test is known to throw up many false negatives, which means that someone who tests negative in the test could actually be infected by the virus. The guidelines for the rapid antigen test issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said a symptomatic person testing negative should undergo an RT-PCR test. An asymptomatic person who tests negative in the antigen tests should be considered uninfected, the guidelines said. Someone who tests positive need not undergo further tests and is considered Covid positive. Despite its deficiency, the rapid tests have been approved because they give results in 30 minutes and help in faster isolation of infected people, said a CMC doctor. Panda, of Surjakiran, said none of the residents had to undergo an RT-PCR test. Santanu Sen, a past national president of the Indian Medical Association and a member of the CMC’s Covid core team, said the authorities were trying to take testing to the doorsteps to increase the number of tests. “More and more tests is our strategy,” he said. “If someone tests negative in the antigen tests but has symptoms of Covid-19, we will collect her/his samples for the RT-PCR test.” The CMC had on Saturday said that residents would have to provide an air-conditioned (AC) room if they wanted the civic body to send a testing team to their housing complex. The AC room is needed for the personal protective equipment -clad medical technologists to work comfortably. Panda said the samples were collected in the office room of the residents’ welfare association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||New Market: 1 in 5 shops close||Inside his small shop in New Market, Pradip Kumar Shaw would usually find it difficult to spare time for a cup of tea around this time of the year. Customers would crowd in rows inside his shop looking for various home appliances, from mixer-grinders to air ovens, and he would be busy attending to them. On Saturday, a day after two back-to-back lockdowns, the man in his early sixties sat on a chair outside his shop, his face covered with a mask, counting hours. Shaw was one of the few who had opened their shops. “About one in five shopkeepers in New Market are not opening their establishments,” said Debu Bhattacharya, the secretary of the New Market Traders’ Association. For many, keeping the shops open doesn’t make sense. All have been reeling from a sharp drop in footfall and returns since the Covid-19 pandemic struck and struggling to pay wages to their staff. New Market has never seen such times in living memory. “Never ever,” said Shib Shankar Nandan, who has been running their family’s watch shop at New Market, along with his grandfather, for over five decades. Some of Calcutta’s most prized watches would get repaired at their shop. Not anymore. The 144-year-old shopping address in central Calcutta has 27 entrances and exits covering various zones, including the old market complex, multi-storeyed new complex, masala patti, vegetable market and the poultry-fish-meat area. Ahead of festivals such as Id, Durga Puja and Christmas, these entrances and exits would hum with the cacophony of buyers turning up from across the city as well as neighbouring districts. At other times, nearly 40 per cent of the 50,000-odd daily visitors to New Market would be from Bangladesh. All that has gone missing. Corridors are no more humming with buyers talking aloud or children screaming at the top of their voices. All the fashionable apparels the mannequins are decked out with have no takers. “The fear (of getting infected by the coronavirus) is so deep that even those who would earlier visit the place at least once a month have not turned up even once since mid-March. There is hardly any transaction throughout the day,” said Bhattacharya, of the New Market Traders’ Association. “Owners open their shops hoping against hope. But it doesn’t work.” Just how bad is it? Most shops have staff engaged on weekly contracts for wages varying between Rs 1,800 and Rs 2,500 a week. Around this time, when festivals are around the corner, many shops would engage more hands to cope with the demand. “I managed to sell just a lighter, for Rs 60, in the entire day,” said shop owner Shaw. “What will I pay my staff?” With lanes dimly lit and frighteningly empty, most shop owners at New Market who open their shops usually end up discussing the owners who had not turned up for the day. “We count the shops that are closed for the day ... G-108, G-109, E-110, G-12...” said the owner of a shop that sells suit pieces. Some owners said they were trapped in the decades-old tradition of keeping the shutters up. “It has never been so bad in the last four decades,” said Jagadish Halder, the manager at Nahoum’s and Sons Private Limited. Sale of cakes and other popular items have dipped drastically, casting a cloud of uncertainty on survival. “Still, we keep the shop open. It’s an age-old tradition for us.” Others hope that the pandemic would end some day and New Market would spring back to life. “The market is scarily quiet and there is no business,” said Tshering Yangki of Chamba Lamba, which sells silver jewellery. “We only hope that this will come to an end some day.” “If it continues like this, many of us would find it difficult to foot the electric bills,” said Ashim Bardhan, a shop owner. For years, most traders at New Market would usually complain about lack of adequate parking space posing a challenge to a section who enjoyed marketing in the afternoons. Parking space is no more a problem now. There aren’t buyers who will park their cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Driver ill and falls off,  bus runs into tree in Calcutta||The driver of a government bus fell off the vehicle apparently after suffering a stroke near the Maidan, while the bus kept moving for about 200 metres till it smashed into a tree on Dufferin Road on Sunday morning. The eight-odd passengers on the bus escaped unhurt. Police said a major accident could be averted because the bus was moving slowly. Driver Mangal Mondal, 44, a resident of Falta in South 24-Parganas, died later in the day at SSKM Hospital. Police said he died of his aliment and the injuries he suffered from his fall. “The accident happened at the crossing of Outram Road and Dufferin Road around 8.45am, when no other vehicle was on the stretch. The driver fell around 10 to 12 feet,” a traffic police officer said. The bus on route number S-4C was on its way to Haridevpur from Howrah station when the accident happened. “Initially, we thought the driver had fallen off the bus because the door beside his seat was defective. But later we discovered that he had taken ill. We took the driver to SSKM Hospital, where attending doctors said the symptoms he displayed were that of a stroke,” said an officer of Maidan police station. Senior officers of the traffic department failed to recall the last time a bus met with an accident after its driver had fallen off the vehicle. “Had the bus been moving at a higher speed, which was only normal on an empty stretch like the one where the accident happened, the consequences could have been disastrous. Fortunately, the bus was moving slowly and none of the seven-eight passengers on the bus did not suffer any injury,” an officer of the traffic department said. The vehicle was taken to Maidan police station, where it will undergo a mechanical examination. “It is important to find out whether there was any defect in the gate beside the driver’s seat. We are also analysing the CCTV footage of the area to see how the driver’s door suddenly opened. Such defects, if any, could be dangerous to any driver,” another officer of the traffic department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University tweaks criteria for humanities||Presidency University has decided to allow students from the ISC-ICSE council to apply to study undergraduate courses in five humanities subjects even if they didn’t have math and science in their Class X course. Till the condition was withdrawn on Thursday, the university was not allowing ICSE candidates who had pursued pure humanities from Class IX to apply to study undergraduate courses in humanities. Those candidates had written to the Presidency authorities drawing their attention to the problem they were facing. The ISC-ICSE council allows students to study pure humanities, and no science subjects at all, from Class IX. The university has tweaked the format allowing applicants not to mention the marks of math and science at the secondary level while applying to study honours in English, history, political science, Bengali and Hindi, an official of the university said. However, three departments — sociology, philosophy and performing arts — will still give weightage to the marks in mathematics in the Class X board exams while drawing up the merit list. “The students who will apply to study any of these courses will have to mention their math marks in the Class X board exams,” the official said. But why are these three departments, unlike other humanities departments, still giving weightage to Class X math marks? “Those studying these subjects need to have sound logical and analytical skills. Till last year, the admission tests for these subjects would focus on such skills. Since admission tests are not being held this year because of the Covid pandemic, the departments are giving weightage to the candidates’ math marks in the Class X board exams to assess their logical and analytical skills,” the official said. “As the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the CBSE do not offer the option of pursuing pure humanities from Class IX, the students of these boards did not encounter any problem. Now, we have introduced a mechanism whereby an applicant can keep the columns of science subjects blank while applying for the five humanities subjects,” another Presidency official. The schools affiliated to the ICSE council ask students whether they want to pursue pure humanities when they are promoted from Class VIII to IX. “Sometimes students make up their mind to pursue pure humanities from Class IX and do not want to burden themselves with science subjects,” he said. Why did this provision of the council escape the attention of the Presidency authorities? A professor said Presidency did not have to factor in the marks of the secondary board exams as students over the past four years were being admitted on the basis of admission tests only. Before that, students used to be admitted on the basis of equal weightage to the admission test and plus-II board scores. As admissions tests are not being held this year, the authorities decided to consider the Class X and Class XII board exam scores while drawing up the merit lists. “While finalising the eligibility criteria, this provision of the council escaped our attention,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Wi-Fi hotspots for New Town road||At least six new Wi-Fi hotspots will be set up in various places along the Major Arterial Road (MAR) of New Town, said an official of Hidco, which builds infrastructure in the township. According to the official, the places that have been shortlisted for setting up the hotspots include Eco Park, Eco Urban Village, community markets and zones such as the Unitech intersection which have a number of offices. “The idea is to provide a seamless high-speed Internet connectivity across the township and these new Wi-Fi hotspots will be a step towards it,” the official said. Users can log into the network using either smart phones or laptops. Most of the Wi-Fi hotspots will be solar powered and fitted with a back-up system powered by conventional power. The back-up system will keep the hotspots active on days the solar panels cannot generate enough power or malfunction. The decision to extend the Wi-Fi  coverage across various areas in the township was taken keeping in mind it's relatively younger population compared to other parts of the city, as well as the fact that all action areas in New Town have a large number of offices, colleges and universities. Small public data offices will also be set up in community markets that will be able to extend Wi-Fi services to the locality against a small fee. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said they wanted to create an ecosystem that will enable people to finish assignments while travelling. “It is important to ensure that since most offices are encouraging people to work from home,” said Sen. “Wi-Fi connectivity is already available on the Major Arterial Road. This new network will bolster it.” Many New Town residents said the Wi-Fi network available along the Major Arterial Road was "glitchy". "I used to get good speeds earlier but of late the network has become quite bad and logging in is a task in itself," said Maitreyee Bhattacharya, a techie and a resident of New Town. The New Town authorities are also in talks with technology experts to have a high-speed broadband Internet in Bengal Silicon Valley in order to draw in data-centre developers, ISP providers, gaming and mobile application companies as well as telecom players to set up offices there. “Every sector needs stable and high-speed Internet connections and we want new-age companies like those developing games and mobile applications, among others, to set up their offices in New Town,” said a Hidco official. Hidco had floated an expression of interest (EoI) for allotting land at the Bengal Silicon Valley IT hub in New Town in May. According to the EoI, 22 plots spread over 63.35 acres are being offered in the fifth phase of land allotment at Bengal Silicon Valley. The largest plot is 21.75 acres. All plots are available on a 99-year leasehold basis. Hidco officials said that they had received one serious enquiry for the setting up of a data centre there. Out of the total 200 acres of land, there are about 169 acres of allotable land, excluding the roads and commercial space. Some companies who have already applied for plots in the previous phases are Reliance Jio (40 acres), CTS (25 acres), TCS (20 acres), Capgemini (7 acres), Indian Statistical Institute and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather forecast: Rain and flooding alert from today ||Rainfall in Calcutta and surrounding areas is likely to increase from Monday because of a low-pressure area that is set to form over the north Bay of Bengal by Monday, Met officials said on Sunday. Under its influence, the entire south Bengal, including Calcutta, is expected to get widespread rain from Monday. The system was to have formed on Sunday. “It is a dynamic process and depends on several parameters like atmospheric pressure over the sea and the sea surface temperature,” said a Met official. The city got light but persistent rain throughout Sunday. The sky remained overcast since morning. The intensity of the showers is likely to go up from Monday, said a Met official. The previous low-pressure system had led to around 115mm of rain in Calcutta between August 17 morning and August 21 morning. “The fresh system is also likely to trigger over 100mm of rain in Calcutta over the next three days. One heavy spell is due,” said the official. The Met office has warned of “a rise in the water levels of the rivers and waterlogging of low-lying areas” because of the rain. Officials of the civic body in Calcutta said if heavy rain coincided with high tide, waterlogging was inevitable in low-lying areas. “But once the rain stops, there are enough pumps to drain the water out quickly,” said an official. The fresh low-pressure area is likely to travel westwards. As a result, the western districts of Bengal such as Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram can get heavy rain on Wednesday and Thursday. The monsoon trough extends up to northeastern Bay of Bengal via Calcutta. That is leading to strong monsoon currents in the city, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Business||Dumping route in trade pacts blocked||The government has come out with norms to enforce the “rules of origin” provisions to allow preferential rate of customs duties on products imported under free trade agreements (FTA). The new norms have been framed with a view to checking inbound shipments of low quality products and dumping of goods by a third country routed through an FTA partner country. The department of revenue has notified the “Customs (Administration of Rules of Origin under Trade Agreements) Rules, 2020” which would “come into force on September 21, 2020”. These rules “shall apply to import of goods into India where the importer makes a claim of preferential rate of duty in terms of a trade agreement”, it said. The “rules of origin” provision prescribes for the minimal processing that should happen in the FTA country so that the final manufactured product may be called originating goods in that country. Under this provision, a country that has inked an FTA with India cannot dump goods from some third country in the Indian market by just putting a label on it. It has to undertake a prescribed value addition in that product to export to India. Rules of origin norms help to contain the dumping of goods. India has inked FTAs with several countries, including Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Asean members. Under such agreements, two trading partners significantly reduce or eliminate import/customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. According to the notification, to claim preferential rate of duty under a trade agreement, the importer or his agent, at the time of filing bill of entry, has to make a declaration in the bill that the imported products qualify as originating goods for preferential rate of duty under that agreement; and produce certificate of origin. The claim of preferential rate of duty may be denied by the proper officer without verification if the certificate of origin is incomplete or has any alteration not authenticated by the issuing authority or the certificate is produced after its validity period has expired, it said. The importer, it said, also has to possess all relevant information related to country of origin criteria, including the regional value content and submit the same to the proper officer on request. It also said that an officer may, during the course of customs clearance or thereafter, request for verification of certificate of origin from verification authority where there is a doubt regarding genuineness or authenticity of the certificate for reasons such as mismatch of signatures or seal when compared with specimens of seals and signatures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
24-08-2020||Business||Wine unit sale hurts Diageo||Diageo, the  world’s leading spirits maker,  incurred a loss of £2 million on the sale of its Indian wine business last year, the company’s annual report has said. Diageo-owned liquor firm United Spirits Ltd (USL) had sold its entire equity stake in Four Seasons Wines as well as associated brands to Grover Zampa Vineyards and Quintela Assets for Rs 31.86 crore. “The disposal of the Indian wine business has resulted in an exceptional loss of £2 million,” Diageo said in its Annual Report 2020. Talking about consumption preferences, Diageo said consumers who drink alcohol are increasingly choosing spirits over beer and wine. “This is a long-term trend. In markets where spirits is a less mature category, mainstream spirits brands can offer quality and affordability. In the more mature markets, the premium core and reserve brands offer choice and new experiences,” the company said. In January 2019, United Spirits had entered into an agreement for the sale of all the equity shares held by the company, constituting 100 per cent of the paid-up equity share capital of its wholly owned subsidiary, Four Seasons Wines (FSWL), along with the brands. The total consideration received for this sale was Rs 31.86 crore. USL had said this move towards the disinvestment of Four Seasons Wines was in line with its strategy to continue to monetise its non-core assets, including subsidiaries. At the time of the sale, USL said the Four Seasons Wines business was a niche but a small part of the overall Diageo India portfolio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
24-08-2020||Business||MFIs widen code of conduct||The microfinance industry is looking to expand its own list of dos and don’ts that it will follow in its operations. The Code of Responsible Lending for the microfinance industry could be further widened to improve transparency to the borrowers and lenders. The two self regulatory organisations for the industry — MFIN (Microfinance Institutions Network) and Sa-Dhan — had last year announced the responsible lending code, which specified certain guidelines for the lending institutions. Not more than three lenders can offer credit to the same borrower, the code said. The overall outstanding of the borrower should not be more than Rs 1.25 lakh. Also, there should not be any fresh lending to a borrower without an updated credit bureau report. According to Manoj Nambiar, managing director of Arohan Financial Services and chairperson of the MFIN board, two more measures are under discussion to be added to the code this year. This includes looking at the financial situation of the entire household and not just the individual borrower and keeping a record of the field staff. Nambiar said the code has been signed by 110 entities. It is a key initiative for the sector and the overall adherence levels to the code are set to rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
24-08-2020||Business||Contrarian view on banks||Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian on Sunday said there should be more banks in operation in the country, which will increase competition and ensure faster transmission of policy rates though the proposal appears to be at odds with the consolidation of PSU banks that has the support of the government. Delivering the Bandhan Bank’s fifth anniversary lecture on Sunday, Subramanian said more banks meant greater competition. The concept of competition through more banks is in contrast to the consolidation seen in the banking space with the amalgamation of public sector banks to 12 at present from 27 in 2017. The logic behind consolidation was to expand the size of the anchor banks, increase their capacity to lend and have better ability to raise resources from the market. “India needs more banks. The US has a third of our population but has almost 20 times as many banks. This has an impact on competition in the banking sector, which affects the transmission of rate cuts. This is something that India needs,” Subramanian said. Subramanian stated the numbers on country-wide distribution of banks in the list of the global top 100 banks, while suggesting that the country has to start evaluating the position of its banking sector in a global perspective. “China has 18 banks in the global top 100 list. The US has 12 and these are the two largest economies in the world. India is the fifth-largest economy. If the Indian banking sector was proportional to the size of the economy, India should have been where South Korea is, which is six banks in the global top 100. But India only has one bank and that too ranked 55th,” he said. SBI is the only bank from India which is placed in the list of top 100 global banks. Sweden, which is one-sixth the size of the Indian economy, and Singapore, which is one-eighth the size of the Indian economy, have three banks each in the global top 100. Even countries such as Finland, Norway, Austria, whose economies are a fraction of that of India, have one bank each in the global top 100, he said. Subramaniam also called for the banks to take a cue from its global peers and invest in technology to build models that can do corporate lending while analysing the ability of the borrower to repay the credit. “Banks today internationally are primarily technology companies. They use so much data and analytics to not only determine their ability to repay but also their willingness to repay. There are several models now which even use psychological parameters to infer the ability to repay,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Duty hike: First list of  items ready||The government plans to finalise import duties on over two dozen items, including textiles, toys, cameras, solar modules, cells and inverters, and place restrictions on certain types of steel items as part of its strategy to protect the domestic industry. “The projects have been carefully selected and the customs duties would help the domestic industry to be competitive. The items chosen are not per se against any particular country, but they are aimed to give protection to the domestic industry from unfair competition,” senior officials said. They said the first list could be announced soon, may be by the end of this month, while the other products are under consideration. Some of the items which are likely to attract duties include textiles, aluminium goods, toys, cameras, laptops, solar modules, cells and inverters. Apart from these, some of the steel items could be placed under import licensing as part of the latest government move to restrict imports from China. “The government took some measures in increasing tariffs two years back and we saw imports from China come down, but shipments from Hong Kong went up. China repeatedly deflects exports from the mainland to other countries. China has a huge footprint in Southeast Asia. They work through their production networks. So it has to be a structured measure over a period of time in a calibrated manner,” Biswajit Dhar, trade economist with the Jawaharlal Nehru University, said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, said “Tariff spikes on imports should help foster the government’s leitmotif of a self-reliant India. Nonetheless, these hikes would need to be well evaluated, especially in the currently financially pressed times, for products which are now not available in India/are deficient in supply”. The government is finalising the duties after taking inputs from industry and other experts. Industry was asked to send their comments and suggestions on certain number of goods and raw materials from China —  thats include wrist watches, wall clocks, ampoules, glass rods and tubes, hair cream, hair shampoos, face powder, eye and lip makeup preparations, printing ink, paints and varnishes and some tobacco items. The officials said they considered products which witnessed an import surge between 2014-15 and 2018-19, and domestic prices of similar goods made in the country and their capacity. They also considered imports under free trade agreements and whether there were inverted duties. The government is thinking of erecting trade barriers in terms of quality standards and tariff hikes, which are targeted at China, without naming that country, sources said. The government plans to come out with tariff and non-tariff barriers against Chinese goods and has so far identified about 1,500 items including auto parts, compressors for AC and refrigerators to select steel and aluminium products and electrical machinery. For non-tariff measures, the government, has identified 371 products, with total imports of as much as $128 billion in 2018-19, including those from China and other countries. These items include steel, consumer electronics, heavy machinery, telecom goods, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, paper, rubber articles, glass, industrial machinery, some metal articles, furniture, fertiliser, food and textiles. The government has been wary of duty hikes as it has noticed diversion of imports from countries with which India has free trade agreements, especially Asean members such as Vietnam or Thailand. So, the government plans to bring some items under import licensing that may have been routed through the third countries. In the wake of border tensions between the two countries, voices are getting stronger to restrict or boycott Chinese goods in the country. “Our companies import a lot of raw materials that are critical for making the goods that we export… we should avoid knee-jerk reactions,” said Ajay Sahai, director-general of FIEO. “China's exports to India constitute 2.8 per cent of their exports. But India's exports to China is 5.4 per cent of our total exports,” Sahai said, arguing India's larger trade exposure to China needs to be considered before unilateral moves by New Delhi. According to the federation, exports to China grew from $16.5 billion to $16.95 billion in 2019, while imports declined from $73.8 billion to $68.2 billion. Similarly, India's exports to Hong Kong in 2019 stood at $11.5 billion as against imports of $17.3 billion imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Benz used truck drive||Daimler India Commercial Vehicles has entered the used truck market — called the Bharat Benz Exchange platform. The platform facilitates exchange of any used commercial vehicle of any brand with a used Benz make or a new model. Besides, anyone can buy a used Benz truck. The used market for trucks is hugely unorganised, with estimates of three used trucks sold for every new model. German giant Daimler has started the business at a time the medium and heavy commercial vehicles market contracted 74 per cent in the first half of 2020. Daimler Trucks sold 2,439 units in the first quarter of 2020 compared with 5,549 units a year ago. The plan to move into the used vehicle segment was put in place well before the pandemic, the company said. “The pandemic’s effect on the economy may well increase the market for used vehicles, so the launch of BharatBenz Exchange comes at the right time,” said Rajaram Krishnamurthy, vice-president, sales and marketing, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles. The company has increased the volume base of BharatBenz vehicles in the last eight years and is now creating a structured ecosystem for a sustainable used vehicle business. The business was started with the objective of offering a transparent and reliable truck experience to customers. “Resale value is one of the most significant part of commercial vehicle operating economics. We want to provide our customers the best resale value. This is a a very important tool for customer retention as well as getting new customers,” Krishnamurthy said. On how much the business will contribute to overall sales, Krishnamurthy said: “Initially, we will serve our customers by exchanging their vehicles with a no profit / no loss model. However, at the same time, revenue is translated from the sale of new vehicles and service revenue on used vehicles. Our target is to attain 10 per cent of retail via exchange.” “There are a lot of individuals in the market who are simply trying to manage their own fleets. However, we want to create a structured eco-system where our stakeholders also grow with us,” he said. People who want to sell their used CVs often have to find a buyer on their own – a time consuming process with a lot of paperwork and stress on  both parties. Buyers, too, must be concerned about investing in a vehicle that may not live up to its purchase price. “In BharatBenz Exchange we offer customers a transparent exchange process with financing support, a pool of certified vehicles and warranty/AMC options,” Krishnamurthy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Tatas target permanent fix for Port Talbot||A “lasting solution” to the woes of Tata Steel’s UK business has remained elusive for more than a decade as the parent in India could not sniff out enough resources to make the operation structurally viable after funding the losses and footing a bloated maintenance bill of an ageing plant year after year. The European business — especially the UK operation — has been a pain point for Tata Steel which acquired it in 2007 at the top of the steel commodity cycle by paying top dollars. After spending $12 billion to buy it, the Indian company has invested at least $2.5 billion in the UK, not to mention suffering asset impairment of over $2.6 billion. Despite selling off a large part of the UK business over the last 13 years and restructuring a complex pension programme to reduce its financial burden, Tata Steel has not been able to take up at least three key projects that could have given the operation — now limited to Port Talbot in Wales — a long shot at viability. Tata Group boss N. Chandrasekaran told harried shareholders that the company was in “intense discussions” with British government to find a solution that is “lasting”. “We have been actively engaged in Tata Steel Europe to find a sustainable and structural solution. Particularly in the UK, we are in discussions with the UK government,” Chandra said at the annual general meeting of the company earlier this week. A structural and sustainable solution would require bringing down the cost of operation at Port Talbot steelworks and make it competitive with the rest of the European steel mills. To achieve that, it had to put up a pellet plant, build more coke oven capacity and construct a large power plant  as they together account for a lion’s share of the raw material cost. Tata Steel’s hugely efficient Indian operations at Jamshedpur and Kalinganagar or even the Netherlands site at IJmuiden, have pellet plants which can convert low-cost iron ore fines into pellets, resulting in significant savings. A bigger coke oven plant similarly can lead to lower cost of coking coal for every tonne of steel. Tata Steel’s other sites have an abundance of them. Moreover, the company needs to buy power from the grid and power cost in the UK is twice as high as the rest of the continent. “After loss funding, capital expenditure for sustenance and compliance, there was hardly any business case for Tata Steel to pour more money to build any of these facilities at Port Talbot. Even then they will be nowhere close to the Indian plants, which are newer, has lower employee cost and lower contractor bill for maintenance,” said a source aware of the matter. It is not yet known whether the financial package Tata Steel is seeking from the Boris Johnson government would involve capex for any of these units. Alternatively, the company may junk steel making through the blast furnace route and install electric arc furnace (EAF), which will mostly recycle scrap and, hence, lower the need for iron ore pellet or coking coal. However, the requirement of electricity will go up if it embraces EAF, which would also require less manpower. The workers’ union at Port Talbot has already opposed any move towards scrapping blast furnaces and replacing them with EAF. While the company struggled in the UK, Tata Steel splurged Rs 75,000 crore over the last four years in India. The domestic capacity went up 10 million tonnes as it built a plant in Kalinganagar and undertook an expansion and acquired Bhushan Steel and the steel business of Usha Martin. The Indian operations contributed 90 per cent of the profit, which also ensured a higher quantum of profit. When Tata Steel acquired Corus Group Plc, now known as Tata Steel Europe, the installed capacity was 21 million tonnes (mt) compared with the India business of 5mt. Thirteen years later, deliveries from India now stand at 16mt installed capacity while Europe is down to a shade above 10mt. Given the focus of the present management to grow profitably in India, the future of the UK operation will be contingent on the support of the British government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||The after-tax income 50/30/20 rule||Just as a government budgets its annual expenditure plan, for individuals a budget of expenses along with a financial self-audit can help to keep track of how one’s earnings are spent. Popularised by US Senator Elizabeth Warren in her book All Your Worth -The Ultimate Lifetime Money Plan, the balanced money formula, or the 50/30/20 rule, essentially divides after-tax income into three different buckets — 50 per cent of spending on essentials such as housing, food, transportation, utility bills etc, 30 per cent on wants such as dinners and movies, and 20 per cent on savings that include debt repayment. While it is a goal to follow, there may be circumstances that can call for a change in the proportion. As Warren says in her book, “there are special times in life when you may shift away from the basic pattern. If your income dips — say, your hours are cut or you take a few months off work to care for a sick family member—then nearly all your money would go to must-haves, while you would cut back on wants and savings until things got back to normal. Again, there can be special circumstances that may cause a permanent shift away from the formula”. However, while life may throw up many unpleasant surprises, in the normal course of things, it’s always prudent to plan your expenses in advance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Self auditing  can be a good way to get a  true picture of your financial worth||The average individual earns, spends and saves. These are the three primary ways in which money is circulated in and out of households on an everyday basis. Some people, mostly under the self-employed category, often keep an informal account of their earnings and expenses on a monthly basis. Meanwhile, salaried employees generally don’t partake of this exercise and only circle back to take a good look at their finances when the taxpaying time comes knocking along. Failing to take a closer look at your finances could throw some unpleasant financial surprises your way. To get a better sense of your financial worth, it’s essential to perform a financial audit on your own self. Learning to audit your finances each year is an essential life skill. Let’s look at why this exercise is vital. Over the course of your life, you’ll have many short-term and long-term life goals. For instance, your short-term life goals could include saving up for a down payment on a car or having minor home improvements done. Your long-term goals could include saving for your child’s higher education or for your retirement. Auditing your finances annually can help you understand how far along you are on the path to achieving those goals and how much you have left to go. Preparing a budget and verifying how you’ve adhered to it are important aspects of self-audit. In most cases, if you’re a disciplined spender, you’ll find it easy to keep your outlays in check. However, occasionally, you could cross the line and spend more than you planned to. This is particularly true if you don’t track your spending habits. With a self-audit plan in place, you can check extra spending and curb these outlays in time before the expenses cost you your savings or investments and get in the way of you achieving your life goals. In March 2020, Indian household debt stood at Rs 43.5 trillion, according to data from RBI, reaching an all-time high over the past decade. While not all debt is financially damaging, it's vital to ensure that you don’t fall into a debt trap, where you become unable to repay your borrowings. Self-auditing your financial situation periodically can help you here as it ensures that you’re constantly aware of how much debt remains to be repaid. Even if you’re a cautious spender without any debt gnawing at your earnings, you can still benefit from performing financial audits on yourself. For instance, this exercise can help you take stock of how you are investing your savings. It also gives you some reassurance that your financial situation appears healthy, thereby improving your peace of mind. With the knowledge that you are in a position to competently tackle essential and emergency expenses in the future and achieve your life goals without any trouble, you can take solace in your financial well-being. The primary aim of self-audit is to help improve your self worth over time. This is why it’s important that you don’t stop with merely identifying weak links in your financial situation. You need to actively make efforts to close these gaps by improving your financial literacy, adopting the right financial strategies and securing your current as well as your future income  to the maximum extent possible. The writer is chief distribution officer-institutional, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Reliance Industries boost  for online pharmacy||The acquisition of Netmeds could see Reliance Industries adopting the strategy it is pursuing in JioMart where it is bringing in local grocers under a single online platform. Reliance had on August 18 announced the acquisition of a majority stake in Vitalic Health Pvt Ltd and its subsidiaries for Rs 620 crore in an all-cash deal. The investment represented around 60 per cent holding in the equity share capital of Vitalic and 100 per cent direct equity ownership of Vitalic’s subsidiaries that include Tresara Health Pvt Ltd, Netmeds Market Place Ltd and Dadha Pharma Distribution Pvt Ltd. While Vitalic and its arms are in pharma distribution, sales and business support services, its subsidiary runs the online pharmacy platform — Netmeds — which enables people to connect with pharmacists and step up delivery of medicines and health products. The acquisition done by Reliance Retail is expected to enhance its ability to provide good quality and affordable health care products and services apart from strengthening its digital commerce proposition to include the most daily essential needs of consumers, analysts said. Reliance Retail’s entry will lock it in direct competition with Jeff Bezos-led Amazon and five others which are in the e-pharmacy business. Amazon Pharmacy was recently launched in Bangalore, with plans to scale it up to other cities in the future. It will enable customers to order prescription-based medication, in addition to over-the-counter medicines, basic health devices and Ayurveda medication from certified  sellers. However, the top body of chemists and druggists — the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AICOD) — has written to Bezos saying that e-pharmacies are “illegal” and not allowed under the country’s laws. While Reliance has not announced its plans, analysts said it may follow the same approach as in online grocery by bringing in standalone chemists under its platform in the coming months. Thus, medicines could also be one of the product category apart from electronics, apparel and footwear in JioMart. “In the medium-term, it is possible that RIL may go for the aggregator model for the pharmacy stores  (similar to kirana format in grocery) which could further expand the reach for RIL,” analysts at Credit Suisse said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||India||Delhi Assembly committee to initiate proceedings over Facebook hate speech on Tuesday||A Delhi Assembly committee on peace and harmony will initiate on Tuesday proceedings in connection with complaints about the Facebook's alleged "deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content" in India, according to an official statement issued on Monday. The development comes in the backdrop of a report published in the Wall Street Journal recently, citing interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that one of its senior India policy executives intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a BJP MLA from Telangana after he allegedly made communally charged posts. According to the statement, after careful deliberation on allegations levelled in the complaints received, the panel, chaired by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, has decided to take immediate cognisance of this issue. "Summons have been sent necessitating the appearance of certain expert witnesses, specifically Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and Nikhil Pahwa along with other witnesses for participating in the relevant proceedings," it stated. It added that the committee aims to redress the issue at the earliest and therefore, the proceedings shall be expedited in order to put this issue to its logical conclusion. Earlier, Facebook had said its social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence and these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. "We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position or party affiliation. "While we know there is more to do, we're making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy," a Facebook spokesperson had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
24-08-2020||India||Metro train services may resume from Sept 1, reopening of schools unlikely: Officials||The government is likely to allow resumption of Metro train services in the 'Unlock 4' phase beginning September 1, but schools and colleges may not reopen anytime soon, officials said on Monday. Bars, which are so far not allowed to reopen, may be permitted to sell liquor over the counter for takeaway. Metro rail services may be allowed from September 1 when the 'Unlock 4' phase in the graded reopening from the coronavirus-induced lockdown will begin, an official said. States will, however, take the final call on reopening the rapid transport networks depending on the coronavirus situation there. Metro services were suspended in late March to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 31 lakh people in the country so far. The official said there will be no reopening of schools and colleges immediately, but deliberations are underway on whether to allow reopening of higher educational institutions such as universities, IITs and IIMs. No decision has been taken on the matter yet, the official added. There is almost no possibility of allowing cinema halls to reopen from September 1 as it will not be commercially viable for film-makers or cinema hall owners to operate following social distancing norm, another official said. In the 'Unlock 4' guidelines, the central government will only mention about prohibited activities and the rest can resume. The state governments will take a final call on additional activities that should continue to remain prohibited during the 'Unlock 4', the official said. The Unlock 4 guidelines is expected to be issued later this week. The strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones will continue across India. As of now, among the prohibited activities are Metro rail services, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations are also likely to remain prohibited next month. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday issued Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for international travel on non-scheduled commercial flights under the Vande Bharat Mission and bilateral 'Air Transport Bubble' arrangements. Accordingly, persons desirous to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights, will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded or residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by Ministry of External Affairs. On Saturday, the Centre has asked all states to ensure that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods during the ongoing Unlock-3 phase. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said there were reports that local level restrictions on movement are being imposed by various districts and states. Drawing attention to the Unlock 3 guidelines, Bhalla said such restrictions are creating problems in inter-state movement of goods and services and are impacting supply chains resulting in disruption in economic activity and employment. The unlock guidelines clearly states that there shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, he said in the letter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced lockdown with effect from March 25 to combat the coronavirus pandemic which was subsequently extended till May 31. Since June 1, the unlock process began with resumption of industrial activities and offices across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
24-08-2020||India||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar tests Covid positive||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar says that he has tested positive for Covid-19. In a tweet, he informed that he has tested positive for the virus. "I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Sonu Sood offers accommodation to 20,000 migrant workers||Actor Sonu Sood on Monday announced that he is offering accommodation to 20,000 migrant workers in Noida. The actor, who was in the national spotlight for his work in helping migrants reach their homes amid the coronavirus pandemic, shared the news on Instagram. Sood, 47, also said these workers have also been provided jobs in garment factories of the region through their initiative Pravasi Rojgar. "I am delighted to now offer accommodation for 20,000 migrated workers who have also been provided jobs in garment units in #Noida through #PravasiRojgar. "With the support of #NAEC President Shri Lalit Thukral, we will collectively work round the clock for this noble cause @pravasirojgar," he wrote alongside the poster promising that the workers will be put up at a "hygienic staying facility". The actor along with his team had rolled out a toll-free number and a WhatsApp helpline to connect with stranded workers and arrange their transportation during the lockdown. Sood recently launched an app to offer support to workers in finding job opportunities in various sectors across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Congress working committee rallies around Sonia Gandhi||The Congress working committee on Monday appeared set to close ranks behind Sonia Gandhi, urging her to stay on as party chief after she offered to step down as interim president following a letter by more than 20 leaders demanding an "active, full-time and visible" president. Though a large section of the leaders backed Sonia Gandhi at the nearly seven-hour virtual meeting of the Congress's highest decision making body to discuss the pivotal leadership issue, the faultlines were clear and appeared to deepen at some points as the day progressed. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh led the demand for Sonia Gandhi continuing as Congress president and leader after leader echoed him while attacking the letter writers, particularly Ghulam Nabi Azad, the senior-most signatory and a CWC member, sources said. P. Chidambaram suggested the holding of a virtual AICC session to start the process of holding elections for a new party chief. However, the stage seems set for the CWC endorsing Sonia Gandhi continuation as party chief, with the letter writers isolated and under attack from several leaders. The meeting was attended by 48 leaders. Former president Rahul Gandhi, it is learnt, launched a sharp attack against the signatories, questioning their timing and their decision to go public with their grievances. He also rued the fact that the letter seeking sweeping changes to the party organisation and elections to the CWC was written when Sonia Gandhi was in hospital and the party was battling a political crisis in Rajasthan. He said Sonia Gandhi had accepted charge as party president only after the CWC last year urged her to take the responsibility. "It is the CWC and not the media, where we voice our grievances and discuss issues," sources quoted Rahul Gandhi as telling the CWC members. Rahul, the sources indicated, also insinuated that the letter would help the BJP.Sibal withdraws tweet Earlier in the day, Kapil Sibal, senior leader and one of the signatories to the letter, created a flutter when he hit out at Rahul Gandhi on Twitter for a purported remark on the BJP. Sibal, who is not a part of the CWC, withdrew his tweet a little later. "Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I therefore withdraw my tweet," he said on Twitter. The Congress also denied that Rahul Gandhi had accused any party leader of "colluding with the BJP". "Rahul Gandhi hasn't said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don't be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. "But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather then fighting & hurting each other and the Congress," the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter, tagging Sibal's earlier tweet.Ghulam Nabi clears the air Azad, too, attempted to set the record straight. “A section of media is wrongly attributing that, in CWC I told Shri Rahul Gandhi to prove that the letter written by us is in collusion with BJP. Let me make it very clear that Shri Rahul Gandhi has neither in CWC nor outside said that this letter was written at the behest of BJP,” the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said. Azad was at the proverbial centre of the storm in the CWC. Former defence minister A.K. Antony termed the letter "cruel", while his colleague Ambika Soni described the missive as unfortunate and said the party had given Azad a lot. Sources said Azad offered to resign at the meeting amid questions being raised on the letter, its timing and its leakage to the media. Sonia Gandhi also referred to Azad twice in her opening remarks, saying he had even sent a reminder to his letter, the sources said. To this she said she had given her reply to K. C. Venugopal expressing her desire to be relieved of the post and the party should initiate the process to find her replacement. While most leaders backed Sonia's continuation as party chief, there were some who proposed Rahul Gandhi's return as president, the sources said. Gehlot, Baghel want Rahul Giving details of the proceedings, they said Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel urged Rahul to take charge in case Sonia Gandhi wishes to withdraw. Venugopal read out the letter written by Sonia Gandhi and criticised the party leaders who were behind the letter. Besides Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada attended the meeting that was divided between those demanding collective leadership and those reposing faith in the Gandhi family. Almost all Lok Sabha MPs of the party have written to Sonia Gandhi expressing solidarity and urging her to continue in her post or install Rahul Gandhi. Besides, several state units, including Delhi and Rajasthan, have passed resolutions favouring the leadership of the Gandhis. The letter is the second challenge to Sonia Gandhi's leadership after 1999 when then leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Sharad Pawar raised the issue of her foreign origins in order to keep her from being named the party's prime ministerial face in the general elections that year. Sonia Gandhi then resigned in the CWC, which rejected her move unanimously bringing her back as party president. While Sonia Gandhi went on to become the longest serving Congress president, Pawar and rebels quit to form the NCP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologise||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court on Monday for his two tweets against the judiciary saying what he expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continues to hold. An insincere apology would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution, Bhushan said in his supplementary statement filed in the suo motu contempt case against him by the top court, taking note of advocate Anuj Saxena's complaint. An apology for expression of beliefs, conditional or unconditional, would be insincere, he said. On August 20, the top court had granted time till August 24 to Bhushan to reconsider his defiant statement refusing to apologise and tender unconditional apology for contemptuous tweets against the judiciary and rejected his submission that quantum of punishment be decided by another bench. Bhushan said as an officer of court he believes as a duty to speak up when he believes there is a deviation from its sterling record. "Therefore I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular Chief Justice, but to offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its long-standing role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples' rights. "My tweets represented this bona fide belief that I continue to hold. Public expression of these beliefs was I believe, in line with my higher obligations as a citizen and a loyal officer of this court. Therefore, an apology for expression of these beliefs, conditional or unconditional, would be insincere." Bhushan further said that an apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to, as the court has itself put it, be sincerely made, adding that he believes the Supreme Court is the last bastion of hope for the protection of fundamental rights, the watchdog institutions and indeed for constitutional democracy itself. "It has rightly been called the most powerful court in the democratic world, and often an exemplar for courts across the globe. Today in these troubling times, the hopes of the people of India vest in this Court to ensure the rule of law and the Constitution and not an untrammelled rule of the executive", he said. The activist-lawyer said that he has never stood on ceremony when it comes to offering an apology for any mistake or wrongdoing on his part and it has been a privilege for him to have served this institution and bring several important public interest causes before it. I live with the realization that I have received from this institution much more than I have had the opportunity to give it. I cannot but have the highest regard for the institution of the Supreme Court, he said. Bhushan in his two-page supplementary statement said that it is with deep regret that he read the August 20 order of this court as at the hearing the court had asked him to take 2-3 days to reconsider the statement he made in the court. However, the order subsequently states: We have given time to the contemnor to submit an unconditional apology, if he so desires, he said. The apex court on August 14 had held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. He faces simple imprisonment of up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both as punishment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||BJP endorses Nitish, for now||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Sunday told leaders in Bihar that chief minister Nitish Kumar would be the face of the NDA for the impending Assembly elections, seeking to reassure ally JDU. “Each time the BJP, JDU and the LJP have come together, we have registered a grand victory. We are going to the polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar and our victory is certain,” Nadda said while addressing a meeting of the Bihar BJP through videoconference from Delhi. The meeting had been called to prepare for the Bihar polls scheduled later this year. The BJP’s public iteration of its faith in Nitish came against the backdrop of the LJP launching a consistent attack on the chief minister and his JDU. The LJP’s criticism has been led by none other than the party’s president, Chirag Paswan, which has triggered speculation of a possible BJP ploy to indirectly subjugate Nitish. Chirag’s broadsides have led to a bitter war of words between the JDU and the LJP with the BJP remaining silent. The LJP, although a partner of the NDA in Bihar that also has the BJP and the JDU, is not part of the state government. Internally, a section of influential Bihar BJP leaders has been pressing for the need for the party to assert itself and take the lead role in the state. These leaders have been arguing that Nitish has become unpopular and it would be politically harmful for the BJP to face the electorate under his leadership. Nadda’s assertion on Sunday showed that the central leadership of the BJP was in no mood to subdue Nitish, at least ahead of the polls. This is the second time a BJP chief has publicly endorsed Nitish as the face of the Bihar NDA. Earlier, Amit Shah as BJP chief had upheld the leadership of Nitish at a public rally. While stressing on unity among the NDA partners, Nadda asked Bihar BJP leaders and workers to work harder and ensure the victory of ally candidates too. He predicted a cakewalk for the NDA, saying there was hardly any Opposition left. “There is no need to take digs at the Opposition. Not only in Bihar, but also in the rest of the country the Opposition is over,” Nadda said. His comments indicate that despite ground reports suggesting simmering anti-incumbency against Nitish, the BJP believes the NDA will win emphatically since the Opposition is in disarray. BJP managers indicated that while they had decided to go to the polls under Nitish, the post-election numbers would be crucial to who would call the shots. “If the BJP wins more seats than the JDU, then we will get the right to assert ourselves,” a BJP leader said, hinting at tough bargaining during seat distribution among the NDA partners. However, despite the BJP's public assertions, there is a coldness in its relationship with the JDU. Nitish, who had turned down the BJP’s offer to participate in the Narendra Modi government at the Centre after being offered a symbolic representation of a solitary ministerial berth, maintained a telling silence on the recent hype over the Ram temple bhoomi pujan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||High-level talks with China? No, high-decibel talks ||Indian soldiers deployed at the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh are using loudspeakers and unfurling banners asking Chinese troops to vacate their positions and return to what had been their side of the Line of Actual Control, sources in the security establishment said. In response, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army troops are also using loudspeakers and banners to tell the Indian soldiers to pull back further from what used to be India-claimed line as a pre-condition for disengagement, the sources said. “The Indian troops on the ground have started using loudspeakers and banners asking the Chinese to vacate areas inside the India-claimed line and return to their original positions. The PLA soldiers too have been using portable loudspeakers, telling our troops to retreat further as a pre-condition for disengagement,” said an official attached to the Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s intelligence wing. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km India-China border, behind which the army stands. The official said the Indian banners had the following message written in English and Mandarin on them: “To restore peace go back, you are in Indian territory.” The Chinese banners bear this message in English and Hindi: “We are in our territory. For peace and tranquillity, India and China must retreat (an) equal distance.” The official said both sides were also using loudspeakers to deliver the same message. The ITBP official said: “None of this has worked but it sometimes brings down the simmering tension between the two sides.” The border standoff had started at the Pangong Lake with a fists-and-stones clash between the two armies on May 5, before it snowballed into a violent face-off on June 15 at Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. The Chinese army has so far shown “no intent” of retreating from encroached positions up to 8km inside the India-claimed line at the Pangong Lake, which is nearly 140km long and 7-8km wide. China used to control two-thirds of the lake but has now laid claim to almost the entire Pangong. Both sides are said to have taken defensive positions on the slopes at 15,000ft above the sea level after bringing in reinforcements. Another ITBP official said the Indian and Chinese troops had taken up similar banner-and-loudspeaker drills during earlier face-offs as well, but on those occasions the soldiers had marched back to their respective positions thereafter. “The ongoing standoff is likely to be a long-drawn process even though diplomatic and military talks are on. The Indian soldiers on the ground are also keeping open the channel of communication through loudspeakers and banners,” the official said. A military veteran recalled that both sides had used loudspeakers during the 1962 India-China war. “The Chinese troops had used loudspeakers to play songs by Mohammad Rafi and Lata Mangeshkar to keep Indian soldiers in good humour and get them to leave Chinese posts,” he said. Sources said that this time the PLA had also rushed in additional high-speed boats to the Pangong Lake to strengthen its position, and was patrolling more aggressively. India too has deployed a few boats on the picturesque blue lake to counter them. “They (the Chinese) are holding on to the Finger 4 ridgeline and controlling the heights where they have deployed both men and machines. They have also fortified bunkers on the lake’s shores and built several posts and observation towers,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||When prison was more precious than Rs 100 ||Pay a fine of Rs 100 or spend a month in prison for contempt of court. The convict refused to pay and was packed off to prison. The scene unfolded not in 2020 but 61 years ago, in 1959, in a courtroom of Kerala High Court. In the dock was not lawyer Prashant Bhushan —  the fate of whose contempt conviction is expected to be known this week in the highest court of the land — but Mathai Manjooran, an editor and freedom fighter. Six decades ago, Manjooran chose prison over apology in the contempt of court case, standing up for freedom of the press. Manjooran’s Malayalam daily Kerala Prakasham had published a report dated July 29, 1958, about the death of six Congress workers from stab wounds after a clash with the then ruling communists in Varandarapally, Thrissur. It appears that the report touched on issues that were sub judice, and this led to a contempt case against Manjooran and his printer and publisher Sudhakaran. Both denied the charge in their counter-affidavits. They also refused to apologise, following which the case went ahead. A year later, a 20-page judgement convicted Manjooran and Sudhakaran. Probably reluctant to send the editor to jail, the court offered him a way out. Manjooran was asked to pay a fine of Rs 100 or spend a month in prison. The punishment for his publisher was Rs 50 or 15 days. Both refused to pay the fine and were sent to Viyyur jail in Thrissur to serve their terms. Did the punishment serve its purpose? It doesn’t appear so from the reception Manjooran received when he was freed. His friends and supporters organised a well-attended felicitation at Swaraj Round, a 2km roundabout in the heart of Thrissur and around 4km from the jail. “They later took him for similar events in Manjooran’s (home district) Ernakulam and Kottayam, where he gave fiery speeches against the administration,” said A. Jayasankar, a lawyer who appears on television channels in Kerala as a commentator. Jayasankar had done a video commentary on Manjooran when the Bhushan case was taken up by the Supreme Court. “Manjooran was the then Prashant Bhushan,” Jayashankar told The Telegraph. “Manjooran told the court he was not ready to apologise for the report since he believed in freedom of the press.” On Thursday, Bhushan had reluctantly accepted the apex court’s offer of a few days to consider tendering an apology for his tweets that had invited his contempt conviction. Bhushan, who has time till Monday, had on Thursday indicated he might not apologise. Manjooran’s 50th death anniversary fell early this year, on January 14. It went largely unnoticed, possibly because he was a bachelor and there is no one to promote his legacy. Jayasankar’s book Communist Bharanavum Vimochana Samaravum (Communist Rule and the Liberation Struggle) refers to the 1912-born Manjooran’s life as a freedom fighter, firebrand orator and socialist revolutionary. Manjooran was just 15 when he took part in the protests against the Simon Commission in 1928. The book adds: “Mathai Manjooran was a firebrand who took part in the 1942 Quit India movement. He was the mastermind behind (the revolutionaries) ferrying explosives from Mysore and making bombs in Kozhikode.” He later floated a party, the Kerala Socialist Party, a founding member of which became a judge in Kerala High Court. Although Manjooran was a critic of the communists, the second Left government of E.M.S. Namboodiripad made him labour minister from 1967 to 1969. Some reports credit Manjooran with something that should strike a chord in Bengal. As labour minister, he was an ardent advocate of the gherao as a right of workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||AG declines consent against Swara||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal has declined permission for the initiation of contempt proceedings against Bollywood actress Swara Bhasker over her purported remarks relating to the Supreme Court’s November 2019 Ayodhya verdict. One of the statements the petition attributed to Bhasker was: “It seems we are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution.” Venugopal felt this was a vague statement not related to any particular court. About another remark cited by the petitioner, the attorney-general said it “appears to a factual one and is a perception of the speaker”. The petitioner, Usha Shetty, had on August 18 sought Venugopal’s permission for Bhasker’s prosecution on contempt charges. On August 21, the attorney-general, the highest law officer in the country, declined, saying Bhasker’s statement had not in any manner scandalised the Supreme Court or lowered its image. Shetty was represented by three advocates — Anuj Saxena, Prakash Sharma and Mahek Maheshwari. It was Maheshwari who had moved the contempt petition against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets on Chief Justices of India, past and present, but the apex court had converted the matter into a suo motu case. On Sunday night, Bhushan tweeted: “Kudos to the AG Mr Venugopal for boldly asserting his independent position as a Constitutional authority & refusing permission to the malafide attempt to charge @ReallySwara for Contempt of Court.” Once the Supreme Court takes suo motu cognisance, no permission is needed from the attorney-general or the solicitor-general. In the Bhushan case, the top court had sought the assistance of the attorney-general, who enjoys a constitutional status on a par with Supreme Court judges. On Thursday, Venugopal had requested the apex court “not to punish” Bhushan, while clarifying he was appearing as attorney-general and not as the representative of the Union government. Under Section 15 the Contempt of Courts Act and the Supreme Court rules, contempt can be initiated in the top court under three circumstances: #The Supreme Court can on its own initiate contempt proceedings, as it did against Bhushan. # The attorney-general or the solicitor-general can file an application seeking contempt proceedings against a person. # A citizen can seek criminal contempt proceedings against another person with the consent of the attorney-general or the solicitor-general. Shetty had cited a statement Bhasker had made at a February 1 event hosted by Mumbai Collective, a citizens’ group, and flagged two comments from it. The petitioner quoted Bhasker as saying: “We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states that the demolition of the Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.” She was also quoted as saying: “We are ruled by a government that doesn't believe in our Constitution; we are ruled by police forces that do not believe in the Constitution; it seems we are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not....” Venugopal’s response to Shetty’s petition said: “The statement in the first part appears to be a factual one and is a perception of the speaker. The comment refers to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. “This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalise or tend to scandalise, or lower or tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, the statement does not constitute criminal contempt. “The second statement that ‘we are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…’ is a vague statement not related to any particular court, and something which is so general that no one would take any serious note of this statement. “I do not think that is a case where the offence of scandalising the court or lowering the authority of the court would arise. I therefore decline consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Ms Swara Bhasker.” Shetty’s lawyers later wrote to solicitor-general Tushar Mehta seeking his consent for contempt proceedings against Bhasker. However, once the attorney-general had given his opinion, the solicitor-general, who is second in command, cannot overrule him. Bhasker has acted in several popular Hindi films, including Raanjhanaa, Nil Battey Sannata and Veere Di Wedding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Leadership crisis: Congress behaves like… Congress||The eruption of discontent over the leadership crisis in the Congress has evoked an impassioned appeal for Rahul Gandhi’s immediate return at the helm even as cracks within the party have widened. No signs of reconciliation were visible on the eve of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting after a letter written by some leaders to Sonia Gandhi, pointing to the drift and the urgent need for reconstruction, got leaked and created much bitterness within the party. Majority of leaders took the letter as a conspiracy against Rahul but the authors of the letter insisted they had only dwelt on the systemic crisis without making any adverse comments on individuals. While the political grapevine was abuzz with the existence of such a letter sent to Sonia for the past two weeks, The Sunday Express, the weekend edition of The Indian Express newspaper, named the 23 leaders who signed it and referred to the contents. Sources said the leak infuriated Sonia and close associates of Rahul who felt leaking the letter to the media was a blatant violation of party discipline. The names of many senior leaders — those who have been an integral part of the Congress high command for decades and the younger ones who got much from the party in a short span of time — have cropped up. One section was so upset that an outcry erupted for crushing what is being seen as “dissent”. The interpretation that the letter was a revolt against Rahul completely vitiated the atmosphere. An orchestrated response, so typical of the Congress, came up during the day from most state unit chiefs, chief ministers and members of Parliament, describing the tendency to question the Nehru-Gandhi family as unfortunate and entreating Rahul to return as president without further delay. One of the signatories to the letter told The Telegraph: “We are also demanding the same; that the vacuum is harmful and a regular party president should be brought. Nowhere does the letter say Rahul is not acceptable.” But the emotional outburst by family loyalists left little scope for a reasoned debate and they acted as if the party was at war with itself. Ironically, most of the people who signed the letter have been proven loyalists of the Nehru-Gandhi family for decades. The names include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kapil Sibal, Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Veerappa Moily, Renuka Chowdhury, Milind Deora, Raj Babbar, Jitin Prasada, P.J. Kurian and Sandeep Dikshit But there was no dispassionate analysis of the contributions made by these leaders over the decades in the frenzied response. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas recalled the sacrifices made by the Nehru-Gandhi family and requested these leaders to look within and ask what their contribution is. Manickam Tagore, the  young MP from Tamil Nadu, warned that their silence should not be considered as their weakness. He tweeted that the saddest thing about betrayal is that it never comes from your enemies. While most state unit chiefs asked for Rahul’s return, the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee held an emergency meeting to condemn the “23 gaddars” (traitors). Many leaders attributed personal motives to these leaders, explaining why each of them was agitated because of vested interests and initiated this war in the garb of principles. The participants asked if any of these leaders commanded mass support and whether there was any leader in the Congress who could match Rahul’s pan-India appeal. Even the party’s chief ministers intervened, betraying nervousness caused by the issues raised by the diverse group of leaders from across the country and cutting across age barriers. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted: “News of 23 senior most Congress leaders writing a letter to Congress president is unbelievable and if it is true — it’s very unfortunate. There was no need to go in media. I strongly believe that Sonia Gandhi should continue to lead the party at this crucial juncture where the fight is to save the ethos of our democracy. She has always taken challenges head on. But if she has made up her mind — I believe Rahul Gandhi should come ahead and be the Congress president as the country faces the biggest challenge to save our Constitution & democracy.” Rumours circulated that Sonia had already told the party about her reluctance to continue. Some reports said she resigned. But her term ended on August 10 and technically she is not the interim president anymore, unless the CWC extends her tenure. Sonia will most likely tell the CWC on Monday to elect a new president to express her sense of hurt.  That is supposed to set the tone for a stormy meeting where a confrontation seems inevitable. If saner elements do not douse the fire, things could turn ugly on Monday. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who conceded that the BJP continued to win because of a weak Opposition, insisted that Sonia should continue to lead till Rahul returned. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel wrote a letter to Rahul asking him to return immediately. While he described Rahul as the only ray of hope in today’s atmosphere, he also stressed the need for unity in the party. Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah tweeted: “It is unfortunate that the leadership of the Gandhi family is being questioned by a few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency and attack on democracy by the BJP, we should collectively strive to strengthen the Congress and not weaken it.” The widespread support for Rahul established that there are no two poles in the party. But there is no denying  that Rahul will have to bear the responsibility for this crisis as he had  relinquished the top post against the wishes of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||‘Voltaire’ vs vacuity: Why academics are held||Dissent is being silenced and dissenters are being sent to prison. Writers and academics are being treated as criminals for refusing to toe the line of those in power. Samik Bandyopadhyay, academic, litterateur, translator, publisher and theatre expert, speaks on the trend to Subhoranjan Dasgupta, professor of human science. Q: Let us begin with aged poet Varavara Rao, now in hospital with the coronavirus infection. Why was he arrested and why has he been languishing for the past two years at Taloja central prison? What crime did he commit? A: Varavara Rao, a singular voice of protest, has been jailed earlier as well. But never could the powers that be table any credible or concrete evidence of any actual crime he had committed. The accusation operates at the level of speculation and imagination. We can perhaps also claim that to punish Varavara Rao for his supposed crimes, the practitioners of power have resorted to a surreal technique and are indulging in dark fantasy. It is a matter of great shame that an uncompromising and rebellious poet of his stature has been imprisoned for the last two years. It is a shame to say that he and some others had conspired to kill the Prime Minister. He is being subjected to judicial harassment and even persecution in a way that would put to shame even Right-wing governments exercising power in some other countries. Q: What crimes have been committed by G.N. Saibaba, Vernon Gonsalves and Shoma Sen? They are all popular and respected academics.... A: As I have said, not a shred of evidence has been placed on the table that could pin down or corner G.N. Saibaba, Vernon Gonsalves and Shoma Sen. They have also been languishing in jail for the last two years, and repeated attempts to secure bail for them have been squashed. It is a matter of great shame that the legal system of our country accepts whatever the government says. Yes, we must admit that along with Varavara Rao, Saibaba, Gonsalves, Sen and Rona Wilson have committed a grievous crime — they have fought spiritedly for the poor and the deprived, for the underprivileged, for the tribals and for the landless. When Jean-Paul Sartre was out on the streets of Paris to voice his support for Algeria’s independence, the French government had detained him. At that precise point of time, President (Charles) de Gaulle said, ‘We cannot detain a Voltaire’. We do not, of course, expect this remarkable level of sensibility and sensitivity from our rulers. Indeed, what they have done at more than one level is simply terrible. At one level, they allowed the penniless migrants to die on the road. At another level, even during the pandemic and border flare-up in Ladakh, they cornered and put to jail some of the finest minds in our country. Students and dissenters were chased and arrested. Some of those who were charged with (having an) anti-national frame of mind were coolly picked up from JNU and Jamia Millia. To give a few names: Safoora Zargar — she is pregnant — Meeran Haider, Ishrat Jahan were all sent to prison for (allegedly) inciting communal violence. Luckily, some of those detained were granted bail. Q: ‘Urban Naxals’ is an expression coined and loved by those in power.... A: Of course, they would not blink a moment to use this expression. Naxalism has its own tragic history. In the late ’60s and early ’70s of the last century, the Naxalbari movement gathered pace, made progress, though it was summarily crushed. Today, the ruling powers have usurped the term ‘Naxal’ and are using it against intellectuals who are liberal-minded, Left-oriented and critical. This attitude and tyrannical practice underlines the total intellectual vacuity of our rulers. We need to condemn this false borrowing of an expression from past history. Nothing short of condemnation is called for in this context. Q: It seems from the rulers’ attitude and practice that they are particularly perturbed by two academic institutions, Jawaharlal National University and the Jamia Millia Islamia. Why? A: From 2007 to 2017, I taught at JNU and enjoyed every moment of my engagement there. It was a wonderful experience. The students came from all parts of the country, were clearly Left-oriented, and lively interactions took place in the classroom. When I was getting ready to say goodbye to the enthusiastic students, the new VC, a Sangh parivar figure, came in and thereafter the problems began. The police entered the campus, beat up students and even arrested some of them. Like the JNU, the Jamia Millia also has an admirable national representation. Bright students, mainly Muslim, came from all regions of the country and tried to propagate and focus on the enlightened Muslim point of view. I have participated in several seminars held at Jamia Millia and enjoyed my interaction with the students and members of the faculty. It is a matter of abiding shame that baton-wielding policemen entered the Jamia Millia complex, ransacked the library and injured innocent students who were studying there. I repeat, not even an extreme Right-wing government of any other country would have allowed its police to swoop down on an academic institution in the way it was done in the capital. These two institutes, in fact, appear as eyesores to the rulers who are clamping down on dissidence. Once again, such attitudes and actions point straight towards the absolute intellectual vacuity of the present dispensation. The rulers, who are swearing every moment by nationalism, are not prepared to face questioning, critiquing minds. They want and demand complicity and subservience. To cut it short, this harangue on nationalism underlines the sinister attitude of the rulers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Girl scripts migrant success story||Topping the university was never on her mind. Paying the college fee every year was a big enough ask already. But it has not stopped Payal Kumari, daughter of a migrant worker from Bihar, from scripting what has been hailed as a story of “inclusive India” in a year saturated with images of abandoned migrants’ miseries. She has stood first in her BA Archaeology course from the Mahatma Gandhi University in Kerala, surprising herself and thrilling the southern state’s political who’s who. The student of Marthoma Women’s College in Perumbavoor, near Kochi, scored 85 per cent. Congratulatory messages have been pouring in, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan calling her on Saturday to laud her achievement. Senior Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor said Payal’s success was “another story of #InclusiveIndia from Kerala!” Payal now wants to postgraduate from JNU and join the civil services. Payal, who speaks fluent English and Malayalam, told reporters that paying the yearly college fee of Rs 3,000 had been a huge challenge for her family, which had migrated to Kerala 19 years ago when she was four. “But there were good Samaritans who lent a helping hand,” she said. Her history lecturer, Priya Kurian, paid her first-year fees after learning about the plight of the family, which lives in a rented home at Edappally in Kochi. The following two years, too, teachers helped her. They were confident she would do well in her final exams, Payal said. “I knew I had done well but did not expect a rank,” she told PTI. Payal thanked her father Pramod Kumar and mother Bindu Devi for always encouraging her to study and never pressuring her to marry. “My parents are very happy with my result. They told me to continue studying,” she said. Pramod, who is from Gosaiymati village in Bihar’s Sheikhupura district, had arrived in Kerala at the turn of the millennium seeking a better life for his family. Payal’s elder brother Akash Kumar is employed and sister Pallavi Kumari is doing her BSc in physics. “I’m confident speaking Hindi, English and Malayalam,” Payal said. But at home, the family speaks only Hindi as the parents do not know much Malayalam, she said. “Her achievement is a matter of pride and great joy for us,” Vijayan said. “This shows that the steps taken by the state for the welfare of the guest workers never went in vain. I wish her all success in her future endeavours.” Mizoram governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai, who is from Kerala, and state agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar too sent messages of congratulation, Payal said. Finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac tweeted: “Payal Kumari, daughter of Pramod, a migrant worker from Bihar, graduates from MG University Kerala with first rank BA Archaeology and History (85% marks). She hails from Gosaimaty village in Shaikpura district. She wants to join JNU. Feel so proud of you Payal. Congratulations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
24-08-2020||India||Trump campaign video stars Modi||Clips from the Howdy Modi gathering at Houston last September and this February’s Namaste Trump rally in Ahmedabad are being used by US President Donald Trump for his campaign, raising the spectre of India losing the bipartisan support it has enjoyed in Washington for several years now if it is seen batting for the Republican candidate. Many diplomats had warned of this last year when Modi had hosted Trump at the Houston diaspora event where he even tweaked his own 2014 campaign slogan for the President and said “Ab ki baar Trump sarkar”. Foreign minister S. Jaishankar had later sought to argue that it was not an endorsement. But there was no doubt in the Republican camp that the Howdy Modi event was an endorsement for the President’s re-run for the White House. They said so in as many words after the event, but this did not stop Modi from hosting a bigger event for Trump in his home state of Gujarat in February. After the Howdy Modi event, Kayleigh McEnany, the national press secretary for Trump’s 2020 campaign who is now the White House press secretary, had tweeted on September 23: “President Donald Trump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi as they shared a stage in Houston, walking hand in hand… to address more than 50,000 Indian Americans.” A similar comment was posted by Team Trump, “the official Twitter for the Trump campaign”: “President Donald Trump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Modi!” On Saturday, some of that footage was used in a 107-minute video posted by Kimberley Guilfoyle, senior adviser to Team Trump, with the comment: “America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!” The tweet made no mention of Modi but the video had clips from his Houston speech, besides Trump’s address to the lakh-plus gathering in Ahmedabad. While the Houston event was a diaspora meeting for the Prime Minister during his US visit, Namaste Trump was Modi’s welcome to the US President during his maiden visit to India. Both, however, essentially turned into campaign outings for the US President with a community that has traditionally voted Democrats. The video has been conceptualised by Al Mason of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee who recently wrote on the conservative website American Greatness that a large number of the Indian-Americans in the battleground states of Florida, Virginia, Michigan and Pennsylvania are likely to defect from the Democratic Party and vote for Trump. The Telegraph tried to get a response from the external affairs ministry on how India viewed the Trump campaign using footage from the Prime Minister’s meetings but did not get any response. The ministry had earlier said it wanted to refrain from commenting on the electoral process of another country when asked if the government had congratulated Indian-American Kamala Harris on being picked to be the Democratic candidate for Vice-President.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
24-08-2020||India||Riot book authors hit out at publisher Bloomsbury||British publisher Bloomsbury, which withdrew a book that blames anti-citizenship-act protesters for the Delhi riots, has received an email from the three authors that calls its decision a breach of contract and says the company is liable to pay damages. BJP parliamentarian Bhupendra Yadav had on Saturday given the book a “virtual launch”, shortly after Bloomsbury announced it was withdrawing it. The guests of honour at the event included BJP politician Kapil Mishra, accused by the Delhi Minorities Commission of inciting the February riots that killed 53 people, 40 of them Muslim. On Sunday the authors --- Monika Arora, Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar — emailed Paul Kumar, publisher, special projects, with Bloomsbury India. They underlined that the editing process had gone on for three months and said they were anguished at being junked without a formal intimation. “This is breach of contract, unethical and unprofessional conduct. This will invite civil and criminal liability and you will be liable to pay damages to the authors for damaging their reputation, disowning them publicly, causing mental agony to not only the authors but to millions of people who believed in you, who wanted to order the book…. Bloomsbury may we tell you that Brown Lives matter and Brown women matter too,” the email said. “Can we take this liberty to request you to at least inform us officially through email that you have withdrawn/ gone back on the contract, terminated the contract with us, are no longer our publisher?” Bloomsbury, known for publishing the Harry Potter series, has lately come out with several books that glorify BJP leaders and promote the party’s worldview. This newspaper is yet to receive a reply to a request for a response to the email from Kumar and his company. In a statement on Saturday, Bloomsbury India had said: “In view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book.” In their email, the authors said: “You called us on phone and informed us that you are withdrawing as a publisher from the aforesaid book due to pressure from Bloomsbury UK which in turn was pressurised by the social media campaign etc…. You Bloomsbury finalised the draft of the aforesaid book. Authors and you the publisher mutually suggested many changes and all were incorporated in the final draft which the authors finalised and as a publisher you approved.” They added: “You Bloomsbury went ahead with the publications, published the books, and gave us 100 hard copies…. The e-card of the book launch was put in public domain. You had full knowledge of this book launch and the guest list. You never objected orally or in writing regarding the guest list or the launch event.” The authors gave Kumar until 4pm on Sunday to reply. Later in the evening, Arora — a Supreme Court lawyer — tweeted: “No response from @BloomsburyIndia No written communication to authors despite request. Our book can’t be killed People want to buy We have no option but to go with another publisher. Nation must know truth of #DelhiRiotsTheUntoldStory Pls suggest names of publishers.” Soon after, Garuda Publishers, which published filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri’s Urban Naxals: The Making of Buddha in a Traffic Jam in 2018, tweeted that it would be publishing the book on the Delhi riots in English and Hindi. Agnihotri’s Who Killed Shastri?: The Tashkent Files, published by Bloomsbury, hits the stands next week. Agnihotri has called for a boycott of historian William Dalrymple, who too has been published by Bloomsbury, for allegedly asking the company to drop the book on the riots. Amid the debate on the freedom of expression that Bloomsbury’s withdrawal of the book has triggered, a post by theatre director and publisher Sudhanva Deshpande is being shared by many as a justification for the call to deny the book the legitimacy offered by a well-known publisher. Deshpande, managing editor of the CPM-backed Leftword Books, wrote on Facebook on Saturday, before Bloomsbury withdrew the book: “Am I calling for the book to be banned? No. I’m asking Bloomsbury, as a leading publisher, to ask itself what editorial protocols permit such a book to be published in such a short time? “Are you as publisher not responsible for at least elementary fact checking? Are you as publisher not culpable in playing a part in the architecture of terror being created and deployed by the State and non-State actors to punish the victims of violence, and those who stand up for them?” Deshpande added: “Make no mistake about it. This book has nothing to do with the pursuit of knowledge, in which differences of opinion and interpretation are not just desirable, but essential. This book is part of a multi-pronged attack on India’s secular fabric, on the idea of natural justice, on ethics, on rationality, on humanity, and, because we are talking in a publishing context, on knowledge itself. This book has blood on its hands.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
24-08-2020||India||Sprinter Dutee Chand on love and glory||Nominated for the prestigious Arjuna award, ace sprinter Dutee Chand, who had entered into a same-sex relationship, on Saturday asserted that she would continue to remain faithful to her live-in partner. Talking to The Telegraph, Dutee, 24, said: “I don’t believe in betrayal. She has supported me over the years and I am indebted to her for that. We are in love and there is nothing wrong with that. She will be with me forever.” Dutee has been in a relationship with the girl for the past three years. Dutee added: “We have not talked about marriage so far. She is currently pursuing her studies and is now in her village. Let her finish that. I don’t want to hide my relationship which is based on mutual love and faith.” Earlier, Dutee had welcomed the Supreme Court’s judgment on same-sex relationships. “The Supreme court verdict in 2018 decriminalised same-sex relationship between consenting adults. The judgment has given me the right kind of motivation to go ahead with my relationship. There is no harm in both of us living together,” she said. Talking about her career, she said: “Tokyo Olympics, which were scheduled to be held this year, have been shifted to next year. I have already started my preparations at the Kalinga stadium. I am practising for six hours a day. I am confident of making my nation proud by getting a gold at the Tokyo Olympics next year. For that, I will overcome any hurdle.” On the controversy regarding the sale of her BMW car to arrange money for her training, Dutee said: “I have a number of cars. Because of the lockdown, I had decided to sell this car. Many people had shown interest in buying my car. But soon after the controversy erupted I gave up the idea of selling. However, Odisha  government’s claim of having given me Rs 4 crore had upset me. But now that issue has been settled and I am thankful to the state government for recommending my name for the award. I am thankful to chief minister Naveen Patnaik for reposing faith in me. He has been helping me over the years.” Dutee, who is pursuing her integrated law course at KIIT, said: “The Centre has picked me for the award because of my consistent performance at the international level. But I have the right to make my choices in personal life without hurting anyone else.” On her dispute with her elder sister Saraswati Chand, who is also a state-level athlete, after she targeted Dutee for her same-sex affair, she said: “I don’t want to talk about that now. I have been informed that I would be given the award on August 29. I don’t want any controversy at this juncture. Once I receive the award, I will go to my village and meet my family members.” Dutee had successfully fought her case in the court of Arbitration of Sports (CAS) against the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) rules on hyperandrogenism (a medical condition characterised by excessive levels of androgen), which put a limit on testosterone levels of women competing in track and field events. The rules were withdrawn in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Glare on scheduled banks in farm credit disbursal||The Centre’s plan to bring 2.5 crore farmers under the Kisan Credit Card regime as part of its Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to boost the country’s pandemic-hit economy seems to have tripped in Bengal because of lack of urgency shown by banks, especially scheduled commercial banks, to meet the target. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the Centre’s much-hyped stimulus package in multiple phases in May. She had then claimed institutional credit provided through KCCs, which is facilitated and monitored through the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard), would provide relief to lockdown-hit farmers. The promise, however, seems to have remained only on paper as an internal status report circulated among commercial banks, cooperative banks, regional rural banks (RRBs), Nabard and the Reserve Bank of India on July 23 and accessed by The Telegraph shows in the case of Bengal, 9.49 lakh KCCs have been issued to non-loanee farmers against the target of 20.18 lakh. Though Bengal’s figure of 47 per cent achievement of its KCC target is above the national average of 45 per cent, the credit for it goes to much-maligned cooperative banks and RRBs. The two entities have notched up a figure of 87 per cent, with some banks outstripping their targets while the scheduled commercial banks, both public and private, have performed miserably meeting only 31 per cent of its target of over 14 lakh KCCs. “The performance of commercial banks, including the State Bank of India, turned out to be miserable in rolling out KCCs in Bengal. Private sector banks, including big names like ICICI, HDFC, IndusInd, and Bandhan Bank, have either sanctioned zero KCCs or are too negligible to be mentioned,” said a source in the banking sector. Bringing more farmers into the KCC fold is crucial for rural Bengal this year because the farm sector has been reeling from the twin blows of Covid-induced lockdown and Cyclone Amphan. The fact that the failure of the banks in meeting the target is affecting farmers is evident across rural Bengal as the farmers are running from pillar to post to get KCCs, which can solve their cash crunch. Marginal farmer Ujjwal Mukherjee, who tills his small piece of land at Rupsa village on the fringes of Sriniketan in Birbhum district, explained the problems he has been facing in this sowing season. “I have been banking on the KCC as my savings have been hugely eroded because of the lockdown. Where do poor farmers like us go? In my village I am not the only one running around to get KCCs,” he said. Debasish Basu Chowdhury, general secretary of the Bank Employees’ Federation of India, blamed Nabard and bank managements for not doing enough to achieve the targets. “Nabard’s lack of seriousness to monitor the performance of banks is the reason for the indifference shown by bank managements in meeting KCC targets. As state governments have major representation in State-level Bankers’ Committee, their role is critical in making banks meet KCC targets. The state government’s role in Bengal has not been up to the mark,” Basu Chowdhury said. Seeking to refute the charges of slack monitoring, Subrata Mondal, chief general manager, Nabard, said: “The performance of commercial banks is monitored by the RBI, while we take care of RRBs and cooperative banks. The performance of RRBs and cooperative banks shows we are doing our job.” The State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) is an apex inter-institutional forum to create adequate coordination machinery for the development of the state and it comprises representatives of commercial banks, RRBs, state co-operative banks, RBI, Nabard, heads of government departments and representatives of financial institutions operating in a state. State agriculture minister Asish Banerjee passed the blame on the scheduled commercial banks. “The commercial banks are not cooperating to the extent they should in meeting Bengal’s KCC target. I will request our people in the SLBC to take up with commercial banks their indifference towards meeting the KCC target,” he said. Non co-operation of the scheduled commercial banks in extending credit to poor farmers or artisans in rural Bengal has often been cited as one of the major reasons behind indebtedness of the weaker sections of the society to moneylenders, who charge very high interest from the borrowers. The issue, along with failure in meeting annual KCC targets, are discussed regularly at SLBC meetings. The convener of the SLBC in Bengal, Ashwini Kumar Jha, said he was optimistic about the state getting closer to meeting the target, which would help infuse liquidity into the agriculture sector. He has admitted commercial banks are lagging behind when it comes to disbursing KCCs and the state government is aggressively pursuing the case at SLBC meetings. Jha said:“We have pushed ahead and managed to issue around 11 lakh KCCs in the current fiscal. As for private banks, their poor performance is primarily because of their lack of penetration in rural areas.” Reminded that last year the state had achieved only 68 per cent of its KCC target, Jha said: “This fiscal despite the lockdown and a raging pandemic we hope to do better.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre sets 30-day deadline for NH12 land ||The Centre has set a 30-day deadline for Bengal to hand over the rest of the “7 to 8 per cent” land to the National Highways Authority of India for a long-pending project to widen a 67km stretch of NH12 (erstwhile NH34) between Krishnagar and Baro Jaguli in Nadia, sources in the PWD have said. Such a deadline to hand over land is unprecedented, a senior bureaucrat told this paper. “The message from Delhi is clear... The future of the project will be uncertain if the land is not handed over in the next 30 days,” the official said. The land issue came up during a review meeting of the NH12 widening project — which started in 2009 and is held up because of the state government’s inability to hand over required land — chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday. State PWD secretary Naveen Prakash attended the virtual meeting. PWD sources said the Centre expressed its displeasure at district authorities for failing to clear encroachments on a 3km-stretch where shops and places of worship stood. “The Centre wants 100 per cent trouble-free land before starting work. Gurgaon-based KCC Buildcon Private Limited was hired for the Rs 1,113-crore project in October, 2019, but the letter of commencement hasn’t been given to it, without which it can’t start work,” said a senior PWD official. Sources in the department said they had tried to convince the NHAI to start work as  over 90 per cent of land had been made available. “But it wants 100 per cent land free from encumbrances,” said a source. A source said the Centre wanted the entire land because of a bitter past experience. “An agency was hired for the project… They deployed manpower and machinery and waited for four years to get land. Finally the contract with the agency had to be terminated, project cost shot up to Rs 1,113 crore from Rs 800-odd crore.” An NHAI source said that as the new agency was given 30 months to finish the project, the Centre wanted work to start at the earliest as 10 months are already gone. The project  includes a flyover, four road overbridges, seven footbridges and a toll plaza. “It is time-consuming work, and some 10 months have passed since the project was awarded,” said an official. Soutam Pal, director of the NH Project Implementation Unit in Krishnagar, admitted to the Centre’s pressure, but said there were religious structures and other buildings on acquired land and he was not sure when they would be cleared. Nadia district magistrate Vibhu Goel said the NHAI’s concern was uncalled for. “Owners assured us of dismantling the structures whenever work resumes in the final phase.” “They requested us to allow them to stay on their plots till work begins in the areas concerned. I don’t think that there is any reason to be concerned over such structures,” Goel said. Sources in the district administration, however, said some structures could not be removed as the owners were not paid land acquisition compensation in the absence of a PAN card and documents to claim ownership. “Arranging such documents have become difficult in the Covid-induced lockdown and overall situation,” an official said. The member of an organisation in Dignagar, which owns a building that still exists on the stretch, said” “We did not receive compensation as we don’t have PAN card in our organisation’s name. We will dismantle the structure once we receive compensation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Santiniketan survey on boundary wall on the Pous Mela ground||A group of senior police officers led by Birbhum district police chief Shyam Singh, dressed in ethnic-wear and riding bicycles, reached the doorsteps of half a dozen senior citizens of Santiniketan on Sunday afternoon to draft a ground report on the controversial boundary wall on the Pous Mela ground. Starting around noon on Sunday, the police team comprising additional superintendent of police (Bolpur) Shiba Prasad Patra and Bolpur subdivisional police officer Abhishek Ray, along with officers-in-charge of three police stations — besides Singh — undertook a 10km journey till about 2pm. Respondents included at least three members of the Rabindranath Tagore clan — Urmila Gangopadhyay, Supriya Tagore and Neela Bhattacharya. Sources said the police were trying to gauge “public sentiment” and assess “lifestyle changes” caused by Visva-Bharati’s alleged wall-building spree under the current dispensation of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. Singh said the team had visited the homes of senior citizens in order to take stock of the boundary walls. “We were informed of an example, where the varsity had put up a high wall in front of the home of an elderly woman…. We will send the report to the state government.” Asked about the attire and the cycles, Singh said: “There is a tradition of this in Santiniketan, where even a Nobel laureate (Amartya Sen) used to roam on a bicycle. Kurta-pyajama is also part of the culture of Santiniketan.” The boundary wall issue has snowballed into a political battle between the Mamata Banerjee government and the central varsity, of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the chancellor. The police team held brief talks with senior residents in order to know their opinion. Neela Bhattacharya, a member of the Tagore family and a resident of Ratan Pally, reportedly showed the cops how Visva-Bharati authorities were putting up a high boundary wall that blocks the view from her home. “Rabindranath’s elder brother Dwijendranath was my great maternal grandfather, and we have been associated with Santiniketan for so long. It hurts me when I find a high wall just in front of my house blocking my view. I tried to object, but nobody listened to me,” said the septuagenarian. Besides the Pous Mela ground, Visva-Bharati recently also put up two walls at Ratan Pally in front of the house of Santidev Ghosh, a notable Rabindrasangeet exponent. “We found at least two high walls that were recently put up, which the veterans protested against fiercely,” said Singh. During the team’s visit, Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Amartya Sen, also met Singh by a concrete wall near Sangeet Bhavana. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already spoken against such constructions, citing Tagore’s philosophy. Police sources said the move to compile the ground report was taken following a meeting by citizens with the district magistrate on August 20. Vice-chancellor Chakrabarty had skipped the meeting. The VC convened an “emergency” meeting on Monday to discuss the boundary wall issue and activities on the campus, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Minister infected, Bengal registers 3,274 new Covid cases||Bengal’s public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra on Sunday said he tested positive for Covid-19, a day the state logged yet another highest 24-hour spike in new infections, with 3,274. The state also reported 3,048 recoveries and 57 deaths in the 24-hour window ending at 9am on Sunday. Eight persons succumbed in Calcutta and 18 in North 24-Parganas. With this, Bengal went past 1.38 lakh infections since the onset of the pandemic, of which 1.08 lakh are recoveries and 2,794 are deaths. Bengal also logged the most number of tests in a day, 37,149. Minister Mahapatra in his statement in the afternoon said that as he was asymptomatic, he was in home isolation. Mahapatra is the third minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, after fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose and minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath, to test positive. Around 20 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly have so far been infected. The pandemic has also claimed the lives of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh. Of the total 2,794 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,174 deaths and North 24-Parganas for 647 so far since the onset of the pandemic. The state government reported 2,439 or 87.3 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In two weeks, there have been 735 deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 617 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 2.01, behind the national rate of 1.85 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.23. But a Bengal minister held out hope that the state should be able to lower mortality rate to below 2 this week. Of the new infections, Calcutta reported 563 and North 24-Parganas 696. But Calcutta also logged 575 recoveries while North 24-Parganas reported 575. “It can be safely said now that a turnaround is discernible in these two high-incidence districts. In two weeks, the total active cases in Calcutta fell from 7,041 to 5,890. In the same period, total active cases of North 24-Parganas rose only (marginally) to 5,796 from 5,774,” the minister said. The share of total active cases in the two districts fell in two weeks from 48.58 per cent to 41.63 per cent. The recovery rate of these two districts put together went up from 70.58 per cent to 79.4 in that time. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 77.78 per cent — an improvement by over 7.5 in two weeks — while the national rate is 75.1. With the new high in testing, total tests went past 15.61 lakh, at 17,348 per million people. “In August, so far, we have conducted 6.68 lakh tests. We are looking to cross 10 lakh in the month,” the minister said. Because of the sharp spike in new cases, positive confirmation rate is now 8.89 per cent. It was 7.86 even at the start of the month. The state reported 36.51 per cent occupancy in the 12,035 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 87 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to 1.14 lakh, including 4,511 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri’s first woman toto driver offers Covid patients free rides||She was already a pioneer as the first woman toto driver of Siliguri. Now, amid the pandemic, she is again breaking new ground as a frontline warrior on wheels. Munmun Sarkar, 48, is transporting Covid-19 patients to hospital “free of cost.” She also delivers essentials — grocery, medicines, among others — to those infected with the novel coronavirus and in home isolation. The idea to start this initiative came to the Shaktigarh resident when she realised that Covid-19 patients were facing lot of stigma. “Most drivers refuse to carry Covid patients out of fear of catching the infection. Even ambulances charge huge amounts. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 and have tested negative also find it difficult to arrange transport to go home,” Munmun said. Till date, Munmun said she had ferried well over 100 patients or those who recovered from Covid-19. She also does not charge any fare from them. “I realised many were not in a position to pay at a time like this...amid all their expense and stress. That is why I decided not to charge fares from any passenger who is infected or has just been cured,” Munmun said. Her free-ride decision not only hit her family finances hard but also made her vulnerable to stigma and jeers, but she is unafraid. As she ferries Covid-19 patients, she has to spend an extra Rs 3,000 on sanitisation. Munmun wears a PPE kit, carries a thermal testing gun in her toto, and sanitises her vehicle twice a day. Also, before getting any passenger on board her vehicle, she gets him or her sanitised. She says the moment she started ferrying Covid patients, the number of “healthy passengers” who used to avail her services dropped. But as she charges fares only from non-Covid passengers, her earnings have also dropped to Rs 6,000 a month now from the Rs 8,000 earlier. Over and above the financial stress, Munmun has had to overcome prejudices in her neighbourhood. “People used to tease and shout at me but this did not stop me,” she said. Her husband, Ananda, 56, who is into construction business and earns around Rs 15,000 a month, has been a source of constant support, she said. “We stay in different rooms after I started ferrying Covid-19 patients as a precaution,” Munmun added. She is quick to respond to calls from Covid-19 patients in home isolation. “I understand their mental state. They’re ill and many people are scared to help them. At a time like this, if I can bring them their essentials, they get some respite,” she said. The indefatigable Munmun now has one wish. “I work with Unique Foundation, an NGO in Siliguri. I now plan to drive an ambulance soon,” she smiled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Donation box for man’s best friend||It’s a dog’s life, they say. But a restaurateur in Nadia’s Krishnagar is trying to ensure that every stray dog has his day. Restaurant owner Suman Sen has set up a donation box to collect funds for stray dogs in the area who are malnourished or diseased. Sen, who owns the eatery near Krishnagar Judge’s Court Road, said the donation box, put up on August 18, was being looked after by him and three of his like-minded friends. Collections would be sent to local dog lovers’ organisations and individual social workers and vets, among others, working towards the betterment of stray dogs. On what made him come up with the idea, Sen said that street dogs suffered from ageing and illnesses just as “our beloved pets do”. But what’s more, street dogs who have to forage for food on roads and in markets, are prone to accidents as well as malnutrition, he said. During the lockdown, when roadside eateries are shut, strays can starve without the leftovers that happen to be their mainstay. “Unfortunately, most of the strays have no one to look after them,” he said. “I have seen people walk past injured or maimed street dogs without a care. Many times, the dogs have died painful deaths from untreated skin conditions alone. It is my aim to eliminate these things to the extent possible, at least in my area,” Sen added. But he added that many residents in his home town were dog lovers too. “I can vouch for the fact that the donation box, since it was set up on August 18, has met with overwhelming response from my restaurant’s patrons,” Sen said. “Even during the pandemic, the collection box gets Rs 1,500 or more every day.” He said most people love stray dogs but don’t know how to help them or lack the time to do so. So, giving them an accessible avenue like a donation box was a good idea. “People are always willing to help if you give them an avenue to do so,” said Sen, explaining that he had come up with the initiative after discussing it with like-minded friends. “Here’s how it goes. You give us a small amount, whatever you can, whether you are a patron or not at my restaurant. We will collect the money and send the fund to organisations with the manpower and expertise to take care of stray dogs,” he said. The restaurant has created and circulated many social media posts to popularise the donation box. “We have created the posts for donors as well as for fund-seekers with credibility. We have formed a small team of customers, who are all dog lovers, and who will examine the need and hand over the required amount of money to the person or engage a dog lovers’ organisation to take care of medical needs,” said an employee of the restaurant. A member of Prayas, a dog lovers’ organisation in Krishnagar, welcomed the initiative. “It is a great effort. If people come forward to donate for street dogs, many can be saved from untimely death,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul on youth induction spree ||At least 10,000 youths purportedly joined the Trinamul Congress in 14 Bengal districts on Sunday as a grand plan of poll consultant Prashant Kishor to boost the party's organisational strength and image makeover started showing dividends. Kishor and his platform, the Indian Political Action Committee (I-Pac), launched the "Youth in Politics" initiative in order to draw interested youths, aged between 18 and 35, to the ruling party. Sources said the events in the 14 districts -- including Calcutta, Nadia, North 24-Parganas, Birbhum, Malda, Cooch Behar and East Midnapore - on Sunday were timed keeping in mind recent moves by the BJP's district units. "I-Pac has already registered 4 lakh fresh faces…. More than half have already agreed to join Trinamul,' said a source. A senior Trinamul leader said the infusion of young blood would help the party in the months before the Assembly polls in 2021. "This is the first time that such a large number of youths are joining our party en masse…. They should also be able to help us wean youth votes away from the BJP," he said. Leaders such as Mahua Moitra in Nadia, Laxmi Ratan Shukla in Howrah, Mausam Noor in Malda and Anubrata Mondal in Birbhum handled the events in the districts. Senior party leaders such as secretary-general Partha Chatterjee and general-secretary Firhad Hakim welcomed the youths with motivational speeches and encouragement, virtually. "Youths were addressed by the popular district leaders. In most cases, the district presidents addressed the first batch of the new beginners," said a Trinamul leader. Sources in I-Pac said Sunday's induction events were the first leg of the enrolment and two more phases would be held, though slightly late because of Covid-19 restrictions. "As we are in the midst of a pandemic, we couldn't enrol all of the youths who wished to join the party at once. The entire process will be conducted over a few months," said a Trinamul source. Around 500 youths in Birbhum joined Trinamul in the presence of its district unit chief Anubrata Mondal. "Most of them are new to the party. I told them about the journey of Mamata Banerjee and how she worked towards the development of Bengal," said Mondal. At Krishnagar, after overseeing a similar event, Moitra said youths joining Trinamul was a ray of hope. "Trinamul is the only party that has been fighting against division over religion. The youths joined after being fascinated by developmental work undertaken by the Trinamul government over the last past decade, and its strong stand against communalism," said Krishnagar MP Moitra. Around 1,000 college students joined Trinamul in Malda. "Youths hold the key for tomorrow, our party is definitely stressing enrolling more youths and getting them actively involved in party affairs," said a district Trinamul leader. A similar event with around 250 youths was organised in Cooch Behar as well. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Gold bars smuggled in knee caps, 2 arrested||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (Siliguri unit) arrested two inhabitants of Rajasthan from New Jalpaiguri Railway station and seized from them 12 gold bars worth around Rs 1.14 crore. Intelligence officers acted on a tip-off to nab Mangi Lal, 47 and Yogesh Soni, 25, residents of Bikaner who were travelling by the Brahmaputra Mail on Saturday. The duo, who boarded the train from Guwahati and were bound for Delhi, had concealed the gold bars in knee caps that they were wearing, sources said. Officials suspect the gold bars, weighing 2kg in all, had been smuggled through the India-Myanmar border. The delivery point of the consignment was Delhi. Caught at NJP station, the two were taken to the the DRI office. This is the third major gold haul by the DRI in Siliguri in recent times. On August 16, officials recovered 26kg of gold worth Rs 15 crore from three Maharashtra residents. In March, the DRI seized 5.83kg gold worth Rs 2.53 crore from residents of Dinhata, Cooch Behar. Englishbazar police busted a job racket and arrested two persons from Manikchak in Malda district on Saturday. Rajkumar Mondal, 35, and Saddam Hussain, 32, of Khairtala village, Manichak, allegedly duped two youths of Mothabari area of Rs 19 lakh by promising them government jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||North East||Assam’s KMSS plans to float political party||The Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), a peasant organisation espousing the cause of Assam, has joined the growing list of organisations and leading citizens that have floated or will float a regional political party to take on the ruling BJP alliance in next year’s Assembly polls in the state. On Saturday, the KMSS not only said that it will float a new political front to contest next year’s Assembly elections but also named its chief adviser Akhil Gogoi as the chief ministerial candidate. KMSS’ decision to float the party comes close on the heels of the ‘Anchalik Gana Morcha’ (AGM) floated by the group led by Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan and the one being planned jointly by the All Assam Students’ Union and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad. Senior advocate Arup Borbora also plans to float a new party. Veer Lachit Sena, another outfit which espouses the cause of Assam, also has similar plans. Like the others, KMSS, however, made it clear that they were for a united fight of secular and regional forces against communal forces. The common thread running through these proposed outfits is the avowed goal to unseat the BJP-lead alliance which they see as force working against the interest of the state. The developments also suggest that no one force can take on the ruling alliance on its own. KMSS president  Bhasco De Saikia, who made announcement of the new party here,  said the Constitution of the proposed party was ready but that they will seek the views of the people of the state on how to go about their objective of securing the rights of the people without any discrimination. The new party’s key objectives will be promoting federalism, secularism and economic self-dependence, Saikia said, adding that the KMSS will however remain apolitical The proposed party will get a name after Akhil Gogoi is freed but it will not be known as Ganamukti Sangram Samiti decided few years ago at its general conference in Sivasagar. Gogoi is in jail for over eight months following the violence triggered by the massive anti-CAA protests in December. Opposition Congress, too, is trying to cobble up an alliance of anti-BJP forces but it facing opposition from within over its move to ally with the All India United Democratic Force (AIUDF). On the other hand, the ruling BJP is confident of winning at least 100 of the 126 seats. Assam goes to the polls in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
24-08-2020||Opinion||Without parallel: Ganesh Puja live stream||Sir — It was interesting to read that a club in Salt Lake live-streamed the Ganesh Puja rituals by fixing a giant-screen on a stage in the area. Many Durga Puja organizers are likely to follow the same path this year given the pandemic. Although with the easy availability of advanced technology, darshan and even offering anjali — which are part and parcel of the lives of most Bengalis — are now possible from the comfort of one’s home, e-darshan or e-anjali could never give the same amount of happiness and satisfaction. Seeing a protima with one’s own eyes and chanting the anjali with friends and strangers are irreplaceable. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Evil path Sir — The disclosure by The Wall Street Journal that Facebook is inclined to err on the side of caution when it comes to commercial success and has refrained from taking a firm stand against hate posts uploaded by internet users affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party has serious implications for our democracy. As a commercial entity, there is nothing wrong with Facebook wanting to be successful. But it cannot be guided by the unethical principle of the end justifying the means. Ankhi Das, whose job includes lobbying the Indian government on behalf of Facebook, has allegedly told the staff that “punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. This borders on collusion with the nefarious agenda of a political party to manipulate people’s trust. Das is free to have a political leaning or even close ties with the BJP’s top leaders but she cannot bring them into play when she is making business decisions. It is unacceptable for any business platform to allow posts intended to spread the poison of religious hatred. Online posts with the potential to incite hatred and violence in real-world situations must be anathema, even in the face of economic loss. Facebook cannot redeem its reputation — which is now in tatters — merely by hiding behind platitudes like freedom of expression or democratization of discourse. These ideals cannot be pursued at the cost of communal peace and harmony. Hate speeches on social media have resulted in outbreaks of communal violence. Facebook must be hauled up for relaxing its hate-speech rules when it came to Hindutva zealots and acting against the sanctity of Indian democracy and its political processes. This is not a question of Rahul Gandhi being a ‘loser’ or Narendra Modi being a ‘victor’; it is a question of preventing social media sites from exerting a baneful influence on our democracy. India’s destiny is to be decided by Indian people and not by rapacious multinational social media behemoths. The WSJ’s exposé that Facebook showed “favouritism” and provided “favourable treatment” to the BJP on election-related issues has taken some shine off the party’s electoral victories. As a first remedial step, representatives of Facebook can appear before the parliamentary standing committee on information technology as suggested by its chairperson, Shashi Tharoor. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — In a recent report, the WSJ alleged that Facebook’s executive in India has said that its “hate speech rules” do not apply to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling party who were promoting or participating in violence. Although Facebook clarified that it would not permit the use of its platform for hateful content that could instigate violence, the WSJ report laid out in detail how current and former Facebook employees in India were told that the company’s business prospects would be hurt by applying the rules to ruling party members. Significantly, the WSJ report also points out that Facebook India deleted the said hate posts after investigative enquiries made by it. This confirms that the charges raised against Facebook are not completely baseless. Facebook has become a powerful media platform where 300 million Indians are active users. They get their daily dose of news, views and entertainment on the platform. Yet, it is not subject to any regulations applicable to Indian newspapers. Allegations of misuse of the platform by the Russians in the last presidential elections of the United States of America, privacy violations and clear links between social media misinformation and hate crimes forced the company to change its business policy in the West. In India, social media videos and viral fake news have triggered communal riots and lynchings frequently. Another menace is WhatsApp, also owned by Facebook; it reportedly helped miscreants coordinate during the violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University earlier this year. Facebook is also letting hate speech spread unchecked across Assam, where the minority community is already being harassed by issues related to the National Register of Citizens. Now the social media giant has been summoned by the parliamentary standing committee on information technology to answer questions on the alleged collusion. The committee must investigate Facebook and its claims of prohibiting hate speech irrespective of party affiliations. China and Pakistan could be using the platform to risk India’s national security. The recent ban on some Chinese apps makes this threat even more potent. The ruling party should try and clear its name at the earliest. Khokan Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
24-08-2020||Opinion||Trust test: Multilateralism in retreat||Multilateralism is in retreat. The corresponding revival of the spirit of unilateralism around the world would support such conjecture. But this withdrawal of multilateralism cannot be pinned on the lapel of an ascendant authoritarian politics. The rot, India’s external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, pointed out in a recent address, may lie within the world’s multilateral framework. The lack of seamless leadership, Mr Jaishankar deduced, is one of the fundamental causes that explain multilateralism’s failure to respond to such critical challenges as the pandemic that has brought nation-states and their economies to their knees. This paucity in the leadership criterion, Mr Jaishankar emphasized, can be attributed to a telling lacuna. The element of competitive politics within the international fraternity seems to have played a fundamental role in the erosion of the foundations of multilateralism. The key to the revival of international fraternity lies, Mr Jaishankar pointed out, in the resurrection of trust in diplomacy. It would be interesting to assess New Delhi’s diplomatic performance in its immediate neighbourhood by applying Mr Jaishankar’s trust test. There is legitimate concern that India has lost its friendly footing in a number of nations with which it shares borders. Ties with Pakistan, given the political and ideological disposition of the government that Mr Jaishankar serves, have reflected a severe shortage of mutual trust. But India’s equations with even traditional allies — Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan — no longer exhibit a degree of certitude. Kathmandu and New Delhi have been sparring on maps; the foreign secretary rushed to Dhaka recently to douse fires, presumably. There are rumblings in diplomatic quarters about the present — muscular — government’s failure to appreciate the finer nuances of diplomacy that is, arguably, causing a dip in trust. Diplomacy — Mr Jaishankar would surely agree — is the art of putting brain over brawn. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s bunglings on this front — its foreign policy is decidedly influenced by its aggressive domestic political imperatives — only reiterate the importance of trust-building. Was the minister preaching to the wrong audience?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
24-08-2020||Opinion||Great burden: Employment crisis in India||The worst effect of the pandemic on the Indian economy has been the widespread loss of jobs, substantial pay cuts, and disruptions in education and training programmes. A recent survey published by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy states that 1.89 crore salaried Indian workers have lost their jobs during the period between April and July this year. The estimate was based on a survey conducted across 1.74 lakh households. Many of these salaried workers are in the informal sector, which has been affected adversely. Micro businesses, street vendors, self-employed workers, daily wage earners, such as construction workers and household helps, have lost their incomes and jobs. Another report published jointly by the International Labour Organization and the Asian Development Bank claims that 41 lakh Indian youths in the age group of 15-24 lost their jobs during the pandemic. About two-thirds of firm apprenticeships were lost, as were three-fourths of all industry internships. According to labour market experts, the employment situation is unlikely to improve before 2022-23. Even the Reserve Bank of India has claimed that economic recovery will only start in the second half of 2021. Two things must be remembered in this context. First, there was a backlog of unemployment from 2019. Last year, there were 16 crore youths who were not in employment, education or training. While the adult unemployment rate was 3 per cent, the youth unemployment rate was 13.8 per cent. Second, this drag on unemployment will increase even further as 10 million young Indians finish some sort of education programme or training every year. Hence, by 2022, the absolute volume of unemployed youth is likely to be alarmingly high. The much-touted demographic dividend may become a demographic nightmare. Even when recovery starts, new jobs will not be available to youths without training or experience. Older, experienced workers will be more in demand. This unemployment will be a huge waste of the human resources that the nation possesses. The government, however, does not seem to be bothered by it. The official thinking is that everyone will acquire skills and become successful entrepreneurs as if by some magic. There is no urgency revealed in government policies to create jobs and opportunities for youths. It is perhaps no coincidence that the government has decided to remove the words, ‘human resource development’, from the ministry that looks after education and training. The phenomenon of wasted lives can become toxic if the political system usurps their energy and transforms them into foot soldiers of political parties out to consolidate power and enhance their ability to silence dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
24-08-2020||Opinion||No real change with Israel-UAE diplomatic ties||The ‘two-state solution’ is still dead. The deal to open diplomatic ties between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, announced by Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, in Jerusalem recently opens no new vistas for a ‘just peace’ between the Israelis and the Arabs. It just repackages the existing reality. There wasn’t any possibility of an independent Palestinian state in the Israel-occupied territories two weeks ago; there still isn’t now. There was only a very small chance that Netanyahu would annex the occupied territories to Israel before the Israel-UAE deal was announced (although he talked about it a lot), and there’s even less chance of it now. No real change on the international front either. Israel and the Arab countries are already at peace, with the partial exceptions of Syria and Lebanon, although few people in the region would call it a ‘just peace’. And the UAE has already been doing business quietly with Israel on everything from trade to defence planning (against Iran) for years. Egypt and Jordan have had formal diplomatic relations with Israel for decades, and the other Gulf states will soon follow the UAE’s example, perhaps with Saudi Arabia bringing up the rear. The Palestinians, mostly living under Israeli occupation, understandably complain that they are being abandoned by their Arab brothers, but that really happened long ago. So what has actually changed now? Very little, although Donald Trump naturally tweeted that it was a “HUGE breakthrough” and his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, promised that the deal would bring “massive change” and “make the Middle East safer”. Rubbish. The last Arab-Israeli war was 47 years ago, and it’s been decades since either side even had serious plans for one. The only plausible risk of a major cross-border in the Middle East these days is between Iran on one side and the Arab Gulf states (with or without Israel) on the other. That’s not really a big risk either, but the Arab Gulf states in particular worry aloud about it, and to some extent they have convinced themselves that it truly is a threat. They hope that they would have Israel’s support in such a war. Netanyahu’s government hates and says it fears Iran, so it probably would help the Arabs in the end. However, it would be a much more convincing deterrent for Iran if these putative Arab and Israeli allies were actually seen together in public occasionally. That’s the main reason for the Gulf states to go beyond the furtive relationship they have hitherto had with Israel. Netanyahu insists that annexation is only postponed, assuring Israelis that it is still “on the table”. Donald Trump says, “they agreed not to do it. This is a very smart concession by Israel. It is off the table now”. ‘Long-term’ for both of them is reckoned in months, so they have no idea how irrelevant all this diplomatic fine-tuning will seem in retrospect. The old Middle East is living through its final years. Across the Arab world every power relationship has been defined by oil wealth for the past two generations, and now the wealth is fading fast. Eight years ago the Arab oil-producing states were making a trillion dollars a year from their exports. Today their oil revenue is down by two-thirds ($300 billion), and it will fall further. The coronavirus has accelerated this decline, but demand and prices have both been trending down for quite a while, and the growing unpopularity of fossil fuels in a rapidly warming world guarantees there will be no reversal of the trend. Saudi Arabia and the UAE still have large reserves of cash, but some of the smaller oil-states are running out of money right now. Economic devastation will be followed by political collapse: even the map of the Middle East may look quite different in 10 or 20 years’ time. And who will emerge from the wreckage as the sole big powers of the Middle East? Only the two countries with fully modern and diversified economies and little dependence on oil revenues: Israel and Turkey. Funny how things turn out, isn’t it?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
24-08-2020||Opinion||An unfair edge||If you want to bring powerful private players to heel, you cannot afford to be a soft State. That is as true of tackling the media and the digital economy as it is of  banking and industry. The antitrust hearings, which played out in the US legislature last month, saw Congressmen and Senators grill the top executives of Amazon, Alphabet (which owns Google), Facebook and Apple with a degree of sharpness made possible by fairly massive preparatory research. Their system facilitates it. The virtual hearing on July 29 was the culmination of a year-long process after the relevant subcommittee of the US Congress issued “sweeping bipartisan requests for information” to the four firms, to quote its chairman. They examined millions of pages of evidence from the companies as well as more than a hundred market participants, conducted hundreds of hours of interviews, obtained damaging email evidence, held five prior hearings and numerous briefings with experts and stakeholders. Over the six hours of hearings for which the Big Four appeared online, you heard the legislators spell out the numbers regarding the market dominance of each and make a case for curtailing “business practices and decisions [that] have an outsized effect on our economy and our democracy.” The chairman asked, “So, why does this matter? Many of the practices used by these companies have harmful economic effects. They discourage entrepreneurship, destroy jobs, hike costs, and degrade quality.” To that list, the Conservatives added the charge that they seek to impact elections. Much evidence was cited of buying up or blocking potential competition, mining user data, acquiring makers of tools which destroy user anonymity and so on. A report on this hearing due this month is expected to recommend major changes in antitrust legislation to give regulators more powers to deal with the sharp practices of these firms. Anti-competitive behaviour is anathema there, but not here. So when the going gets tough in other parts of the world, head for India. The prime minister will meet you and post the picture on his Facebook page and on Twitter. If you invest in the country’s biggest conglomerate, the regulators (going by their past record) will be a soft touch, and the world’s second biggest internet market could be yours to conquer, particularly at a time when Chinese technology is in bad odour. In April and in July this year, Facebook Inc and Alphabet-Google invested $5.7 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, in Jio platforms. Overall, Reliance has sold stake worth over $20 billion in its technology venture that will now enable it to establish dominance across sectors, including telecom, internet, broadcasting, and online and offline retail. Some sort of regulatory clearance is needed for these investments, but the confident announcements do not suggest that any hitches are expected on that front. Around the same time, Reliance has acquired the digital cable television and broadband internet service providers, DEN and Hathway, and merged them with Network18 and TV18. Announcing the merger in July, the chairman, Mukesh Ambani, said it would make the Network18 group the largest listed media and distribution company in the country, subject to regulatory approvals. The process started in early 2012 when RIL bought debentures in Network18’s promoter group companies. In 2014, it took complete control of Network18. Put together the market share of Jio, Network18 and Google and Facebook in India and you have what could potentially be an antitrust regulator’s nightmare. But then effective broadcast regulation has never been a strong point of India’s media and communications ecosystem. The industry does not want it. The CEO of Alphabet and Google, Sundar Pichai, fighting a battle in Australia where lawmakers want to make the internet search behemoth compensate content providers, and facing antitrust charges in the European Union, also announced in July a $10-billion investment in India over the next five to seven years. This, apparently, is the first country-specific fund of its kind. That sweetener made for bigger headlines than an ongoing investigation into Google’s alleged monopolistic practices here. Earlier this year, the Competition Commission of India began investigating whether Google is abusing its market position to unfairly promote its own mobile payments app in this country by showcasing Google Pay more prominently inside its app store on android phones in India. Google already dominates search, video, maps and email here. How much will come of such scrutiny is hard to say. The CCI, after all, is the same regulator that ruled in 2017 that Jio’s initial launch offer of free internet access did not amount to predatory pricing. (The Reliance foray into 4G mobile internet in 2016 was free for six months and raked up for the new network 100 million subscribers in 170 days.) Legislators here could step in if the regulator does not prevent moves towards establishing market dominance. But their attention is currently focused on the political issues concerning Facebook. The Wall Street Journal reported that the company’s public policy head in India had told her staff not to apply hate speech rules to individuals linked to the ruling party despite them being flagged for promoting or participating in violence. She apparently said that it would affect Facebook’s business prospects in India. That story was seized upon by the Congress’s Shashi Tharoor who heads the information technology parliamentary committee. He has summoned Facebook executives to face a parliamentary probe. But the response of the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party has been so aggressive that now there is a demand to have Tharoor dropped as the head of the IT panel. No bipartisan will is in evidence here. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder-CEO, and Narendra Modi have courted each other since the latter became prime minister. Facebook’s acquisition of WhatsApp in 2014 quickly became a handy political tool for the BJP in fighting the subsequent election battles. Ironically the same acquisition, of WhatsApp, has been flagged during the US antitrust hearings as an instance of Facebook acquiring a potential competitor to increase its own footprint. This is why India is, in comparison, a friendly market for Facebook. Meanwhile, after using the Jio stake sale to become debt free, Reliance is preparing to invest in acquisitions and services that will help Jio Mart take on Amazon’s aggressive drive for market share in India. The US subcommittee hearing observed in its opening remarks that while Covid-19 had adversely impacted many small businesses in the United States of America, it had helped to further enrich the four internet giants with the economy moving online. The same could be said of India’s richest conglomerate and its owner. With Google and Facebook riding piggyback on Jio, his businesses will now encompass all the sectors ruled by those giants: media, retail and now, in collaboration with Google, an entry into the smartphone manufacturing segment. But neither the political nor regulatory class here seems determined to tackle such market dominance. That’s what you call a crony State. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||PLFI extremists attack Piparwar weighbridge with low-intensity explosive||Peoples' Liberation Front of India (PLFI) extremists bombed a weighbridge office in Piparwar, Chatra on Sunday night. The incident resulted in the destruction of furniture and computer equipment. The extremists left a pamphlet, claiming responsibility for the bombing. It also warned local coal traders to start work in Piparwar before talking to the PLFI, threatening dire consequences if they fail to do so. Police officials said two CISF jawans were on duty at this weighhouse and were taken at gunpoint around 10 PM. The low-intensity bomb used was locally made, and the pamphlet was signed off by Krishna Yadav a.k.a Sultan, a PLFI zonal commander. Officials said the weigh bridge was shut for the past  month and was scheduled to open from Tuesday. An eyewitness said extremists reached the spot and left in a hurry after throwing the bomb. The incident has caused panic and fear among local traders. Tandwa sub divisional officer Ashutosh Kumar Satyam and CISF officials visited the site and spoke with eyewitnesses. He assured people proper security and said raids were on to nab the extremists.. Superintendent of police, Rishabh Kumar Jha, confirmed the incident and said the attack did not result in any major loss. He said the weighbridge number-5 near Ashoka colliery project workshop was partially damaged in the incident. “It was cleared after investigation that extremists use a cracker and not a bomb,” he said. Piparwar is known for underground and opencast coal mines, operated by Central Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India, producing more than 30 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel planning to take over Kantilal memorial hospital||Tata Steel is exploring possibilities of taking over Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital, hitherto managed by Medica, and operating it as a Covid hospital in the wake of the rapid spread of the coronavirus in Jamshedpur and its surroundings. "Calcutta-based Medica hospital management has wound up operations in Jamshedpur and now Tata Steel is planning to take over the hospital in South Park, Bistupur,” said a senior official of Tata Steel's corporate communications. He said the nitty-gritty over setting up a Covid hospital in consultation with Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Trust is on. The official said it would most likely be turned into a 100-bed facility for treatment of Covid patients. Tata Main Hospital general manager Rajan Chaudhury had hinted at a recent media briefing that the company was interested in taking over the hospital after Medica decided to give it up. With Outer Circle Road on one side and Kharkai Link Road on the other, Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital had been set up in 2014, offering treatment by teams of specialists in various disciplines. Though the heal hub had gained popularity within a short time, its occupancy was hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. Finally, the hospital stopped operations from August 13. Medica spokesperson Anand Srivastava said even though they had decided to stop operating the hospital from September 13, they had to wind up on August 13. “Our nursing staff and those from the hospital administration have been accommodated at other Medica facilities in Calcutta and Ranchi," he said. A canteen that was set up when Medica took over operations at the hospital has, however, not been wound up. "I did not wind up the canteen as I was sure that after Medica's exit, Tata Steel would come into the picture. Once the hospital gets a Tata tag, our canteen will flourish again,” said the canteen operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Village in hockey cradle to get lit up on National Sports Day||On National Sports Day on August 29, the people of Karangagudi village in Jharkhand’s hockey cradle of Simdega district will be bestowed with a gift that will light up their lives. Literally. The non-descript hamlet, around 40km from Simdega district headquarters, will get electricity for the first time in over 100-odd houses. Work is continuing on a war footing, officials said on Monday. JBVNL executive engineer in Simdega Vishveshwar Marandi said they have begun installing cement poles for cables to connect the houses with the nearby feeder. “If all goes well and rains don’t interrupt our work, we should be ready to bring power by August 29,” he said, adding that the work began on Sunday after a meeting was held two days earlier under the chairmanship of Simdega Deputy commissioner C Sushant Gaurav. Simdega is considered to be Jharkhand’s hockey nursery. Yet, it is bereft of all- round development. Manoj Konbegi, general secretary of Simdega Hockey, affiliated to Jharkhand Hockey, the state outfit that governments the game, said Karangagudi village was special. It is home to five international hockey players and at least 50 national or state level players. “Ironically, people in this village still continue to live without electricity. Villages a few kilometres away have electricity but several tolas of Karangudi aren’t connected. We have been raising this issue before the government for a long time. Finally, the district administration has started work,” he said. Sangita Kumari (19), an international hockey player who is currently taking part in the India camp, said the biggest problem of being without power was that children find it difficult to study. “Electricity is a necessity today. But many living in my village have never seen it. Some used solar power though. But a regular power connection was needed for studying,” she said. Sushma Kumar, another player, added, she was happy to learn that they would have power soon. “While roads reached this village a couple of years back, I am happy that soon our homes will also get power like the other hamlets,” she said. is expected to unlock a special gift to Karangagudi village in Jharkhand’s Simdega district, which is home to over five dozen national and international hockey players. For, this nondescript hamlet located around 40km from district headquarters will get electricity for the first time in over 100-odd houses as ground works in this regard have begun on war-footing, officials said on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Another four days of heavy rain forecast across Jharkhand||Heavy showers are expected across Jharkhand for the next four days due to the formation of a low-pressure area over the north Bay of Bengal coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation. On Monday, both the IMD's Ranchi and Patna Meteorolgogical Centres forecast heavy rain for next four days and warned of thunderstorms and lightning over isolated pockets of the state in the next 48 hours. Several districts in southern, western and north-eastern are vulnerable to lightning strikes. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said the southwest monsoon has been active over Jharkhand for the past 24 hours resulting in a good spell of rain in places like Jamshedpur, Palamau, Latehar and Ramgarh. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded over 70mm rain during the past 24 hours while several places in the Palamau region recorded over 50 mm. Officials at the Doppler radar section at Patna Met Centre said this was the third low-pressure area to originate from Bay of Bengal this month. It is at a height of 7.6km above sea level and expected to trigger heavy rainfall. "The monsoon trough was passing through Ranchi and this resulted in a good spell of rain in the past 24-hours. The low-pressure which has formed over Bay of Bengal will gain in strength during the next two days resulting in heavy showers over Jharkhand," said a weather analyst at Patna. Monday’s Met data showed actual rainfall of 694.7mm against a cumulative seasonal average of 762.2mm, a deficit of 9 per cent. Weathermen at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said the low-pressure might precipitate into a depression, but whether it does will be clear only after 48 hours. "The rain during the next four days will help in reducing the deficit," said the duty officer. Met data suggests that so far, Palamau tops the list of surplus rain with 30 per cent. Dumka, East Singhbhum, Latehar, Koderma, Ramgarh and Lohardaga also finds place in the surplus rain list. Gumla with 50 per cent tops the list of deprived districts. The remaining 17 districts, including Ranchi, also figures in the deficit list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Local residents protest against risky Jharia-Dhanbad road||Local residents of Jharia are up in arms against the dangerous condition of the accident-prone Jharia-Dhanbad road. Councillor of Ward Number 36 of Jharia, Niranaj Prasad, said, “Every day, one or two persons, particularly motorcycle riders, are falling into large potholes which become more dangerous during monsoon,” said Niranjan Prasad, Ward No.36 Councillor, adding that they will be compelled to sit on a dharna and if the situation does not improve soon. “The situation turns more difficult near the Ena Islampur area near our ward during the night and particularly during power cuts,” charged Prasad. “We have written to the authorities, including Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar but to no avail. The situation is worse at the Ena Islampur area, which is totally covered with potholes logged with rainwater, causing confusion among vehicle owners and particularly motorcycle riders,” he said, adding that erroneous planning and unscrupulous execution were responsible for the current condition of the area. The stretch near Ena Islampur, part of the 25.71km Bank More Sindri Road started developing potholes less than six months after the completion of broadening and strengthening work carried out in 2017. “There is an underlying water supply pipeline of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) beneath the road, which had not been properly shifted before the work carried out by the road construction department via contractor Balkrishna Bhalotia in 2015-16,” said Prasad. “Thus, due to leakages in the pipeline the road often gets damaged” he said, and added that the construction of a divider is also erroneous as it does not allow the water to recede from the road and creates water logging. “Ideally there should also have been the provision of drains besides the road to allow the water to pass instead of getting accumulated on the road,” said Prasad. Heavy blasting carried out in adjoining collieries near the road also leads to development of leakages in the pipeline, he said. “We are working on a comprehensive proposal of around 80 crore for the strengthening of road from Bank More to Bengal Border or the 40km stretch which is part of National Highway 218. But before the proposal gets sanctioned we will carry out a temporary repair prior to Durga Puja as soon as the monsoon ends,” said executive engineer of National Highway, Amarendra Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Two nurses make a big difference in Covid Care Centre in Palamau||Two nurses working at the Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the Palamau Medical College and Hospital in Daltonganj are making the place ‘friendly’ and inviting the respect of inmates. Renulata Kujur and Magdelina Kujur come from ordinary families, says civil surgeon John F Kennedy, and are always ready to treat Covid patients there. “These two go to the beds of patients and enquire about their health and give advice for medicines and food,” said the civil surgeon. “Their professional bonding with patients in the CCC helps them to recover fast,” he said. Kennedy said a large number of police officers are being admitted to the CCC after testing Covid positive. “However, a cop is a cop no matter where they are, and their body language is always tough and terse,” he said. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kennedy said that a majority of healthcare staff at the risk of being infected try to keep themselves at bay from patients as far as possible, adding that most of their work is done from the doorstep. “Renulata and Magdelina’s faces are quite popular among Covid positive patients here,” he said. Renulata was felicitated on Independence Day. “We all stand by our staff here as they are the ones who run the CCC,” said Kennedy. He said that an official of the HDFC bank was undergoing treatment at the facility. “When he was released after testing negative twice, he was overwhelmed by the behaviour, duty and food at this CCC,” he said. VS Murari, chief manager of the PNB branch here in Daltonganj, who had had his bout of home isolation after testing positive for Covid, said, “I ask everyone doing home isolation to adhere to protocols and not digress.” Murari sharing his experiences of his home isolation with this correspondent, said, “I told myself every day I am the winner. Timely food, good rest and lots of homemade syrups can easily boost anyone’s immunity.” There are 12 Covid Care Centres in the Palamau district. Kennedy said there are 435 beds for Covid positive patients, and that until August 23, 33,691 tests have been carried out. The rate of active cases a day here in Palamau on an average is between 400 to 450 patients and on some days, it sees a big slump as well. There have been four Covid casualties in Palamau so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||8 cops, including ASI, suspended for liquor fiasco in Covid hospital||Dhanbad district administration has suspended eight policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector, while the management of the Covid hospital served showcause notices to a doctor, two nurses and a ward boy after it was revealed that a prisoner consumed liquor inside the healthcare unit. The suspension orders and the notices were issued late on Sunday night after a team of officials led by Dhanbad SDO Raj Maheshwaram visited the Dedicated Covid Hospital within the Central Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar and ordered a probe into the circumstances under which the prisoner was supposedly drink liquor inside the hospital. Photographs of the prisoner, drinking from what looked like a liquor bottle, went viral on social media on Saturday night leading to an outcry. It was also tagged to the chief minister, who asked the local deputy commissioner to initiate an inquiry. An FIR has also been lodged at Katras police station against the prisoner for drinking in the hospital, and his friend for circulating the photographs. Among the suspended policemen are ASI Surendra Oraon, constable Bhagi Oraon and chowkidar Bhim Karmakar of Katras police station. Others facing the axe are those who were responsible for security at the dedicated Covid hospital, namely, havildar Om Prakash Mishra, constables Kuldip Oraon, Gulab Chaudhary, Bhola Oraon and Dukhraj Oraon. Going by the report of SDO Maheshwaram, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh asked SSP Akhilesh B. Verior to take strict disciplinary action against the named policemen particularly for having failed to recover the liquor bottle from the hospital. Singh also asked officials of Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) that manages the Covid hospital to take disciplinary action against the duty doctors and nurses, including Sanjay Mishra and sisters Kiran Kumari and Sarda Kumari, besides ward boy Shankar. But Katras police station ASI Surendra Oraon said it was unfair to blame police for the incident. “The police team of Katras, after arresting the criminal, got him tested for Covid and handed him over to the authorities at the Covid hospital. Hence, the police cannot be held responsible for the conduct of the prisoner, who drank liquor in the hospital,” Oraon said. Maheshwaram explained the prisoner was subjected to a rapid antigen test for Covid as per norms on Saturday. Once he tested positive, he was sent to the dedicated Covid hospital. He, however, tested negative for Covid after an RTPCR confirmatory test was conducted on Sunday. The prisoner, a resident of Shiv Muhalla locality of Katras, was questioned by the SDO and Baghmara DSP Nitin Khandelwal in the presence of the nodal officer of the Covid Hospital Dr Vishwakarma. “During questioning, the prisoner said he requested a constable to loosen his handcuffs as he wanted to take a bath. That is how the handcuffs came off,” said Dr Vishwakarma. Asked how he could organise liquor in the hospital, the SDO said he had asked Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) officials who run the hospital to better administer the premises. “We have asked them to note details of all those coming to the hospital to meet patients,” the SDO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid patients being given anti-anxiety pills to aid sleep, stabilise heart rate||Doctors at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi are relying on anti-anxiety pills to treat stress-induced sleeplessness and panic in some Covid-19 patients under their charge. The pills, generally prescribed to people suffering from anxiety disorders, depression and insomnia, are only administered to those patients who were overwhelmed by the fear of death after testing positive for the SARS-COV-2 virus, doctors said. “We have some patients who are facing psychological issues induced by the fear of not being able to survive the infection. Most of them have not shown any symptoms of the virus, but are suffering from sleeplessness and panic attacks,” said the coordinator of Covid-19 task force at RIMS, Dr. Prabhat Kumar, on Monday. However, the administration of anti-anxiety drugs such as benzodiazepine and alprazolam was not only aimed at providing relief to patients from stress, but also to ensure that their heart rate does not shoot up due to anxiety, doctors said. The viral infection, they added, affected the functioning of lungs, and an anxiety-induced elevation in heart rate of a patient may cause further complications or even death. “We are administering anti-anxiety pills to about 2 to 3 per cent of patients in our ward every day. There were some patients who needed the pills initially, but they were stable even without medications later,” said Dr. Kumar. Another hypothesis that supports the administration of psychotropic drugs to some Covid patients was the relation between cortisol level and its effect on the immune system of a person. Cortisol is stress hormone, which shoots up when a person is scared, anxious or in stress. Since a person’s immune system plays the most important role in recovering from the viral infection, doctors say that keeping cortisol level low was essential in effective treatment. While cases of anxiety, depression and mood disorders have increased among healthy individuals across the country during the pandemic, the psychological symptoms are aggravated when a person suffering from some or the other mental disorder gets infected by Covid-19 virus, say psychiatrists. “Mood disorders were common in kin of Covid patients, so we can imagine the extent to which it affects the patient,” said Dr Siddharth Sinha, senior resident at Ranchi Institute of Neuropsychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS). As per government records, the Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 30,000 mark this week and the tally in Ranchi alone was above 5,000. The increase in the number of cases has also triggered an increase in mental health issues, say doctors, adding that the best way to deal with the infection was to have a methodical approach and not panic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
24-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Nearly 1000 cases take tally above 30,000||Nearly 1000 fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the tally in the tribal state above 30,000, data released by the health department stated. As per government figures, Ranchi and East Singhbhum, the two worst-affected districts in the state, accounted for more than 40 per cent of the cases reported on Sunday. At least 257 cases of Covid infection took the tally in Ranchi to 5680, while 146 fresh cases took the tally in East Singhbhum to 5088, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday late evening. As per figures with the health department, both these districts have more than 2000 active cases of SARS-COV-2 infection. The notorious virus has not even spared VIPs and ministers in Jharkhand. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh has become the third member of the Cabinet in Jharkhand to get infected by Covid-19. Patralekh was found infected on Saturday. State health minister Banna Gupta was found infected last week, while state drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur tested positive for the virus in July. At least four Jharkhand MLAs, including former minister CP Singh and AJSU Party chief, have also been infected by the virus so far. East Singhbhum on Sunday reported five of the seven Covid deaths in Jharkhand, which took the toll in the district alone to 134. As per government data, as many as 318 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and nearly 40 per cent of the victims were from East Singhbhum – a district that boasts Steel City Jamshedpur and several industrial areas. 754 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Sunday, taking the state’s Covid recovery rate to 66.72 per cent, data released by the health department highlighted. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate had dropped below 35 per cent in July. However, it improved in the month of August and officials attributed the change in figures to better treatment. The national Covid recovery rate was 74.80 per cent by the time this report was filed. Out of the 30,178 people who have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, at least 20,136 have recovered, states government data. There were 9724 active cases of infection in Jharkhand at the time of filing of this report. The government has so far collected 5.7 lakh swab samples and tested 5.6 lakh of them. On Sunday, 11,368 samples were tested and 967 of them came positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-324
