25-08-2020||Calcutta||Video: IIT Kharagpur official implies forceful hostel eviction||A video has emerged that purportedly shows an official of IIT Kharagpur, accompanied by several guards, telling students at a hostel to leave the campus immediately, failing which their belongings would be taken away. The students at the Madan Mohan Malviya Hall of Residence could be heard pleading for some more time, saying they could not return home because of lack of transport options in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. The dean of students’ affairs at the IIT, Somesh Kumar, denied that the authorities were trying to evict students from the hostel. Those in charge of Madan Mohan Malviya Hall, he said, were only trying to persuade the students to return home because three students have tested positive for Covid-19 on the campus since last Wednesday. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. In the video clip, students could be heard saying that they could not leave because of lack of transport options. “We cannot leave. You lock us in from outside. We cannot step out,” a student was heard telling the official, who was accompanied by a number of guards. At this point, the official told the students: “Aapko nikalna padega. Dekhiye abhi bahaut aadmi aayega, aap logo ka samaan le jayega (You have to leave. See, a group of men will now come and take away your belongings).” When the official sought to know when the students would leave the campus, they pleaded helplessness. “We don’t know when we will be able to leave…. Trains are not going to our home (states),” one of the students said. “How will we go?” another asked. The official then asked if 10,000 students of the institute could go home, why couldn’t the 300-odd? The students countered him by saying the institute had prevented them from leaving. The official then told the students: “Go to the dean and tell him that ‘the warden has thrown us out’.” Dean Kumar said it was no longer safe for the students to stay on the campus. “We are going to each hall of residence to make them understand. There is no question of forceful eviction. While the warden was speaking to the students, there could be some exchange of words,” he told The Telegraph. How can the students leave in the absence of transport? “There are several travel agencies on the campus. They should speak to them,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Rains trigger severe traffic congestion in central Calcutta||Tens of thousands of vehicles were stranded in central Calcutta on Monday — the picture reminiscent of the days before the lockdown when commuting in the heart of the city was often a nightmare. A Lake Gardens resident started for Esplanade, about 9km away, from her home around 5.10pm. She reached her destination at 6.55pm. It takes about 30 minutes otherwise to cover the distance during the lockdown. Police blamed a 300m waterlogged stretch at the crossing of Central Avenue and MG Road for the traffic snarl 5km away. Ranjan Sarkar who had boarded a bus for Park Street from Minto Park around 5.30pm said he was stuck in the bus for more than 45minutes to cover the distance that he usually does in 15 minutes. Traffic police officers said waterlogging at the crossing of MG Road and Central Avenue was responsible for the snarl. “Once there is waterlogging on roads, vehicles tend to avoid that stretch and start moving in a single file… and their speed automatically drops. Waterlogged footpaths mean pedestrians, too, walk on the roads,” a traffic police officer said. A bus that broke down near Howrah bridge apparently hit traffic on MG Road and the ripple effect was felt on Central Avenue as well, another officer said. Traffic moving on one flank made matters worse for commuters. The north-bound flank was waterlogged; so, the south-bound traffic was not affected that much, the police said. A person who was waiting for a bus at the KC Das crossing said vehicles approaching from the side of the Park Street flyover were moving “very slowly”. “There was no waterlogging in sight. But all vehicles were moving at a very slow pace. As far as I could see, there were vehicles lined up all over this flank of Central Avenue,” he said. A professional who was headed home said he had to wait for 40 minutes at Esplanade before he could get a Barrackpore-bound bus. Tarak Singh, a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, in charge of drainage, said the area had received more than 40mm rain in an hour and the place was prone to waterlogging. “But we have done our best to clear it. All the water was drained out by 7.30pm,” Singh said. The number of vehicles on the roads has gone down in the past few months because of the lockdown. Several police officers posted on Central Avenue, Park Street and in the Park Circus area said the volume of traffic on Monday was greater than other days during the pandemic. “It (increased traffic) could be because it was the first weekday after four days of consecutive holidays last week (two days of complete lockdown before the weekend),” a traffic police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||CM flags bad roads, calls for repairs||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday raised the matter of battered roads in the city and neighbouring areas during an administrative review meeting in Nabanna. She said she had found the top coat of a road missing while on her way to Nabanna a few days ago. She spoke of a road in Howrah’s Kona that was repaired only after she travelled on the road and messaged the municipal authorities regarding its poor state. “A few days ago I found the top layer of a road I took totally worn off. The Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC) is its custodian. I found a road in Kona in poor condition. The municipality repaired the road only after they were told,” she said. Battered roads have been greeting people across the city for many days. The Telegraph had on August 12 reported about the poor condition of some of Calcutta’s roads. Engineers of several state government agencies had blamed the absence of repairs ahead of the monsoon during the pandemic for the condition of the roads. Every year, roads in the city are repaired twice — before the monsoon and before Durga Puja. This year, the repairs ahead of the monsoon could not be carried out in most places because of the lockdown. April and May are the crucial period for repairs, according to engineers from the PWD, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority. “I had to take the Park Circus-Parama Island connector on Monday as cops were not allowing motorists to take the Parama flyover from the Park Circus seven-point crossing,” a state government employee said. He was headed home to New Garia on his two-wheeler from his office in Esplanade. “The ride through the connector was a nightmare. The road was flooded and there were multiple deep craters… it was difficult to ride my two-wheeler on the road. I could have fallen but fortunately that did not happen.” Long stretches on the Bypass, especially the ones near the Ruby and Avishikta crossings, are dotted with large craters. Motorists and two-wheeler riders have a hard time negotiating craters on the road. Mamata asked government officials on Monday to pass on the message of the need to repair roads in poor condition. “Keep your eyes open when you are travelling. It maybe that your department doesn’t maintain the road but you can pass on the message to the department concerned for repairs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Woman molested by Uber driver over AC||A woman has alleged that an app cab driver molested her on Sunday night when she asked him to switch on the car’s AC after finding it difficult to breathe. The driver was arrested based on a complaint she lodged with Garfa police station. The driver, Raj Shaw, 23, has been booked for outraging a woman’s modesty and criminal intimidation. A court on Monday remanded him in judicial custody for two days. The police said the driver has claimed that he works for Uber. The woman in her mid-30s was returning home to Selimpur with her husband from her parent’s home in Behala on Sunday night when the alleged offence took place, police said. A Uber spokesperson told Metro on Monday night: “This is a regrettable incident. Safety of all our riders and driver-partners is paramount. We are investigating the matter and stand ready to assist the law enforcement authorities in any way possible.” The couple had booked the cab in Taratala and immediately after boarding the cab, the woman asked the driver to switch on the AC. The driver did not turn it on and after about a kilometre, the couple asked the driver why he hadn’t switched on the AC, the police said. The driver apparently refused to switch on the AC. The woman insisted on the AC because she suffers from asthma, she said in her complaint to the police. It was getting difficult to breathe inside the cab, she told the police. The woman said an argument broke out between them and the driver. The driver apparently told them it was “quite cool” outside and that there was no need for the AC. As the couple insisted he switch on the AC, the driver said there was no such rule that said he had to meet a passenger’s unjust demands. When the couple said they would call on the app cab company’s helpline to find out if it was so, the driver dialled the number from his phone. “The couple said the driver was told on the phone that he had to switch on the AC if a passenger demanded so and in this case, in the mode should be ‘fresh air’,” an officer of Garfa police station said. “She alleged that the driver still refused to switch on the AC.” The driver took out his phone and kept taking their pictures in the “video mode” every time he stopped at a traffic signal, she alleged in her complaint with the police. The driver apparently stopped the car on Prince Anwar Shah Road near Jadavpur police station and slapped the woman as her husband protested. He then called some youths of the area and a few of his fellow drivers and threatened to thrash the couple. It was around 10pm and there weren’t too many people on the road. “The couple spotted a traffic sergeant on a bike. They stopped him and narrated their plight. The officer advised them to file a complaint at Garfa police station,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Residential complexes divided over Durga Puja celebrations||Residential complexes across the city are divided on how to celebrate Durga Puja amid the Covid-19 pandemic: to have idols like every year or just a ceremonial ghot. And what about cultural programmes that almost every complex organises on Puja evenings? As health authorities have advised against gatherings to prevent infection, WhatsApp has emerged as the platform of choice for residents to discuss and debate on how big or small Puja should be this year. WhatsApp groups of many residential complexes are simmering with ideas and counter-ideas on whether it would be prudent to organise just a ghot Puja (worshipping an earthen pot) and how safe it would be to go ahead with cultural programmes and community lunch. “Some residents have suggested that we only perform ghot Puja. But most are in favour of traditional idol worship. We have already placed an order for the idols,” said a resident of Upohar — the Condoville, off EM Bypass. Residents at Sanjeeva Town Bungalows and Duplex in New Town are divided on how to organise community lunch this year. Rajoshi Gupta, who lives in the complex, said a section of the residents wanted food to be served in boxes that could be taken home. Others are lobbying for food to be served outside the pandal like previous years. Some New Town complexes such as Rosedale Garden, however, have decided to do away with community lunch. In the absence of any guidelines from the administration on the Durga Puja celebrations inside housing complexes, most residents’ welfare associations Metro spoke to are still struggling to strike a balance between tradition and safety. The associations of some big housing complexes expressed helplessness, saying they were struggling their way through a multitude of opposing views to a decision acceptable to all. Recently, Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at Urbana, off the Bypass, attracted protests and criticisms from many residents. “There was a lot of hue and cry on the way Ganesh Puja was organised. Some residents wanted to celebrate, others did not. As for Durga Puja, we are still undecided on whether to organise cultural events. Most probably we will try live streaming of performances,” said a member of the residents’ welfare association of Urbana. The housing complex has already placed an order for the Puja idols, which will be worshipped in a 10,000sq ft space inside the complex. “We will have to prepare a protocol. Everyone is suggesting that we reduce the scale of celebrations,” another resident said. South City is likely to organise their Durga Puja meeting on a virtual platform on Tuesday. Sources said that although nothing had yet been decided on whether to organise cultural events, several residents have started rehearsing at home. The residents’ welfare association of Avishikta-I, on the Bypass, has declared there would be no cultural events this year. “A resident has donated the idols’ price. So, we have placed an order for the idols. Nothing else has been finalised. But there will be no cultural programme this year,” said a member of the residents’ welfare association of Avishikta-I. Sherwood Estate in Narendrapur has formed a committee for all pujas, from Ganesh Puja till next year’s Saraswati Puja. The residents’ welfare association had invited participation from residents to organise the events. “Those who wish to participate and work for the Puja preparations have volunteered. There is no compulsion,” said a resident of Sherwood Estate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Heavy rain forecast tonight, says Met||Heavy rain is on its way despite a clear sky and bright sun for most of Monday’s first half. A low-pressure area has formed over the north Bay of Bengal and the system is gaining momentum, a Met official said. Its effect is likely to be most pronounced in the city between Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, according to the forecast. “A low-pressure area has formed over the north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood on August 24. It is likely to become more marked during the next 48 hours. Under its influence, widespread rainfall is likely to occur over the districts of south Bengal between August 24 and 27,” said a Met bulletin on Monday afternoon. The system is likely to travel westwards passing over the northern fringe of Calcutta between Tuesday evening and early Wednesday. “Between Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning, at least one spell of heavy rain is due in the city,” a Met official said. The city was bracing for heavy rain on Monday as well, but the morning was dry and sunny. The sky started becoming overcast in the afternoon and showers started by evening in many parts of the city. The Met office recorded around 30mm of rain in Alipore till 8.30pm on Monday. The system is expected to travel westwards from the Bay. Bengal’s western districts are likely to get more rain from Wednesday, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||CM appeals to Modi to defer entrance tests||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to assess the “enormous health risk involved” and put on hold the national entrance examinations due in September “until the situation is conducive again”. “On the one hand, the Covid-19 pandemic is going on and the student community on the other hand is... suffering a lot of mental agony and depression…. I would therefore appeal to you to get the enormous health risk involved in such steps assessed,” Mamata wrote in her letter to Modi. She added: “The central government must not take a decision for which the students feel upset and also ensure that students are not deprived of the opportunity to take examinations. I am sure that you will appreciate the point and postpone these examinations until the situation is conducive again.” The JEE-Main exams, through which most engineering colleges admit undergraduate students, are to be held from September 1 to 6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which all medical colleges admit undergraduate students, is scheduled for September 13. Earlier in the day, Mamata tweeted her concern about holding the exams amid the pandemic. An official of the state education department said the health risk arose from the fact that the aspirants would have to turn up at centres to write the test at a time any kind of physical assembly is being discouraged as a precaution against Covid. “Although the authorities that conduct the exams have issued guidelines on the precautionary measures to be taken by the candidates and others, any assembly can pose a risk. That’s why the chief minister appealed for postponing the tests,” the official said. Covid-19 cases are on the rise in all eight cities and towns in Bengal where exam centres will be set up, an official said. The National Testing Agency — which conducts all-India entrance exams such as JEE-Mains, JEE-Advanced and NEET — has said that each candidate will be offered a three-layered mask before he or she enters the venue. Also, before entering the centre, each candidate will have to wash their hands with soap and water or clean them with sanitiser. The chief minister in her letter sought to underscore that she was appealing for postponement of the entrance tests for the same reason that prompted her to oppose the UGC’s instruction to the colleges and universities to conduct their terminal exams by the end of September. Mamata concluded her letter by saying: “It is our duty as elders to ensure a safe public environment for all our students in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Mamata worried over Covid in North 24-Parganas ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday expressed concern about the Covid-19 situation in North 24-Parganas and the “very high” positivity rate there. Mamata warned officials at a televised meeting that parts of the district were densely populated and asked them to take adequate measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. She also asked elected representatives from the district to be more vigilant. The positivity rate — percentage of tests turning out to be positive — gives a measure of the spread of a disease in the community, public health specialists said. “The positivity rate is 20.6 per cent in the district. Why is the situation in North 24-Parganas still not under control? There are some urban areas and some rural areas in the district. A lot of dengue cases are also reported from the district every year,” Mamata said during an administrative review meeting held through videoconferencing and attended by officials of a number of south Bengal districts. “Are the zilla parishad chief, the MLAs taking care of their areas? The municipalities should be careful. I will tell the urban (development and municipal affairs) department to be especially careful. This (North 24-Parganas) is a very densely populated district. There are too many people living within a small area. You have to ensure that the positivity rate goes down,” she said, addressing officials from the district. The state health department’s bulletin on Covid-19 states that 700 cases were reported from the district on Monday and 696 on Sunday. The district reported the highest number of new cases in the state on both these days. “For a few days now, North 24-Parganas is reporting more cases than Calcutta,” said a health department official. The district was reporting between 500 and 600 cases every day about a fortnight back. Officials later said densely populated pockets such as Dum Dum, Barasat, Barrackpore and the areas off VIP Road were a concern. Sources in the district’s health administration said all these places had been reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases. The chief minister went on to add that the discharge rate among Covid patients and the death rate in the district were 77.2 and 2.2 per cent, respectively. She also cited the positivity rates of some districts that were lower compared with that of North 24-Parganas. Mamata said the positivity rates in Howrah, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas were 13.7, 8.3 and 7.9 per cent, respectively. “A high positivity rate means the right people, those with symptoms, are being tested. It leads to faster isolation of infected people,” said a public health specialist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||A new life with a new heart||A 17-year-old girl from a village in East Midnapore is looking ahead to a life with a new heart. Ahsana Khatun walked without support for the first time on Monday since undergoing a heart transplant a week ago. After that almost symbolic demonstration of her will to stand on her own feet, Ahsana told Metro that she was keen to return to school at the earliest and write Madhyamik next year. She could not sit for her Class X boards this year because her heart was incapable of taking the strain. The resident of Kumarpur village in East Midnapore underwent the transplant at Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah on August 17. A week on, she walked slowly without any support, said doctors. “The first thing I want to do after recovering fully is go back to school. I could not sit for Madhyamik this year because of my illness. But I want to write the papers next year,” Ahsana said on Monday from her hospital bed. About two years back she was diagnosed with dialectic cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart’s pumping muscles keep weakening and the organ fails to pump adequate blood to the rest of the body. Doctors said Ahsana would suffer from severe respiratory distress as fluids accumulate in the lungs, along with other organs. The condition, which doctors said leads to heart failure, forced Ahsana to miss classes as she needed to be admitted to hospital often. “I had been feeling unwell for the last three years and would frequently miss school and could not play with my sisters and brothers,” said Ahsana, a Class X student of Omarpur High Madrasa. When she was in Class VI, Ahsana had developed a hearing problem that still persists. “My parents had then said I must  complete my education. Once I fully recover, I want to get back to school and study as far as I can,” said Ahsana, whose favourite read is Tagore’s poetry. Ahsana’s condition had been worsening over the past two years as her heart was steadily losing its capacity to pump blood. “She had to be admitted to hospital four times over the past three months because of heart failures. About four months back, we enlisted her for heart transplant,” said Debasis Das, the cardiac surgeon who led the transplant team that operated on Ahsana for four hours. “Every time she was admitted to hospital, we would give her some medicine and discharge her. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, we didn’t want to keep her in hospital for long.” Along with Das, cardiac surgeon Nilanjan Dutta and pediatric cardiologist Amitabha Chattopadhyay treated the patient. Ahsana said she would always leave the hospital depressed. “I would feel very depressed after reaching home from the hospital. I would be anxious about what would happen to me. Then I would sit and listen to Tagore songs,” she said. Finally, on the evening of August 16, the hospital got a call from an official of the regional organ and tissue transplant organisation of the state health department that a young man had died and his organs were donated by his family. The parameters matched Ahsana’s. “We contacted Ahsana’s father and asked him whether he could bring her to Calcutta as soon as possible. He hired a vehicle and reached the hospital with his daughter,” said Das. The heart was harvested from the donor’s body at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. “In about two to three months, Ahsana would be able to go back to near-normal life, including attending classes,” said Das. Ahsana said she was feeling much better than she had in the past three years. “I can’t wait to go back home, this time cured,” she said. Her father, Sk Hidayatullah, the imam of a mosque in East Midnapore, said he had been worried about the cost of treatment of Ahsana, the eldest of his three daughters. “I went to SSKM Hospital but could not get her treated. I was worried about how to raise money for her treatment but said yes when doctors at the private hospital asked whether I wanted my daughter to be treated there,” he said. The hospital authorities later told him that he need not pay anything and they would take care of her cost of treatment. “The total cost of her treatment was around Rs 10 lakh. Our patient support cell helped in raising funds through donors and various funding agencies. The rest of the cost was borne by the hospital,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Howrah hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
25-08-2020||Business||Kalyan Jewellers set for IPO||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
25-08-2020||Business||Finance ministry lists GST benefits||The finance ministry on Monday said the GST regime has reduced the rate at which people have to pay tax, helped increase compliance and doubled the taxpayer base to 1.24 crore. In a series of tweets on Monday, also the first death anniversary of former finance minister Arun Jaitley, the ministry said before the goods and services tax (GST) was introduced, the combination of value-added tax, excise, sales tax and their cascading effect resulted in a high standard tax rate of up to 31 per cent. “It is now widely acknowledged that GST is both consumer and taxpayer-friendly. While the high tax rates of the pre-GST era acted as a disincentive to paying tax, the lower rates under GST helped to increase tax compliance,” the ministry said. The number of assessees covered by the GST at the time of its inception was about 65 lakh. Now the assessee base exceeds 1.24 crore. GST, which subsumed 17 local levies and 13 cesses, was rolled out on July 1, 2017. Jaitley held the finance portfolio in the first term of the Modi government since 2014 and was the finance minister when GST came into force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
25-08-2020||Business||Kia to pause new products after SUV Sonet ||Kia India has decided to put on hold new products after the launch of its compact SUV Sonet next month. The company had earlier announced that it would launch one product every six months. In an interaction with The Telegraph, Kia Motors India executive director Tae-Jin Park said: “There will be no more new product offerings this fiscal. We will wait and watch how the situation develops post-Covid.” The company entered the Indian market with its premium SUV Seltos in August last year. It followed up the Seltos with a luxury MPV Carnival at the Auto Expo on February 5 this year and now it is entering the compact SUV segment with the Sonet in September. Expecting the Sonet to give it high numbers, the company is now on a wait-and-watch mode. “We want to achieve full capacity utilisation of our plant at Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh, as our long-term goal,” said Manohar Bhat, vice-president, marketing and sales, Kia Motors India. It has an annual capacity of 300,000 units. The company operated in one shift after the lockdown was lifted and followed it up with two shifts within a month. “With each shift, we can produce 100,000 vehicles per annum. If the third shift is fully operational, we will be at 100  per cent utilisation,” said Bhat. The company hopes to have its third shift operational once the Sonet is launched. At present, it has got over 9,000 bookings for the Sonet. The South Korean giant has sold 1,02,609 units cumulatively till July this year. It sold 98,979 units of the Seltos and 3,630 units of the MPV Carnival. The company is looking at a “good growth” this year since it entered the Indian market in September last year. “We will definitely post a good growth. But right now we cannot put a figure to it,” said Bhat. Kia is also planning to export 50,000 units of Sonet annually. “We will be exporting to countries like Indonesia, South Africa and other markets,” said Park. It exports Seltos to 40 countries including Africa and South America. Total cumulative export of Seltos stood at 29261 units till the end of July 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
25-08-2020||Business||India's exports  to China jump 78%||China and other South-East Asian economies have become the main export destination for Indian goods with shipments to Beijing expanding 78 per cent year-on-year in June. Trade data showed that shipments to traditional export markets such as the US, the UK and Brazil declined as restrictions because of Covid-19 and the attempt to contain the pandemic affected trade. “India’s exports growth in a pandemic-dominated world appears to be inversely related to the rise in Covid-19 cases in its export destinations,” rating agency Crisil said, adding that this explains the reasons for growth in exports to countries such as China, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, South Korea and Japan and contraction in exports to the UAE, the UK, Germany, the US, and Brazil. India’s exports to China grew 78 per cent in June, while that to Malaysia rose 76 per cent, Vietnam by 43 per cent and Singapore by 37 per cent. “Most of these economies had flattened the Covid-19 curve in this period,” Crisil said. India’s exports have shown a massive improvement sequentially, as the yearly contraction narrowed to -10.2 per cent in July from a severe -60.2 per cent in April, it said. In contrast, exports to western economies such as the US, Brazil, the UK, and Germany declined as they are struggling with higher Covid-19 caseloads, the report adds. While India’s exports to the UK contracted 34 per cent in June, those for Germany declined 18 per cent and for the US by 11 per cent. The sharpest fall in exports was to the UAE, at 53.2 per cent. “Export prospects for this fiscal will pivot on the trajectory of the pandemic across countries. It will rise to countries that have controlled their caseload and restarted activity,” the report states. India’s exports have declined sharply since March 2020, but have recovered in June and July, contracting by only around 10-12 per cent in these two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||Axis prunes Max Life stake purchase||Axis Bank on Monday said it will acquire a 17 per cent stake in Max Life Insurance instead of the 29 per cent proposed earlier, according to a revised deal. At present, Axis Bank holds about a 1 per cent stake in Max Life and is the biggest banking channel partner for the distribution of the insurer’s products. Products sold through the bank reportedly account for 54 per cent of Max Life’s revenues. According to the definitive agreement signed between Axis Bank and Max Financial Services (MFS), the holding company of Max Life, the private sector bank was to pick up an additional 29 per cent stake in the life insurer. “In this regard, we would like to inform you that following the recent developments, Axis Bank now proposes to acquire 17.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, resulting in a total ownership of 18 per cent post the transaction. The parties have executed the definitive agreements,” the bank said in a regulatory filing Axis Bank and Max Life will soon approach the respective regulatory authorities with the revised applications for their approval, it said. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals from Irdai, the RBI and the Competition Commission of India. Some changes were made to the deal last month following a correspondence from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) received by the company. MFS holds a 72.5 per cent stake in Max Life and Japan-based Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI) owns a 25.5 per cent stake. After the completion of the series of transactions, Max Life will become an 82:18 joint venture between MFS and Axis Bank. Max Life had made an attempt to merge with HDFC Life in 2017 but they did not receive regulatory approvals reportedly because of the complexity of the deal. Interestingly, the deal was brokered by the then HDFC Life CEO Amitabh Chaudhry, who is now the CEO of Axis Bank. Following the failure of the deal, Max Group made several attempts to sell part of its stake but was not successful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||HDFC Bank sees recovery in October||Sashidhar Jagdishan, who is due to take over as the new CEO of HDFC Bank, expects the economy to return to normal by October and believes that the scale of bad loans at the bank will be far less that it was during the global economic crisis of 2008-09. Jagdishan will take charge as the managing director and CEO of HDFC Bank from October 27, succeeding Aditya Puri who was with the bank for more than 25 years. Speaking at a conference call with analysts organised by Macquarie Securities, Jagdishan said that though these were unprecedented times and there was uncertainty on how long the pandemic will last, economic acivity has not come to a standstill. “People have realised that livelihood is important, we are seeing slightly more people going out either for work or even institutions calling them back on work. This is some of the feedback that is coming from multiple areas of our customer base. In terms of our business, we are seeing slowly the activity is increasing in multiple areas of the bank,” he said. Jagdishan, who expects “a bit of normalcy to begin from October”, indicated that its first impact could be felt on the consumer or retail side of the business in terms of consumer spends, particularly in some of the asset products. The HDFC Bank CEO designate said that he was “lucky” to lead a platform that was poised for more growth as its management has been working as a team on various strategic pillars that will be game changers for the bank in the future. “All I have to do is press the pedal to get scale,” he added. While around 10 per cent of its loan book is at present under moratorium, HDFC Bank does not expect a major rise in its non-performing assets. Jagdishan hinted that even in the worst-case scenario its gross NPAs will not cross the 2.08 per cent level seen after the global financial crisis. For the first quarter ended June 30, its gross NPAs stood at 1.36 per cent. He added that the lender was not compromising its risk standards, adding that the bank will cater largely to the top 20-25 per cent of the country’s population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||PNB chief S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao allays layoff fears||PNB managing director and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao on Monday assured that that there will be no layoffs because of the merger of Oriental Bank of Commerce and Union Bank of India with the bank. “There will be no retrenchment of employees because of the merger … PNB has a strength of 1.03 lakh employees and as the business grows, our employee strength will also grow,” Rao told reporters. The amalgamation of Punjab National Bank, United Bank of India and Oriental Bank of Commerce came into effect from April 1, 2020, creating the second largest public sector bank in the country. “On our loan book size, the rough estimate is that 5-6 per cent of the credit book may be eligible under the restructuring profile. But we will be able to get a better estimate by the end of September,” Rao said. At the end of June, PNB’s loan book size stood at Rs 7.21 lakh crore. So, the bank expects loans worth Rs 36,000- 38,000 crore to avail the restructuring window provided by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Rao said that majority of the restructured loan accounts would belong to the corporate segment. He added that the bank does not expect a large number of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and personal account holders to go for loan restructuring. “Of the total loan book of Rs 7.21 lakh crore, Rs 1.27 lakh crore belongs to the MSME categories. Out of this, around 14 per cent is under non-performing assets (NPA) category so the remaining MSME accounts will be eligible which is not expected to be high in terms of value,” Rao added. The Reserve Bank of India had earlier allowed a one-time restructuring of loans without classifying them as non-performing assets to help companies and individuals manage the financial stress caused by coronavirus pandemic. Only those companies and individuals whose loans accounts are in default for not more than 30 days as on March 1, 2020, are eligible for one-time restructuring. For corporate borrowers, banks can invoke a resolution plan till December 31, 2020 and implement it till June 30, 2021. For personal loans, banks have an option to invoke the resolution plan till December 31, 2020 and implement it within 90 days from the date of invocation. Accounts which are standard, but not in default for more than 30 days as on March 1,2020 will be eligible for restructuring. Only 20-22 per cent account holders in PNB opted for loan moratorium, Rao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||DoT tug-of-war with Reliance Communications||The committee of creditors of Reliance Communications Ltd (R-Com) met on Monday in the wake of the insolvency proceedings initiated against promoter Anil Ambani and the department of telecommunications’ (DoT) demand that spectrum should not be part of the resolution process. The committee is understood to have reiterated its earlier decision to distribute the proceeds among the financial creditors, jetissoning the DoT as the department it is considered as an operational creditor. Last week, the DoT filed an application with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) contending that spectrum should not be a part of the resolution plan of R-Com and its sister concern Reliance Telecom. The DoT had filed an affidavit detailing its objections. The NCLT has kept the matter for hearing on September 8. R-Com owes more than Rs 49,000 crore to its lenders, including Rs 7,000 crore to Chinese banks, and Rs 25,199 crore in spectrum usage charges and license fee to DoT. The committee of creditors has picked UV Asset Reconstruction and Reliance Jio to buy R-Com’s spectrum, real estate, enterprise, tower and data centre business for around Rs 23,000 crore .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court firm on dues of insolvent telcos||The Supreme Court on Monday said spectrum cannot be sold or shared by wiping out government dues. The new party cannot take over the spectrum free of liabilities. The bench also reserved its verdict on the point as to whether spectrum can be sold by the telecom companies facing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and how the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related-dues are to be recovered from them. The top court will also give its finding on the payment of dues, if any, on Jio and Airtel which have spectrum sharing pacts with R-Com, Aircel and Videocon, respectively. “If telecom firms are unwilling to pay, we will direct cancel of spectrum allocation. How else is the DoT supposed to deal with such an issue?” the bench asked. “How can you sell somebody else’s property? This will allow for dues to be wiped out. New party will take over free of all encumbrances, liabilities. Wiping out of government dues in this fashion is not permissible,” the apex court observed while reserving its verdict. The bench said telecom players cannot use “insolvency proceedings” before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) as a “subterfuge” to default on the dues of the government. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta appearing for the department of telecommunications (DoT) said all liabilities, including AGR-related dues, should be cleared by the telecom firms prior to spectrum trading as per the guidelines. The DoT further told the top court that it can seek to recover dues from sellers and buyers of spectrum, jointly or individually. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah was informed by the solicitor-general that the assessment of dues was under process and once the Supreme Court clarifies the legal position on spectrum sharing, it will move to recover the outstanding amounts from the telecom firms. The DoT said that no demand has been raised against Reliance Jio and Airtel for part dues of Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Videocon, respectively. If the apex court directs the operators using spectrum of bankrupt companies to pay the past dues, both Airtel and rival Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd will be hit hard. While Aircel owes Rs 12,289 crore in AGR dues, Videocon has a liability of Rs 1,376 crore and R-Com owes Rs 25,199 crore. In 2016, Bharti Airtel had bought Aircel’s spectrum in the 2300 MHz band and Videocon’s spectrum in the 1800 Mhz band through trading. Reliance Jio has acquired 47.50 Mhz from R-Com through trading. It is also sharing some spectrum with R-Com. Additional reporting by our Delhi bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||Dusit to manage and operate Jain Group hotel at Rajarhat ||Thailand-based hospitality chain Dusit International will step into Bengal through an alliance with city-based realtor Jain Group. Dusit will manage and operate a 126-room property being built by the Jain Group at a cost of Rs 75 crore in Rajarhat near Eco Park. The property will bear the badge of Dusit Princess Suite, one of the many brands the Thai company operates, and is expected to be ready by the middle of 2022. “While Covid-19 has brought immense challenges for tourism and hospitality worldwide, we remain confident that our resilient industry can and will bounce back, and we expect India to be a key player in international and domestic tourism in the brighter days ahead,” Suphajee Suthumpun, group CEO of Dusit International, said. This will be the second hospitality project by Jain Group, which owns the 134-room Holiday Inn hotel in Rajarhat. It is banking on the pull of the Dusit brand among south eastern and far eastern travellers for the success of the new venture, Rishi Jain, managing director of the J Group, said. “By the time the project is ready for launch, we hope the hospitality market will revive. This pandemic too shall pass,” Jain said, adding that the Holiday Inn property is clocking 50 per cent occupancy as of now. While announcing the tie-up, Lim Boon Kwee, chief operating officer of Dusit International, said the company plans to tie up for another 4-6 properties in India over the next 12-18 months. An associate company of Dusit has already signed up to manage luxury villas in Goa. “We want to be present in all major business and tourist destinations of India,” Kwee said. In Calcutta, the property will be a 4-star one and a part of the Dream One housing project Jain Group has undertaken in Action Area II. It will be a 14-storied property catering to business and leisure travellers for short and long stays. Shrayans Jain, vice-chairman of Jain Group, said he was banking on Dusit’s expertise of seven decades for the success of the project. Established in 1948, the Thai stock exchange-listed Dusit International’s property portfolio now comprises more than 300 properties operating under six brands across 13 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||India||Fire at Kerala Secretariat, opposition allege sabotage||A fire at the Kerala secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram caused a huge commotion on Tuesday evening. The fire, described as minor, spurred opposition protests and allegations of a link to the gold smuggling case. Visuals showed officers trying to salvage files and equipment from the building, which has offices of the state government. Smoke was seen rising from windows of the second floor of a block at the secretariat. "The minor fire was at the political section of the General Administration Department. No one has been injured," officials said. The opposition Congress-led UDF in the state has alleged attempts to sabotage the investigations into the gold smuggling case, in which Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office has come under scrutiny. "This has been done in an attempt to destroy files and sabotage the gold smuggling probe," said Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala. He and other Congress leaders protested outside the secretariat for some time until they were allowed to enter. Members of the BJP also protested. BJP leaders, including state chief K Surendran, were arrested and removed from the secretariat premises. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta told reporters that no crucial file had been destroyed and there would be a detailed investigation. Another senior official said the files that were damaged in the fire were on guest house bookings. An IAS officer, M Sivasankar, was removed as Principal Secretary in the Chief Minister's Office and suspended over alleged links with an accused in the case involving 30 kg of gold being smuggled into Thiruvananthapuram airport from Dubai through the diplomatic channel in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||Bhushan asks Supreme Court for ‘statesman like’ message||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan urged the Supreme Court on Tuesday to give a statesman-like message by recalling the verdict convicting him of contempt of the court for two tweets against the judiciary. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal also asked the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra to forgive Bhushan, who has been refusing to tender an unconditional apology for the tweets. He also said that Bhushan should withdraw all statements and express regret. The bench, which had on August 20 granted Bhushan time till Monday to reconsider his statement and tender an unconditional apology for the tweets, concluded hearing on the quantum of punishment to be awarded to him on Tuesday. “Although the attorney general suggested reprimand but that will be extreme. Don't make Prashant Bhushan a martyr. Don't do it. He has not committed murder or theft,” senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, submitted before the bench, also comprising Justice B.R. Gavai and Justice Krishna Murari. Referring to the supplementary statement tendered by Bhushan, his lawyer said that not only should this case be closed, there should be a statesman-like message from the top court. “I make two suggestions. The convicting judgement should be recalled and no sentence should be imposed,” Dhavan said, explaining he was making a statement on his client’s behalf. Referring to Bhushan's statements and his refusal to apologise, the bench told Venugopal that mistakes were committed by all but they needed to be accepted, but that Bhushan was not willing to accept it. “We have to be respectful to each other and tolerant. We are not separate from you (lawyers). We have also come from the Bar. We are open to criticism but we cannot go in public,” the bench said. Justice Mishra, who is demitting office on September 2, said that judges cannot go to the Press to speak their mind. “We are not carrying prejudice against anyone. Don't think we are not tolerating criticism. There are several contempt petitions pending but tell us, has anyone been punished ever? It is painful to see such things happening at a time when I am demitting office,” Justice Mishra said. The court, which granted 30 minutes to Bhushan to “think over” his stand of not expressing regret over his tweets, later sought the views of Dhavan on the punishment to be awarded to Bhushan in the contempt case. Dhavan said he did not support Venugopal's view that Bhushan be reprimanded as it would be an extreme punishment and moreover, he had not committed  murder or theft and any punishment would make him a martyr . Taking note of Bhushan's refusal to apologise, the bench asked, “Tell us what is wrong in using the word ‘apology’? What is wrong in seeking apology? Will that be (a) reflection of the guilty? Apology is a magical word, which can heal many things,” Justice Mishra said, according to livelaw.in. Venugopal said judges were the third party in this case against whom the alleged statements have been made and the court had not heard them. “Why are such allegations being made in the first place,” the bench asked. “Judges cannot defend themselves,” the bench observed and said that it was the Attorney General who “will have to protect the system”. The apex court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. He faces simple imprisonment of up to six months, or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000, or with both, as punishment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Apex court requests CJI for new bench in 2009 contempt case against Bhushan||The Supreme Court Tuesday decided to refer to another bench the 2009 contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal to deal with certain larger questions related to freedom of speech and levelling of corruption charges against the judiciary. The apex court in November 2009, had issued contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was the editor of the magazine. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra was told by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Prashant Bhushan, that there were as many as 10 questions of constitutional importance have been raised by him and they needed to be dealt by a Constitution bench. "These are broader issues which need to be deliberated at length. We can have some amicus and it can be adjudicated by an appropriate bench," said the bench, which also comprised Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari. The matter is pending for a long time and it be listed before the appropriate bench on September 10, the bench said in a hearing conducted through video conferencing. Justice Mishra, who is retiring on September 2, said the matter will need time and observed "let us leave this to an appropriate bench". The court did not agree to the submissions of Dhavan that it should issue notice to the Attorney General K K Venugopal seeking his assistance and opinion to deal with the issues raised and said that 'it is best left to the appropriate Bench" which will be set up by the CJI. Dhavan said the questions raised by Bhushan included the issue whether bona fide opinions of corruption also constitute contempt of court and "whether it is enough to show bona fide of opinion or it is necessary for the person to prove the allegation of corruption. They also included whether a complainant is barred from discussing in public domain the contents of his complaint if an in-house inquiry is started, among others, he said. On August 17, the top court had framed certain questions and asked senior advocates Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, Shanti Bhushan and Kapil Sibal, to address it on three issues-- whether such statements about corruption against judges or judiciary can be made, in what circumstances they can be made and what is the procedure to be adopted with respect to sitting and retired judges. Then Bhushan, through her lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, filed 10 questions on his own and sought adjudication by a Constitution bench. "Whether the expression of a bona fide opinion about the extent of corruption in any section of the judiciary would amount to contempt of court," Bhushan's plea said. "If the answer to the question is in the affirmative, whether the person who expresses such an opinion about the extent of corruption in a section of judiciary is obliged to prove that his opinion is correct or whether it is enough to show that he bona fide held that opinion," the second question read. He also gave eight other questions related to freedom of speech and expression and the width and scope of contempt powers. The top court had earlier said that it would consider larger questions in 2009 contempt case against Bhushan and Tejpal on August 25, that is today. In response to the 2009 contempt case, Bhushan had told the apex court that making corruption charges against the judges would not amount to contempt of court and mere utterance of corruption charge could not be contempt of court. The top court is also scheduled on Tuesday the another contempt case against Bhushan in which he has been convicted for his two tweets and has refused to apologize.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Covid: India tests over 10 lakh in a day||India has crossed a milestone of testing over 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 in a day, with more than 3.44 crore such tests conducted so far, while the caseload in the country is nearing the 30 lakh-mark. As has been reported from the states and Union territories (UTs), which have pushed ahead with aggressive testing, there is a commensurate decline in the positivity rate, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Saturday. "Although a higher number of tests will initially lead to a rise in the positivity rate, it will eventually come down when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, efficient tracking and timely, effective and clinical management," the ministry said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, "Keeping with its promise of exponentially increasing the number of daily Covid-19 tests, India has crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples in a day." With 10,23,836 Covid-19 tests performed on Friday, the country has achieved its resolve to test 10 lakh samples daily, he added. The average number of Covid-19 tests conducted daily over the last three weeks also depicts the progress made in increasing the number of such tests across the country, Vardhan said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on an average, 8,89,935 Covid-19 tests were conducted daily in the country during the last five days. A total of 3,44,91,073 samples were tested for the disease in the country till August 21. India is also testing around 74.7 people per one-lakh population, much higher than the World Health Organization's (WHO) guidelines of testing 14 people per one-lakh population, the apex health research body said. Of the total 10,23,836 samples tested on Friday, around 3.8 lakh were subjected to rapid-antigen tests, sources said. Of the total samples tested for Covid-19 so far in the country, around 28 per cent were subjected to rapid-antigen tests, they added. "In a testament to the determined, focussed, consistent and coordinated efforts of the Centre and the state and UT governments, India has conducted 1 million tests in a span of 24 hours. With 10,23,836 tests done on Friday, India has achieved its resolve to test 10 lakh samples daily," the ministry said. Combined with enhanced testing, the policies of the Centre, states and UTs have facilitated easy testing across the country. This has boosted the daily testing capacity, the ministry said. A record number of daily tests has been achieved by evaluating and validating laboratories for Covid-19 testing across the country, the ICMR said. Starting with one laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, the total number of Covid-specific testing laboratories was 1,511 as on Friday -- 983 dedicated government facilities and 528 private ones. "In a diverse country like India, for an equitable access to testing, optimisation of resources based on the evolving epidemic was an essential part of the sustainable scaling up," Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR, said. Through ardent efforts, it was ensured that a specific testing platform was made available, addressing general testing (RT-PCR), high-throughput testing (COBAS), testing at remotest places and PHCs (TrueNAT, CBNAAT), in containment areas (rapid-antigen testing) and for migrant population testing (pooled sample testing), he added. With a record single-day spike of 69,874 cases, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The number of recoveries has surged to 22,22,577, pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent, according to the data. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.87 per cent, the data said. India is on the third spot currently in the world in terms of Covid-19 caseload after the US and Brazil. The ICMR said it has set up Covid-19 testing laboratories even in the remotest parts of the country, including one at an altitude of 18,000 feet in Ladakh's Leh and another at Port Blair in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. "The ultimate goal is that testing should be available to everyone in need and no one should be left behind," the ICMR said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Bureaucrats write to Mark Zuckerberg for audit on FB hate speech policy||Over 50 retired senior bureaucrats have written an open letter to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg demanding an audit of the company’s hate speech policy in India, asserting that to blame the algorithms of artificial intelligence for some hate messages remaining on the platform is to evade corporate responsibility. Writing in the wake of The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report on Facebook India policy head opposing the application of the company’s hate speech rules to posts by members of the BJP as it could impact business prospects, the retired bureaucrats said: “We are writing to you in the expectation that you will make serious efforts to audit the implementation of Facebook’s hate speech policy in India and, while such an audit is under way, ensure that the present Public Policy Head of Facebook, India, is not in a position to influence the investigations.” Further, they said: “We also fervently hope that in future, you will not let your company’s business prospects stand in the way of implementing your own policy against hate speech and posts which can lead to hate crimes. This is a sure way of demonising minorities and inflicting violence upon them while undermining the democratic and secular basis of the Indian Constitution.” Noting that Facebook removed those hate messages on August 17 after the WSJ expose, they said this was a clear indication that the platform itself considered these posts offensive. Addressing Zuckerberg in person, they said it cannot be that he is not familiar with the fact that religious unrest has become a serious problem in India, citing the fear created by the new citizenship laws, cow vigilantism, and Delhi riots. Stating that many of the hate crimes and cases of vigilantism were instigated through hate messages spread over Facebook and WhatsApp — both of which are part of the same company — they expressed disappointment that still the company failed to implement its own policy of discouraging hate speech in India or has implemented it in a clearly “partisan” manner. “That this seems to have been done to protect Facebook’s commercial interests is even more reprehensible. We note that such behaviour on Facebook’s part has become a subject of debate in other countries as well. Commercial interests at the cost of human lives? If these are the crass calculations Facebook indulges in, it is no surprise that the calculus of hate is spreading like a virus in many parts of the world. To blame the algorithms of artificial intelligence is both to evade corporate responsibility and to deny the human agency involved in the framing of those very algorithms.” The signatories to the letter are all bureaucrats who retired from some of the senior-most offices in the government; mostly at secretary level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Bipin Rawat suggests India is 'prepared for military actions'||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat has appeared to suggest that India is “prepared for military actions” if the talks with China yield no results, triggering a debate whether this is a serious option and whether India is ready to face the cost. Several military veterans questioned Gen. Rawat’s decision to issue the hard-line statement at a time both sides have agreed to continue with their diplomatic and military talks to try and resolve the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Rawat’s comments — especially his reference to efforts to “restore status quo ante” — also belie the un-retracted June 19 claim by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that no one had intruded into India or occupied its territory. In an interview to the Hindustan Times that was published on Monday, Rawat said that defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security adviser Ajit Doval and all others responsible for national security were “reviewing all options with the objective that PLA (China’s People’s Liberation Army) restores status quo ante in Ladakh”. “Transgressions along the LAC occur due to differing perceptions about its alignment. Defence services are tasked to monitor and carry out surveillance and prevent such transgressions turning into intrusions,” Rawat was quoted as saying. “Whole of government approach is adopted to peacefully resolve any such activity and prevent intrusions. Defence services always remain prepared for military actions should all efforts to restore status quo along the LAC not succeed.” A retired lieutenant general questioned the wisdom of the statement. “In the middle of the diplomatic talks, such a statement from the top military brass is likely to present a considerable obstacle to further negotiations,” he told The Telegraph. Others quoted a foreign police advice often attributed to Theodore Roosevelt, the late US President: “Talk softly but carry a big stick. You will go far.” “It seems Gen. Rawat does not believe so. He should remember that he is not targeting a domestic audience but a formidable adversary,” a veteran said. Another veteran said: “Going to war with China will be a political call. The question is whether we are prepared for the economic cost of war and also the political consequences of a setback. Rawat must remember that China is not Pakistan.” He underlined that the belligerence with which the government had responded to the February 2019 Pulwama bombing — carrying out airstrikes on Balakot in Pakistan — was missing in its dealing with China. “The chest-thumping is absent in the case of the Chinese intrusion. The political leadership has not even named China so far while talking about China’s aggression,” he said. Serial talks have so far failed to break the stalemate along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, where the Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a standoff since May. Indications are that Beijing has been resisting New Delhi's demand for a restoration of status quo ante, laying fresh claims to India-claimed territory, and setting conditions for disengagement. A former Intelligence Bureau director underscored that the latest friction points -- the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains - were also the theatres of the 1962 war in which India had received a drubbing. “Some people have suggested, without realising its costs, that India should go in for a limited war with China. The Chinese have already surprised us by transgressing into our territory and are now holding on to it. They are building roads and camps at the multiple friction points,” he said. Another veteran said: “It’s true that diplomacy is not working at the moment but India needs to continue pressing for the restoration of status quo ante during the forthcoming talks. War is never going to be an option.” He said India’s best option would be to hold its ground, wait for the winter, and ensure there is no further transgression by the Chinese. “The harsh winter is going to make a big difference as it would be difficult for them to stay put. Making a retreat from those areas would be the only option for them. In the meantime, diplomatic intervention from the top leadership is the need of the hour,” he said. He added: “What happened to Modi’s bonhomie with Chinese President Xi Jinping? We need it more than anything else now to resolve the dispute." Sources in the security establishment said that India and China should try to reach an agreement about the entire border during the ongoing diplomatic talks, as each side has its own perception of the LAC. “There are over a dozen disputed sites along the LAC. Even if the Chinese agree to pull out from the India-claimed zones after diplomatic negotiations, the bigger issue of an unsettled border may remain unresolved,” a security official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||CWC meet: After fight, hunt for Congress leader||The Congress Working Committee on Monday warned leaders against any attempt “to weaken the party and its leadership” even as Sonia Gandhi tried to close the chapter by saying differences were natural in a large family and that she would bear no ill-will towards colleagues who had written a letter pointing to a drift. The letter, written to Sonia by 23 leaders, had got leaked to the media and caused much bitterness in the party. While the leaks of internal communications and discussions to the media dominated the CWC meeting, the letter seemed to have had the desired effect as the process for electing a full-fledged president and strengthening the decision-making mechanisms was set in motion. An AICC session will be called to elect the new president within six months and a small committee will be constituted soon to assist Sonia in managing day-to-day affairs, the CWC decided. The resolution passed at the meeting said: “The CWC authorises the Congress president to affect necessary organisational changes that she may deem appropriate to take on the challenges listed above.” Sonia had expressed a desire to relinquish the post but was unanimously requested to continue till the AICC session was convened to elect the new president. The general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, later said the session would be called “as soon as possible”. Since many leaders had voiced outrage over the letter, which had raised questions about the functioning of the party as well as the leadership vacuum, the resolution said: “The CWC makes it clear that no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture. The responsibility of every Congress worker and leader today is to fight the pernicious assault on India’s democracy, pluralism and diversity by the Narendra Modi government.” Rahul Gandhi too expressed deep anguish at such an initiative by senior leaders, wondering how a controversy could be created at a time when the Congress was fighting a grim battle against the BJP in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere. He said such moves helped the BJP and wondered how Sonia was questioned when she was in hospital. Four among the 23 who had written the letter are members of the CWC and were at Monday’s meeting — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada. They said that conveying their views to the party president was not a crime and that their intention was not to question the leadership of Sonia or Rahul. Azad and Sharma reaffirmed their faith in the leadership while recalling their association with Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi and iterated their “unflinching resolve” to fight the RSS-BJP. Some members demanded action against these leaders for allegedly leaking the letter to the media, with the veteran Ambika Soni leading this group in an emotionally charged speech. But the four said they were not aware how it got leaked, and that raising questions on a party forum did not make them dissidents or rebels. Their commitment to the Congress cannot be questioned, they said. Azad insisted that it be made clear before the media that they were all part of the CWC resolution issued on Monday. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and senior leader A.K. Antony expressed pain at the media discourse on the party’s internal affairs, arguing that such episodes weakened the Congress and helped the BJP. Antony said it was cruel to question the role played by Sonia in these difficult times. Almost every leader, young and old, agreed that the leadership crisis should be ended sooner than later and that a full-fledged party president should be elected. Almost everyone called for Rahul’s return as president. Contesting the perception that the party’s performance has not been effective over the past few months despite the failures of the Modi government, the resolution said: “The last six months have seen the nation in the throes of multiple crises. We have been beset by the Corona pandemic, downward-spiralling economy, massive job losses, growing poverty and brazen Chinese aggression. The two voices that have been at the forefront of exposing the government’s inadequate responses, divisive politics and audacious propaganda are of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.” The resolution vowed to strengthen the hands of Sonia and Rahul in line with the desires of millions of party workers. It said: “The voices of our two leaders have inspired a generation of Indians, both within and outside of the Congress, to rise and demand answers from this government which seeks to desperately distract the people through shallow and manufactured issues. It is under their leadership that crores of Congress workers and supporters have reached out to fill the large, callous gaps in governance left by this government as a result of which millions belonging to the poor and middle classes have been unjustly deprived of their rights and their livelihoods.” While the organisation’s restructuring will take a while, the dissenting voices may have been silenced for now. Sonia indicated a closure of the bitter chapter in her concluding remarks. Party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala quoted her as having said: “We are a large family. We have differences and different views on many occasions. But in the end we come together as one. I don’t hold any ill-will or grudge against any colleague. I treat everyone as part of the Congress family irrespective of however hurtful their views have been today or in the past. I have always risen above these to keep the family together.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Masks not needed for kids aged 5 and below||An international expert panel constituted by the World Health Organisation has recommended that children aged 5 years and below should not be required to wear masks. The WHO, while underscoring that people should abide by the practices recommended by their local authorities, also said that children aged 12 or older should wear masks under the same conditions as adults. The global health agency said its advisory was based on recommendations from an international expert group it had formed to review the evidence on Covid-19 and its transmission in children, and had taken into account children’s developmental milestones and psychosocial needs. “Children aged 5 years and under should not be required to wear masks. This is based on the safety and overall interest of the child and the capacity to appropriately use a mask with minimal assistance,” the WHO said. However, it said, there may be local requirements for children aged 5 or below to wear masks, or circumstances when such children are physically close to someone who is ill. “In these circumstances, if the child wears a mask, a parent or other guardian should be within direct line of sight to supervise the safe use of the mask,” the WHO said. A senior psychiatrist in India who was not associated with the expert group said the advisory was likely to have weighed the potential benefits and risks of masks in very young children. “Very young children are likely to imitate parents. So, if they see their parents wearing masks, they might gladly do that too,” Vivek Agarwal, professor of psychiatry at the King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, told The Telegraph. But, Agarwal said, the improper use of masks by young children is a possible source of worry. “The brain is still developing fast in very young children and improper use of the mask could lower their oxygen intake. We don’t want to deprive the developing brain of oxygen.” He said children below 5 years may not complain about discomfort from the improper use of masks. The advisory, also backed by Unicef, said any decision on having children aged 6 to 11 wear masks should be based on whether there is widespread local transmission in the area where the child lives and whether the child can safely and appropriately use the mask. It said that children aged 6 to 11 should have adequate adult supervision and instructions on how to put on, take off and safely wear the masks. The advisory also said that the potential impact of a mask on a child’s learning and psychosocial development should be considered in consultation with parents, teachers and doctors. Children 12 years or older should wear masks as do adults, in particular when they cannot guarantee at least one metre’s distance from others and there is widespread transmission in the area. A study by US researchers had last week found that children infected with Covid-19 — even those without symptoms — could carry high viral loads and thus serve as silent carriers of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan declines SC offer to apologise for tweets||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Monday declined the Supreme Court’s offer to apologise for his tweets, saying it would be “contempt of his conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem” if he were to withdraw a statement he believes to be true. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, which had on August 14 convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt, will on Tuesday examine his supplementary statement and pronounce the sentence. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt of court is six months’ imprisonment or a fine or both. The following is Bhushan’s supplementary statement, filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal on Tuesday: It is with deep regret that I read the order of this Hon’ble Court dated 20th of August. At the hearing the court asked me to take 2-3 days to reconsider the statement I made in the court. However, the order subsequently states: “We have given time to the contemnor to submit unconditional apology, if he so desires.” I have never stood on ceremony when it comes to offering an apology for any mistake or wrongdoing on my part. It has been a privilege for me to have served this institution and bring several important public interest causes before it. I live with the realisation that I have received from this institution much more than I have had the opportunity to give it. I cannot but have the highest regard for the institution of the Supreme Court. I believe that the Supreme Court is the last bastion of hope for the protection of fundamental rights, the watchdog institutions and indeed for constitutional democracy itself. It has rightly been called the most powerful court in the democratic world, and often an exemplar for courts across the globe. Today in these troubling times, the hopes of the people of India vest in this court to ensure the rule of law and the Constitution and not an untrammelled rule of the executive. This casts a duty, especially for an officer of this court like myself, to speak up, when I believe there is a deviation from its sterling record. Therefore I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular Chief Justice, but to offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its longstanding role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples’ rights. My tweets represented this bona fide belief that I continue to hold. Public expression of these beliefs was, I believe, in line with my higher obligations as a citizen and a loyal officer of this court. Therefore, an apology for expression of these beliefs, conditional or unconditional, would be insincere. An apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to, as the court has itself put it, be sincerely made. This is especially so when I have made the statements bona fide and pleaded truths with full details, which have not been dealt with by the court. If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Pakistan alters stand on Kashmir parties ||Pakistan on Monday appeared to be wooing the Valley’s pro-India camp, terming a joint pledge by four regional and two national parties for restoration of Article 370 a “political resistance movement”. Islamabad’s move comes at a time last August’s changes to Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional and geographical status are threatening to further erode the Valley’s already thin proIndia constituency. Pakistan has traditionally described the governments led by the Valley’s mainstream parties as India’s “puppet governments”. Militants have killed hundreds of leaders and activists of these parties over the past three decades. On Monday, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi addressed a news conference to announce a “very big development”. He was referring to Saturday’s joint pledge by the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party, People’s Conference, Awami National Conference and the Jammu and Kashmir units of the Congress and the CPM to restore the special status. “A political resistance movement is gaining ground in Kashmir and the first sign is the joint statement.... What they said in the joint statement shows what is on their mind,” Qureshi, who had returned from China three days ago, said. “They are saying their political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting the status of J&K as it existed on August 4, 2019. It means they have rejected the August 5 decisions. It is a very big statement.” In their joint statement, the six parties have vowed to “tirelessly struggle to get back the special status and restore the constitutional guarantees forcibly taken away from J&K”. “There is unanimity amongst us that collective institution is the effective way to fight for these rights and tirelessly struggle to get back the special status and restore the constitutional guarantees forcibly taken away, against our will.” A leader of one of these parties said that Pakistan now “clearly owned the J&K mainstream” which “it had never done before”. “Look at the choice of his (Qureshi’s) words, reserved in the past for the (separatist) Hurriyat. They are calling our struggle a resistance movement,” he said. “It shows a tectonic shift and will clearly embolden us. Tomorrow, I won’t be surprised if we too give a call for a shutdown and the people follow us.’ Among the statement’s signatories are former chief minister Farooq Abdullah, once known as staunchly proIndia, and Ghulam Ahmad Mir, Jammu and Kashmir chief of the Congress. Qureshi said the political leaders had issued the joint statement after spending months in jail. “The Hurriyat’s stand is in front of us but the statement is from those people who had in the past looked towards Delhi. They have now changed their direction and are not looking towards Delhi. It is such a big change,” Qureshi said. He said China supported Pakistan’s stand on Kashmir and wanted the issue settled through UN resolutions. He said China was not going to blink in eastern Ladakh, where it’s engaged in a border standoff with India. The Valley’s proIndia or “mainstream” camp has always faced a credibility crisis here despite many people voting for them in elections. While the separatists have successfully shut Kashmir down hundreds of times, the proIndia parties never dared call for shutdowns, fearing a possible loss of face. Pakistan has a few times in the past unsuccessfully tried to woo the “mainstream leaders”. Thousands of men, including former chief ministers, legislators and other political leaders, were arrested by the security forces ahead of the August 5 decisions to prevent any unrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||PM fund cares for poll-bound Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that PM CARES would fund two 500-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospitals in Bihar, scheduled to go to polls later this year. Making the announcement on Twitter, the Prime Minister’s Office said the hospitals, set up by DRDO (Defence Research & Development Organisation), would be located in Patna’s Bihta and Muzaffarpur. “The 500 bed hospital at Bihta, Patna will be inaugurated today and the 500 bed hospital at Muzaffarpur will be inaugurated very soon,” one of the tweets said. The announcement came a day after the BJP held a meeting of the party’s Bihar executive to prepare for the polls. Addressing the meeting, BJP chief J.P. Nadda said the NDA would face the polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar. The BJP is expected to use the hospitals as a prominent campaign tool, underlining how the party and the Modi government care for the Biharis. Bihar is among the worst-hit Covid-19 states with a pathetic Covid care infrastructure. The new makeshift hospitals will appear as oases in a desert and bring out the failures of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Voters will give BJP credit for the hospitals and not Nitish. “This (2 hospitals) will go a long way in improving Covid care in Bihar," the PMO stressed. The hospitals will have 150 ICU beds with ventilators and 350 normal beds with oxygen support. Doctors and paramedical staff would be provided by the armed forces medical services, the PMO tweets said. Junior home minister Nityanand Rai inaugurated the Bihta hospital on Monday and hailed both PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah. “Where are those asking about PM CARES funds? Come and see the 500-bed hospital in Bihta,” the Bihar BJP tweeted with the slogan: Bhajpa pe bharosa hai (we have faith in BJP). Despite deciding to contest the polls under partner Nitish’s leadership, the BJP has been cleverly trying to carve out an independent ground. It’s campaign focuses on hailing PM Modi and his contributions to Bihar while silently seeking to blame Nitish for everything that’s wrong in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||How ‘misreporting’ on ‘BJP collusion’ exposed the mistrust festering in Congress  ||The false alarm that created panic in the Congress, along with fears of an inevitable split, was a sensational misreporting by the electronic media suggesting that Rahul Gandhi accused the leaders who wrote the letter complaining about the drift in the party of colluding with the BJP. That this falsehood instantly triggered fierce bombarding exposes the deep fault lines within the party and the mistrust among the leaders. Under normal circumstances, it is unthinkable that seasoned politicians would start firing on the basis of media reports, without crosschecking with party colleagues. As soon as news channels flashed the report that Rahul accused those leaders of colluding with the BJP, former minister and Rajya Sabha member Kapil Sibal tweeted, “Rahul Gandhi says we are colluding with BJP. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP government. Last 30 years have never issued a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet we are colluding with the BJP.” Sibal’s retort to Rahul was seen as an eruption of open war in the party. While the tweet kicked up a political storm, Congress leaders sank into deep anxiety as many of them privately conceded that the reconciliation was impossible now. Several leaders blamed Rahul’s intransigence, saying that the supreme leader should have demonstrated maturity to salvage the situation instead of pushing the party to the brink. Sibal’s tweet generated over 4500 retweets and 11,600 likes within hours, apart from a fierce debate on the propensity of top leaders to drag the BJP to hide their own failures. While some described the allegation of collusion with the BJP of these diehard Congress leaders whose loyalty survived several ups and downs for decades as “intellectual dishonesty” and “a convenient escapist trick” by a leadership, which was running away from substantive debate on the issues raised in the letter, others lamented that Rahul failed to understand that genuine concerns should not be dismissed as a conspiracy in the larger interest of the party. But party’s communication chief Randeep Surjewala swiftly intervened to rebut reports that Rahul had made any such statement during the CWC meeting. Surjewala quoted Sibal’s tweet and said: “Rahul Gandhi hasn’t said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don’t be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather than fighting and hurting each other, and the Congress.” Probably Rahul realised that Surjewala’s clarification won’t be enough to control the raging fire and decided to talk to Sibal in the middle of the CWC meeting. Sibal promptly put out this tweet: “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him . I therefore withdraw my tweet.” Although the damage had already been done, as ridicule, scorn and sympathies poured on him from different quarters — including the BJP ecosystem as his loyalty and ideological commitment was under suspicion — the direction of discourse changed after this clarification. Some doubts still persisted as another report shown by television channels — that veteran leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had threatened to resign over the allegation of collusion with the BJP — was not denied. Many political observers maintained that the damage-control exercise showed Rahul had come on the defensive after the outbursts of Sibal and Azad. They refused to believe Rahul didn’t make the allegation. But Azad also clarified soon, saying, “A section of media is wrongly attributing that, in CWC, I told Rahul Gandhi to prove that the letter written by us is in collusion with BJP. Let me make it very clear that Rahul Gandhi has neither in CWC nor outside said that this letter was written at the behest of BJP. What I said was, yesterday some Congress person had said that we did it at behest of BJP and in that context I said, ‘it is most unfortunate that some colleagues (outside CWC) have accused us of collusion with BJP, and if those people can prove this allegation, I will resign’.” Many Congress members and leaders on Sunday used social media platforms to not only argue that such acts benefited the BJP but also said these leaders were working in collusion with the BJP. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja made the allegation of collusion with the BJP in a formal letter she wrote to Sonia Gandhi on Sunday. Azad was responding to these slanderous allegations while speaking at the CWC, which was projected as a dare to Rahul Gandhi. What was also debated by Congress supporters on different social media platforms on Monday was the leak of information from the CWC meeting that is strictly confidential. It was shocking that certain television channels gave running commentary of the proceedings, obviously based on live feeds supplied by somebody from within the party. Either some members were doing it or the support staff of leaders who were present in the room to offer technical assistance during the conference. Some leaders, however, were aghast that such important meeting was held through video-conference, allowing the participants the liberty of sending out live feeds in the absence of any monitoring. They wondered why can’t such a meeting be arranged physically by following social distancing norms. The flutter caused by misreporting on Rahul, that damaged the party considerably, could have been avoided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Need to verify complainant-BJP link: Bhushan||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan has insisted that he should be given a copy of the original complaint made by advocate Mahek Maheshwari that triggered the Supreme Court’s criminal contempt case on two tweets. According to a submission by Bhushan, Maheshwari was associated with a “prominent BJP member”. The submission did not name the BJP leader. Bhushan said he was entitled to a copy of the complaint to know whether the complaint was mala fide or politically motivated. “The implications of this are far-reaching because Bhushan and the public are entitled to know whether the complaint was mala fide or even personally or politically motivated,” said the submission filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal. Rajeev Dhavan is the senior counsel representing Bhushan before the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra. On August 14, the apex court had convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt. Maheshwari had first complained about Bhushan’s tweet on Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde. The bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari had converted Maheshwari’s complaint into a suo motu case. Article 129 of the Constitution vests the Supreme Court with inherent powers to take contempt action against any person. In the submission, Bhushan also listed some of the other contempt cases the Supreme Court had handled earlier. He cited the following examples: Bhushan pointed out: “Yet, according to the court, he was not guilty of contempt for the comments.” “A more telling example,” Bhushan said, is in the news reports of… (2013) where chief minister Mamata Banerjee gave a speech in which she said that judgments were delivered in exchange for money and “corruption has made inroads into the judiciary and democracy as a whole”. After counselling restraint to the chief minister, Calcutta High Court, which was then headed by Justice Mishra, did not indict her for contempt. The judgment then was delivered by Justice Joymalya Bagchi, who was sitting at that time with Justice Mishra. According to Dhavan, it is clear that:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Trivandrum International Airport: United against Adani takeover||The Kerala Assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution moved by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, urging the Centre to reconsider the decision to hand over the Thiruvananthapuram international airport through the public-private partnership mode. The Left government and Congress-led Opposition alliance had come out against the impending takeover of the airport by the Adani group that had earlier won a bid to run the six airports, including the one in the Kerala capital. Vijayan told the House while moving the resolution that the Centre had ignored the state’s offer to run the airport hitherto being operated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). He said the state government had experience in successfully running the international airports in Kochi and Kannur while Adani Enterprises had no such experience. The Union cabinet had last week approved the Adanis’ takeover of the airports they had successfully bid. Congress lawmaker V.D. Satheesan who moved a no-trust motion against the Left Democratic Front government alleged that the state’s bid amount for the Thiruvananthapuram airport was leaked. The state government had hired law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas that has close familial links to Adani group chairman Gautam Adani. Satheesan said consultant of the airport project, KPMG, had advised the state government that the bid amount could be between Rs 134 and Rs 151 per passenger handled by the airport. “While the state’s bid was Rs 135, Adani Enterprise quoted Rs 168, which is 19 per cent higher. Since the state had the right of first refusal, if the competitor had outbid it by 10 per cent, we (would have) lost the bid,” said Satheesan. “If we (state government) had quoted Rs 151 (the maximum amount recommended by KPMG), we could have won the bid even if Adani’s bid was Rs 166 or lower. But Adani quoted Rs 2 more at Rs 168, which is over (the recommended) Rs 151. This shows the state’s bid was leaked,” said Satheesan. The one-day Assembly session summoned because the no-trust motion moved by the Congress basically became a venue to make allegations against the Left government, which denied all of them. With 93 members in a House of 140, the LDF was never in doubt about its numerical strength when Satheesan moved the motion. The debate on the motion was on when this report was filed. But leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, of the Congress, led his benches in their efforts to establish allegations of corruption against the government. “The chief minister’s office has become a den of corruption going by the recent developments,” Chennithala said citing the gold smuggling case and purchase of a data management software from a US-based firm, among others. Former secretary in the CMO, M. Sivasankar, was removed after details emerged about his close links with some of the key accused in the gold smuggling case that was unearthed by the Thiruvananthapuram airport customs last month. Chennithala said the people have lost faith in the government that has “failed on all fronts”. “This government has failed even in handling Covid-19 since it relied too much on media publicity with the help of PR (public relations) agencies,” said Chennithala. The government had already clarified that there were no PR agencies involved in the coverage by media. In his response to the motion, Vijayan took a swipe at the Opposition. “The Opposition doesn’t have confidence in themselves. If they are talking about the support of people, it is they who lack public support as we came to power with 91 seats but now have 93,” said Vijayan. “Today, even the AICC is discussing in Delhi about no confidence in their leadership expressed by some Congress leaders. Several Congress leaders are calling their colleagues as agents of the BJP. Not that the public discourse is about the future of the 135-year-old party,” said Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Supreme Court declines plea on online NEET||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to direct online exam or set up overseas centres for the NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test) on September 13, saying interested foreign students must visit India for competing. The court passed the directions while dealing with an appeal filed by foreign aspirants,  who through their advocate Harris Beran, had pleaded that it would be impossible for them to visit India amid the pandemic as there are no proper international flights. But the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S. Ravindra Bhat declined the plea as it refused to interfere with the Kerala High Court order which had refused to direct the NTA to conduct online exams or set up centres abroad for interested overseas students. However, it directed solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the National Testing Agency which conducts the exam, to facilitate all arrangements to allow foreign students to fly in via the Vande Bharat scheme to write NEET. The bench said the foreign students must also observe the mandatory 14-day quarantine to protect “public health” though the petitioner was free to approach the respective state authorities to seek necessary relaxation of the norms. “The petitioner requested for relaxation of 14 days quarantine. We are afraid such a direction cannot be given as it would endanger public health,” the bench said while allowing the petitioner to approach the state authorities to ask for relaxation of quarantine requirements. “…that (quarantine) it is a matter of public health too. You can argue for your client…but, we need to take care of public health too. There is enough time, it’s (exam) on 13th (of September). Ask them to come now, so that 14 days quarantine can be over,” Justice Rao, heading the bench, said. Mehta said quarantine is a prerogative of the state governments on which the Centre can’t say anything. “I have no problem as such. So far as Vande Bharat flights are concerned, they do take care of certain categories,” Mehta said, while promising to facilitate interested students to avail of the flights for visiting India to write the exam. The testing agency had earlier told the Supreme Court that it could not set up overseas centres or conduct the NEET through online mode in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The NTA had filed an affidavit in this regard pursuant to the apex court’s July 29 notice to the Centre, Medical Council of India and the testing agency on the plea by around 4,000 students from Singapore, the Gulf and West Asian countries seeking allocation of overseas centres for conduct of the NEET or its postponement until the pandemic blows over. Kerala High Court had earlier dismissed the plea of the overseas students, aggrieved by which they had moved the present special leave petition in the apex court. On August 17, the apex court had dismissed another petition seeking postponement of the NEET saying the pandemic cannot be a reason to jeopardise the career of lakhs of students this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Entrance exam waiver for MBA||The technical education regulator has waived the requirement of entrance-test scores for admission to MBA and Postgraduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) courses, citing several states’ inability to hold these tests because of the pandemic. Instead, students can be admitted to these programmes on the basis of their graduation scores, the All India Council for Technical Education has said. The move has prompted some academics to question the insistence by the central government and its examination body, the National Testing Agency, on holding the national-level engineering (JEE Main) and medicine (NEET) entrance tests in September. Higher education regulator University Grants Commission too has asked all the universities to hold final-semester undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September. Normally, under the AICTE’s guidelines, the country’s 320-odd management institutes admit students on the basis of their scores in any of six national-level entrance exams or the Common Entrance Tests (CETs) conducted by individual state governments. The six national-level tests, conducted by central or private agencies and institutions, are the Common Admission Test (CAT), Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT), Common Management Admission Test (CMAT), AIMS Test for Management Admission (ATMA), Management Aptitude Test (MAT) and the Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT). While all the six national-level tests have already been held — mostly in the early days of the lockdown — many states have failed to conduct their CET. “In many of the states, some of the above entrance tests could not be conducted due to fear of spread of (the) coronavirus and there is no indication as to whether these tests are postponed or likely to be held or cancelled, etc,” the AICTE said in a circular last week. “Therefore... the PGDM/ MBA institutions are allowed to admit the students on the basis of marks obtained in qualifying examination by preparing a merit list in a transparent manner.” The circular, issued by AICTE member secretary Rajive Kumar, added: “However, first preference will be given to those candidates who have appeared (qualified) in any of the entrance tests.” Kumar told The Telegraph that the AICTE had received a large volume of representations from students and institutions citing the failure of some states to conduct the CET. “So we have allowed admission on the basis of (graduation) marks, but only after exhausting all the candidates who have taken any of the seven entrance tests,” he said. A teacher from a Noida-based engineering college cited the AICTE move to question the decision to hold the JEE Main, NEET and the final-semester exams in universities amid the pandemic. “If the AICTE can waive the requirement for entrance-test scores because of the Covid crisis, the National Testing Agency (NTA) should at least agree to defer the JEE Main and the NEET. Since admissions have already been delayed, they can sure be delayed by some more time?” the teacher said. Several states have opposed the conduct of the engineering and medical entrance tests now. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday posted a tweet asking the Centre to consider postponing these tests to avoid risking the students’ lives. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too has asked the government to listen to the students and arrive at an acceptable solution. An education ministry official, however, said the NTA was unlikely to defer the engineering and medical entrance tests since the Supreme Court had dismissed a plea from students and others seeking such postponement. The NTA had last week issued a media release saying the JEE Main would be held from September 1 to 6 for nearly 8.5 lakh candidates, and the NEET on September 13 for about 16 lakh candidates. The NTA has asked the states to provide the logistics and ensure law and order at the test centres. “In order to solicit support of the states for maintaining law and order condition, power supply, facilitation of movement of candidates and exam functionaries, crowd management in front of exam centres, etc, the NTA has also written to the state chief secretaries, DGPs, and DMs/SPs of the concerned cities,” the NTA release said. It said the states had also been asked to follow all pandemic safety protocols during the tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Jharkhand Congress leaders support Rahul Gandhi||Senior Congress leaders from Jharkhand have come out in support of Rahul Gandhi taking over reins of the 100-year-old political outfit if Sonia Gandhi does not agree to continue as president of the party. “Almost all the 17 Congress MLAs (75-year-old Bermo MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died in May) are in support of Rahul being made president of the party, if health issues does not permit Sonia from continuing as party president. “It was the astute leadership of Rahulji and state-in-charge R.P.N. Singh which made Congress forge a winning alliance with the JMM and the RJD and wrested power from the BJP in the Assembly polls held in December. We are willing to walk that extra mile under Rahulji and are confident of wresting power at the Centre too,” said party’s Jharkhand working president and state’s spokesperson, Rajesh Thakur. Incidentally, the oldest political party of the country, the Congress seems to be divided into two camps, Gandhi loyalists and dissidents, during the ongoing Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday, where Sonia who took over as interim president after Rahul’s resignation, some 15 months ago, expressed her unwillingness to continue in her current post. State rural development minister and fourth-term Pakur MLA, Alamgir Alam who is also the Congress legislative party, emphatically stressed on reins being handed over to someone in the ‘Gandhi’ family. “If Sonia Gandhiji does not wish to continue as the interim president for whatever reasons, then Rahul should be made the president without much deliberation. We have seen what Rahulji has weathered in the last few years while going all out against a hostile ruling dispensation. He has shown the guts to stand up against BJP leaders and should continue to plan strategies for the party,” said Alam. Party’s lone MP from Jharkhand in the Lok Sabha, Geeta Koda (Singhbhum constituency) categorically wanted Rahul Gandhi as party’s president. “There should be no ifs and buts and Rahulji should be made party’s national president again after Soniaji’s resignation. One should not forget that it was due to the hard work of Rahul Gandhi that the party managed to wrest power in Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh and even in Madhya Pradesh. We need Rahulji’s leadership to upset the nefarious design of BJP,” said Geeta Koda. Former Union cabinet minister and three time MP from Ranchi, Subodh Kant Sahai, also pitched in for Rahul. “Sonia Gandhi’s ability, capability, visionary leadership is unparalleled but unfortunately her health does not allow her to lead the party. Rahul Gandhi is fighting tooth and nail with Narendra Modi and he is the only one in the country who is giving a straight fight to the PM. Rahul Gandhi should lead the party without hesitation. “Only under his leadership Congress can fulfil the task to carry the entire opposition to save the nation and Constitution,’ tweeted Sahai on Sunday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Puri denies sale of century-old dharamsala||The Puri district administration has denied that a portion of the premises of Puri town’s lone government-owned lodge for pilgrims has been sold to six private hoteliers, as alleged by some social activists and the BJP. It has said the plot — making up 12 per cent of the century-old Bagala Dharamsala’s premises — is being used to rehabilitate the Jagannath temple sevayats (servitors) and some others whose houses and shops were demolished to beautify the shrine’s surroundings. A demolition drive was recently undertaken to clear areas within 75 metres of the temple to create a heritage corridor. The dharamsala, which provides cheap accommodation to pilgrims, is barely 300 metres from the temple. “It is wrong to say that the Bagala Dharamsala land has been sold to private lodge owners. The Dharamsala building has not been allotted to anybody (either),” the district administration said in a media release. “(Those) who have given away their land are mostly sevayats....” It said these people had responded to a government appeal and “donated” their land (on which their houses or commercial establishments stood) for the corridor project out of their “bhakti” (devotion) for the Lord. “The rehabilitation policy has been approved by the cabinet and (it) is being executed to ensure security of the temple,” the release said. It said that while the Bagala Dharamsala can lodge 200 pilgrims, the government is building a “pilgrim centre/ lodge with a capacity of 2,000 for poor pilgrims” and will create accommodation for another 8,000 in Puri. “Thus, the state government is in the process of almost increasing the poor pilgrim accommodation in Puri by 50 times, ie, from 200 to 10,000.” However, Jagannath Bastia, a social activist and journalist who has moved a public interest plea in Orissa High Court against the purported sale of the land to private lodge owners, accused the district administration of “trying to mislead public opinion”. “They have already executed the sale deed. I have documents to prove that. I will submit all the documents before the high court,” he said. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, who lost from the Puri Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 general election and has been protesting the alleged sale of the land, too refused to accept the administration’s version. “There is a big conspiracy. The bigger plan is to hand over properties worth crores of rupees to influential people,” he said. But Puri MP Pinaki Misra of the ruling Biju Janata Dal said: “Land has been allotted to those who had been staying within 75 metres of the temple for centuries.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Wi-Fi and new enclosures for Patna zoo||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday inaugurated Wi-Fi facility and new enclosures for various species of animals at Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, popularly known as Patna zoo, in the state capital. The Wi-Fi facility would facilitate the visitors to access free high-speed internet service, an official release said. The chief minister inaugurated a gharial enclosure, a rhino enclosure, a rhino conservation and breeding centre and a hyena enclosure, it said. Nitish and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi also planted a sapling near the rhino conservation and breeding centre. The gharial enclosure has been built at a cost of Rs 96.62 lakh with the help of Central Zoo Authority, the release said adding that 12 gharials — three males and nine females — have been kept at the enclosure where a visitor gallery is also being built. Similarly, a modern enclosure for double-horn rhinos, to be brought from Vietnam, has been constructed for Rs 100.7 lakh, it said. The rhino conservation and breeding centre is a first of its kind centre in the country, which has been constructed for Rs 538.74 lakh with the support of Central Zoo Authority. A total of 25 rhinos can be kept at the enclosure, spread at 3.5 acres of land. Currently, two rhinos — a male and a female — have been kept at the breeding centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Land rights: Minister Arjun Munda tweets about forest dwellers||A recent series of three tweets by Union minister of tribal affairs Arjun Munda, that his ministry, in consultation with the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, has decided to resolve the pending issue of land rights for forest dwellers has triggered a competition of sorts in Darjeeling hills with political parties busy trying to usurp the issue. In one of his tweets, Munda said that the distribution of “pattas” (secured land tenures or documents conferring land rights to a person) would be taken up immediately along with state governments. Now that the issue has taken centre stage, all political parties active in the hills want mileage before the Assembly polls on the issue that is crucial in the hills as those on the fringes of forests and tea estates do not have land rights, said a social scientist. Absence of land rights denies benefits such as access to home building loans from banks. The Centre in 2006 passed The Scheduled Tribes & Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, under which people living in forestland or using it for farming and any other purpose for a living, would get land rights. But in reality, many forest dwellers have no land rights. The first to react to Munda’s tweets was BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista who showed a letter he had sent to Munda on July 3 on the issue. “Since I got elected, I have been working closely on this issue and I have said forest villagers in the hills have not yet received land rights,” the MP said. The Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha is working on the issue and intends to put it on their agenda, hinted party insiders. Land being a state subject, ruling party Trinamul that earlier made attempts to foray into the hills and succeeded at least once — the party won the civic polls in Mirik in 2017 — is unlikely to let others take credit, observers said. According to them, for tea workers of the state who also demand land rights, the Mamata Banerjee government announced the “Cha Sundari” scheme this February with nearly Rs 500 crore to be spent on their housing. A social scientist in the hills said political claims and counter-claims apart, “how long will people wait?” The issue needed a resolution, agreed a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Narada: ED seeks bank details of TMC leaders and suspended IPS officer||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent letters to some Trinamul leaders and to a suspended IPS officer seeking details of their bank transactions and properties in connection with the probe into the 2016 Narada sting operation. Notices were sent to MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Aparupa Poddar, Sougata Roy, transport minister Suvendu Adhikari and suspended IPS officer S.M.H. Mirza. Mirza was the only person arrested in connection with the probe into the sting operation by Mathew Samuel, CEO of Narada, in which some people resembling Trinamul leaders and suspended IPS officers were seen accepting money from the journalist who posed as a businessman. Mirza was later released on bail. The ED, which sent notices to senior Trinamul leaders related to the probe in June, said they now wanted to examine into assets of these persons so that they could be booked for assets disproportionate to their income. The Narada tapes are under CBI scanner following a Supreme Court directive. Trinamul leaders said they expect such mails and summons from central agencies CBI and ED more frequently as the Assembly polls draw near. “Both agencies have been probing into this case for long and they are yet to come up with a charge sheet. The idea is to try and embarrass our leaders by pulling out dated cases,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea unions approach state, GTA to reopen Longview tea estate||Tea trade unions wrote to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and state officials on Monday, seeking intervention to reopen the Longview tea estate as workers continued their relay hunger strike for the sixth day. Trade unions affiliated to GNLF, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay faction) and Trinamul wrote to Anit Thapa, chairman of the BoA of the GTA, district administration and state labour department to end the stalemate over dues between Longview workers and management. “We sent letters seeking immediate intervention…we want operations to resume and workers’ dues cleared,” said Nima Lama, president of the GNLF’s Kurseong sub-divisional committee. J.B. Tamang, chairman of Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union, the Morcha’s trade union arm, visited Longview on Monday. Raju Bista, BJP MP of Darjeeling, also spoke in favour of talks to resolve the deadlock. Bista said: “Instead of engaging with workers and finding a solution to the crisis, the management closed down the garden. I request the Bengal government, the planters’ associations and the trade unions to facilitate talks to resolve the issue at the earliest.” Longview, 26km from Siliguri, produces orthodox Darjeeling tea. Some 1,200 permanent and casual workers work there. Since August 19, workers backed by unions launched a relay hunger strike for their dues, including a part of last year’s bonus. The management suspended work from August 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Students fast at Institute of Pharmacy for scrapping exams||Five fourth-year B.Pharm students launched an indefinite hunger strike at the Institute of Pharmacy here on Monday, demanding that their final exams be cancelled in the wake of Covid-19 spread and marks be calculated on the basis of their performances in previous papers. There are a total of 62 students in the final year course at the institute which is affiliated to the West Bengal University of Health Sciences. The varsity conducts B.Pharm course only at the Jalpaiguri institute. The final-year exams were supposed to start on August 18, but the students locked up the principal and other faculty members in offices. Hence, the varsity postponed the exams. The students said on Monday that more would join the fast in the days to come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||New Covid cases fewer than cures in one day||Bengal on Monday logged the highest number of recoveries in 24 hours, with 3,285, considerably higher than the new cases found in the same period, at 2,967, although chief minister Mamata Banerjee ordered the administration in the four districts adjoining the city to lower incidence rates. Prior to this, the most recoveries reported in a day was on August 10, at 3,208. Bengal now has witnessed nearly 1.42 lakh infections since the onset of the pandemic, of which 1.11 lakh are recoveries and 2,851 are deaths. Monday’s toll was 57, with 13 deaths from Calcutta and 12 from North 24-Parganas. The chief minister also pointed out the relatively high positive confirmation rates in the highly populous North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. Though Bengal’s average positive confirmation rate is 8.88 per cent now, North 24-Parganas and Howrah show much higher numbers of infection. With 700 new cases on Monday, North 24-Parganas now has 5,879 active Covid-19 cases. South 24-Parganas reported 158 new cases, with 1,721 total active cases. Howrah, with 104 new cases in the day, now has 1,528 active cases, and Hooghly, with 108 new cases, has 1,493 active cases. As she has been doing in the past, the chief minister stressed the need for the three Ts of testing, tracing and tracking, and social-distancing norms, as well as standard Covid-19 protocols. Sources said Mamata did not bring up Calcutta figures, because there have been clear signs of a turnaround in the city since August 9. The total number of active cases here fell from 7,041 to 5,691 on Monday. Calcutta reported 465 new cases, but 651 recoveries lowered the total number of active cases by 199. “She wants Calcutta’s neighbours to learn from its example and rein in the outbreak,” said a minister. “Recovery rates have also been high, which is good,” the chief minister said. Bengal’s overall recovery rate at present is at an all-time high of 78.46 per cent. Of the total 2,851 deaths in Bengal from the pandemic, 1,187 are from Calcutta and 659 from North 24-Parganas. The state government reported 2,483 deaths or 87.1 per cent as comorbid. Comorbidities are most often related to hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Bengal’s mortality rate now is 2.01, while India’s stands at 1.84 per cent. Calcutta’s is 3.23 per cent. Mamata also stressed the need to lower mortality rates in North 24-Parganas, now at 2.19, and Howrah, at 2.71. With 35,267 tests during the day, the total number of tests in the state rose to nearly 15.97 lakh, at 17,740 tests per million. Bengal also reported 35.57 per cent occupancy in 12,035 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 87 dedicated hospitals. Telemedicine consultation has been given to nearly 1.19 lakh people, including 4,612 people in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati to resume ‘essential services and student-related activities'||Visva-Bharati on Monday decided to resume “essential services” and student-related activities. The central university had earlier decided to close “indefinitely” after last Monday’s vandalism over the Pous Mela boundary wall. The decision to resume some of the activities was taken at an emergency meeting attended by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, principals, heads of departments, officials and directors. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar issued a news release that said employees and teachers would continue to “work from home”. as the campus was still “volatile” and the environment unsafe for women employees. Although the release did not list the “essential services”, it did shed light on the “services related to students’ interest”, such as the admission process, exams and online classes. These activities will resume. The news release added that the varsity would review the situation on August 31 and decide accordingly. Amid the pandemic, the normal functioning of the university will continue by “following the ministry of home affairs’ SOP, the news release said, referring to Covid safety protocol. Sources said varsity authorities were under “pressure” as the closure of the central varsity for an indefinite period did not go down well with officials at the Centre. Students’ organisations had also been protesting against the varsity’s decision to close the campus indefinitely. The SFI on Sunday had sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the varsity’s chancellor, and President Ram Nath Kovind, the visitor to Visva-Bharati, urging that the varsity activities resume. Referring to the vandalism and past “undesirable incidents on the campus”, the varsity stated that it would “issue a detailed description of why the construction of the fence/barricade/ wall was needed to protect and ensure the security of students...” On Monday, the BJP’s students wing ABVP protested against the allegedly Trinamul-backed campus vandalism last week. But ABVP also told the Visva-Bharati authorities not to discontinue festivals such as the Pous Mela, which the varsity had decided to discontinue at the executive council’s meeting in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Twelve bridges swept away due to rising water level ||Twelve bamboo bridges over the Kangsabati river for a stretch of 15km in East Midnapore have been washed away because of rising water level and discharge of water from a barrage at Mukutmanipur in Bankura. Around 50,000 residents of at least 100 villages on one side of the river now can’t access Panskura and Serampore on the other side following the destruction of the bridges last week. A wooden bridge connecting East Midnapore and West Midnapore over the Keleghai was also washed away last week. The bridge was at Sabang in West Midnapore. All political parties have appealed to the state government to build a new concrete bridge. Both the Kangsabati and the Keleghai had risen because of heavy rainfall triggered by a low pressure in Bay of Bengal. The villages cut off from the Panskura and Serampore towns include Prajabar, Saraighat, Raisahar, Paobanki, Domghat, Maguri, Uttarsai and Konchoki. Sources said East Midnapore district administration officials had provided canoes to the affected people to cross the Kangsabati while the bridges were being repaired, but the residents said still, it would take long time for commute. “We have to either wait for boats now or take 10-15km long detour on foot,” said one villager, referring to three concrete bridges near Serampore, Panskura and Harinarayan Chowk. “Besides, we have to trek through a lot of muck because our side of the river is not very developed,” he added. The district officials said other than the boats, no viable option remained for the affected villagers till the repairs got over. “The water level of the Kangsabati is higher than usual because of the weather and subsequent release of 10,000cusec water from the Kangsabati barrage last week. The bamboo structures could not withstand the force of the current. We are working to restore the bridges at the earliest,” said irrigation department executive engineer Anirban Bhattacharya. Residents of Sabang rued the loss of the old wooden bridge which acted as a link to Bhagabanpur and Moyna. “Over 10,000 persons are directly or indirectly affected. So, we are pleading chief minister Mamata Banerjee for a concrete bridge here,” said MLA Gita Bhunia. “Officials have already conducted a survey. We hope the bridge will be announced soon,” said Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Manas Bhunia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Malda policemen become crater-fillers ||A group of policemen and civic volunteers in Malda town on Monday took up the task of filling craters along a 10-km-long stretch on a state highway that connects the district headquarters to Manikchak block. The initiative, however, brought under scanner the role of the state PWD that is tasked with maintaining the highway. Policemen, including officers posted at Milki police outpost in Malda, along with volunteers, hit the highway with bricks, mortar and tools. They stopped at regular intervals, unloaded bricks and mortar, and filled potholes and craters that had come up on the highway these past few months. “The highway is at its worst now and minor accidents occur daily. Light vehicles such as two- and three-wheelers often lose balance and flip on one side or turn turtle after hitting the craters. The road is unsafe even for mid-sized vehicles,” said Badal Sheikh, a Milki resident. The highway, sources said, is 30km long, of which a stretch of 20km — between Amrity and Manikchak — is in bad shape. As policemen filled craters, they drew praise from traders and residents, and some volunteered to join the cops. Mohammed Monirul Islam, officer-in-charge of the outpost, explained their initiative. “Whenever a road accident takes place, it is our responsibility to see to it that the injured get primary treatment and that they are sent to hospitals. These days, minor accidents have become common along the highway. That’s why I took up the matter with my colleagues at the outpost and decided on primary repairs of one stretch at least so that the number of accidents falls,” he said. “Seeing us, some residents also joined us,” he added. Alok Rajoria, the district police chief, praised the policemen and volunteers. “We believe the road will be thoroughly repaired in due course, but what our men did on an emergency basis is laudable,” he said. Senior engineers posted at the state PWD (roads) department in Malda, when told about the initiative, refused to comment officially. “The work of repairing the state highway has already started from the Manikchak side,” said a PWD engineer who refused to be named . “It is our onus and proper repairs will be done soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata stresses transparency, welfare schemes and grievances in district review meeting||Mamata Banerjee on Monday laid emphasis on transparency in government projects, redress of people’s grievances and proper execution of welfare schemes at her first district review meeting amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister held the review meeting of Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas districts over video conference. Here is a sum up of the key issues raised by Mamata during the meeting she held from Nabanna. The chief minister first raised the issue of repeated breach of river embankments, which left hundreds of villages marooned in the past few days, particularly in South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas. “Some of the embankments, which were breached, have been repaired recently (after Amphan). Those who are doing it (the repair) should do it seriously. I would like to know the reason behind these (the breaches),” said Mamata. Sources said local people blamed the breaches on irregularity on the part of the authorities in carrying out the repair. In Bengal, repairing an embankment remains a political issue. Every time when an embankment is breached, it is alleged that the repair was not done properly by the executing agency but the authorities cleared their payment without raising questions. Mamata asked the finance secretary to ensure that agencies supplying bicycles under the Sabuj Sathi scheme took liability of the defective cycles for the next three years so that they could be replaced or repaired. There were complaints that the state government was supplying to students bicycles of inferior quality even though it had spent handsomely over the past few years under the scheme. The chief minister then said her government maintained transparency while battling the pandemic. “We have received little over Rs 150 crore in the Covid fund (where the state government appealed to donate) and we are spending the amount through finance department by maintaining transparency,” she said apparently to counter the allegations that funds were misappropriated while buying equipment and other items to battle Covid. Mamata laid stress on continuing welfare schemes and undertaking the pending schemes, which could not be completed because of the pandemic, immediately. The chief minister was visibly unhappy with the backward classes welfare department as it could not complete distribution of nearly 2 lakh bicycles though it was supposed to be completed by March. “I want the students to get the cycles as soon as possible. It is your responsibility to send the cycles to the homes of the beneficiaries as schools are closed,” she said. Mamata asked finance secretary H.K Dwivedi whether required permission had been given to the backward classes welfare department for procuring 2 lakh bicycles. As the finance secretary said the permission had already been given, she asked the department to complete the process at the earliest. The chief minister has also asked officials to ensure that students get scholarships on time even though schools and colleges are closed these days. The same missive was for old age pensions and benefits for tribal and Scheduled Caste populace. Mamata finally asked the officials to make necessary arrangements so that she could release all benefits — which are transferred directly to the bank accounts of beneficiaries — through a programme on Wednesday. Mamata directed the officials to address the grievances, which were lodged with the chief minister’s office and forwarded to them for necessary actions. “Some departments are not dealing with these properly. Departments like panchayat, labour, PHE and agriculture have not addressed many of the grievances forwarded to them,” said the chief minister. She said 95.7 percent of the grievances forwarded to officials had been addressed in Hooghly. Similarly, Howrah has addressed 95 percent of the grievances, North 24-Parganas 93.20 percent and South 24-Parganas 93.96 percent grievances. Mamata asked the officials concerned to address the complaints as soon as possible as people had expectations when they sent a letter seeking redressal of their problems. Sources said Mamata was depending heavily on addressing grievances as she had received feedback that this helped her regaining people’s faith at many places after the Lok Sabha polls where the ruling party in Bengal lost 18 seats to the BJP. “After the Lok Sabha polls, the grievance redressal cell was activated and it received more than 8 lakh complaints within one-and-a-half year. According to records, more than 90 per cent of the complaints were resolved so far. This has apparently negated the anti-incumbency wave to some extent. This is what the state agencies reported,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s jibe at PM CARES Fund||Mamata Banerjee on Monday lashed out at the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s PM CARES Fund, albeit without taking names, and rejected allegations from the saffron camp that purchase of equipment for Covid-19 management in Bengal was a “scam”. The Bengal chief minister said her government probed every allegation of graft from citizens and didn’t even spare senior officials or ministers, without any political interference. “Even once, did you try to find out? Where all the money was coming from… for buying the oxygen, the ventilators, the (high flow nasal) cannulas, crores and crores of masks, lakhs and lakhs of PPE (personal protective equipment),” she said at an administrative review meeting in Nabanna. “We had set up a Covid-19 fund, openly, with full transparency, we had said how much we got and where it is being spent… every paisa is being spent through the finance department. Over Rs 150 crore (received in donations),” added the Trinamul Congress chief. “But what the others collected, nobody got to know… with the Take Care fund…. Go, see yourselves in the mirror.” Although she did not take the proper name of the fund and steered clear of naming parties or people, it was clear that the chief minister was mounting an attack on Modi and his PM CARES Fund. The Prime Minister is the ex-officio chairman of the PM CARES Fund while the defence, home and finance ministers are the ex-officio trustees. Mamata had on a few occasions criticised alleged lack of transparency in the PM CARES Fund. Her attack on Monday came six days after the Supreme Court had upheld the validity of the PM CARES Fund, saying the mere fact that the administration of the trust was vested in trustees like the Prime Minister and his cabinet colleagues would not take away its public character and no budgetary allocation had been made for the purpose as it was purely “voluntary”. Mamata on Monday implied that those who had the PM CARES Fund to answer for should not point fingers at her government. “Nobody should ask where the state government is buying masks from,” she said, apparently dismissive of an allegation raised by Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Twitter, which was picked up by the saffron camp for noise on social and mainstream media. The chief minister pointed out that the testing kits had been withdrawn by the Centre’s Indian Council of Medical Research, in April, because they were found to be faulty. “They were caught… fake, faulty kits. The ICMR withdrew them…. When they were caught, there must have been something behind them,” she said. “First, they should answer where these fake kits they bought were from. These things must be remembered,” she added. Mamata then reiterated Bengal’s demands for release of funds owed to it by the Centre, which she has repeatedly asked Modi for. “The Centre’s dues, Rs 53,000 crore… Rs 4,500 crore for GST. For Covid-19, where is the money? Has anything come? Those demanding answers, standing on the streets, some giving big lectures, if they stood by one Covid-19 patient and helped, that would have been something,” she said. “So many governments, of so many parties, in so many states…. Which other state government has been able to deliver what we have done, despite the pandemic and the super-cyclone?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||North East||Tea Board of India brews growth plan||The Tea Board India in association with the Indian Chamber of Commerce has initiated steps to boost the demand of tea from the Northeast in four Indian states with lowest consumption — Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. The Tea Board-ICC combine has already organised a virtual B2B meet on August 18 with the focus on Uttar Pradesh to develop networking opportunities and generate business leads for tea sellers of the Northeast. The overall objective is to “convert” low-tea drinking states of India into promising markets where the potential for consumption of tea is high. The webinar “succeeded” in attracting wholesalers and retailers from Uttar Pradesh and NCR so that they could “engage in hard core business” with the sellers from the Northeast. “This was an effort to increase demand for tea from the Northeast, including Assam, and making their true and genuine taste, flavour, aroma and health-giving properties available in the non-tea growing states having low per capita consumption such as Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha, which has been envisaged to be crucial for survival of the sector,” the Tea Board said. The webinar saw the participation of ICC chairman (Northeast) M.K. Saharia, Tea Board chairman and ICC co-chairman (Northeast) P.K. Bezbaruah, Tea Board deputy chairman P.K. Sahoo; Tea Board executive director (North East Zone) Sanjio Kumar and commissioner & secretary (Assam government) Dr K.K. Dwivedi among others. The B2B meeting was also the first in a series to be organised in the four states as part of an attempt by Tea Board India to aggressively promote north-eastern tea brands in the domestic and international markets. “Further, tea is the official state drink of Assam, which is going to complete 200 years of its existence in 2023 and this message will be widely circulated in every possible manner,” the Tea Board said. Dinesh Bihani, secretary of Guwahati Tea Auction Buyers Association and a participant at the webinar, hailed the Tea Board’s initiative. He said another round of virtual meet would be held on September 16 for traders and  associations from Bihar and Jharkhand. “According to data, UP, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand are India’s lowest tea-consuming states. Karnataka is the other state with low consumption. We are hopeful that at least an additional 50 million kg of teas from the Northeast will be sold because of the Tea Board’s effort. The people of these states will get to taste quality Assam tea, which has bright liquor and good taste, unique in the world,” Bihani said. The Northeast produces about 747 million kg tea per annum, around 53 per cent of the India’s tea output of 1360 million kg a year. Producers from Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura took part in the webinar along with 15 members and traders of Uttar Pradesh Tea Merchant Association. The participants did their bit in hard-selling Northeast tea. Sahoo stressed the need to popularise the “world famous” Assam Tea because  it is not simply a drink made from some green leaves, but a “healthy beverage for human life”. His colleague Sanjio Kumar invited buyers from UP to form a group and undertake a visit to the Northeast to explore business opportunities, which the Tea Board could facilitate. A senior Assam bureaucrat said the Assam government was coming up with special packages for the tea planters producing speciality tea like green, organic, white, yellow and pink tea, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
25-08-2020||North East||Longest ropeway commissioned in Guwahati||The 1.8km Guwahati-North Guwahati ropeway across the Brahmaputra, India’s longest river ropeway, was commissioned on Monday, a development the BJP-led state government claimed was “another feather in the cap of the nation’s gateway into the Northeast”. The government hopes the river ropeway will not only boost tourism but also cut travel time between Guwahati and North Guwahati to just about 7.2 minutes, from about 30 minutes by ferry and nearly 75 minutes by road. Cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, during whose tenure as Guwahati Development Department (GDD) minister the project was initiated, and GDD minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya inaugurated the ropeway, which will operate from Kachari Ghat in Panbazar to the Dol Govinda temple in North Guwahati. Apart from the longest river ropeway, Assam also boasts of the longest bridge in the country, the 9.1km Bhupen Hazarika Setu, also known as Dhola-Sadiya bridge, in Tinsukia district. Inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 26, 2017, the Dhola-Sadiya bridge has not only cut travel time between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh by five hours, but has been a huge boost to tourism and trade. The much-delayed river ropeway, built at a cost of over Rs 56 crore, was initiated in 2006 and was ready for commissioning in 2019 but was held up by the anti-CAA protests and then the Covid-19 pandemic. An official statement said that “India’s longest ropeway over a river will connect Guwahati to North Guwahati and is another feather in the cap of the nation’s gateway into the Northeast” and that tourism in Assam and its capital will get a “major boost” through the ropeway project. “ Overlooking the beautiful Brahmaputra river, the 1.8km ropeway will facilitate passengers to cross the river, reducing the travel time by an impressive difference. Keep your eyes wide open and look out for Urvashi island and catch a glimpse of the Umananda Temple on Peacock island, built by Ahom King Gadadhar Singha, who was said to be a devotee of Lord Shiva,” the statement said. The ropeway will have two cabins and each cabin will have the capacity to ferry 32 passengers, including the operators. It can ferry 250 persons an hour, with one-way fare fixed at Rs 60 and two-way at Rs 100. However, only 15 passengers can avail of the ride one way because of the pandemic-triggered social distancing norms. The bi-cable jig-back ropeway has been constructed by Samir Damodar Ropeways Pvt. Ltd — a joint venture company between Damodar Ropeways and G.L. Construction, under the supervision of Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority. At 4km, the Auli ropeway in Uttarakhand is the longest ropeway connecting the hill stations of Joshimath and Auli. “ But this is the longest on a river,” a GMDA official said. Though the project cost was Rs 28.17 crore when it was approved on March 1, 2006, it suffered a huge cost escalation because work started only in 2009 with a 24-month completion deadline and then work was halted after the foundation of a post, which would hold the cable, tilted in the floods in 2010. However, work gathered steam from 2017. RITES Ltd is the project consultant. Gangloff Cabin, Switzerland is the cabin designer and supplier while the carriage and rescue system is by Garaventa AG, Switzerland, which also issued the safety certificate. The inaugural day saw at “least nine rides” for the guests, invitees, mediapersons and locals one of whom said that it was a great experience and hoped it will be professionally maintained, including the pricing and safety aspects. Safety is something which has to be ensured round-the-clock. All movements will be monitored on CCTVs, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
25-08-2020||Opinion||Stellar innings: MS Dhoni retires||Sir — On August 15, the former captain of the Indian team, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, took fans by surprise when he announced his retirement from international cricket (“Dhoni stumps all, goes with a song”, Aug 16). After Kapil Dev, it was Dhoni who gave India the World Cup after a drought of 28 years. His rise from being a railway ticket collector in Jharkhand to becoming the poster boy of Indian cricket may sound like a fairy tale but it was his hard work, dedication and perseverance that took him to such heights of success. He is the first and only Indian captain to have won the T20 World Cup, the ICC Cricket World Cup as well as the ICC Champions Trophy. Dhoni was an excellent player — he patented the helicopter shot — and had on many occasions changed the outcome of the game at the last moment. Under his captaincy, the team became a formidable force in international cricket. If Sourav Ganguly had iconic players like Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid and Virender Sehwag on his team, Dhoni had an equally formidable arsenal comprising Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina. Dhoni’s feats on the cricket field will continue to inspire generations to come. Aditya Mukherjee, Calcutta Sir — Not unlike the time he threw everyone by announcing his retirement from Test cricket on the evening of December 30, 2014, in Melbourne — the Board of Control for Cricket in India simply declared it through a press release — M.S. Dhoni has brought down the curtain on his international career on India’s 74th Independence Day through a simple post on social media. Coming after nearly 400 days since he played his last match for India, Dhoni’s departure caused people around the world to lament the end of an era in cricket. This young man from Ranchi, who made his one-day international debut in 2004, changed the face of Indian cricket with his calm demeanour, sharp understanding of the game and astute leadership qualities. Under his stewardship, India won the T20 World Cup in 2007, the Cricket World Cup in 2011 on home ground, which he spectacularly clinched with a sixer, and the Champions Trophy in 2013. He has been honoured with the Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and in 2011 he was awarded the rank of lieutenant-colonel in the Indian army. He leaves behind an incredible group of young players and will be remembered as one of India’s greatest sporting icons. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — M.S. Dhoni is not only a great sportsman but is also known for his leadership skills and his calm demeanour in the face of insurmountable odds; this earned him the moniker, “Captain Cool”. Much like Sourav Ganguly — he captained the first international match that Dhoni played — Dhoni, too, had an eye for talent. He motivated young team members with his extraordinary performances on the field and showed them how success can be achieved with dedication, discipline and hard work. In spite of his fame, he continued to be a humble individual throughout his cricketing career. We wish him the very best for his journey ahead. Nili Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The occasion of M.S. Dhoni’s retirement is a good time to thank the former Indian skipper for adding many memorable chapters to Indian cricket. Dhoni was a finisher and will be remembered as the mascot of “Middle India”. As young students, we watched an Indian team led by Dhoni win the 2011 World Cup. There was a frenzied admiration for Dhoni, especially his unique helicopter shot. His composure on the field was remarkable. His talent truly changed the game and led many people to fall in love with the game. Manzar Imam,Purnea, Bihar Sir — It was not a surprise that M.S. Dhoni, who has always been humble both on and off the field, would choose to announce his retirement from international cricket on Instagram with a few chosen words. The lack of fanfare sets him apart from others who would have taken this opportunity to draw the limelight. Dhoni’s fearlessness on the field, his excellent cricketing skills and the Indian team’s victory at the 2011 World Cup under his captaincy will always be some of the defining moments in the history of Indian cricket. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — A golden era of Indian cricket has come to an end with the retirement of M.S. Dhoni. Recently, while commentating for the match between England and Pakistan at Trent Bridge, the English commentator, Ian Ward, spoke about Dhoni with his colleagues, Nasser Hussain, Shane Warne, Michael Atherton and Wasim Akram. They showered praises on him, talking about his calm head and cricketing skills. Warne even went so far as to say that he was the best wicketkeeper-batsman of all time, comparing him with Ian Healy. Dhoni’s ODI average is above 50; this in spite of the fact that he came out to bat lower down the order. This speaks volumes about his power hitting. Everyone praised Dhoni for his temperament and counted on him to take India over the line at the last moment. Dhoni will be remembered as a true gentleman and the perfect brand ambassador for aspirational India. M.N. Gupta,Bokaro, Jharkhand Out of control Sir — While countries like Indonesia are expecting a baby boom with more people staying at home, others like Australia are facing a demographic downturn as people are unwilling to have children during the pandemic. But this is not as simple as it seems. Women in poorer nations have little control over their body; this crisis is exacerbated by the lack of access to medical facilities owing to Covid-19. Moreover, at a time when many people are unemployed, it is unlikely parents would be able to provide for unplanned children, leaving them vulnerable to malnutrition, neglect and abuse. Srestha Ray,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Mind and body: Anxiety and depression on rise||The elephant in the room cannot go unacknowledged. A study by the International Labour Organization has found that one out of two young people around the world is now subject to anxiety and depression. The findings are not surprising. Globally, the youth are being forced to confront an uncertain future because of disruptions in education and employment — access to education has become constricted and unemployment is rising on account of the pandemic. Ironically, measures to mitigate the threat of Covid-19 — social distancing norms, for instance — are adding to the burden on the mind. The public discourse on Covid-19 continues to view the contagion in physiological terms. Consequently, little is being said — or done — about its debilitating psychological impact, something that has been brought to light by the ILO survey. This anomaly is not unexpected. Mental health problems were already a major contributor to the burden of illness before the pandemic, with a third of all female and a quarter of all male suicides in the world occurring in India. It is true that India has taken some steps to address the rising tide of mental health problems. The government, for instance, provided online training to healthcare workers to address mental health issues; websites have also been set up to help those unable to cope with the psychological fallouts of the pandemic. But this may well be a case of too little, too late. There are three psychiatrists and even fewer psychologists per 1,000,000 Indians; digital illiteracy and patchy access to the internet mean that help, when available, may not reach those who need it. The roots of the problem go deeper. India passed its Mental Healthcare Act as late as 2017. The focus of this policy has been on a ‘bio-medical’ and reactive model of care, including clinical interventions and institutionalization of patients. Social determinants of mental healthcare are still ignored, as are the links between physical and psychological health — data show that loneliness can be as lethal as smoking. Daily attention to the mind’s health is as crucial, especially in India where mental ailment remains a deeply stigmatized subject. This is where education and awareness can play a constructive role. Regular counselling at schools and colleges — not just in privileged institutions — can ignite a culture receptive to the importance of the mind as well as the body. India at present spends a shocking 33 paisa for every mentally ill person per year. That may be the reason why the elephant in the room remains invisible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Ask again: Modi govt has no time for dissent||Fears of sickness, strangely enough, may incite stirrings of health. When many in India are disturbed by what appears to be an erosion of democratic principles and institutions, a debate about free speech seems to be developing too. The disturbance is not without cause. The Narendra Modi government has no time for dissent or criticism, although democracy evolves through difference. The Supreme Court did emphasize last month that the voice of dissent cannot be suppressed in a democracy. With this principle in view, however, the high court order staying the disqualification of 19 rebel Congress members of the legislative assembly in Rajasthan was upheld. Given that the actions of the rebel MLAs at that time threatened to overturn the elected Congress government, this interpretation of democratic dissent raised difficult questions. Those questions grow sharper when the cases regarding the right to freedom of speech that have come before the Supreme Court this year are studied. The rulings give the unfortunate impression that this freedom is more accessible to those defendants who defend the government while not so much to others. Arguments surrounding Prashant Bhushan’s conviction for contempt of court have further intensified the questions. Refusing to leave the debate to the knowledgeable alone, a Patna college seized the opportunity for a life lesson in constitutional values by setting its students an assignment to study and comment on the conviction. Most students upheld the freedom of speech and opinion, with some suggesting that courts should welcome criticism. A few, partly critical of Mr Bhushan, pointed out that freedom implies responsibility; a minority agreed with the judgment. This is not only an example of free expression of opinion, but also a method of making young people aware of values and their implications. As the principal said, dissent is not destruction — it is disagreement and should be treated as such. That alone marks the health of a democracy, not forms of social media that take sides. But the ethics of free speech are not easy to resolve. Does a publisher, criticized for bringing out a book supposed to be mischievously biased at a sensitive time, violate the right to free speech of its authors by withdrawing it? It will be a positive sign if the debate can continue without unseemly interventions from extraneous powers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Ground realities: The story of journalist Harish Chandola||Bored with his desk job, a young Delhi-based journalist thought of doing something extraordinary in 1952. He planned to go to Tibet with Indian border traders crossing the 19,000-feet-high Mana Pass. Adventure was definitely on his mind. But little did he know that he was going to witness something that would change the geopolitics of Asia forever. As armchair journalists and television anchors rule the roost, the story of the veteran journalist, Harish Chandola, reminds us of the rich rewards of being on the ground. Among the numerous anecdotes in Chandola’s highly readable memoir, At Large in the World, his visit to Tibet and a chance meeting with soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army are the most exhilarating. Tibet was simmering with political tension in the early 1950s. The Chinese army had arrived in Lhasa in 1950, forcing the 15-year-old Dalai Lama to flee. Chandola reached Badrinath; from there, he walked around three miles and reached Mana, the last Indian village. Traders from Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh gathered in Mana with mountain goats before crossing the Himalayas to reach Tibet. Chandola decided to accompany a salesman who had 1,500 goats. Chandola saw first-hand how the Indo-Tibetan border trade was carried out in one of the world’s most inhospitable terrains. Travelling for two days on foot, the team reached the Mana Pass. On the Tibetan side, Chandola noticed that the terrain was friendlier, with flatter elevation and grassy surfaces. Two days after crossing the Mana Pass, he reached the Tholing monastery in the Tibetan county of Zanda. Here, Chandola parted ways with the traders and headed northwards along the Sutlej towards Tibet’s border with the Xinjiang province of China. He obtained a lhamik — permit — from a local headman. An unsuspecting Chandola ran into the Chinese army at a place called Gar Gunsha. The soldiers were making bricks and drying them in the sun. An Indian journalist was the last thing they expected to encounter. They could neither let him travel further nor send him back because they did not want the world to know what they were up to. They detained Chandola in a small, dilapidated monastery. A young journalist looking for his first big break in the real world of news could not have asked for more. However, the sight of machine-gun toting PLA soldiers keeping an eye on him was unnerving. The Chinese interrogated him for days. They wanted to be absolutely sure that he was not a spy. Once they were satisfied, they let Chandola stay with them in their camps. He writes that the PLA soldiers played volleyball and sang songs hailing Mao Zedong. Once their food supply dwindled, they hunted wild donkeys for meat and fished in the Sutlej. Over two months later, Chandola was allowed to return to India. When he went to his office, his editor told him that they had thought he was dead. Chandola was itching to go back to Tibet using another route. In 1954, he went back with the border traders through the Kingri-Bingri Pass. This time, he saw a larger presence of PLA soldiers, more military outposts, and groups of Chinese men in blue uniform carrying shovels, axes and other construction material. Chandola found this unusual. Upon his return to India, he wrote about it in a national newspaper. The London-based Observer Foreign News Service bought the exclusive rights of the story and sold it to major newspapers the world over. A beaming Chandola met Indira Gandhi and told her about the suspicious presence of the Chinese men in uniform in western Tibet. He writes that Indira told him that her father had read Chandola’s story on a flight and refuted the report saying that the journalist must have been imagining things. A couple of months later, the world discovered in awe that the PLA was halfway through laying the strategically significant 1,700-kilometre highway connecting Lhasa to Xinjiang through Western Tibet. The rest, as they say, is history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Heart, not head||Sometimes I think we, the so-called educated Indian middle class, are inherently absurd when it comes to our interactions with Westerners, especially Anglo-Americans. There is the indiscriminate admiration for American or British leaders, there is the fawning, there is the sucking up to, the cringe-makingly desperate ‘Like me, please like me! Do you like me? Really really like me?’ Whether it’s Manmohan Singh saying to George W. Bush ‘India loves you’ or Narendra Modi hugging a Barack Obama who clearly wants to stay un-hugged and then simpering up to the miasma of smugness that is Donald Trump, we and our leaders debase ourselves in a heartbeat, repeatedly pawning our dignity for clinking small change when we come face to face with political figures from Washington or London. An appendage subset of this is the pulsating, almost orgasmic, excitement we reach when we come across someone of Indian descent who has either achieved something or attained some political power in Britain or the United States of America. It doesn’t matter which end of the political spectrum the desi in question comes from, whether they are called Patel or Sunak, Nikki or Bobby, Varadkar or Bharara — we ‘love’ them simply because they have some trace of our shade of brown. The widespread exultation at Kamala Harris being selected as Joe Biden’s running mate is the most recent example of this long-running strand of foolishness. The video-clip of Harris making dosa has gone viral; the fact that she used the word, ‘chitti’, in her speech at the Democrat Convention has caused digital upheavals; there is fierce debate about whether she projects her Tam-Brahm side enough or privileges her Caribbean side; there are analyses of what her elevation to vice-president (and, oh my god, if something then happens to the septuagenarian Biden, to POTUS!) would mean for India, for us, for each and every one of the 1.3 billion of us. There are a couple of things we need to remember about desi people who rise in transatlantic politics. Firstly, in order to make her/his way in the political jungle, the desi or half-desi woman or man would have necessarily broken out of whichever ethnic ghetto into which she/he was born. Put differently, nowhere in the US is the South Asian vote large enough for desi politicians to put their ethnic origins or acculturation front and centre; they would have risen precisely because they’ve been able to make people forget that they are of Tamil, Punjabi, Marathi or Gujarati descent. Secondly, the UK and the US (and one daresay Ireland and Canada) are still racist enough so that the degree of difficulty for any politician of colour is quite a bit higher than for someone who is of Caucasian descent; meaning, if you’re seeing a desi politician in the news, they would have had to prove themselves to their political party with extra levels of both efficiency and ruthlessness, qualities which will continue to operate when they are in power. Ergo, when such a politician assumes a position of power, do not expect them to pack special tiffin-boxes for India; in fact, expect the opposite, that they will feel the need to demonstrate to their team-mates in cabinet or the Congress or wherever that they are not influenced in any way when negotiating with someone of the same ancestry from what is essentially, a large, poor, pesky and problematic country on the other side of the world. Kamala Harris is a middle-of-the-road Democrat, only very slightly to the left side of that middle. By all accounts, she was a tough lawyer before she entered politics. As a district attorney of one of the most radical and ‘lefty’ areas of the US, she was seen as a conservative but mostly fair law official. As is natural, all sorts of people at both ends of the political spectrum were unhappy with her and this continued when she rose to become attorney-general of California. Besides her formidable, if debated, work record across her time as DA and attorney-general, Harris made the political connections and alliances that allowed her to take the leap to Senator in 2017 and then to a contender for the Democrat nomination in 2019. To look broadly at her record, the conviction rate for violent crime went up under Harris’s watch; she has been tough on guns and gun-related crime; she has been tough on domestic violence and crimes of prejudice against trans and LGBT people; some would argue that she led the way to the decriminalization of marijuana-possession in California; she has consistently been against the death penalty and has fought off pressure from police and political seniors to allow executions; most importantly (yet unsurprisingly for California), she opened up a whole department to investigate and prosecute environmental crimes. The Republican attacks that have begun on Harris predictably bring up her relationship with Willie Brown, who was California assembly Speaker when she began her career as deputy-district attorney in 1990, and they accuse her of being the worst of all ogres, a ‘Bay Area lefty’. Harris has been robust in laughing off all smears of having ‘slept her way to the top’ and her record bears her out. Even as her stances on gun-control, marijuana, gay rights and the environment mark her out as anathema to Trump’s ‘MAGA’ supporters, she is far from being a lefty by the exacting standards of Berkeley — her home — paras and various large pockets on the west coast and in New England on the other side of the country; here there are many who see her as an ambitious, police-loving, jail-filling politico. The cynical assessment is that Biden needed to get in a woman, that too a person of colour, to counter-balance his own iffy record with its accusations of sexual assault and stamp of white male privilege. Among proper American lefties, there is also regret that some combination of Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren has not been chosen to take the country towards the dawn of democratic socialism. We in India can take this record of nearly 30 years of outstanding service and make different kinds of khayali pulao as to what it would mean for us if the Biden-Harris ticket were to win the election and Harris were to become (presumably) an active vice-president, fully participating in the planning and execution of a Biden administration agenda. That pulao can become a biryani if we project ‘our Kamala’ as a future, properly elected, occupant of the Oval Office. These are all projections into the deep outer space of the yet-to-come, well outside the solar system of our immediate reality. What is crucial for India, for the subcontinent, and for the world is that the man currently squatting in the White House be forcefully evicted by the US elections in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Ailing Shibu Soren leaves for Delhi by Rajdhani Express||Rajya Sabha MP and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, who tested Covid positive last week, left for New Delhi on Tuesday evening by Bubaneshwar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express from Bokaro in a special coach that was attached to the train. The 76-year-old, who was admitted in Ranchi’s Medanta Hospital on Monday, will reach New Delhi on Wednesday from where he is scheduled to travel to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram by road, sources said. Soren Senior and his wife Roopi were kept in home isolation after testing positive for the virus. However, the Soren family decided to admit Shibu in Medanta Hospital as a precautionary measure on Monday. “Guruji undergoes his regular health check-up at Medanta in Gurugram. So, we decided to keep him under observation of doctors who have treated him so far,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. “A team of doctors will assist him during the journey to New Delhi and to Gurugram from there,” he added. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was busy supervising proceedings at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi, accompanied his father to Bokaro railway station from where the train left at 7.40pm. However, Hemant did not accompany his father and stayed back in Jharkhand. There were as many as 15 people, including a doctor, two medical attendants, a DSP and nine security personnel, his assistant and a close aide, who accompanied Guruji in the special AC First Class coach. Soren Senior boarded the train with the help of his attendants. Local officials, including Bokaro deputy commissioner and SP, were present at the station. A huge number of people, including JMM cadres and political leaders, had gathered at the station, making it difficult for officials to maintain social distancing. Hemant said after his father tested positive (on August 21), there was a backlog in his routine check-up for which he was being shifted to Medanta in Gurugram. “With your good wishes he will defeat Covid-19 and some back home soon,” the chief minister said and appealed to the gathering to follow Covid-19 protocols. “The government is taking all possible efforts to contain the Covid-19 virus,” he added. In Ranchi, Soren was treated by Dr Tapas Kumar. Doctors here found that his oxygen saturation level was 93. The former two-time chief minister has had a history of age-related ailments. He is also under medication for cardiac issues. A donor named Lalu Kumar Yadav of Jharkhand Police, who recently overcame Covid-19 infection, was scheduled to donate blood for Shibu Soren’s plasma therapy. However, the Soren family decided to shift him to Gurugram before the therapy could begin, doctors said. Coronavirus has infected members of the political fraternity across India, and Jharkhand was no different. State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and JMM’s Tundi legislator Mathura Mahto tested positive last month. Earlier this month, health minister Gupta, AJSU Party chief and former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto, and Congress party’s Mahagama MLA Deepika Singh tested positive for Covid-19. AJSU Party’s Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Ranchi MLA CP Singh were also found infected by the notorious virus. Chief minister Hemant Soren has been tested as many as thrice. But he has remained safe so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Lack of income pushes another barber to suicide||After a barber died by suicide in Khuntadih, another barber took his own life by jumping into the Subernarekha river. Jodhi Thakur (42), a resident of Kunj Nagar in Sonari, left his house on Friday afternoon, informing his wife Sarita Devi that he will return home soon. When he did not turn up, family members searched for him throughout Friday, eventually lodging a missing person report with the Sonari thana next morning. Family members received a call from the Sonari police and were asked to go to Ghatsila sub-divisional hospital morgue to identify a body recovered from the Subarnarekha river.  The family members rushed to the Ghatsila hospital morgue, about 50 kms away from the city, and identified the body. OC, Ghatshila thana, Ravi Ranjan said the body was found floating in the Subernarekha along Amiyo Nagar in Ghatshila on Sunday afternoon. "After recovering the body we got a post-mortem done, and it was found to be a drowning case in the initial autopsy report.  As it was an unidentified body, we kept it in the morgue for getting it disposed of after 72 hours, per protocol. In between we came to know that a 42-year-old man with a matching description was missing from Sonari area since Friday afternoon.  We then informed Sonari thana," Ranjan told The Telegraph Online. OC, Sonari thana, Renu Gupta said "from the preliminary investigation, it appears to be a case of suicide. We are still probing the case." The deceased used to run a salon at Panchavati Nagar in Sonari and would stay at a rented accommodation in adjoining Kunj Nagar.  As his salon, which was also a rented space, shut down since the past five months due to the lockdown, he had become penniless. Thakur’s wife Sarita Devi said they got their daughter married in January this year, having taken loans from the market and relatives. "We had planned to clear the loans gradually, but from April the lockdown began. The lockdown was lifted from other services, but it continues to be imposed on salons. As a result, the source of income stopped. We have not been able to pay the rent for the salon and also for the residence since the past four months.  Absence of any income was the main cause which led my husband to take such a drastic step.  He must have jumped into Subarnarekha from the Domuhahi bridge as it was hardly one km away from the house," she told The Telegraph Online. The barber community is in shock with two suicides in one week. SK Prabhat, secretary, Jharkhand Nai Jagruti Manch, has demanded the state government pay Rs 10 lakh to the family members of the two barbers. "After three months of lockdown, the state government opened up almost every business activity in June except salons. The state government hasn’t made any special provision for barbers, whose sources of livelihood have been depleted.  The suicides are a result of this," Prabhat said in a press statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri has had enough, residents want better civic amenities ||Residents of Sindri, one of the oldest industrial towns of the country, are fed up with the poor state of basic amenities, including regular disruption in power and water supply, bad roads and piles of garbage. Residents held a demonstration on Tuesday under the banner of CPI(M) in support of a 10-point charter of demands that include regular sprinkling of bleaching powder across colonies, immediate repair of over 80km of roads within the township, installation of street lights, regular supply of water and the renovation of the town’s only crematorium. A meeting of residents was also held under the chairmanship of former public relation officer of Sindri, Sewa Singh, who is also president of All India FCI VSS employees Association. They said it was hard to imagine that a Rs 6,500cr fertiliser factory is coming up at the site of the old Fertiliser Corporation of India (FCI) factory which closed down in 2002. President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce Deepak Kumar said Sindri used to be one of the best townships of the country during the heydays of FCI. “We would get water supplied five times in 24 hours and there was regular electricity too. It was also one of the cleanest towns,” he said. Kumar, who is also the president of a citizens’ organization called Sindri Bachao Morcha, said things turned bad after the factory shut down in 2002. “Things have turned worse as Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC), which came into existence more than 10 years ago, could barely manage to maintain water and power supply,” he said. Dhanbad corporation was no longer able to execute cleanliness drills because of which Sindri town had turned into one big garbage dumping ground. “This adds to the risk in the time of a pandemic. And organisations like FCI and DMC are busy blaming each other,” he added. FCI general manager Ravi Kant Prasad said, “Since DMC is collecting taxes from households and operating here, road repairs, cleanliness and installation of streetlights are its responsibilities. We, on the other hand, are looking after water supply and general maintenance.” Executive officer of DMC’s Sindri circle Mina Minz blamed the people of the town for littering the area. “Garbage is being collected by a Hyderabad-based agency, Ramky Enviro Engineers, as a part of a solid waste management project. But lack of awareness among people is also responsible to an extent for the town remaining dirty,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Finally, Atal vendors’ market to open from Wednesday ||Atal Smriti Vendors’ Market, home to over 500 small traders selling everything from shoes to stationery items and cosmetics, will finally reopen from Wednesday after having stayed shut for five months ever since a lockdown was imposed in the state to stem the spread of the coronavirus. While the state government allowed the gradual opening of almost all business establishments barring a few, the vendors’ market near Jaipal Singh Stadium continued to remain under lock and key adding to the woes of traders. They have been holding protests ever since, the last time on Monday when some vendors staged a dharna near the market complex displaying empty plates to signal their family’s hunger at a time when earnings have dried up. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargiya announced on Tuesday that they would open the market from Wednesday. “We got a nod from the district administration on Tuesday, but a host of dos and don’ts will have to be followed as safety precautions. All vendors including visitors to the market will have to mandatorily comply with the prescribed norms such as maintaining proper physical distancing, use of masks and sanitisers at every shop, maintaining hygiene in and around the complex, among others,” he said. Since morning, RMC deployed about half a dozen workers to sanitise the area while technicians were busy installing/repairing CCTV cameras at the market where more than 500 big and small vendors sell items ranging from footwear to stationary, home décor, blankets, cosmetics and clothes. Md Kalimuddin, a vendor who sells footwear, said, “We are happy to resume business from Wednesday. In the last five months, we have suffered a lot. While roadside vendors in other parts of the city went about their business about a month back, we were forced to keep our businesses shut as this market was closed and all our stocks were inside.” Raju Gope, a blanket seller, added that although he began selling his products on a road near Kutchery Chowk it didn’t yield much because of various issues.  “One can’t directly set of up shop on the roadside anywhere as existing sellers in the area tend to create lots of problems. Moreover, during rains, doing business on the road isn’t easy. At the vendor market, I have a dedicated place to sit,” he said, hoping to witness business normalcy soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||This senior citizen runs for passion, this time it’s for Covid ||Come Sunday Achinto Pramanik will once again prove that is age only a number when it comes to stamina and endurance. The 67-year-old resident of Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan, who has proved his mettle in National Masters Athletics Championships on more than one occasion, will lead a 20-member team to run all the way to Deori temple on the Jamshedpur-Ranchi stretch of NH-33 on Sunday, August 30, to spread awareness on  Covid-19. “We are all fitness enthusiasts, and we have chosen the run to spreading awareness about the coronavirus pandemic and the dos and don’ts that need to be practiced to stay safe,” Pramanik said. The sexagenarian said the run was being organised by the Gamharia-based Adventure Athletics Group (AAG). “We thought of organising the relay run at a time when our country is in the grip of a deadly virus. We will distribute masks and pamphlets to people on the way to the temple,” Pramanik, who happens to be the secretary of AAG, said. The pamphlets, he explained, would mention Covid-19 dos and don’ts, including the need to use sanitisers, wash hands, wear masks, maintain social distancing, avoid crowded places. “We decided to do our bit for an important and relevant cause,” he added. According to Pramanik, the participants of the event will run on a rotation basis. “We will be heading to Deori temple by pillion riding 10 motorbikes. “A participant will run for 5km while the other would drive the bike and vice-versa,” he said, adding that they would start at 6.30 am. The AAG has also organised similar runs to Calcutta, Puri, Rajrappa, Dalma hills and Hathikheda temple in East Singhbum to spread awareness about pollution, cleanliness and environment. Pramanik’s daily fitness regime includes a 20-km run, gym visits, besides trekking the Dalma hills periodically. Running comes to him from within and, except for the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown, Pramanik has seldom skipped running. He secured first position in the 25-km run under-65 and above age category at the fifth edition of Tata Steel Kolkata 25k run-a-thon in December, 2018. The lanky athlete finished the race in 2:09:15 seconds to walk home with a medal and Rs 20,000 cash prize. He has also claimed a gold (200m steeplechase), silver (800m) and bronze (1500m) at the national event held in Panjim, Goa in 2015. He also slotted home three golds (200m steeplechase, 800m and 1500m) and a silver (4x400 m relay) at the national meet held in Hyderabad in 2017. The master athlete runs a grocery shop near his home and lives on a frugal diet. He has missed representing the country in international masters’ athletics competitions for not being able to find a sponsor. Yet, he continues to participate in national events and win medals for Jharkhand. “It doesn’t matter that I have not represented my country but I will continue to pursue my passion. Besides winning medals in national competitions, I will continue the exercise for a cause. The relay run to Deori temple is also an effort for a cause,” Pramanik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Over 3,600 policemen infected, 7 dead in three months in Jharkhand  ||As many as 3,640 cops, including three SPs, have been found Covid-positive in Jharkhand so far and seven of them could not survive the infection, officials from the police headquarters in Ranchi said on Tuesday. As per figures with the police headquarters, drivers account for more than 60 per cent of the total Covid cases reported in the police department. At least 2,463 of the 3,640 infected policemen were drivers, officials said. Constables form the largest ratio of infected cops after drivers. As per police data, at least 408 constables, 118 grade four staff and 49 Home Guard personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, forcing the department to take precautionary measures to prevent further spread of the virus among cops and commoners who come in contact with policemen. IG (provision) Suman Gupta said that instructions had been given to all SPs to ensure proper treatment of the infected cops. “We have set up a dedicated isolation centre for policemen in Ranchi’s Visthapit Colony, where their health is regularly monitored. These policemen are also served nutritious food and administered medicines regularly,” said Gupta, who is the spokesperson for Jharkhand police. Several police stations across the state, including five in Ranchi alone, were sealed since June after cops started testing positive for the SARS-COV-2 virus. The first policeman to die of Covid-19 infection was a 50-year-old sub-inspector from Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) in Ranchi, who was diabetic. Since his death on July 26, the police department has lost six more personnel to the virus. “There is no officer ranked personnel among the seven policemen who died of the viral infection,” said Gupta, adding that all the deceased were above 40 and suffered from some or the other comorbidities. There are more than 1 lakh policemen in Jharkhand, and the department has kept a team of cops in reserve to perform the duties of those who are infected. “Our men are working in the field every day and getting infected while performing their duty. We are taking all necessary steps to minimise the spread of the coronavirus among policemen on duty as staying at home is not an option for us,” said Gupta. As per data with the police department, the recovery rate among cops is better than Jharkhand’s all-round Covid recovery rate of 67.56 per cent. Out of the 3,640 cops who were infected, at least 2,761 have recovered and not reported any symptoms of a relapse or subsequent ailments. There were 872 active cases of infection in the department when this report was filed on Tuesday. In wake of the rapidly growing infection in the police department, the government had on July 13 sanctioned Rs 33 lakh to buy protective gear for policemen on duty. All policemen in Ranchi and other major cities of Jharkhand were provided with face shields, which provides better protection than masks, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jackichand happy to play for a football loving city like Jamshedpur||The steel city seems to have caught the imagination of Jackichand Singh, one of the prized acquisitions of Jamshedpur FC. The 28-year-old star winger, also known as Jacki, will miss the fans in Jamshedpur this ISL season but promised to meet them next year when hopefully the Covid pandemic would be a thing of the past. The cash-rich tournament will be played in Goa in November this time. “Jamshedpur has a good football history. People love football there. Tata Football Academy has been in Jamshedpur for over 30 years now and I hear there is a tournament named JSA (Jamshedpur Sporting Association) league that has been there for over 75 years. And I remember, when I was playing for FC Goa and used to visit Jamshedpur, the fans would come to watch training and chant my name. I am very keen to visit the place but the situation does not permit me,” Jackichand said. Speaking on the phone from Keikol, his village in Manipur, the winger said Jamshedpur FC is very hungry to get to the play-offs. “I am going to give it my all to reach that stage. This year the tournament is happening in Goa and so I won't be able to see the fans. But hopefully this Covid situation will be over by next year and I will be able to see them then. I will really miss the fans.” he says. On Jamshedpur not being able to reach play-offs for the past three seasons and whether the scenario will change with his joining the squad, Jackichand said: “ Yes, I absolutely hope so. And even though JFC haven’t reached play-offs, they did always have a good team. I feel in the last two years with FC Goa, I have faced Jamshedpur multiple times and they always gave good competition, except for the last match where Goa beat them 5-0. JFC have won twice, drawn one and lost one when I was with Goa. My aim is to ensure we will be even better than this year.” On the story behind his name, he said his parents were fans of actor Jacki Chan and that’s how they kept his name. “Even I didn’t know this till I was 13. I was playing Subroto Cup under-14 and during an interview, the media asked me to call and ask my parents the reason behind my name and that is when they revealed that it has been kept after the legendary actor,” the international recalled. On being asked if it is difficult for him to stay away from his family most of the time, he said, “Yes, it is difficult but now I am accustomed to it. It’s been like this since I was a teenager playing in Armed Boys Sports Academy in Shillong. Being away from family would make me feel alone and it was difficult. But as I grew and became a professional, the situation improved and I started accepting this,” Jackichand said. Asked what he does when he is not training, he said: “ A long time back, a coach told me that you train for two hours a day only but you also have to take care of yourself for the remaining 22 hours of the day. I still follow this rule. I keep a check on what I eat, on my post-training recovery, gym etc. Of course, when I am at home, some eating restrictions automatically go for a toss but otherwise, during the season, the diet and nutrition is very strict. In the past few years, our country has seen a good amount of scientific work going into helping athletes perform to their best by eating and living a healthy lifestyle.” On leaving Goa, Jackichand said it was a personal decision. “They (Goa) were successful and will be playing AFC Champions League and I wish them the best for that. I joined JFC because I have been given a great review about the city in terms of football. It’s a proper football city. The people in Jamshedpur live and breathe football. The facilities are amazing and the weather is perfect for the game,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||21-year-old shot dead in Hazaribagh||A 21-year-old youth was shot dead on Sunday night in Kasiyadih village of Katkamsandi block in Hazaribagh. Nikki Pandey went to the market to purchase groceries in the evening at around 7pm. His parents kept waiting for him but he didn’t return till 10pm. At 10:30pm, his father accompanied by local villagers started a search for him. Soon they found his dead body lying in a pool of blood near a crematorium, a kilometre from the house. Police was informed after which the dead body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Police team visited the spot in the morning. An assistant sub-inspector who was on the spot said three bullets pumped by the killers into his body, one in head and other two in stomach. According to him, circumstances confirmed that Nikki was killed when he was on way to his house from his bike. Officials said the way Nikki was killed suggested some serious issue between him and the killers. Police are working different angles. Chalkusa police found the dead body of a 25-year-old on Monday morning. Ramjanam Singh was a resident of Jai nagar in Koderma district. Police said his face has serious injuries indicating that he was murdered. Police said they were trying to establish contact with his parents after which investigation will move ahead. The dead body was sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital for postmortem. Mohammad Junaid, 13, committed suicide on Monday evening in his house at Chudihar mohalla of Chatra town. Junaid's father Mohammad Abadullah Ansari is a para teacher. Junaid's mother went into his room at 8pm after he didn't reply to her call and found him hanging from the ceiling fan. Junaid,was taken to Sadar hospital but he was declared dead on arrival. Family members said they have no idea as why he committed suicide. BJP leader Sunil Ram died in a road accident while returning to his residence in Telaiya town on Sunday night. Ram was in the stone chips business in Koderma. Police officials said he was returning to his Bishunpur residence at around 11:30pm when his car overturned at Maheshpur chowk. Locals pulled him out of the car and took him to Parvati nursing home. Doctors declared him dead on arrival. BJP district president Nitesh Chandravanshi termed his death an unfortunate incident and a loss to the party. He was a nice man and a social worker beside an active leader of the party, he added. Godda police is yet to achieve any breakthrough in connection to the rape and murder of a 14 year old deaf and mute girl Balbada police station area. The victim’s body was found on Sunday morning from a government school campus in Simanpur village. Godda SP Y.S. Ramesh said that investigations were underway and they are taking help from forensic experts to crack clues to nab the culprit. He however said that four persons have been detained on Sunday night on initial suspicion and questioning is underway. “The case will be cracked soon,” he said. Altogether 71 persons were discharged today from different Covid Treatment facilities of Dhanbad including 39 from dedicated Covid health centre at zonal training institute of railway at Bhuli, 31 from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad and 1 from Jagjivan Nagar. The discharged persons will have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. A CBI court on Monday provided relief to former Urban Developement Minister of Jharkhand Bachcha Singh  in connection with a case of forcible release of his younger brother, Ramadhir Singh from police Custody in Jharia. Bachcha Singh, who was then Urban Developement Minister of Jharkhand forcibly released Ramadhir Singh when a Police team arrested him from trade union, Janta Mazdoor Sangh office of Jharia in2003 in connection with the murder case of a coal trader. The CBI court while hearing the appeal of Bachcha Singh, quashed an earlier order of the Court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate of Dhanbad of Shikha Agarwal of March 20 which awarded him one year of rigorous imprisonment.  Singh was on bail in the case. The court however could not provide relief to Ramadhir Singh who was also awarded the same punishment by same court. Ramadhir is already serving a jail term for the last three years in connection with the murder case of trade union leader, Vinod Singh in Hotwar Jail. Supporters of Janta Mazdoor Sangh (Bachcha Singh faction) and Baghmara MLA, Dhullu Mahto on Monday clashed at View Point Coal Patch of private mining company Dhansar Engineering Company. The incident took place over the issue of war of supremacy. Janta Mazdoor Sangh has called for a bandh in the mining patch while Dhullu Mahto supporters were demanding uninterrupted operation in the Colliery. Baghmara DSP, Nitin Khandelwal who reached the site said "some gunshots were fired from both the sides but nobody was injured in the incident and our priority at present is maintaining  normalcy”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
25-08-2020||Jharkhand||Push for tribal languages in Jharkhand||Intellectuals have welcomed the move of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren to seek the inclusion of three major tribal languages of the state in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Soren wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday requesting him to include Mundari, Ho and Kurukh languages spoken by Munda, Ho and Oraon communities respectively, in the Eighth Schedule. Jharkhand has already recognised them as second official languages of the state and is committed to their development, Soren said in his letter. Among the four major tribal languages of the state, Santhali, which is also spoken by the Santhal community in other states such as Bengal, Odisha and Assam, was included in the Eighth Schedule in 2003. “Inclusion in the Eighth Schedule gives a language a national status that helps in a number of ways,” said Hari Oraon, head of tribal and regional languages department of Ranchi University. “Once a language is included in the Eighth Schedule, the Sahitya Akademi also recognises it and promotes literary activities in that language, besides giving awards that helps in creation of good and recognised literary works,” he said. “Once done (including the languages in the Eighth Schedule), the youths of the state who aspire to join civil services are also likely get a chance to opt for one of these languages as a subject in the UPSC examinations,” he added. “The scope for children to continue studies in these languages will increase significantly, facilitating chances for educated youths to get employed as teachers in these languages, as it happened in the case of Santhali,” said Krishna Devgam, a Chaibasa teacher who speaks Ho. “Yes, recognition surely helps promote good literary works. I wish these languages were also included in the Eighth Schedule," said Madan Mohan Soren, a Santhali writer and a member of the Sahitya Akademi. “The Akademi offers four literary awards every year and that certainly encourages the writers,” said the Jamshedpur-based writer. The awards are given for overall best literary work in the language, best work by a young writer, best translation work and best children’s literature, he added. “Inclusion of these languages in the Eighth Schedule will help the tribals shrug off the feeling of backwardness and instil in them a sense of confidence,” said Mahadev Toppo, a Hindi writer who speaks Kurukh. “By not pursuing studies in their mother tongue, the tribals have been mostly alienated from their own languages,” he said, adding the recognition of a scheduled language will immensely help in the revival of tribal culture. “Now many have started appreciating ethnic dresses and tribal food habits,” Toppo said. “More such things would flourish when the traditional wisdom of the tribals spread in their folktales and folklores are revealed through research and publication in their own languages,” he said. Asked why the second official language status in the state could not yield the desired results in promoting these tribal languages, the intellectuals said some progress has been made but there could have been a gap in planning and its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-323
