26-08-2020||Calcutta||Online, nursery kids open up to school heads||The online interaction for admission to nursery has become a more informal and comfortable experience for children as parents log in from their homes, heads of several schools said. Many parents are getting the opportunity to log in from other countries, cities or their offices in the same city, the heads said. Some of the heads who have been conducting such online interactions for two or three-year-olds have felt that children are “at ease” because they are in a familiar space and at times “more responsive” than they would be during an interaction on the school campus. In the principal’s office they are intimidated by the “foreign environment” but in their homes they are jumping on the bed, bringing their toys to show over the screen and running across the house with their mothers following them with phones, at least heads of two schools said from their experience of conducting the interaction online this year. In one school parents have “bribed the child” with a chocolate to make him sit and the interaction was conducted in between mouthfuls of chocolate. There have been instances of parents preparing themselves while in the waiting room, applying make-up and adjusting their hair and completely unaware that they have already been let in the meeting room. Calcutta International School, South Point, Indus Valley World School, South City International School are some of the schools conducting online interactions at present. Many more will start in September. “When we planned we didn’t realise what the interaction would be like; but it has been a heartwarming process so far. Children look more comfortable and at times more responsive than they are when they attend the interactions in school,” Dalbir Kaur Chadda, principal, South Point School, said. In one of the interactions at South Point, the grandparents joined and the school did not object to it. “They were curious to know how the interaction was being conducted and we did not object because they did not interfere,” Chadda said. Often, the big school gates, the waiting time or moving from one room to another can be intimidating for the child, a teacher said. “Our interactions have been informal always but the big difference is that the school is an unfamiliar environment for the child. The nature of the questions have not changed and we ask them to point out objects or pictures on the screen but the comfort level of the child is more because they are in a familiar terrain,” Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School, said. To give the interaction more structure Calcutta International School communicate to parents beforehand a set of things that they have to keep with themselves before the start of the interactions. It includes stationery such as a set of crayons, drawing book and blocks. “These are aids used during the interaction. We observe the child’s behaviour, which gives us an insight into the family and how the family is dealing with their behaviour,” Farishta Dastur Mukerji, psychotherapist and counsellor at Calcutta International School, said. Online interaction gives children an edge as they are in their own territory, Mukerji said. “There is no separation anxiety for the child. For children as young as three or four they often end up crying when separated from their parents, all of which is now taken care of,” Mukerji said. The online interaction allows parents to join the interview from other countries, too. “We have had parents logging in for the interaction from abroad. For one child, the father was in Mumbai, the mother in London and the child is here with grandparents. Even doctors have attended the interaction before going for a surgery,” Chadda said. South City International School has been helping parents who are abroad. “We have scheduled interviews taking into account the time lag between countries because parents are abroad,” principal John Bagul said. This generation is hooked to devices and their responses are quick, Bagul said. “There is no hesitation while they interact.” In the past few months many children have been making video calls to other members of the family, which perhaps familiarised them with the new mode, a teacher said. “There are some who cannot perform to their actual ability because they are not exposed to the screen. The online interaction has been with known family members but for the school interaction they see new faces,” Mukerji said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Embodied kindness but knew when to be firm’||Mother Teresa used to say often: “Love one another as God loves each one of you.” On August 26, as the world celebrates Mother’s 110th birth anniversary, this is the message that we must carry in our hearts and live by. I first met Mother Teresa in 1985, when I was the commanding officer of the 1st Bengal Battalion of the National Cadet Corps at Jodhpur Park. From then till she breathed her last in 1997, I remained in touch with her. Service at the Missionaries of Charity is voluntary. Sisters from all over the world come forward to serve the great cause sacrificing personal comfort. My association with Mother allowed me a glimpse of how she bound the sisters in a well-knit family with the sole aim of serving humanity. “Families that pray together stay together,” Mother used to say. Mother was an embodiment of kindness but she knew when to be firm. I remember one occasion when I was accompanying Mother for an important work in Barrackpore. It was around 3.30pm and just as we were leaving Mother House, a sister came up to her and informed Mother that she had an appointment with a minister at 5pm the same day. Mother replied: “Please inform the minister that I am proceeding on an urgent work. If he could see me at 6.30pm.” The sister returned after some time and said: “But Mother, an appointment had been given to the very important minister.” Mother replied firmly: “I have told you, please convey that I can see him not before 6.30pm because of the very urgent mission of mine.” Mother Teresa was always sympathetic to the poor and took care to ensure they faced no difficulties under her care. Once while visiting a newly built section at Shanti Dan, the home for the destitute at Tangra, Mother spotted a broken door glass pane. She immediately instructed the sister-in-charge: “This broken glass can injure the inmates. Kindly get these removed and replaced urgently.” Mother Teresa was very practical and methodical in all her actions. It was this approach that helped her manage such a vast and spread-out organisation. My wife and I had made it a point to meet Mother Teresa on weekends regularly to seek her blessings and guidance. Mother had everything in abundance but she preferred to lead a simple life. She did not use a fan in her room, not even during summer. Mother once said: “You know, I was given thousands of saris in Singapore. How nice of them.” I asked her: “But Mother, you always wear old saris that have been mended all over with stitches.” Mother replied: “If I change my saris often, then I shall become rich.” Mother was forever down to earth. It did not matter whether she was in the company of kings and queens in palaces, or with the Presidents and Prime Ministers of the most powerful nations. She spent most of her time with slum-dwellers. She treated all the same way — greeting everyone, rich or poor, young or old, with her infectious smile and blessing one and all. It was not possible to fathom the extent to which she had touched the world with her kindness and benevolence. When she passed away on September 5, 1997, it seemed the whole world had congregated in Calcutta. Never ever have I seen such a gathering of delegates from all over the globe. They poured into Netaji Indoor Stadium to pay respects to Mother. Mother Teresa came to India and served the cause of the poor till her demise, inspiring millions to follow in her path. As we celebrate Mother Teresa’s birth anniversary, let us all remember her motto: “The fruit of silence is prayer. The fruit of prayer is faith. The fruit of faith is love. The fruit of love is service. The fruit of service is peace.” Let us all pray together that more Mother Teresas are born to continue her noble work that can bind the world as a common home. Pratapaditya Mazumdar is a retired army lieutenant colonel||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||‘She continues to live in the hearts of her sisters, followers’||August 26 2020 is Mother’s 110th Birth Anniversary. I am fortunate and blessed to share my birthday with her and with Archbishop Thomas D’Souza of Calcutta. Mother’s favourite words have always inspired me: “The fruit of silence is prayer; the fruit of prayer is faith; the fruit of faith is love; the fruit of love is service and the fruit of service is peace.” In August 1990, I planned an article on ‘Jesuit Influence on Mother Teresa’, and I dropped in to meet her not knowing that she was in Retreat. She did see me. While I apologised for disturbing her, she just smiled and said, “I will always have time for Jesuits.” When she heard that I was from St. Xavier’s, she conversed with enthusiasm and advised me, “Being a priest is not enough, being a good priest is important…. The Jesuit vocation is very special. You are called to a great and cosmic spirituality. You are called to aim at nothing less than St. Francis Xavier….” Mother was a woman who spoke with authority and gentle yet firm conviction. It is said, ‘every beginning has an end and every end has a new beginning’. Mother is not dead; such a life cannot have a conclusion. She bridged the gap between life and death like Jesus Christ and her legacy continues to live in the hearts of her sisters and followers like me. Mother Teresa had habitually preferred Jesuits as Retreat Preachers, spiritual directors and confessors for herself and her Sisters. Many Jesuits of Calcutta Province, including Cardinal Trevor L. Picachy and Fr. Camille Bouche, were in close contact with her. Fr. Celest Van Exem was the earliest main advisor and supporter to Mother Teresa and for the foundations of the Missionaries of Charity, since her days as Loreto Sister. He was the spiritual director to whom Mother Teresa confided her inspiration and who first sought to discern the authenticity of her experiences. He was the first to support Mother in requesting Archbishop Périer to begin the process for her to leave the Loreto Congregation. He made major contributions to the writing of the Constitutions of the Missionaries of Charity. A less known fact in her life is that as the Missionaries of Charity flourished and gradually gained the attention of the world at large, Teresa progressed from confessor to confessor the way some patients move through their psychoanalysts. Fr. Van Exem gave way to Archbishop Périer, who gave way in 1959 to Cardinal Lawrence Picachy, who was succeeded by Fr. Joseph Neuner in 1961. By the 1980s the chain included figures such as Bishop William Curlin of Charlotte, N.C. For these confessors, she developed a kind of shorthand of pain, referring almost casually to “my darkness” or spiritual dryness and to God as “the Absent One”. There was one respite. In October 1958, she rejoiced, because “the long darkness or absence of God.... That strange suffering of 10 years” disappeared. She was confirmed that God ordained her Society, the Missionaries of Charity. Fr. J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Kolkata||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||City containment zone total falls to 11||The city has only 11 Covid-19 containment zones, according to a fresh list published on Tuesday. The previous list of containment zones had 17 places in it. The places present in the fresh list include two places each from Ballygunge, Barisha and Chetla. Two addresses in Queens Park are the two places from Ballygunge. The other places on Tuesday’s list are Burwari Tala Road in Beleghata, Mansatala Lane in Kidderpore, a stretch of Jugal Kishore Das Lane in the Amherst Street area and a stretch of Canal Circular Road. The list of containment zones is updated every three or four days. Places from where multiple infections are reported in the last 14 days are included in the list and old places are removed if no fresh case is reported from there in the last 14 days. Two places from Rowland Road in Ballygunge were among the places removed from the previous list of containment zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||Sunny day ends with rain in Calcutta||Bright and sunny, morning and afternoon; wet and breezy evening — this was most of Tuesday in Calcutta, just like Monday. A spell of heavy rain is in store post Tuesday midnight when a low-pressure area headed west will cross the city, a Met official said on Tuesday evening. “The low-pressure area had formed on the Bay of Bengal on Monday. It has gained strength and is now a well-marked low-pressure area. It is travelling westwards. It is expected to cross Calcutta around Tuesday midnight and trigger heavy rain thereafter,” the official said. Tuesday morning was hot and sunny. The maximum temperature was 34.8 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. The sky was clear for the better part of the day. As the system came closer, the clouds started gathering. The city saw the first spell of rain after 6pm. “The system had formed off the Myanmar coast, quite far from the city. Around 6.30pm on Tuesday, the system was more than 100km from Calcutta,” the Met official said. The system is likely to travel west, triggering heavy rain in Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura on Wednesday. “The weather in Calcutta is likely to remain cloudy for the first half of Wednesday. The sky will clear later,” the Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||CM’s fresh plea to PM on entrance exams||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the second time in two days on Tuesday, requesting the JEE/NEET exams scheduled for September be postponed because of “grave health risks”. On Monday, too, she had requested the Prime Minister to postpone the national entrance exams. “Today, our government has received a letter from the National Testing Agency to conduct the JEE/NEET exams starting from September 1. We are really worried and concerned,” she wrote in her letter on Tuesday. Referring to the Supreme Court’s verdict on approving the tests, Mamata said: “However I would like to request for your kind intervention and to consider the central government making an appeal to the honourable apex court to review its decision in the interest of the student community, so that they are free from mental agony and mental disaster. “I would request you to kindly appreciate the sensitivity of the matter and consider taking necessary action for postponing these examinations until the public health situation becomes conducive again.” The JEE-Main exams, through which students are admitted to engineering colleges, are to be held from September 1-6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which students are admitted to medical colleges, is scheduled for September 13. The National Testing Agency on Tuesday told the Bengal government about its decision to go ahead with the exams, a state education department official said. The agency apprised the government of the safety measures it has taken to protect students from any potential health risk, the official said. Exams will be held across eight cities in Bengal. The agency, which conducts all-India entrance exams such as JEE-Main, JEE-Advanced and NEET, has said that each candidate will be given a three-layered mask before he/she enters the exam centre. Also, each candidate will have to wash their hands with soap and water or clean them with sanitiser before entering the centre. Distancing rules will be followed while making seating arrangements. “But the health risk stems from the fact that candidates will have to turn up at the centres to write the test and any assembly during the pandemic poses a grave health risk,” the official said. “In her second letter, the chief minister has reminded the Prime Minister about her concerns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT students asked to sign undertaking||Students at IIT Kharagpur who are still on the campus had to sign an undertaking on Monday night that they would leave at the earliest, said a number of students. Many had to attach printouts of their air tickets with the undertakings to prove they were serious about leaving the campus, where three students have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past week. The undertaking was sought hours after a video emerged that purportedly showed an institute official, accompanied by guards, telling students at the Madan Mohan Malviya Hall of Residence to pack up and leave immediately, failing which their belongings would be taken away. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. These students said they could not leave for home earlier because of lack of transport in the middle of the pandemic. A student from a hill state said he had received a job offer in Bengal. “I felt it was unsafe to return to my hometown and then report for duty,” the student said. “We had wanted to leave when other IITs were vacating their hostels but were denied permission.” Another student said the authorities were “failing to realise that normal train services have not resumed yet”. Flights are irregular, too. Many of the students on the campus are from faraway states. “I had to give an undertaking to the warden that I would leave the hostel within two weeks and had to attach a copy of the flight ticket as a proof of my intention. Several others had to do so,” a student said. Another said the dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, was advising them to approach travel agents on the campus who were charging a premium. Many are worried that they would be quarantined for two to three weeks once they reach home. “We are not sure about the quarantine facility. These concerns would not have arisen had we been allowed to move out before the imposition of the lockdown,’’ he said. Dean Kumar said the students were expected to honour the undertaking. ’’We are asking them to leave for their safety,” he said. He denied that the travel agents were charging a pre-mium. “A few students may have genuine problems. But most stayed back because they wanted to use the Net connectivity on the campus. If most students could vacate the hostels by June 20, they should be able to leave as well,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||In gloom, idol hub mirrors financial doom from Covid||Tapan Rudra Pal is no longer in a hurry and finds time in the afternoons to sit for lunch. Till last year, with less than two months till the Puja, the artisan at Kumartuli would be forced to skip lunch. With rows of idols waiting to be readied and labourers moving around in a frenzy inside his studio, Pal could squeeze out just enough time for a cup of tea. This year it’s different. Puja is less than two months away and the idol-making hub in north Calcutta, which hums with action in the run-up to the festivity, is plunged into gloom. As orders for Durga idols have sharply declined compared with previous years, most studios are empty and the usual rush to meet deadlines is missing. Artisans believe the Covid-19 blow has landed them in the worst financial crisis in at least five decades. Kumartuli has so far received orders for Durga Puja idols worth less than Rs 15 crore, artisans said. Last year, it had received orders worth around Rs 50 crore. If the figures are correct, Kumartuli has garnered just 30 per cent of last year’s business. And last year wasn’t exactly great — several big pujas had to curtail their budgets as the economy was on a downward swing. “Last year was bad compared with previous ones. But nothing like this time. Organisers are not even turning up to book idols. The ones that are calling up are seeking idols for half the last year’s price,” said Babu Pal, the secretary of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sankritik Samity. “The organisers that had last year bought idols in the price range of Rs 60,000 to  Rs 70,000 are unwilling to pay more than Rs 25,000 this year.” Every year, over half of Calcutta’s 4,500-odd community pujas buy idols from Kumartuli. The bulk of the bookings are done by July, latest by mid-August. Committee members would turn up in hordes and scan idols across studios before placing their orders. The goddess would usually be at least 12ft tall. “This year organisers are looking for idols that are 6-7ft high,” said Kaushik Ghosh, an artisan, who was busy packing a two-and-a-half foot idol, the shortest by any standard, to be sent to Sweden. Fewer orders and shorter idols mean lesser work for assistants and helpers at Kumartuli, the bulk of whom are from Nadia, Howrah, East Midnapore, and North and South 24-Parganas. “Kaaj i nei (There is no work),” said Uttam Pal, a seasoned hand among the assistants. “I have been hopping around studios from Kumartuli to Ultadanga to Tollygunge looking for work. Ei somoy (this time, referring to the run-up to the Puja), bhabtey paren (can you imagine)?” In his 50s, Pal is from Taherpur, near Chakdaha, in Nadia. His daughter is pursuing BCom and son is in Class X. Pal is part of the 3,200-odd army of assistants and helpers that plays a key role in giving shape to idols. “These workers would get paid between Rs 10,000 and Rs 30,000 a month this time of the year, depending on their skill sets,” said Akhil Kumar Ghonta, of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Karigar Samity. Only around 700 of these workers are now engaged in Kumartuli. Many like Pari-mal Ranjit of Canning and Saktori Pal of Burdwan are sitting at home, counting days for the pandemic to come to an end. “We are surviving on the little we could save over the years,” said Dipankar Pal, a helper from Chakdaha. “There is no hope round the corner.” Apart from assistants and helpers, a large number of labourers would turn up at Kumartuli around the time idols were to be taken to pandals. Most of them are residents of the Sunderbans, Canning, Baruipur, Joynagar and their adjacent areas in South 24-Parganas. Each group of labourers would take Rs 5,000 from each organiser to carry the idols from a studio to the pandal and place them on their perch. “They would turn up in groups of 25-30 each and around 100 such groups would arrive at Kumartuli just before the Puja,” said Mintu Pal, an artisan. “They would stay back and return home after immersion.” This time, around six or seven groups have said they would come despite the risk of the coronavirus. The rest are not sure about what to do. Each artisan in Kumartuli depends heavily on different sets of people for their supplies of straw, mud, bamboo, dress materials and ornaments. Suppliers bring the items from East and West Midnapore, Burdwan, and North and South 24-Parganas. Bamboo is mostly sourced from Murshidabad and Nadia. Last year, ornaments worth around Rs 3.75 crore were used to deck out the idols. A family of four usually works on different kinds of ornaments and dress materials. Around 400 families work on shola or pith ornaments. “A majority of them are without any order this year. The orders that have come add up to a little over Rs 1 crore. Imagine the slump!” Babu Pal, of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sankritik Samity, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
26-08-2020||Calcutta||CM irked over construction materials on roads||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday expressed concern about construction materials lying dumped on the roadside and blocking drains, increasing chances of flooding during the monsoon. She told urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim to ask all civic bodies to impose penalties on people caught dumping construction materials on or along roads. The chief minister raised the issue during an administrative review meeting of several districts that she attended from Nabanna via videoconference. Mamata narrated a personal experience while travelling to Behala, when she found that drains were blocked in Tollygunge, New Alipore and Behala. “People keep bricks, sand and other construction materials on roads. As a result the drains get blocked,” Mamata said. “Fine them. You have to be aggressive at times. Conduct a drive and find out who is not adhering to rules. Fine them and withhold their permission till they adhere to the rules,” Mamata told Hakim, who is also chairperson of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). “Why should someone dump materials on the footpath and block the drains. Don’t they have a responsibility? No one is saying that they cannot build a house. But why will other people in the neighbourhood suffer? People have to understand this,” Mamata said. “I was going to Behala one day when it was raining. I found the drains blocked in the entire area from Tollygunge, New Alipore to Behala.” Metro has reported several times how footpaths lie encroached with construction materials, forcing people to walk down roads putting their lives at risk. Outside some buildings under construction, materials block the footpath as well as the road. Engineers and officials of the CMC admitted that dumping construction materials on footpaths or roads was common. “Anyone building a house is allowed to stack construction materials outside for three months from the day the building plan is approved. They have to pay a stacking fee to the CMC,” said an official. “The three-month time is given on the assumption that after that period the owner will be able to create enough space on the plot to keep the materials. But even during this three-month period, no one should stack a huge quantity of materials that can block a drain, footpath or a road,” the official said. Anyone who finds that a builder or plot owner has kept materials on a road for many months can lodge a complaint with the building department of the CMC. “We will issue a show-cause notice to the architect or the builder or the owner of the plot. If they still do not amend ways, we will issue a stop-work notice,” the official said. The chief minister also criticised the tendency of councillors to only think about the welfare of their respective wards and not a neighbouring ward. “Some councillors have a habit that they ensure pumps work in their areas and not in neighbouring wards. They want their wards to remain clean but do not bother about a neighbouring ward. This cannot happen. All people are ours,” Mamata said. Covid warriors from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Borough III after their felicitation at the civic body’s solid waste management department in Narkeldanga on Tuesday. Covid warriors are those who have been rendering their services during the lockdown. The borough’s outgoing chairperson, Anindya Routh, and other civic officials had organised the programme. The 110 people who were honoured included civic employees who sanitise an area or a building where someone has tested positive for Covid-19, municipal solid waste cleaners, drivers, doctors at civic clinics and some officials at Beleghata ID Hospital. “All these people work in the nine wards of the borough,” Routh said. The borough covers Beleghata, Phoolbagan and Kankurgachhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
26-08-2020||Business||States to demand pending dues at GST meet||The GST Council meeting on Thursday is likely to be a stormy affair as opposition-ruled states unite to pressure the Centre to give them the promised compensation for loss of revenue arising from the implementation of GST. The 41st meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council, to be held via video conferencing, has just one agenda for discussion -- making up for shortfall in states' revenues, sources said. The options being explored are market borrowing, raising cess rate or increasing the number of items for levy of compensation cess. Discussion on correction in inverted duty on certain goods like textiles and footwear is also likely, they said. The Covid-19 crisis has further compounded the state's fiscal problems. Ahead of the meeting, chief ministers of opposition-ruled states got together on Wednesday to devise a common strategy on the issue. Congress President Sonia Gandhi set the tone for the GST Council meeting by calling the Centre's refusal to reimburse the states as nothing short of betrayal of the people by the Modi government. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra's Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand's Hemant Soren and chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy attended the meeting. We have to work together and fight together against the Central government," Gandhi said at the meeting. Banerjee had earlier stated the situation was "very serious" and opposition-ruled states should fight unitedly. States like Kerala, Punjab and Bihar have already said that the Centre is morally bound to make good any shortfall in GST revenues to them in the first five years of implementation of the regime that subsumed 17 different central and state taxes. Attorney General K K Venugopal had earlier opined that the Centre is not legally bound to make up from its coffers any shortfall in GST revenues of states. Sources had earlier indicated that following the AG's opinion, states may now have to look at market borrowings to make good their respective revenue shortfall and the GST Council will take a final call. The Centre had in March sought views from the Attorney General on the legality of market borrowing to make good the shortfall in the compensation fund -- a corpus created from levy of additional tax on luxury and sin goods to compensate states for revenue shortfall arising from their taxes being subsumed into GST. The AG in his view had also said the GST Council has to decide on making good the shortfall in the GST compensation fund by providing the sufficient amount to be credited to the corpus. Sources said the options before the Council for meeting the shortfall could be to rationalise GST rates, cover more items under the compensation cess or increase the cess, or recommend higher borrowing by states to be repaid by the future collection into the compensation fund. Under GST law, states were guaranteed to be compensated bi-monthly for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation from July 1, 2017. The shortfall is calculated assuming a 14 per cent annual growth in GST collections by states over the base year of 2015-16. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. The GST Council has to decide how to meet the shortfall in such circumstances and not the central government, sources added. Any borrowing of the central government is upon the security of the Consolidated Fund of India. Similarly, borrowing by a state government is upon the security of the consolidated fund of the state. In either case, it would lead to increased general government debt burden and a higher fiscal deficit. The payment of GST compensation to states became an issue after revenues from the imposition of cess started dwindling since August 2019. The Centre had to dive into the excess cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19. The Centre had released over Rs 1.65 lakh crore in 2019-20 as GST compensation. However, the amount of cess collected during 2019-20 was Rs 95,444 crore. The compensation payout amount was Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 41,146 crore in 2017-18. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said coffers of the state are drying up and they are pushing the central government for promised compensation for the loss of revenue arising on account of implementation of GST, even though the loss is attributable to the pandemic. "It is expected that the GST Council may pass on only few tax breaks for some items however, focus would be more on increasing the tax revenues by increasing compensation cess for the sin goods," Mohan added. Managed indirect tax service provider TMSL Founding Partner Jigar Doshi said "for a taxpayer this council meeting may not be of significance unless the states and Centre don't agree on a mid point and additional levies or extension of cess or increase rate of cess is introduced at discretion of respective states to resolve the budget constraints."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
26-08-2020||Business||Paytm goes on  hiring spree||Fintech major Paytm on Wednesday said it is in the process of hiring over 1,000 engineers, data scientists, financial analysts among other positions for tech and non-tech roles over the next few months as it looks to expands its operations in the country. Paytm and its group businesses such as lending, insurance, wealth management and offline payments have been expanding operations, thereby creating the need to bring in more tech and non-tech employees, it said in a statement. "The company has ramped up recruitment as it is heading for a rapid expansion of its financial and wealth management services," Paytm said, adding that this team expansion would play an essential role in launching innovative financial services and technology to fuel its growth journey. Other than tech and non-tech hires to fill positions across its operations in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai and Bengaluru, Paytm is also bringing in over 50 senior-level executives in vice president roles and above to bolster its senior leadership. In April, the Noida-based company had announced plans to hire over 500 people. Asked if Paytm has completed that process, the company said it has hired close to 700 employees during the last four months. "The 1,000 people is additional manpower in tech and non-tech roles that we need and the hiring process is on for that," it said in an e-mailed response. In its statement, Paytm said it held interviews and inductions of new joinees even during the lockdown. In response to reports of layoffs and exit of senior leaders, the company said, "We have not laid off any employees or resorted to any salary cuts." "From April 2019 to date...while around 20 senior executives exited Paytm, over 140 have been hired for leadership roles in vice-president and above positions. Paytm is recruiting talent from Fortune 500 companies, MNCs, top startups, and bringing in people who have entrepreneurial experience," the statement said. Recently, the company also announced setting up of its largest campus in Noida to accommodate its expanding team. The 5,000 seater office is spread across 5.5 lakh square feet of space. "We are building India's largest consumer internet and financial technology platform that requires more talent. This year, we are aiming to add additional 1,000 colleagues to our different business verticals to build and scale innovative products for the masses," Paytm Vice President Narender Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
26-08-2020||Business||Finance minister looks to overcome funds crunch||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday told the members of the Confederation of Indian Industry that the government had done a credible job on structural reforms even as she admitted that domestic revenue generation had been a major concern because of the debilitating effect of the pandemic on sectors such as hotels, tourism, real estate and aviation. The intent on reform has been reflected in the slew of measures and policies announced since the outbreak of Covid-19, Sitharaman said. The  government will move fast on the Cabinet-cleared strategic disinvestment decisions, she added. “Every policy which was introduced had a structural component. Consequently, the reforms are having a significant impact on the recovery process which we are currently witnessing.” On the private investment cycle, Sitharaman said that in September 2019, the government had reduced the corporate tax rate but investments could not happen because of the pandemic. “With post-Covid reset happening, the emphasis has to be on adoption of data-driven manufacturing models through ploughing greater investments in these models."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Harsh Lodha retains berth ||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been reappointed on the board of Birla Corporation, overcoming a temporary legal challenge posed by the Birla family. The resolution to Lodha’s directorship — he is the chairman of BCL — was carried by a 97.98 per cent majority in the annual general meeting of the company, stock exchange filing showed, underlining the limited influence of the administrator pendente lite committee on the affairs of MP Birla Group. The APL committee, entrusted by Calcutta High Court to protect the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, had asked all trusts and companies forming the promoter group of BCL and other MP Birla Group firms to vote against the resolution to Lodha’s reappointment in BCL and Universal Cable, and profit-linked commission paid to him in the four listed companies of the group. They did not. The Birlas — who were baying for ouster of the Lodha family from the control of MP Birla Group for the last 16-years — went to court to enforce the direction of the APL committee but a division bench of HC decided not to adjudicate on the matter now. “Having exhaustively heard the parties and considering the materials placed, the Court does not intend to examine the rival contentions at this stage on merits,” the order of bench, comprising Justice Biswajit Basu and Subrata Talukdar, said. The bench further added that the steps taken in relation to the resolutions disputed by Birlas shall abide by “such final order as may be passed by the Hon’ble single bench”. The single bench, which is also hearing the probate of a will by Late Priyamvada bequeathing her assets to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh in 2004 — Birlas have contested the will — is already hearing a batch of applications that relates to the similar directions passed by the APL committee in 2019. The “main issue” as referred by the DB, is whether the probate court has jurisdiction on the matter. Birlas said that the court order, “leaves the stay of H.V. Lodha in the four manufacturing companies at the mercy of the courts”, undermining the overwhelming voting in favour. Lodha was appointed on the board of Universal Cable with 99.27 per cent votes cast in his favour, while resolutions to profit linked commissions were all passed by over 97 per cent majority. Earlier in the day during the AGM, the company guided that expansion at Muktaban is on track and to be completed by the second quarter of 2021 and BCL plans to achieve a 25 million tonne capacity by 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Ant Group files for dual listing||Ant Group, the financial technology arm of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group, on Tuesday filed for a dual listing in Hong Kong and Shanghai, in what may be the largest share offering since the coronavirus pandemic began. The initial public offering will be the first dual listing on the Hong Kong exchange and Shanghai’s STAR Market. The company’s filing did not disclose the timetable for its public offering or how much money it hopes to raise. Ant Group operates Alipay, one of China’s two dominant online payments services. Over a billion users use Alipay to pay for purchases both online and in stores, to send money to friends and to pay bills. In the 12 months that ended in June, Ant Group tallied 118 trillion yuan ($17 trillion) in transaction volume. In the filing, Ant Group said it plans to use the funds raised from the listing to expand its service offerings, invest in research and development, and to expand its payments business internationally. Ant Group was valued at $150 billion in a private fundraising round in 2018, making it the most valuable startup company in the world. The company posted a revenue of 72.5 billion yuan ($10.5 billion) in the first half of this year, an increase of almost 40 per cent from the same period in 2019. The company also runs one of the world’s largest money market funds as well as Zhima Credit, a private credit rating system for its users.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||JSW One takes off from Bengal||Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Group is consolidating the distribution and sales of the cement and steel businesses under one umbrella to reach a wider audience. The new venture, christened JSW One, is starting from the East and the first hub of the business has come up at Salboni, Bengal. JSW, a leading producer of steel in the country but a relative new entrant in cement, will offer distributors of each product a chance to sell the other. This will expand the reach of JSW products and create a larger market for the group. For instance, there are 3,800 selling counters in the East for cement and 1,100 for steel which goes into construction (TMT rebar or roofing sheets). However, only 110 such counters sell both steel and cement together even though customers often buy both together. Commenting on the initiative, Parth Jindal, managing director of JSW Cement, said: “Our customers need TMT rebars, cement and steel roofs to construct their houses as well as paint to beautify their homes. JSW Group is the only conglomerate globally which can offer steel, cement and paints as a comprehensive offering to our customers.” Initially, the group will focus only on steel and cement as paints is at a nascent stage. Being produced from Vijaynagar in Karnataka, it is only available in the southern and western markets. Once paints are rolled out nationally in 2-3 years and JSW One steps out of the east, all three products will be sold by a common distribution and retail channel. Surjayan Mukherjee, vice- president of sales & marketing of JSW Cement, said JSW One is expecting a business of Rs 2,300 crore this year and sale of TMT rebar in the east can jump more than three times of 250,000 tonne. “We will bring the rebars from Vijaynagar and Monnet Ispat plant to Salboni, where a 2.4 million tonne grinding unit is already there, to service eastern markets under JSW One,” Mukherjee explained. JSW Cement is expanding the plant at Salboni, where originally an integrated steel plant was to come up to 3 MT by debottlenecking exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Tata Motors eyes zero debt||Tata Motors aims to reduce its total automotive debt to ‘near-zero levels’ in three years and generate free cash flows from 2021-22 onwards, chairman N. Chandrasekaran said on Tuesday. However, the company’s management had to face flak from several shareholders on various issues, including non-payment of dividend for four years in a row. Chandrasekaran, while addressing shareholders at Tata Motors’ 75th annual general meeting, said the company would look to unlock non-core investments in order to deleverage business, but asserted that neither the passenger vehicles business JLR is being sold. “Currently, Tata Motors Group has a net automotive debt of Rs 48,000 crore and we are deleveraging this business substantially,” he said. “We have set a target to significantly bring down the debt and come to near-zero debt levels in the next three years.” The company has initiated steps towards this and and set a target to generate positive free cash flows from 2021-22 onwards, he added. Chandrasekaran said overall investments of the group have reduced by close to 50 per cent this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Economy: Reality check on stimulus||The Panglossian glow that has suffused the Narendra Modi-government’s narrative on the Indian economy — built largely on the chimera of a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package devised in May — dimmed considerably on Tuesday when the Reserve Bank of India spelt out some harsh truths in its annual report for 2019-20. For a start, the report said the Centre and the states have “much less fiscal space to deal with Covid-19 than during the global financial crisis of 2008-09”. At a time a number of economists have been talking about the need to persuade the central bank to monetise the widening fiscal deficit through direct bond purchases, the RBI has said that the government needs to come out with a credible consolidation plan specifying actionables for the reduction of debt and deficit levels. It feels that only such a plan “will earn (the government) confidence and acceptability rather than extending the path of touchdown”. The report goes on to say that government consumption spending has provided a measure of relief but it has become increasingly evident that it cannot continue to crank up the economy by using its spending lever. “It is prudent to expect lower contributions of GFCE (government final consumption expenditure) to overall demand.” The report noted that the government’s revenue expenditure, net of interest payment and major subsidies, had risen by 33.7 per cent in the first quarter of the year. The RBI also busted some myths spun by the government spinmeisters who have been seeking to draw comfort from some pre-Covid measures that the government had taken last year, notably the corporate tax cuts in September last year. The government wants to believe that the measure would have kick started the private investment cycle if it had not been for the Covid crisis. The RBI brutally negates that assumption. The report says: “The corporate tax cut of September 2019 has been utilised in debt servicing, build-up of cash balances and other current assets rather than restarting the capex cycle...the appetite for investment is anaemic and in need of more reforms.” To boost fiscal revenues and mitigate the pains of this transition, the RBI said big data and technology can be leveraged to track and identify tax defaulters and increase the base. The RBI said GST needed to be rationalised, with the return process simplified. Besides, fiscal incentives for industry can be realigned in favour of productive labour-intensive companies so as to generate employment. The RBI also suggested that the government should establish apex authorities along the lines of the GST Council in respect of land, labour and power to drive structural reforms. It wanted cross subsidies in the power sector to be eliminated by recasting tariff structure, adding that any subsidy could be given through the direct benefit transfer route. The report says alternatives to bank finance had to be found and suggested that the opportunities afforded by the capital markets and foreign direct investment needed to be explored. It called for a “big push” to mega infrastructure projects and stressed that recapitalisation of public and private sector banks had assumed critical importance. Minimum capital requirements may no longer suffice to absorb post-pandemic losses. The RBI appears to have kept more for unforeseen circumstances in its books  and has transferred Rs 73,615 crore to its contingency fund, which rose to Rs 2,64,034 crore for the year ended June 30, 2020 against Rs 1,96, 344 crore a year ago. Balancesheet size swelled 30 per cent during the year, following an increase in its domestic and foreign investments, the annual report said. The apex bank continued  to buy gold — and added another 43.25 metric tonnes to its gold reserves which swelled to 661.41 metric tonnes in the year ended June 30 this year. As of June 30, 2019, it held 618.16 metric tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||RBI: Twist to pare yields||The RBI on Tuesday announced another “Operation Twist” as it sought to cool down bond yields, which have breached the 6-per-cent-mark. The central bank said that it will conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under Open Market Operation for an aggregate amount of Rs 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs 10,000 crore each. The auctions would be conducted on August 27 and September 3. This is the third such auction conducted by the central bank during this fiscal. The previous such auction was conducted for Rs 10,000 crore in July 2 and April 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||India||Sonia chairs meeting of Opposition CMs ||Chief Ministers belonging to various opposition parties on Wednesday got together and discussed the issue of GST compensation to states, with Congress President Sonia Gandhi saying the Centre's refusal to reimburse the states was nothing short of betrayal of the people by the Modi government. Gandhi convened a virtual meeting of chief ministers of opposition-ruled states to discuss the key issues confronting them. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren and chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy attended the meeting. In her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said she agreed with Banerjee and Thackeray that all opposition-ruled states should together fight the Centre for their rights. "We have to work together and fight together against the Central government," Gandhi said at the meeting while endorsing Banerjee and Thackeray. "We should decide whether we have to fight or fear," Thackeray said at the meeting. Banerjee earlier said the situation was "very serious" and opposition-ruled states should fight unitedly. Gandhi termed the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) legislation as "anti-democratic" and alleged that the laws to protect the environment and public health are being weakened by the Modi government. She said announcements like the National Education Policy should worry the opposition as they are a setback for secular and scientific values and reveal the "insensitivity" of the government. On students' problems and the issue of exams arising out of the pandemic situation, she said it is being dealt with uncaringly by the Centre. Banerjee urged all the chief ministers to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE exams as students are not prepared. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said the ruling party was using agencies against the opposition and was undermining the federal structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Centre given one week by SC to clarify it's stand on waiver of interest||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took note of the Centre's alleged inaction and asked it to clarify its stand within a week on the waiver of interest, on interest for deferred payments of instalments for loans during the moratorium period announced due to the coronavirus lockdown. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the Centre had not made its stand clear on the issue despite the fact that ample powers were available with it under the Disaster Management Act and was "hiding behind the RBI". The apex court granted time to the government after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought a week's time to file a response. "My Lordships may not say that. We are working in coordination with RBI," Mehta said. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah, asked the solicitor general to clarify stand on the Disaster Management Act and whether additional interest on existing interest could be accrued. Mehta argued that there cannot be a common solution for all the problems. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the petitioner, informed the bench that the loan moratorium's deadline would end on August 31 and sought its extension. "I am only saying that till these pleas are decided, the extension should not end," Sibal said. The apex court has now posted the matter for hearing on September 1. The top court had earlier said there was "no merit in charging interest on interest" for deferred loan payment installments during the moratorium period announced in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench was hearing a plea filed by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma, who has sought a direction to declare the portion of the RBI's March 27 notification "as ultra vires to the extent it charges interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period, which create hardship to the petitioner being borrower and creates hindrance and obstruction in 'right to life' guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India". Sharma has also sought a direction to the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to provide relief in repayment of loan by not charging interest during the moratorium period. On June 4, the top court had sought the Finance Ministry's reply on the waiver of interest on loans during the moratorium period after the RBI said it would not be prudent to go for a forced waiver of interest risking financial viability of the banks. The top court had said there were two aspects under consideration in this matter - no interest payment on loans during the moratorium period and no interest to be charged on interest. It said these were challenging times and it was a serious issue as on one hand, moratorium was granted and on the other, interest was charged on loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Antibody survey to guide school reopening||India has launched a repeat nationwide survey to measure changes in the new coronavirus infection’s prevalence after a three-month gap, and probe for the first time prevalence among adolescents to guide school-opening policies. The survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex health research agency, will look for antibodies to the coronavirus in 28,000 blood samples — 400 each from the same 70 districts where the council had conducted a similar survey in May. “We’ve embarked on the second survey — this is a work in progress. It should be completed by the first week of September,” said the council’s director-general Balram Bhargava. But the repeat survey will sample all members of households, including children and adolescents aged 10 years or above. The first survey had sampled one member from each household and sampled only people aged 18 years or older. “Prevalence rates among children or adolescents could have implications for school-opening policies,” a senior clinician-researcher who helped design the survey told The Telegraph. “It is not the only factor, but it could help guide decisions.” High prevalence among children and adolescents would support school opening, while low prevalence would imply greater risk, the researcher said, but asserted that the prevalence rate would not be the only criteria to determine school opening. In Bengal, the survey will screen households in Calcutta, Alipurduar, Bankura, Jhargram, East Midnapore and South 24-Paragnas. The ICMR has not yet made public the details of the first survey, although it had on June 11 revealed that the average prevalence across the 70 districts was 0.73 per cent. But researchers familiar with the findings have said some of the districts sampled had up to 25 per cent prevalence. Bhargava said on Tuesday that the first survey’s findings had undergone two rounds of peer review and were expected to be published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research this week. The repeat survey is expected to provide insights into the rate of spread of the infection in specific districts amid evidence from select cities that millions of people nationwide have been infected and have recovered without knowing it. Health researchers point to the increase in the prevalence in Delhi within a month. A survey by the National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi had in mid-June found that 23 per cent of the population had antibodies to the virus. But an independent survey by the Delhi state government in mid-July found antibodies in 29 per cent of the sampled population. The 6 per cent increase in infection prevalence applied to Delhi’s estimated population of 20 million would imply that hundreds of thousands of more people had become infected unknowingly during the period between the two surveys. While health authorities are tracking daily counts of patients with Covid-19, 80 per cent of infected persons are expected to have only mild symptoms or no symptoms. Such antibody surveys are intended to provide the true burden of infections. India on Tuesday recorded 60,975 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of infections to over 3.16 million, of whom more than 2.4 million have recovered, 704,348 patients are under medical supervision and 58,390 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||English August in Andhra||Fruit seller D. Shabeey of Masapet in Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh hopes his four children will do some “padha-likha” (reading and writing) work after receiving English education at the government school in the village. Last month, Shabeey, who is an OBC, gave his consent in favour of English-medium education at the local primary school. “I am a fruit seller. But my children will not do this work. They will certainly do some padha-likha work in life by learning English,” Shabeey told The Telegraph over phone. Andhra Pradesh has become the first state in the country to offer English as the medium of education in all its government schools, skirting legal challenges. All 45,000 government schools in the state earlier this month began offering English as the medium of learning, in addition to Telugu, from Class I to VI, a facility that will be extended to Class X over the next four years from the 2021 session. Telugu used to be the only medium of learning in government schools till the last academic session. Students were offered the option of studying in English only in Classes XI and XII. Experts have hailed the move as a step to bring about social change, ensure social and economic equality, and dismantle the monopoly of privileged castes and classes in education and jobs. The government had initially decided that all schools run by it would be turned into English-medium institutions. However, a case had been filed in Andhra Pradesh High Court challenging this as wrong and violative of the parents’ choice on the medium of instruction for their children. The petitioners had also alleged that the decision had violated the three-language formula suggested in the National Policy on Education, 1968. The court had found fault with both sides and struck down the decision. The YSR Congress government led by Jaganmohan Reddy then decided to offer English as an option in addition to Telugu, leaving the choice to the parents. The state government has also moved the Supreme Court against the high court verdict. Prof. Kancha Ilaiah, a researcher on social justice, recalled how the erstwhile Left Front government in Bengal had deprived a generation of English learning in primary schools in the 1980s, thereby stunting the academic mobility of many. In Andhra Pradesh, there are 62,000 schools, of which 45,000 are run by the state government, around 15,500 by private managements, while close to 2,000 are private aided, according to data available with the school education department. Of the 72 lakh children enrolled in Classes I to X, nearly 38 lakh are in government schools. P.V. Ramesh, senior adviser to the chief minister, said the main draw of the private schools was the medium of instruction being English. About 98.5 per cent of the private schools in Andhra Pradesh are English medium. “Middle class and lower middle class families are increasingly sending their children to private schools. The government-run schools are essentially serving poor children, those mainly belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and OBC communities and some sections of the economically weaker general castes. This is further accentuating the inequality that already exists in society because of caste and class,” Ramesh said. According to census data, SCs make up 17.08 per cent of Andhra Pradesh’s population, while STs constitute 5.53 per cent. The OBCs constitute 49.5 per cent, as per data on the website of the state’s backward classes welfare department. Around 19.6 per cent of students enrolled in government schools are SCs, 6.76 per cent are STs and 51.16 are OBCs. Ramesh said children from English-medium schools were more successful than their Telugu-medium peers in competitive exams such as the Joint Entrance Examination and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). “English-medium education (in government schools) is an attempt to check the widening social and economic inequalities in society,” Ramesh said. Ramesh said the changes had to face a lot of opposition. “We have taken the consent of parents on English-medium schooling. Over 96 per cent parents have given their consent. But Telugu medium is being continued for a section of children who have opted for it,” Ramesh said. Prof. Ilaiah said English-medium education was key to the social and economic progress of children of all section of society. “Elitism is perpetuated because of the monopoly over English education. Those lacking English education largely do not find any positions in any field of intellectual pursuit. The Andhra Pradesh government’s measure is a step towards demolishing elitism and exclusivity in professions,” Ilaiah said. He said higher education was also the fief of select castes. “All states should follow this model. States like Bengal and Tripura, ruled for long by Left parties, did not promote English education. As a result, social inequality is very strong there even today,” Ilaiah said. S. Rajeev Gandhi, the principal of an upper primary school at Madhireddypalli village in Chittoor district, said the parents of all the 60 students in Classes I to VI had chosen English as the medium of education. “Parents are very eager to give their children an English education. It is a new experience for all the teachers too,” Gandhi said. The education department has already made available books in English and has provided training to teachers for the new medium, Ramesh said. Linguist Panchanan Mohanty, who has served as a faculty member of the Centre of Applied Linguistics and Translation Studies at Hyderabad Central University for over three decades, however, said the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision was not well thought out. “Mathematics is a universal subject. Teaching mathematics in English is all right. But there is no logic to teach social studies in English. It is about society and culture. Ideally, the mother tongue is best suited for teaching of social studies,” Mohanty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||What Sangh forgot to tell envoy about Aamir’s visit||The Sangh parivar needs to offer Indian ambassadors posted abroad a crash course on the world according to the RSS’s brand of Hindutva. The Organiser, the magazine that RSS supporters are supposed to read, has split geopolitical hairs on actor Aamir Khan meeting Turkey’s First Lady Emine Erdogan in Istanbul recently and concluded that he committed a “blooper”. The assessment is part of the magazine’s critique of Emine Erdogan’s husband and Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for invoking the Caliphate and his “anti-India” stand. “Turkey is known for anti-India statements, especially on Jammu & Kashmir, open support to Pakistan and strategic alliance with China,” the article said. “The visit of actor Aamir Khan to Turkey’s first family should be seen in this light,” the Organiser advised its readers. But somebody forgot to tell the Indian ambassador who is expected to know more about such matters than a magazine whose worldview matches that of the RSS. Sanjay Panda, India’s ambassador to Turkey, had tweeted on August 16: “That special moment — First Lady H.E. @EmineErdogan receives India’s Cultural Ambassador and one of the finest exponents of meaningful cinema @aamir_khan on a location scouring trip to Turkey for his latest film #LalSinghChaddha.” Aamir, in Turkey to shoot for his upcoming film, had been received by the First Lady at the presidential residence in Istanbul on August 15. The latest issue of the Organiser dedicates its cover story to the Turkish President. Titled “Caliph & the Caliphate: The Dystopian Menace”, the report tears into Erdogan for attempting to “usurp the title of Caliph” and terming it dangerous for the world and India, which has a substantial Muslim population. Barring his religion, Erdogan has several strongman “qualities” that the admirers of the Sangh admire. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi had received Erdogan in 2017, the two leaders had publicly hugged and shaken hands and steered clear of thorny issues. The camaraderie ebbed after Erdogan criticised India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and supported Pakistan’s stand on Kashmir. After Erdogan’s comments in the Pakistan parliament last year, Modi had cancelled his scheduled visit to Turkey. The Organiser article makes a reference to Modi’s “chemistry” with Erdogan but without drawing any conclusion as in the case of Aamir. “Erdogan’s visit to India in April 2017, and the cordial relations between Erdogan and Modi showcased on the sidelines of the recent G20 summit are evidence of some personal chemistry between the two leaders, as well as points of contact between their leadership styles,” the article said. Then it says: “However, Turkey’s unfavourable positions on key strategic issues for India remain a hurdle….” The article flagged the threat posed to India by Erdogan, saying his “moderate version of political Islam is more likely to be welcomed by Indian Muslims”. The article acknowledged the rise of “Hindu nationalist” sentiments in India and underlined that Muslims feeling “threatened” by it may look towards the Erdogan-led Turkey as their “backer”. “And as the Hindu nationalist footprint strengthens in India, and Muslims feel increasingly threatened, they may seek a more powerful backer abroad to protect their interests, rights, security and identify,” the article concluded. The article claimed that the Khilafat movement by the “Ali brothers and company” had planted the seeds of “Pan-Islamism” during the Independence movement that led to India’s Partition. The magazine has a separate article on Aamir that stresses that his meeting with the President’s wife should be seen in the light of the Turkish leader’s Caliphate dream and strong anti-India stand. The article on Aamir is titled “It’s not Dil Chahta Hai”, referring to the actor’s 2001 film and adding that the “mere excuse of a courteous visit cannot save Aamir Khan from this blooper”. The article features pictures from Aamir’s visit. One picture of Aamir wearing a Turkish hat is captioned: “Aamir presented with a Ertugal Hat in Turkey has a deeper political meaning than mere cinematic appearance.” The article recalled Aamir’s 2015 comments on rising intolerance in India and his statement that his wife Kiran Rao often wondered whether the family should move out of India. In this context, the article mentioned Erdogan’s criticism of the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. The article went on to issue a wider warning to Bollywood to keep national interest in mind. “Freedom of speech certainly doesn’t imply hypocrisy, and maligning one’s own country for a fan base should be thrown out in the bin. Bollywood does need a reality check on people’s sentiments, and some stars need to know how, when, where and why they need to keep their actions in order,” the article said, pandering to a growing sentiment among Hindutva Right-wingers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||You’ve broad shoulders, be merciful: Dhavan||Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan told the Supreme Court that it would be making a “martyr” out of lawyer Prashant Bhushan if it sends him to jail, asserting that Bhushan would always be “critical” of the judiciary and cannot be silenced through contempt proceedings. Dhavan, who appeared for Bhushan, disagreed with the views of attorney-general K.K. Venugopal. Unlike Venugopal who suggested Bhushan should be let off with a warning if he expressed regret, Dhavan contended that Bhushan should not even be “reprimanded”. “If you want to impose a jail term, my advice would be don’t make Prashant Bhushan a martyr, like what happened after the Babri Masjid was demolished and Kalyan Singh was convicted of contempt…,” Dhavan told the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari. “Don’t make Prashant Bhushan a martyr… this controversy will continue depending on what punishment this court gives to him. And this controversy will end only if this court shows statesmanship. Lordships must be merciful as they have broad shoulders. Criticism cannot be suppressed for the well-being of society,” Dhavan said. “This institution must have criticism and not just criticism but extreme criticism. Your shoulders are broad enough,” he said. BJP veteran Kalyan was sentenced to one day’s imprisonment and fined Rs 20,000 by the Supreme Court in October 1994 for contempt after he failed to prevent the demolition of the Babri Masjid while he was chief minister despite giving an undertaking to the court about its safety. Justice Mishra said: “There is a difference between an officer of the court and a politician. I am not commenting on Mr Bhushan. But that’s what is happening nowadays. You go to the press even in sub judice matters, make all kinds of comments when the court is already hearing it. “If someone with a standing of 30 years, like Mr Prashant Bhushan, says something, people tend to believe him. They will think whatever he is saying is correct. Had it been someone else, it was easier to ignore but when Mr Bhushan says something, it has some effect.” Dhavan said: “Although AG (attorney-general) says a reprimand is in order, I’ll say a general statement is enough and there is no need to reprimand him.” Justice Mishra wondered how all the petitions/applications filed by Bhushan first find their mention in the media before being heard by the court. Justice Mishra: “It is about the system, if we are going to destroy each other, who will have faith in this institution? You have to be tolerant, see what the court is doing and why. Don’t just attack. Judges can’t go to press to defend themselves or explain. “Whatever we have to say, we have to write in our judgments. There are so many things but do we have to go to the press? I will never do that. That’s the ethics for judges. If we are going to fight each other, pull each other down, we will finish this institution. “Haven’t people been criticising us? So many people criticise us but how many people have we convicted or punished? There is another case against Mr Bhushan pending since 2009, has he been punished there? I have to demit office and it is painful I have to deal with all this. Justice Mishra (in a choked voice): “If the Bar and the Bench are going to destroy each other, who will have faith in this institution? Don’t just attack. Judges cannot go to press to defend themselves. You (lawyers) are our voice.” Dhavan agreed that statements should not have been released to the media before the court took up the matter. Justice Mishra said that live reporting of the court proceedings were often one-sided and in many cases wrong, and referred to two legal websites for their alleged one-sided reporting. Dhavan said that instead of punishing Bhushan, the court could write a judgment laying down the code people should follow, but the idea should not be to silence Bhushan. “A reprimand may have repercussions not clear at this stage. Please say in the judgment ‘we don’t agree with Mr Bhushan but a code should be followed’,” he said. Justice Gavai asked if it was appropriate for lawyers to give interviews or attend webinars on sub judice matters. Dhavan agreed that lawyers “have no business” making comments on sub judice matters. At this stage, Venugopal said the veracity of Bhushan’s allegations against the former Chief Justices of India could be arrived at only after eliciting the views of the former judges, which would warrant a fresh inquiry. “Bhushan can’t be punished till that inquiry concludes…,” the AG said while suggesting that the court must “give a quietus” to the issue. Justice Mishra: “But there have been allegations against the sitting judges too. Should we call all judges here?” Venugopal: “Hearing those judges would mean a never-ending inquiry. So, Your Lordships can say that his defence cannot be taken into account. Therefore, Your Lordships can leave the matter at rest as it is now, by saying that his defence cannot be looked into.” Justice Mishra: “When the judges are speechless, who will protect them? Only the Bar will protect them. Only the attorney will protect them. How long will the system suffer this criticism? “You can criticise but do not attribute motives. Judges are condemned, their families are humiliated and they can’t even speak. You are the leader of the Bar. We expect you to be impartial. You may have love and affection for anyone but we want you to be fair. Don’t take sides. “For how long will the system suffer all this? I am retiring in a few days. Will it be okay if you or others start attacking me? Can you say anything against retired judges?” Justice Mishra: “What’s so bad in apologising? If someone has made a mistake, what’s wrong in seeking an apology? If you have hurt someone, why can’t you apologise? I am not commenting on Mr Bhushan right now. You go on to the extent of quoting Mahatma Gandhi but you can’t apologise?” Dhavan told the bench that although he himself had been critical of the judiciary, he was never hauled up for contempt. “I myself described former CJI Justice J.S. Khehar as a sultan in the court and I demonstrated why and how. There was no contempt case against me,” Dhavan said while referring to a number of his articles, books and comments on the judiciary. “The term ‘scandalising the court’ is ambiguous. Criticism of court is inevitable. Consider the bona fide of the ‘offender’ and then consider the offence. I have now written 1,031 articles, out of which 900 are on the Supreme Court and I don’t write unless there is something to say,” he said. Referring to the court’s order convicting Bhushan of criminal contempt and granting him a few days to consider an unconditional apology, Dhavan said an apology cannot be extracted through coercion. “Your previous order was almost as though the contemnor was being coerced into tendering an apology. This is not what the Supreme Court does — ‘we give you so many days, tender an apology’. This is wrong jurisprudence. No court can pass an order like this. “When a person is called for a contempt case, is he not supposed to offer a defence? An apology cannot be a mere incantation, an apology has to be made sincerely and he (Bhushan) sincerely says that ‘this is my belief’,” Dhavan said. Dhavan contended that “nobody can be forced to retract from what he believes to be his ‘bona fide belief’. If Mr Bhushan’s statement is read as a whole, it says he has the highest regard for this institution but he has his opinion about the last four CJIs and the manner in which this court has gone wrong. We criticise this court when we feel sincerely about this institution. “This court should invite criticism. It is the duty of all of us to make responsible criticism. Harley-Davidson is hardly a criticism when this is in public domain,” Dhavan said, referring to one of the tweets by Bhushan. The senior lawyer showed the court a copy of the Daily Mirror of the UK. The front page featured upside-down images of three judges, and the headline that screamed: “You fools.” The tabloid was referring to a ruling on a British government gag order on a book on espionage. No contempt action was taken against the paper for the contents of the front page. On Tuesday, Dhavan said: “This court can only survive on the basis of strong criticism.” Dhavan contended that if criticism of the judiciary is contempt, former CJI R.M. Lodha, former Supreme Court judges Madan B. Lokur and Kurian Joseph and veteran journalist Arun Shourie should also be convicted of contempt. “Apology cannot be coerced…. This was not scurrilous, this was a strong criticism of this court which is shared by several others in this country…. When you say ‘don’t do it again’, he is entitled to ask ‘what is it that I don’t do again?’. Such a reprimand or bald warning is too broad and shouldn’t be done. One cannot be silenced forever. “A message that he should be a little restrained in future should be enough. You want him not to do this again… not to criticise the court? Never to express his bona fide opinion, even if truth is his defence? No, he will always be critical…,” Dhavan said. Justice Mishra asked: “If we decide to punish him, what should be the punishment?” Dhavan said: “A general message, not even a reprimand. If you want to bar him from practice, you will have to hear him first.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Let Bhushan off with a reprimand: Venugopal||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to display “statesmanship” and let off advocate Prashant Bhushan with a “reprimand” or “warning” instead of sending him to jail for two tweets for which he has been convicted of criminal contempt. “Let this court show statesmanship and not use the powers of the contempt…,” Venugopal told the court. Venugopal, who had earlier clarified that he was appearing as attorney-general of India and not as the top law officer for the Centre, was responding to the court that had sought his opinion. On Monday, Bhushan had filed a supplementary statement, saying “an insincere apology… in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem”. The three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari reserved its verdict on Tuesday. It will be delivered by September 2, when Justice Mishra, who is heading the bench, is scheduled to retire. On Tuesday, at the commencement of the proceedings, Justice Mishra told the attorney-general: “Tell us what is to be done. We expected a different statement.” Venugopal, reading out from notes, submitted that several sitting and retired judges had over the years commented on corruption in the higher judiciary. Justice Mishra: “That matter, we already adjourned earlier and sent it to an appropriate bench.” The judge was referring to another contempt case — the events of which took place in 2009 — against Bhushan, which will be sent to another bench now. Venugopal: “The statements (by Bhushan) were perhaps only to tell the court about the facts and ask for reforms. It is a fit case to forgive him. Give him a warning and let him go.” Justice Mishra: “We shouldn’t be getting influenced by media reports (on the statements by the former judges). We will rather hear what the AG has to say. What, in your opinion should be the punishment to him?” Venugopal: “A warning to tell him ‘please don’t repeat this in future’.” Justice Mishra: “There is a positive part of the statement by Mr Prashant Bhushan in which he says he has faith in this institution. But at the same time, he says he won’t apologise since he hasn’t made any mistake. Everyone makes mistakes but the person must also realise it. What to do now? “If a person says he didn’t make a mistake and he won’t apologise for it despite repeated opportunities, what will be the purpose of saying ‘don’t do it again’? It is not about us or him. It is about the institution after all.” Venugopal: “I myself wanted to file a contempt case against Mr Prashant Bhushan when two CBI officers were fighting (in 2018) and he said I fabricated documents. But after he expressed regret, I withdrew. Let democracy follow in this case when he has exercised his free speech. It will be tremendously appreciated if the court leaves it at that. Even if he says he hasn’t done anything wrong, this court should take a compassionate view. I speak for the Bar also.” (Venugopal is one of the senior-most members of the Bar.) Justice Mishra: “If he (Bhushan) believes he has done no wrong, what’s the purpose of this warning?” Justice Gavai: “Mr AG, you too filed a contempt (case) against Mr Bhushan and withdrew it only after he expressed regret. But that’s not the case here.” Justice Mishra: “He has made several disparaging remarks against this institution, judges of this court. Even in the Ramjanmabhoomi case, only one judge has retired, the rest of them are still in this court.” Venugopal: “He won’t do this again.” Justice Mishra: “Let him say this. It was so simple. The case was about two tweets but he later added colours to these tweets….” The AG suggested the court can ignore Bhushan’s iteration and forgive him. Justice Mishra: “How can we? Everyone is criticising us that we haven’t considered his response, which, according to us, is even more derogatory. Now if we remove it, we will be blamed we deleted this on our own.” Venugopal said that since Bhushan had expressed his regret in the 2009 contempt case, he can do the same in the present case too. “Let him say this in the present matter too and say he expresses regret. That will be the statesmanship.” The bench: “Learned attorney-general, please read his reply. See what he has said, ‘the Supreme Court has collapsed.’ Isn’t that objectionable?” Venugopal: “I agree that the Supreme Court has done so much for the poor, undertrials and various other sections of the society. But this wasn’t the subject matter of the case against him. Let him express regret.” Justice Gavai: “And for that, we had given him three days.” Justice Mishra pointed out that Bhushan, rather than expressing regret, had dared the court to consider his defence. Venugopal: “Although it is too late for him to go back on what he has said, he can still express regret.” The court also pointed out that Bhushan in his reply had alleged that the court was becoming executive-minded. Venugopal: “The question is what will be the purpose of inflicting punishment. Let them (Bhushan) withdraw this affidavit.… Let this court show statesmanship and not use the powers of the contempt because of this affidavit.” Justice Mishra: “For that, they will have to withdraw it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Kerala resort fishes in Covid waters||With tourism drying up, Aveda Resorts and Spa in the picturesque backwaters of Kumarakom is trying to ensure that it is not fish out of water. The holiday resort in Kerala has converted its swimming pool — a 150m long and 50m wide sliver of blue that runs between quaint cottages — into a fish farm to ensure its employees have some activity and the property earns a nominal revenue at a time the Covid-19 pandemic has halted tourism. Aveda Resorts and Spa, located near the Vembanad Lake, has been closed since the lockdown began in March. With the tourism sector showing no signs of picking up anytime soon, the resort management has begun farming pearl spots, or the traditional karimeen that is a delicacy in the state, especially in the southern backwaters. While the earnings from fish farming would be hardly sufficient to tide over the losses for Aveda Resorts and Spa in Kumarakom, one of the busiest tourist hubs of Kerala, it has helped the 20-odd workers still at the resort to learn a new skill. When the coronavirus tightened its grip on Kerala and the rest of the country, the workers of the resort spread over 3.5 acres were left with nothing much to do other than regular maintenance of the property, a high-end boutique resort with room tariffs ranging between Rs 7,500 and Rs 15,100 per night. “During a brainstorming session with the management, questions came up about how to utilise the time and what to do other than regular repair and maintenance of the property,” the resort’s general manager, Jyotish Surendran, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. “Eventually, a collective decision was taken to farm fish in the pool. The management took care of the investment of Rs 3 lakh, of which Rs 2 lakh was spent on buying seedlings,” he said. The next step was to get expert advice on aquaculture. The resort has been receiving professional help from the National Centre for Aquatic Animal Health, which is a part of Cochin University of Science and Technology. “After consultations with the experts, we decided to go for pearl spots since they are endemic to this region. So we emptied the pool and pumped in fresh water from the Vembanad Lake to provide an ideal environment for the 16,000 seedlings we purchased from four sources,” Surendran said. Since the resort already had a number of half-grown pearl spots in small ponds on the premises, they were also transferred to the swimming pool where they have started breeding. “The rectangular pool is 150 metres in length and 50 metres in width, with even depth which is ideal for aquaculture. We started fish farming on June 1, which would give sufficient time for harvest by Christmas,” Surendran said. “We hope to earn about Rs 20 lakh by exporting the fish to the Gulf by Christmas, when the demand is very high. But that amount would hardly be enough to cover our losses,” he added. With a likely yield of about 4,000kg of fully grown pearl spots, Surendran hopes to export them for at least Rs 500 a kg. Surendran said the resort was now planning to continue fish farming in some other location nearby when property reopens. “Now that we have learnt a skill, we don’t want to let it go waste. At least we can source our own high-quality pearl spots or other fish from our farm (when the resort reopens),” he said. But there is no plan to go for another yield from the same pool since the resort should be ready to receive tourists once the pandemic-related restrictions are eased. “More than 60 per cent of our guests during the peak season of November to March are Europeans. Business is usually dull in April and May, after which the Arabs start coming to enjoy the monsoon. Then our NRIs also come during the Onam festival,” Surendran said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||UP journalist killed as cop turns back on him||A Hindi news channel journalist in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia was assaulted and shot dead after a police officer he had called to save him from attackers in front of a panchayat chief’s house on Monday night left the spot within minutes of arriving. There was haze over the reason behind the murder of Ratan Kumar Singh, 42, with one senior police suggesting a land dispute and the journalist’s family alleging retribution for Ratan’s “fearless journalism” that had highlighted “police atrocities” and had angered sections of cops and villagers. Inspector Shashimauli Pandey, whom Ratan had called up and who was said to be merely 20 metres away when the journalist was shot dead, has been suspended. Ratan is survived by his parents, wife and three children. Vinod Singh, Ratan’s father, has named 10 persons in the FIR for assaulting and shooting dead the journalist. Vinod alleged that inspector Pandey was hand-in-glove with the killers. Vinod said Ratan had gone to the house of the Phephna panchayat chief, Seema Singh, after receiving a call from a relative of the leader’s husband, Jhabar Singh. Sunil Singh, the person who had allegedly called, is among the six persons arrested. An eyewitness said on the condition of anonymity: “The killers were present in the house. I saw Ratan standing at the door of the panchayat leader’s house and speaking to some people inside. Soon, they were seen dragging Ratan onto the road and shooting him dead.” Vinod said some people of the village who were already at the panchayat chief’s house began “arguing with Ratan the moment he reached there”. “Ratan immediately called up Shashimauli Pandey, the Phephna police station in-charge. Pandey reached the spot soon, but left within five minutes. When the police officer was barely 20 metres away, the killers started beating my son and then opened fire. Pandey must have heard the gunshots but he didn’t return,” Vinod alleged. “I believe the police knew what was going to happen. The police didn’t like my son because of his fearless journalism. Ratan used to report frequently on police atrocities,” Vinod said. Some other eyewitnesses, however, said Ratan had run into the panchayat chief’s house to save himself after being attacked by some men when he was walking towards his home. The eyewitnesses said the killers followed Ratan into the house, dragged him out, thrashed him and shot him dead. Subhash Chandra Dubey, the Uttar Pradesh deputy inspector-general of police, said on Tuesday: “The government has suspended Pandey because of his behaviour during the incident. Further action will be taken against him after due inquiry. While six killers have been arrested, a hunt is on to nab the remaining four. We are going to charge the killers under sections of the National Security Act and the Goonda Act. Their properties will also be confiscated.” On Monday night, Ballia superintendent of police Devendra Nath had said Ratan’s murder was the fallout of a land dispute. “It was an old land-related dispute in the village. Somebody had kept stacks of straw and hay in Ratan’s field. We have arrested six villagers — Sunil Singh, Sushil Singh, Dinesh Singh, Arvind Singh, Vir Bahadur Singh and Vinay Singh — on the basis of the complaint by the victim’s father. The incident has nothing to do with Ratan’s profession,” Nath had said. Vinod, however, refuted the claim of land dispute. “The police are trying to turn it into a case of land dispute. Police officers are saying my son had fought with some villagers over stacks of hay and straw that had allegedly been kept in our field. I want the police to show me the stacks in our field. They are lying simply because the police and a section of villagers did not like his journalism,” Vinod said. The Yogi Adityanath government has announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for Ratan’s family. The Ballia Working Journalists’ Union has demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore for Ratan’s family and a government job for his wife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||India’s Parliament no-show||Five months on, the Modi government is yet to call Parliament into session even as several legislatures across the world and some within the country have met during the pandemic; taking necessary precautions, using technology where possible and amending procedural laws to facilitate legislative oversight over governance. Both Houses of Parliament were adjourned sine die on March 23 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and have not met since then. Since the law mandates that the gap between two sessions cannot be longer than six months, the Centre is expected to announce a date for the next session soon. India, meanwhile, is conspicuous by its absence in a compilation of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) — a global organisation of national parliaments — of parliamentary responses to the pandemic. The parliaments of most of the major democracies have already met during the pandemic; some with restricted attendance and others in a hybrid model of part-physical and part-online presence. Where necessary, procedures have been tweaked to allow for temporary changes in the format. Both Houses of the US Congress resumed regular floor business in May, and they were in session together for the first time during the pandemic from June 25 with the larger House of Representatives also approving new rules for proxy voting and hearings by video conference. “Across the pond”, in the UK, procedural changes to allow hybrid and virtual sitting of the House of Commons were unanimously approved by the House on April 21 and “meetings in both formats started on 22 April including a historic first Prime Minister question time’’, the IPU compilation said. In Australia, both Houses sat from June 10 to 18, and are again meeting from Monday. “Pairing of government and Opposition members and senators (an unofficial arrangement) has been used to maintain the party composition of the Houses while fewer members and senators are present in the chambers during sittings,’’ the IPU said. The German Bundestag, according to the Library of Congress, changed the rules of procedure to relax quorum requirements and allow remote participation in some cases so that Parliament remained functional through the pandemic. The French Senate reduced the number of plenary sittings — one per week with only 10 questions to the government, with only the authors of the questions and heads of parties present. The National Assembly also reduced its number of sittings and held meetings remotely. Brazil passed a new resolution which enables its Parliament to work remotely during a public health emergency using video-conferencing and virtual management tools. The system allows MPs to register to a session and shows all phases of the legislative process including the bill under discussion, amendments, the results of each voting round, speeches, and committee agendas. Even Afghanistan, with its fledgling democracy, convened meetings of the Wolesi Jirga (House of the People) with restrictions; confining the sessions to pandemic-related discussions and scrutinising the government’s actions. Nothing in the Indian Constitution bars the government from making arrangements for hybrid meetings but the efforts here have been to have a physical session only with provision for all members to be present on the premises of Parliament. As of now, the plan is to spread the members of the two Houses over the two chambers in turns which again technically brings in the hybrid mode as participation of a Lok Sabha MP sitting in the Rajya Sabha will be through a special console provided for audio-visual communication. According to Article 85(1) of the Constitution, the President summons each House of Parliament to “meet at such time and place as he thinks fit’’, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||‘Appropriate’ bench for Bhushan case||A Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra on Tuesday referred to an “appropriate bench” a 2009 criminal contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan because of “paucity of time” before the judge’s retirement on September 2 to consider the “far-reaching ramifications” of the matter. The bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari has been hearing the case relating to criminal contempt of court against Bhushan for alleging in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine that “half of the 16 former Chief Justices of India are corrupt”. The same bench has convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt of court for levelling allegations against the judiciary in two tweets, and will pronounce the sentence before September 2. Regarding the Tehelka interview, the three-judge bench has requested Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde to list the matter on September 10 before an “appropriate bench”. “…There is paucity of time, otherwise we would have heard the learned senior counsel with respect to the questions which have been proposed. However, since the matter is pending for the last 10 years, as prayed for, we fix the date for hearing in the month of September 2020. Let the matter be listed on 10.09.2020 before an appropriate bench as may deem fit by the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India,” Justice Mishra said in the written order. During the next hearing, another judge is to replace Justice Mishra. Senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave have urged the court to refer the matter to a constitution bench, which has at least five judges. Retired judge Kurian Joseph had earlier suggested that the contempt cases against Bhushan be referred to a constitution bench because “substantial questions of law on the interpretation of the Constitution of India and having serious repercussions on the fundamental rights” are involved. During Tuesday’s hearing, Dhavan reiterated the plea that the matter ought to be referred to a constitution bench and the attorney-general of India, K.K. Venugopal, must also be heard. Dhavan requested the court for a fresh look at criminal jurisprudence relating to the contempt law and said it must also consider the questions framed by Bhushan with regard to a citizens’ fundamental right to free speech vis-à-vis courts’ power to punish for contempt. “These questions must be resolved once and for all. The court’s free-speech jurisprudence has expanded and its impact on the contempt law must be considered,” Dhavan submitted. Justice Mishra replied that there has to be sufficient pleadings, or written arguments, for framing questions and asked Dhavan if these questions could be considered without such pleadings. “I am short of time. I am demitting office. So whether it is proper for me to take a call on this (reference to a larger bench) is also an issue.… Some of these questions are already settled,” Justice Mishra observed. Dhavan argued that the moot question was whether the Supreme Court under Articles 129 and the high courts under Article 215 can take suo motu contempt action independent of other provisions of the Constitution, particularly Articles 19 (freedom of speech) and 21 (life and liberty) that he said “goes to the very heart of Bhushan’s defence”. “How much of the court’s free-speech jurisprudence has to be read into suo motu contempt powers? This is an important question in this case,” Dhavan said, to which Justice Mishra replied: “Let us leave this to an appropriate bench.” The senior advocate said these questions pertain to truth as a defence and bona fide opinion in contempt action. Dhavan pleaded that the court issue notice to the attorney-general, but Justice Mishra turned down the request saying that it was for the “appropriate bench” to consider the matter, as also Dhavan’s plea for appointing an amicus curiae (friend of court). “The main question is, if alleging corruption against judges would amount to contempt per se or not. Most of the points raised by you will be covered when we discuss that. Some of your questions can still be discussed but it will require a long hearing,” Justice Mishra said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Tarun Tejpal who had been the Tehelka editor when Bhushan’s interview had been published, concurred that the issues raised required to be examined by a larger bench. “You should remember, people come to this court for relief. Their faith should not be shaken,” Justice Mishra said. Dhavan replied: “In my view, people come to court for relief and justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Valley domicile certificates in 5 days||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has now made it mandatory for its officers to issue domicile certificates to Permanent Resident Certificate holders and migrants in a mere five days, against 15 days earlier. “Govt fixes a time limit of 5 working days for issuing a domicile certificate to PRC holders and migrants. Reduces from earlier 15 days. Process made extremely simple,” a tweet by the department of Information and Public Relations said on Tuesday night. PRC holders are those residents who had exclusive rights over land and jobs in Jammu and Kashmir before the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A in August last year. Many people in the Valley believe the state’s special status was scrapped to change its Muslim-majority status by settling outsiders. The government has come up with a series of directives in the last few months to facilitate the process of issuing the domicile certificates. In May, the government imposed an extraordinary penalty of Rs 50,000 on the officers tasked to issue these certificates if they delay in issuing domicile certificates to certain classes of outsiders within seven days of the verification. Anyone who has resided in Jammu and Kashmir for a period of 15 years or has studied here for seven years or appeared in Class X and XII examinations in its educational institutions is eligible for the certificates. Some compared the timeline with never-ending investigations in into alleged human rights violations by security forces, referring to recent alleged fake encounter in which three civilians were allegedly killed in Shopian and declared militants. The government announcement came a day after lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday directed the officers concerned to speed up the process of issuance and delivery of domicile certificates in a “hassle-free way”. He appreciated the “enthusiasm” shown by the applicants. The government claims there was 90 per cent pendency of online applications for domicile certificates and directed the officers to speed up the process through online mode. Lakhs have already got these certificates, mostly in Jammu. Official sources said the pendency was a result of non-availability of high speed 4G Internet in the Union Territory.Union minister Jitendra Singh had on Sunday said PRC holders will also need a domicile certificate to apply for jobs and to get other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||13 killed in Raigad building collapse, child survives||Rescuers sifting through the rubble of a five-storey building in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Tuesday found a four-year-old boy alive and his mother dead under the debris, police said. Thirteen people have died in the Monday evening collapse, with 12 bodies recovered on Tuesday. A man had died of cardiac arrest on Monday night after he was hit by a stone from the falling building, the police said. The Tareq Garden building, which was around 10 years old, collapsed at Kajalpura in Mahad, around 170km from Mumbai, an official said. There were around 40 flats in the building, he said. The boy, Mohammed Nadim Bangi, was taken by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel to a waiting ambulance. The dead include the boy’s 30-year-old mother Naushin Nadim Bangi and his two sisters, Ayesha and Rukaiya, aged seven and two years, the police said. A video shared by the NDRF showed the rescuers taking out the boy from the rubble on a stretcher amid claps by onlookers. NDRF director general S.N. Pradhan termed the rescued boy as god’s child. “Miracle child rescued alive — Gods Child. NDRFHQ teams find 4 year old Boy. Ops will continue, canines used. Lets all pray for more miracles,” Pradhan tweeted. The NDRF, police, residents and dog squads are working relentlessly to rescue people trapped under the debris, a police officer said, adding 13 excavators and other vehicles were engaged in removing it. The police on Tuesday registered an offence against five people, including the builder and architect of Tareq Garden, the officer said. The offence was registered against builder Farooq Kazi, RCC consultant Bahubali Dhamne and architect Gaurav Shah under Sections 304, 304A and 338 of the IPC, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Congress letter-writers: Not dissenters ||The tension in the Congress created by the letter written by some leaders might have eased on Tuesday with Sonia Gandhi’s mature handling of the situation but serious differences on vital issues persist and the spectre of disunity still looms on the party. Many of those who wrote the controversial letter expressed gratitude for Sonia’s “gracious” and “thoughtful” response — she had said differences in a large family are natural — but the levels of mistrust and bitterness between the two groups have not come down. While one group is elated about the “crushed rebellion”, the other — indisputably much larger than the 23 signatories to the letter — believes attempt to brush the issues raised under the carpet would harm the party. One senior leader told The Telegraph: “We didn’t leak the letter. We don’t even have the copies of the letter with us. We had decided not to hold this debate through the media. But the letter gets leaked mysteriously a day before the Congress Working Committee. That harmed us because the undesirable act of leak dominated the discussions instead of the substantive issues we raised. We would have loved to discuss those fundamental issues at the CWC, not the leak.” This group suspects one office-bearer, arguing that the leak was a deliberate ploy to put them on the defensive. Although the immediate crisis was averted with Sonia’s refusal to take disciplinary action against the authors of the letter despite the outcry for punishment, there remains a clear divide in the party and off-the-record conversations in both camps suggest the party president’s conciliatory gestures haven’t reduced the antagonism. Another leader said: “We are traitors because we want the leadership crisis to end soon, because we want a collective decision-making mechanism till a full-fledged president takes over, because we want a more intense political resistance to the Narendra Modi government, because we advocated action on the ground instead of Twitter… so we should be punished. This pearl of wisdom is coming from our leaders at a time when Sachin Pilot and 19 MLAs have been embraced after they jeopardised the Rajasthan government. Rahul Gandhi should ponder how wise his advisers are.” This leader added: “Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik said at the CWC meeting yesterday that let there be action against them if they committed any wrong. Why was no action taken? Because Sonia showed maturity. What do these people want… to split the party, to weaken the Congress? We are not going anywhere. Our commitment is proven. Those who wanted to crush us should ponder what their political acumen is. If this is the way party is run, under the guidance of greenhorns and sycophants, only God can save us.” Some leaders also expressed similar sentiments on Twitter on Tuesday. Kapil Sibal tweeted a terse one-line message on Tuesday: “It’s not about a post. It’s about my country which matters most.” Another signatory to the letter, Vivek Tankha, Rajya Sabha MP and party’s legal cell head, tweeted: “Friends we are not dissenters but proponents of revival. The letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party. Universally truth is best defence whether it be court or public affairs. History acknowledges the brave & not the timid.” Mukul Wasnik, always considered a systems man and a Gandhi family loyalist, responded to Tankha, saying: “Well said. Sooner than later those who saw the letter as an offence will also realise that the issues raised are worth consideration.” Wasnik has been the senior-most general secretary of the party, an integral part of the high command structure for over three decades although he has no public support of his own. Anand Sharma, who too has been close to the family since Indira Gandhi’s days, responded to Tankha: “Well said. The letter was written with the best interest of the party in our hearts and conveying shared concerns over the present environment in the country and sustained assault on the foundational values of the constitution. India needs a strong opposition to confront the BJP. Suggestions for the party’s renewal made in sincerity is not dissent. Wish all colleagues had read it.” Many important leaders privately express support to the group that signed the letter, saying the issues raised were vital. The opponents also agreed the crisis should end sooner rather than later, but are opposed to putting pressure on the leadership and generating negative publicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Breast cancer treatment, in half the time||Doctors at the Mumbai-based Tata Memorial Centre Hospital have shown that six-month therapy with the drug trastuzumab for early breast cancer is as good as the standard 12-month therapy in landmark findings that could at least halve the treatment cost. The researchers at the Tata Memorial pooled and reanalysed the results of six clinical trials worldwide involving around 11,600 breast cancer patients to establish that the short duration, or six-month, therapy is not inferior to the standard one-year therapy. Their analysis has shown that disease-free survival was 87.1 per cent among women who received trastuzumab for one year and 85.4 per cent among those who received it for six months or shorter. The overall survival was 93.4 per cent in the one-year group and 92.4 per cent in the six-month group. “These tiny differences are not clinically meaningful,” said Sudeep Gupta, a senior oncologist at Tata Memorial and the director of the Advanced Centre for Treatment Research and Education in Cancer, Navi Mumbai, who led the study. “Our analysis has established that shorter three to six months’ trastuzumab therapy is sufficient,” he said. For over 15 years, the 12-month trastuzumab therapy has been the standard treatment for a type of breast cancer called HER-2 positive. Doctors say the drug has improved cure rates but the 12-month treatment typically costs Rs 4 lakh for generic versions to Rs 8 lakh for the original brand. The drug can also cause heart-related adverse complications in a small minority of patients. “Our findings imply that treatment costs could be lowered by at least 50 per cent or even 75 per cent with reduced cardio toxicity without any compromise in the cure rates,” said Rajendra Badwe, director of the Tata Memorial. The research findings were published on Monday in JAMA Network Open, a research publication from the stable of the Journal of the American Medical Association. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in India. Doctors estimate that between 150,000 to 200,000 women develop breast cancer across the country each year and around a quarter — 40,000 to 50,000 patients — have HER-2 breast cancer and thus qualify for trastuzumab treatment. The standard 12-month trastuzumab therapy had emerged after studies nearly two decades ago had established improved cure rates among women who received the drug for 12 months compared with women who had not received the drug. However, a study from Finland in 2006 had suggested that the benefits from nine weeks of trastuzumab therapy were similar to those from one-year therapy. Concerns about costs and the risks of cardio toxicity have prompted researchers in Europe to explore the short duration therapy. Several clinical trials, mainly in Europe, have in recent years compared trastuzumab durations between three and six months with 12 months but, individually, none, except one in the UK, were able to show that shorter durations were adequate. The Tata Memorial researchers pooled results from six such clinical trials and reanalysed patients’ data to generate statistically significant results that prove that three-month to six-month therapy is not inferior to the 12-month therapy. The other team members at the Tata Memorial were Seema Gulia and Sadhana Kannan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Isro signs pact with Odisha varsity||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Tuesday signed an MoU with the Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT), Burla in Sambalpur, to promote space research. Isro will provide the university financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh and also lend it technical support for research. The MoU was signed between secretary, department of space (DOS) and chairman Isro, K. Sivan and vice-chancellor of VSSUT Prof. Atal Chaudhuri through video conferencing. The MoU will remain valid for five years. Talking to The Telegraph, Prof Chaudhuri said: “An exclusive  Space Research Innovation Lab named as ‘Veer Surendra Sai Space Innovation Centre’ (VSSSIC) will be set up  at VSSUT, for carrying out space research and development in the area of Sounding Rockets, Launch Vehicles and Satellites.” Initially, the Isro will provide Rs 50 lakh as seed money to promote space research and provide the transfer of knowledge which is very important for an institute. “The grant in aid of Rs 50 lakh will be utilised towards the development of high end simulation tools, miniature test facilities (like static test facility, solid propulsion research lab, vibration table etc.) and establish the testing facility for scaled down models,” said the vice chancellor. “Later on it will consistently provide financial support on a long term basis for the development of space research and rocket technology. Nearly 100 students every year will get the benefit of the Innovation centre. Modern equipment will be installed in the innovation centre,” Prof Chaudhuri said. The grant will be utilised to create laboratory facilities for the conduct of research and development work in the area of sounding rockets, launch vehicles, and satellites. Chaudhuri said, “We will soon introduce a course on post graduate studies in space research. Those who will do the research can use all the facilities in different campuses of  Isro across India.  The scientists of the Isro will visit our university on a regular basis and deliver lecture to our students. Our students will also visit the Isro headquarters, Bangalore to get exposure.” As per the agreement, Isro shall provide necessary guidance to VSSSIC for developing the facilities to test and evaluate the launch vehicles developed by them on a progressive and sustainable growth basis. d. Considering the range safety and potential hazards related to rocket launching, Isro shall facilitate the limited utilization of the established sounding rocket launching facilities like Thumba (VSSC, Isro), Sriharikota (SDSC-SHAR), or Balasore (under DRDO) where all kinds of safety systems are available for the launch of future sounding rockets developed at VSSSIC, VSSUT. Chaudhuri  said how Isro had evinced interest to sign the MoU after the ‘sounding rocket’ developed by its students found a place in the Limca Book of Records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Package for Odisha rural economy||The Odisha government on Tuesday approved a special package of Rs 200 crore to boost the state’s rural economy badly hit by the corona pandemic. Under the package special, financial assistance will be provided to the poor, extremely poor and migrant workers in the next six months. Panchayati raj and drinking water minister Pratap Jena said: “Chief minister Naveen Patnaik today approved the special Covid-19 package to help the people of rural areas. The women self help groups (WSHGs) also can take advantage of the scheme. Nearly 60 lakh families in rural areas have registered as women self help groups and can avail the benefits of the scheme. “ Jena said: “It will also help migrant workers who had returned to the state during the pandemic to initiate various types of economic activities.” Under the scheme, the WSHGs can avail a one time loan of Rs 50,000 for the development of nano and micro enterprises. The loan can be availed by any member of the women self-help group or any of her family members. To promote agriculture and non-agriculture sectors, the Odisha government has also promised to extend financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh as a loan. “These can be availed by those small industrial units which have already completed a life circle of more than six months. The manufacturing units which are older than one year can also take the loan. Mainly producer groups and new enterprises will benefit from the scheme,” said the minister. The state government also promised to provide loan assistance of Rs 20,000 to micro units operated by the extremely poor people, widows and destitutes. “We will also provide Rs 1 lakh  loan assistance to skilled and semi-skilled migrants, who have returned to the state. They can utilise the money to start a new enterprise. They will also be given the freedom to utilise the money to revive various small units which are lying closed,” officials maintained. Officials said that nearly 10 lakh migrants have already returned to the state from various parts of the country after losing their jobs. Though many of them have started going back some might stay back. Sources said if the government required more funds it will utilize the District mineral (DMF) funds and Odisha Mineral Bearing Areas Development Corporation (OMBADC) fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Congress sets eyes on more seats in Bihar||The Congress is planning to contest more seats in the Bihar Assembly elections which may upset its allies in the state, though it does not want the polls to be held amid the pandemic. “It is difficult to tell right now about the number of seats we will contest in the coming Assembly elections. We are a national party. One thing is sure that we will fight on a good number of seats instead of just 41, and will perform better than last time,” Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha told The Telegraph. The Congress had contested in 41 seats in the previous Assembly polls as part of the then Grand Alliance with Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), both of which fought on 101 seats each. Since then, the JDU has left the alliance, but smaller parties like the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and others have joined it. The Left parties are also expected to be on board this time. Jha said that though the final decision on the number of seats to be contested will depend on the high command, the party wants that seat distribution should be finalised at the earliest to avoid the kind of situation the alliance had faced during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections where it got finalised in bits and pieces and continued till after the first phase of the polls. It had thrown all preparations haywire. Congress state legislature party leader Sadanand Singh asserted it would have to strengthen itself this time because its leaders and workers had become sad and pessimistic over seat distribution. “The Congressmen will become enthusiastic and charged when they have the hope of representing the party in the elections. For this we need to contest at least 80 to 85 seats or more,” Singh told this newspaper. Meanwhile, sources in the RJD, the largest party with 80 seats in the current Assembly, said that Lalu and Tejashwi have earmarked 163 out of the total 243 seats for themselves. They may opt to share 13 of these seats with the Vikassheel Insaan Party. “On the other hand, our top leaders have left 80 seats for the Congress, in which it will have to adjust other allies like the RLSP, the Left parties, allies from neighbouring Jharkhand like the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, and other smaller parties. Effectively, this will leave around 45 seats for the Congress,” a senior RJD leader said on the condition of anonymity. In this scenario, the Congress’s emphasis on having more seats to contest could not only upset the RJD but also other alliance partners. Congress spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu Jha asserted that there was “no problem in the Grand Alliance over seat sharing and talks over it are going on”. Harkhu said he doubted whether elections could be held at a time when 16 out of 38 districts in Bihar were affected by the floods and the coronavirus pandemic was raging. “The ruling parties want elections in this scenario because if the public is free of the fear of corona and the problems caused by floods and comes out to vote in large numbers, it will teach them a lesson,” Harkhu added. Congress sources said that leaders of all the allied parties were connected digitally. Virtual meetings were taking place and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also participated in one of them. However, how far they will heed the Congress’s demands, remains a thing to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India|| Sikkim inter-state movement bar to stay||The Sikkim government has decided not to heed the Centre’s directive and continue to impose restrictions on the inter-state movement of people and goods in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the Himalayan state. The decision to this effect was taken by the State Task Force on Covid-19 headed by chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) on Monday night. “Keeping the present situation of COVID-19 in the state, there will be no change in the inter-state movement protocol,” said an official release issued in Gangtok. The government, however, decided to remove the restrictions on inter-district and intra-district movement of men and material in the state on week days. “Inter and intra-district movement of vehicles will be allowed with the odd-even stipulation. This will, however, not apply to containment zones,” said the release. The task force said only localised movement would be allowed on weekends. “Inter and intra-district movement will not be allowed on Saturdays and Sundays. Saturdays will be utilized for sanitization of all offices,” added the release. Continuing restriction on inter-state travel is against the recent directive of the Centre, but enjoys popular support, given the spike in the number of Covid cases in the state in the recent weeks. From less than 100 positive cases till the end of June, the figure has shot up to close to 1,500. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had on Saturday written to states and Union territories, reminding them under the Central guidelines, there were no restrictions on either inter or intra-state movement of people or goods. In his letter, Bhalla also said no separate permission or e-permit was required for movement of persons or goods and warned that the continued imposition of such restrictions would be viewed as violation of Union home ministry guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sikkim’s task force also decided to act strictly against anyone found violating the Covid guidelines. In this regard, it has decided to take action against a former secretary of the state’s information and technology department and the management of a pharmaceutical company for breaching the guidelines. While the government official is accused of facilitating the entry of four IT professionals from outside, who later tested Covid positive, and arranging their meetings with government officials, the pharmaceutical company is in the dock after 29 staff fled from the company’s guest house where they had been quarantined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to lift six-city flight ban from September 1||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has announced partial resumption of flights to Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad from September 1. The 6 city flight ban was imposed since 6 July. “Flight services from six cities were suspended. From September 1, flight services to Kolkata from the six cities may resume and can operate on three days. We cannot allow complete resumption of flight services as of now,” she said after a cabinet meeting. The general coronavirus lockdown has been extended in Bengal till September 20, with total lockdown shceduled for 7, 11, and 12 September. Banerjee also noted that the state governemnet has no issues with resuming metro services, if proper social distancing norms are maintained. “We have no problem if Metro wants to resume services in and around Kolkata after maintaining physical distance (between passengers). Local train services may also start in a phased manner - one fourth at a time. We have no problem. Railway authorities can speak with us,” she said. The state government, which was earlier planning to reopen schools on September 5 if the Covid-19 situation improved, said that schools and colleges would remain closed till September 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Alipurduar plans to decongest roads||Police and civic authorities in Alipurduar town will draw up a plan to reduce traffic congestion at the insistence of MLA Sourav Chakraborty. They have also decided to visit busy thoroughfares and crossings of the town to check out the situation during rush hours and take steps to ensure smooth vehicular movement. MLA Chakraborty said he had received a number of complaints from residents about rush hour snarls on arterial roads. “They say it is difficult to move on vehicles or on foot. They allege footpaths are encroached by shops, trucks move during the day and vehicles are parked on roads to load and unload goods. I have taken up the issue with the SDO and we will do a survey on August 28. Then the police will enforce suitable curbs,” Chakraborty added. The MLA said they would ensure footpaths are free of encroachment for walking ease. “We will stop entry of trucks into the town from 9am to 3pm, and loading and unloading of goods have to be done ahead or after these hours,” he added. The police and the civic body, sources said, have been asked to work together and mark designated parking zones. “Once the zones are identified, no vehicle will be allowed to be parked anywhere else in busy areas of the town.” According to residents, the Chowpathi — a junction of four roads — is the town’s most congested area. Traffic also moves at a snail’s pace in the day along Buxa Feeder Road and Alipurduar-Kumargram Road. “Traffic jams need to be addressed as a priority. Ambulances carrying critical patients get stuck on roads,” said Kaushik Majumdar, a trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid leads to rush of applications in north Bengal colleges||The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an unprecedented rush of applications in most colleges in north Bengal this year as parents don’t want their wards to leave home for higher studies. Authorities of a number of colleges in north Bengal say they have received a deluge of online applications — anywhere from twice to 10 times the number of seats available. Siliguri College, with 2,600 seats, has already received around 10,500 applications. Surya Sen College, Siliguri, has received 8,800 applications for 3,000 seats. APC Roy Government College, Siliguri, has only 352 seats but the number of application forms has crossed 3,000. Raiganj College in North Dinajpur has received around 8,000 applications for 3,152 seats. At Dinhata College in Cooch Behar, 7,000 applications have been made for 3,000-odd seats. An academic in Siliguri said thousands of north Bengal students move out of the region for college normally but not this time. “Because of the pandemic, most parents want their kids to stay at home and enrol in local colleges. Very few have applied to colleges in Delhi or other metros. If such a situation persists, colleges in north Bengal have to increase seats in undergraduate courses.” Senior faculty members of colleges, however, pointed out that after merit lists come out and admission starts, the situation might improve, because most students apply in more than one college. “As application fee has been waived in colleges and universities, students have applied in more and more colleges. So there is every chance that once actual admission starts, the number of applicants will drop in every college,” said Sujay Ghosh, the principal of Siliguri College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Cloud on health worker death  ||A 54-year-old health worker from East Midnapore’s Tamluk died in an isolation facility at the district hospital here on Monday morning after being refused a rapid antigen test for Covid-19 on Sunday night, her son alleged on Tuesday. The son said pleas for rapid antigen test on Sunday night were in vain, as hospital authorities said it was not done between 6pm and 6am. The woman, a supervisor at the Nandakumar health centre, was rushed to the hospital around 9pm on Sunday when she complained of acute breathlessness. She died around 5am on Monday. “A doctor from afar prescribed medicines, after which I was asked to take my mother to the isolation ward outside the main hospital building. My mother’s oxygen kept plunging, and I pleaded with the nurse to call a doctor or to arrange for a ventilator. She said nothing could be done without a test,” he added. The woman tested negative for Covid over a week ago during a health check-up for frontline Covid warriors. On Sunday, hospital authorities refused to consider the Covid negative report and advised a fresh test, but no rapid antigen test could be done between 6pm and 6am, the son said. He said her body was handed over without any test and the family did not know what happened to her. Chief medical officer Nitai Mondal said the woman died of “hypertension-related cardiac failure, not Covid”. Tamluk district hospital superintendent Gopal Das said they were following a directive from Mondal that advised against rapid antigen testing at night. “The directive had cited concerns regarding moving positive patients to Covid hospitals at night, so in order to remove that logistic hurdle that directive had been issued,” said Das. Mondal, however, denied issuing any such directive, saying “all hospitals can conduct rapid antigen tests at their own discretion, weighing the seriousness of the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp takes on BJP with wish list||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has placed demands before the state, the Centre and the Election Commission that observers believe is an attempt to take on the BJP. The demands, which resemble the party’s manifesto for Bengal 2021 elections, surprised many with their stress on issues to be decided by the Centre. The Binay camp, an ally of Trinamul Congress, is at loggerheads with the BJP. It is unlikely that the Centre would warm up to Binay Tamang’s demands before Bengal polls. “The Binay camp is trying to turn the tables on the BJP that is raising hill issues,” said a political observer in the hills. The Binay camp had made the demand for land rights for tea and cinchona plantation workers its major issue during the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll, which Binay lost to BJP’s Niraj Zimba. But the camp wants to raise this issue louder before state elections, as over 70 per cent of hill people do not have land rights. But the BJP is also raising the land rights issue, loudly. On August 22, the BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista issued a statement, “ministry of tribal affairs will be working with the ministry of environment forest and climate change to ensure that all pending praja patta (land rights) issues related to forest dwellers are resolved at the earliest.” On August 14, Bista made public a letter by the ministry of rural development to Bengal’s land and land reforms department principal secretary, directing the state “to take appropriate action (need to give land ownership rights) …and to reply to Hon’ble MP directly…” Binay Tamang said the demands were chalked out during a recent central committee meeting. “We will work on them through the year, we’ve started working for land rights to forest dwellers,” he said. Party insiders believe they may be able to put pressure on the BJP with demands such as scrapping of Article VII of the India-Nepal friendship treaty which allows free movement of citizens of both countries, and for inclusion of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration in the ministry of development of north eastern region. Indian Gorkhas believe that the free movement clause in the India-Nepal friendship treaty has blurred their identity with Nepal citizens. Kiran B.K., president, Gorkhaland Sanyukta Sangharsh Samiti (GSSS) , a group advocating the demand for Gorkhaland, was arrested from Chowrasta, Darjeeling while organising a blood donation camp to observe “Balidan Diwas” (martyrs’ day) on Tuesday. Balidan Diwas marks the hanging of Gorkha freedom fighter Durga Malla by the British. Police said no permission was sought for the event. All mass events are banned amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “He also had some warrants pending against him and we are trying to find out if he got bails in these cases,” said a cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Experts say situation to improve by Sept 25: CM||The chief minister on Tuesday said the Covid-19 situation in Bengal, according to experts, would “more or less be under control” by September 20-25. Hours after Mamata Banerjee — also the health minister — issued the optimistic statement in a televised administrative review meeting via videoconference, the health department declared the highest 24-hour count of Covid-19 tests at 37,524 on Tuesday. The state also reported yet another fall in the total of active cases — two days in a row now — and recovery rate of 79.1 per cent. The national recovery rate is now 76.12. The total tests in Bengal went beyond 16 lakh with Tuesday’s number. “I am told the Covid-19 situation will, more or less, be under control by September 20-25. Experts have said so,” said Mamata at the meeting. Sources said there had been indications of a turnaround since August 9 in the state’s Covid-19 situation, after a fairly long spell of virtually relentless gloom from the last week of June. The state government reported 58 deaths on Tuesday. Of the death of 2,909 Covid-19 patients in total, 2,539 (87.3 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the government. Now the state has nearly 1.49 lakh cases in total, of which nearly 1.15 lakh are recoveries and 2,909 are deaths. “The total active cases is 27,349, after a fall of 345. That’s because the 3,251 recoveries on Tuesday again outweighed the 2,964 new cases. The same thing happened on Monday, as the total active cases fell by 375,” said a Bengal minister. On Tuesday, he pointed out, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 434 in their total of active cases, with only Hooghly reporting a rise of 35. “The two biggest worries, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, had 7,041 and 5,774 active cases, respectively, on August 9. Today, Calcutta has 5,588 and North 24-Parganas has 5,671,” he said. At the meeting, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, along with health secretary N.S. Nigam, instructed all chief medical officers of health to ensure release from hospitals of mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients after three days with no symptoms. “If they can be released, our recovery rate will increase considerably,” said Sinha. Mamata endorsed the idea. “Yes, those who have been there for many days, after four-five days (Nigam later clarified the official instruction was for three days) of nothing, no symptoms, what is the point of keeping them? They will be much better off at home. Staying home in these cases is a lot safer,” she said. Nigam said: “Please do this, so that our bed occupancy reduces and recovery rate increases.” Bengal on Tuesday reported 35.17 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 dedicated hospitals. Besides, 15.43 per cent of 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes are also occupied. Mamata also stressed the need for lowering the positive confirmation rate, which was 8.86 per cent on Tuesday. It was 7.29 per cent even a month ago. “Those from neighbouring states coming here for treatment must be recorded accordingly so that their numbers do not get added to our state’s tally. They must be counted separately. Those should be added to the tally of their home states,” said the chief minister. The overall mortality rate now is 2, while the national rate is 1.84 per cent. The chief minister repeatedly stressed the need for lowering the mortality rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal bid to reduce Covid mortality rate||The Mamata Banerjee government has launched a door-to-door survey to identify people suffering from comorbidities of Covid-19 as death of over 87 per cent of patients infected with the novel coronavirus was attributed to such health conditions. Officials said the Bengal government had devised the “proactive” management of patients with Covid-19’s comorbidities to lower the mortality rate. The survey, which has already started in Calcutta, will begin next week in other districts, said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Tuesday. “This is going to help us in quicker identification and isolation, which is very important,” Sinha said during an administrative review meeting — via videoconference — from Nabanna. The meeting was being chaired by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Mamata said mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic people were getting better staying at home. “But those with comorbidities are of concern, they are the ones who need treatment immediately. Others are not that problematic.” The rate is currently 2 per cent in the state. The national mortality rate is 1.84 now. “More than 87 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths were on account of comorbidities. The mortality rate remains high among those with comorbidities largely because of patients’ late visit to hospitals or reluctance to go for tests in good time,” said an official. The state government, said sources, plans to keep tabs on the health conditions of such people so that they could be brought to hospitals as soon as Covid-19 was suspected. “The Asha (accredited social health activist) workers can visit their homes twice a week to check on them. In case any of them is found to be unwell, the Asha worker would report it to health department. A dedicated team would swing into action on the basis of the alert,” said another official. He said all such people would be given phone numbers of the respective Asha worker assigned to the area and the health officials concerned. “If we can’t be proactive, it would be tough to lower the mortality rate. We have already kept the mortality rate in control by monitoring Sari (severe acute respiratory infections) and Ili (influenza-like illnesses) cases in the state. If we can monitor the people with serious comorbidities, we will be able to reduce mortality further,” said the official. Mamata said the state, through the Asha network, had regularly conducted Sari and Ili surveys many months ago to make a difference. “We conducted a statewide survey, many times over, we saw that out of 10-odd crore people in Bengal, around 8,500 are Sari patients, while 3.5 lakh are Ili patients. Ili patients are not a challenge. Our main problem is the 8,500, whom we had to prioritise,” she said. Mamata said she had discussed with home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay earlier in the day about how deaths in Bengal had reduced considerably compared to 2019. She indicated that because comorbid deaths were getting recorded as Covid-19 deaths, the number of pandemic deaths appeared high. Chief secretary Sinha said the number of deaths in Bengal till June this year was 35 per cent less compared to 2019 and asked health secretary N.S. Nigam to update the figures till August. “The overall death rate has reduced considerably. But any death now, you are passing off as Covid-19. Those with existing ailments, prior conditions are getting infected…. Any death, from a stroke, a heart attack, bronchopneumonia, everything is getting included as Covid-19,” said Mamata. “This problem is happening because of some other serious disease, those who have it are a little weak. Because of that weakness, Covid-19 infects them and kills them,” she added. “Not every fever is Covid-19… this disease is becoming like a flu. Those without comorbidities, 80 per cent are getting better just by staying at home. This must be kept in mind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee for fast execution of rural projects||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday asked district magistrates to lay stress on rural road connectivity and housing for the poor in the post-lockdown period. The chief minister expressed dissatisfaction over the progress of two schemes — one for building houses for the poor and the other for constructing roads — in the past few months despite the government laying stress on rural development schemes since May. Mamata made the comments during a review meeting which she held over video conference from Nabanna for five districts — Bankura, Purulia, East Burdwan, West Burdwan and Birbhum. “You should focus on Banglar Awas Yojana (known as Prime Minister Awas Yojana) and Banglar Sadak Yojana (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana)... The panchayat department should appoint nodal officers to look after three important schemes — 100 days’ job, rural roads and Banglar Awas Yojana,” the chief minister said. Sources said Mamata was upset with the progress of the two schemes — often used as a key political issue to reach out to rural populace as their implementation is visible — even though she had asked officials repeatedly to focus on those projects. Mamata was unhappy with the progress of housing for poor scheme, too, as the state could construct about 1.2 lakh dwelling units so far even though the target was to build 9 lakh-odd units this year, sources said. She also expressed her displeasure when she heard that wages for some workers under the 100-day job scheme were pending. Senior officials said 93 per cent of the workers were paid within the stipulated seven days of their work and only 7 per cent were yet to be given wages during the period. “Make it sure that remaining workers also get their dues as early as possible,” Mamata instructed panchayat and rural development secretary M.V. Rao. The sources said Mamata was banking heavily on rural development schemes to reach out to rural pockets where the ruling party in Bengal performed poorly in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A Trinamul insider said the party performed well in urban areas during the Lok Sabha polls. But it had put up a poor show in rural areas, particularly in the Jungle Mahal and north Bengal. “So, the chief minister wants to reach out to rural areas through development. But performance of important schemes does not paint a nice picture so far. That is why the chief minister was upset,” said a Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Stakeholders plead for hill tourism to resume||Stakeholders of the tourism industry want the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and the state government to take the lead and ensure tourists start visiting Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills again. Tourism at these scenic locales was halted by the pandemic, drying up the earnings of everyone linked with the sector, from hotel owners to waiters and drivers. Last Sunday, at a meeting in Gymkhana Club in Darjeeling, representatives of associations of hotel and homestay owners, transporters, drivers and tour operators stressed the need to open up the hills for tourists again. “Now that many services have resumed, we feel it is time to welcome tourists again to the hills. This will help all of us directly or indirectly associated with the tourism sector. That is why it was decided to approach the GTA and the state government so that a decision can be made on when tourists can start visiting the hills,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. Stakeholders pointed out that some hill residents feared that the arrival of tourists would make them vulnerable to Covid-19. This is why tourism stakeholders want the GTA and the state to take up the task of convincing residents that safety protocols would be maintained at all costs. “We can’t bring tourists unless residents are taken into confidence. A message from the GTA and the state, coupled with a campaign, can help us a lot,” said Raj Basu, a veteran of the tourism sector of east and northeast India. Speakers highlighted their losses since March-end. “Thanks to the Centre’s order, banks and other financial institutions allowed a moratorium on loan installments till August. From September, everyone has to pay, but we have had no earnings since March. That is why we want the sector to open up,” said a Darjeeling hotelier. Basu said it was unlikely that thousands of tourists would start pouring in immediately, even if the hills opened, because regular train services and flight connectivity between Bengal and some prominent metros of the country were suspended. “Initially, we expect tourists from Calcutta and other parts of Bengal, some may arrive in their own vehicles, which is a new trend. But it is wrong to think that thousands will drop in and overcrowd the hills. We just want some boost for the sector,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court upholds CMC board||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday rejected three separate public interest litigation petitions challenging the validity of the state government’s decision to form an administrative board to run the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s day-to-day work till civic polls are held. The Calcutta corporation polls, due in May this year, could not be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Though the corporation’s five-year term ended on May 7, the state government through an order on May 6 formed a board of administrators headed by former CMC mayor Firhad Hakim to run it. Challenging the validity of the formation of the board, the PILs had contended that the state government was not within its rights to form a board without the legislative Assembly’s sanction. The division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Aniruddha Roy upheld the constitution of the board of administrators to supervise the functioning of the CMC. It also said that there was no need for the government to enact a legislation or issue an ordinance to form the board. “Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures,” the bench observed. The judgment was significant since the state had set up similar boards in many municipalities of Bengal where civic elections had to be postponed because of the spread of the coronavirus. The bench, however, said in its order that “the court desires that the state should now initiate the process for holding the civic body elections as early as possible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||North East||Hypocrisy tag on Cong airport protest||The ruling BJP in Assam has latched onto the support of Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for the Centre’s move to hand over operations of the Thirvananthapuram international airport in Kerala to a private player to attack the Opposition party. The Ahmedabad-based Adani group had last year won the rights to operate the airports at Thiruvananthapuram, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, Guwahati and Mangalore, which are now run by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The Union cabinet on August 19 approved the proposal to lease out the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram to Adani Enterprises under the public-private partnership model for 50 years, a move which has been opposed by the Congress. Assam BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said in a statement that the Congress protest against the handover of airports to a private player has “only exposed its hypocrisy”. Goswami invoked the support of Tharoor, the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, to the Centre’s move to drive home his point. Tharoor has said the move would help in “expanding” the potential of the Thiruvananthapuram airport to “its fullest, thereby providing a better facility to businesses & locals & attracting investors”. “The people of Thiruvananthapuram want a first-class airport worthy of the city’s history, status and potential. In this context, a decision, however, controversial, is preferable to the long delay we have suffered,” he had tweeted. Goswami said, “It is ridiculous that the Congress is now opposing a system started by it. Even senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has lauded the recent move to hand over the Thiruvananthapuram airport in Kerala in a similar manner and hoped that it would help in improving the facility.” The BJP also used Tharoor’s stand to dismiss the protests staged by the Assam Congress on Monday against the move to privatise the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport here, the only international airport in the Northeast. “In this context, the opposition of Assam Congress has exposed its politically motivated stand on the issue. It is the Congress (government) that had leased out operations of Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad international airports and all these airports are world-class facilities. We have engaged the Adani group through the PPP mode. We have not sold the airports,” Goswami said. Adani Enterprises had won the bid to manage six airports in a global competitive bidding process involving 9 companies. The Northeast Congress Coordination Committee (NECC) has also strongly opposed the move while the Airport Authority Employees Union (AAEU) members have been protesting since the announcement by the Centre on August 19. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora has said the BJP was privatising properties built by the Congress and that the Centre should have waited for the court verdict on petitions challenging the move. According to NECC general secretary Padi Richo, the Centre’s move reflected its “inability” to run even profit-making public undertakings. The Kerala Assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution moved by chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan urging the Centre to reconsider the decision to hand over the Thiruvananthapuram airport through the PPP mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
26-08-2020||Opinion||Look deeper: The Pous Mela wall||Sir — Although Swapan Dasgupta’s views in the article, “Wall of contention” (Aug 20), are not entirely free of political colour, he has rightly underlined several plausible reasons why the Visva-Bharati administration could have been compelled to construct the wall around the university grounds. Dasgupta admits that “[i]n itself, the enclosure of an open space is undesirable and not in keeping with the ethos of [Rabindranath] Tagore’s Santiniketan.” But it is also true that the National Green Tribunal had ordered the construction of a barrier to demarcate the mela ground from the university premises and the neighbourhood, so that the Pous Mela celebrations could be managed better. Almost every year, the mela continues beyond the stipulated three days, leaving behind a “mountain of litter”, and the university must bear the brunt of this. As the name suggests, Visva-Bharati is internationally known as the ideal site for the interaction of all cultures. Santiniketan is meant to be an abode of peace. As such, the fact that the place has been witness to frequent disturbances in the last few years is unfortunate. The recent incident is bound to cast a pall of gloom beyond borders. Everyone must come together to restore the congenial atmosphere of this centre of learning. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — Rabindranath Tagore believed that the Bengali elite should not turn its back on the villages. Unless there was a union between the town and the village, the rich and the poor, the folk and the mainstream, it would not be possible for a truly inclusive education system to evolve. The Pous Mela, organized by Visva-Bharati, is perhaps one of the best examples of this union. It not only provides employment in Birbhum, but also boosts tourism. During a year in which the pandemic has led to a number of people losing their sources of income, perhaps holding the mela with proper regulations in place would be all the more important. Swapan Dasgupta seems to imply that the Trinamul Congress is attempting to corrupt the ambience of Visva-Bharati, by trying to exert political control over the Central university. Surely it is not believable that the Centre is a politically neutral entity? Santiniketan has never been solely for ‘ashramites’. Many of the “businessmen” referred to in a disparaging tone in the article are also the products of Santiniketan. Every resident, whether a rickshaw puller or a badam seller, genuinely believes that the heritage of Santiniketan is their own. Chandana Dey,Santiniketan Sir — It is distressing that the recent disturbances in Visva-Bharati have reduced the hallowed place to a site for a political battle. Rarely have artists, writers, poets and other intellectuals of Bengal been vocal enough about the whittling away of the values of the ancient Tapovan system on which Rabindranath Tagore based Visva-Bharati. The Pous Mela, too, has suffered over the years. Unlike the usual trade and craft mela like the Delhi haat, the Pous Mela has deep spiritual roots. With the provision made by Debendranath Tagore, it is perhaps the only mela that still begins with ‘Brahma Upasana’ on the seventh of Pous. The open ground or mukt prangan of the mela embodies its essence of inclusivity. If the Kumbh Mela can be held safely for centuries, one does not see why the Pous Mela cannot be organized in a similar way, with the Centre and the state collaborating over the overall management. This is not a local issue but a cause close to the hearts of many, not only in Bengal but across the country. Sunipa Basu,Calcutta Sir — It is not surprising that the Visva-Bharati authorities are facing problems on account of the Pous Mela management. But more is expected of them than just settling for easy tactics such as the building of a wall, especially when it clearly opposes the vision on the basis of which the university was created. This is not to condone any act of vandalism in retaliation. We must all rise beyond such petty actions and retaliations, join hands in our efforts and ensure that the Pous Mela regains its former glory. Bhaskar Mukhopadhyay,Howrah  Laugh it off Sir — The decision of the mayor of Danbury, Connecticut, to rename the city’s sewage plant after the comedian, John Oliver, is hilarious. Oliver, as is his wont, cracked a joke about Danbury in one of his recent episodes. In retaliation, the mayor compared Oliver with the sewage plant, both of which, according to him, are full of waste. It is unlikely that the comedian will take offence at this humorous rebuttal. But as a resident of India, one wonders how many hours it would have taken for a politician to lodge a complaint against the comedian had such an incident occurred here.Arpita Chaklader,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
26-08-2020||Opinion||Gone Girl: Losing female foetuses||Decades of sustained struggle for empowering women in India may have resulted in the passage of important legislations to protect their rights. And yet, the laws by themselves have, to a large extent, failed to prevent the discrimination and violence that women and girls — including those that are yet to be born — face in the country. A study has revealed that India could lose, on average, more than 1,200 female foetuses a day over the next 10 years. This, in spite of the existence of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition Of Sex Selection) Act, under which sex determination and sex-selective abortions are banned. The scale of the crisis is immense. It is projected that in the period between 2017-2025, the number of female foetuses lost through sex-determined abortions would be 4,69,000, and then grow to 5,19,000 from 2026 to 2030. This would mean that around 6.8 million girls would not even be born. The implications are alarming. It is clear that deep-seated prejudice cannot be eradicated only by criminalizing pre-natal sex determination. More important is the indication that the problem may not entirely lie with the law itself, but with its implementation and, crucially, the conditions that make it easy for those with vested interests to work around the rules. For example, while the law makes it mandatory for all ultrasound facilities to be registered and for medical practitioners to maintain records of every scan done on pregnant women, the monitoring of such facilities is poor. Consequently, families that want sex-selective abortions — and members of the medical establishment who are willing to be complicit in a criminal act for profit — feel emboldened to make discreet arrangements: such procedures, researchers have found, are being carried out at home. While women often do not have a say in abortion-related decisions — the law recognizes this absence of choice — the same cannot be said for their kin. There is thus a concomitant crisis in morality, not just among the family but also within the medical community that is no longer willing to prioritize ethical prerogatives. As such, the bolstering of the law must be accompanied by targeted initiatives for a cultural transformation. This is especially important for traditionally laggard states such as Uttar Pradesh, which will account for the highest number of aborted female foetuses between 2017 and 2030. A number of factors — education, awareness, political will — must complement the law if millions of girls are to at least have a fighting chance at being born.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
26-08-2020||Opinion||On target: Bombay HC on Tablighi Jamaat||India has failed in its ancient principle of regarding the guest as deity when incarcerating 29 foreign nationals who had come to Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz for the Tablighi Jamaat in March. This was perhaps the kindest part of the Bombay High Court’s scathing judgment of a ‘political’ government’s action of finding ‘scapegoats’ for the pandemic, and imprisoning them for over two months with charges under the Indian Penal Code, the Foreigners Act, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. The visitors, who had petitioned the court, were accused at the time of having spread Covid-19 by violating the direction against large gatherings, of having breached their travel conditions and of using opportunities for preaching their religion. Yet no progress has been made in the investigations since. Few things could be more damaging to India’s image. The court pointed out that the Tablighi reform movement has always had international visitors and they were free to travel within the country for religious programmes. It dismissed the charges of visa violation and of preaching, and said that the petitioners should not have been jailed. Religious idealism had led to incarceration under difficult conditions instead of help during the pandemic. Two other high courts, of Madras and Karnataka, have also concluded that the visitors should be let free, although their reasons are different. The Madras High Court termed the confinement unreasonable, unjust and unfair. The visitors told the Bombay High Court that they had entered India after testing negative for the infection and had been sheltered in mosques when they were stranded during the lockdown. Most pertinent to these times is the high court’s condemnation of the ‘big propaganda’ of the media and representatives of the State accusing the visitors of spreading Covid-19. The judgment deplored the discrimination that allows foreigners of other faiths to pass without scrutiny, and remarked that malice is inferable in this case. Referring to the importance of fraternity in the Constitution, the court emphasized that social and religious tolerance was a practical necessity to keep India united. Religion and modernity had been reconciled by hard work and respect for both secular and religious principles ensured that most could participate in the process of development. No message could be clearer. The Centre, though, may choose to miss it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
26-08-2020||Opinion||US-China cold war: A delicate matter of choice for India||Addressing the who’s who of American strategic thinking in an address in New York last September, the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, described “multi-alignment” as the future of India’s relations with the world’s major powers. Where India’s historic stance of non-alignment came to represent equidistance from global powers, multi-alignment, Jaishankar explained, meant keeping “your relationships well-oiled with all the major power centers.” Yet, there was a context for Jaishankar’s comments — one that’s changing as fast as the spread of the worst pandemic in a century. According to Jaishankar — and that is, indeed, India’s formal position too — we’re in a multipolar world. But while that has largely been true since the end of the Cold War, 2020 is altering those equations just like it has shaken up every other part of our lives. In the first quarter of the year, the dollar share of bilateral trade between China and Russia fell below 50 per cent for the first time on record, pointing to a conscious move by the two nations to reduce their dependence on the American currency. Russia and China are increasingly coordinating their strategy on everything, from Iran and Syria to their approach to the United States of America. Meanwhile the US is doing what China has long been accused of: effectively building a ‘great firewall’ of its own. Its tightening restrictions on Huawei are aimed at trying to kill off the Chinese telecom giant. Donald Trump’s threat to ban TikTok, WeChat and other wildly popular Chinese apps is setting the stage for the creation of, effectively, two parallel internets. With the intensifying trade war between the US and China and American sanctions against Russia, we might well be headed toward the creation of two de facto trading blocs too. Countries and companies would in that scenario need to choose between the two sides — sanctions would bar those who trade with Russia, use Huawei or play Tencent games (the Chinese social media giant is also the world’s largest video game developer) from engaging with the US. If that shift towards two barely intersecting worlds reminds you of the Cold War, it’s because the parallels are real. And like the rest of the world, India will face increasing pressure to choose between a liberal but declining West and a rising but illiberal Eurasia led by China and Russia. The former sees India as a useful partner to counter China’s ambitions, and is willing to share cutting-edge technology and weaponry to assist New Delhi in emerging as a regional power. Yet while India and the US — and to a large extent Europe — agree on the need to balance China’s rise, they disagree on other elements of the India story. The West insists India’s trade barriers are still too restrictive and that New Delhi’s intellectual property regime doesn’t adequately protect innovation. And the US and the European Union will continue to keep India’s human rights record — whether in Kashmir or against minorities and Dalits in the heartland — as a ready strategic weapon to use as a bargaining chip when it suits them. Trump, let’s be clear, is an aberration that might pass as soon as January 2021. Russia has never questioned India on its human rights record, and remains the backbone of India’s military. But while still a major military power, Russia today lags behind the West when it comes to the most sophisticated weapon systems. What about China? Though it’s Pakistan’s BFF, it’s easy to see it would keep quiet on Kashmir if New Delhi and Beijing were on better terms and their soldiers weren’t bludgeoning each other to death with rocks and rods. It’s much harder, however, to imagine China sharing some of the cutting-edge technology that has made it a global leader in artificial intelligence, automation and 5G. Put simply, there are no easy answers to India’s dilemma. To be sure, we’re still some steps away from rigid, Cold War-like blocs. The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has refused to call his partnership with China an alliance, and Moscow remains uncomfortable with the idea of playing a junior partner to anyone. The current situation is also fundamentally different from the Cold War because the nature and capabilities of China have changed, making even a working relationship with Beijing more complicated than ever before. On the other hand, current tensions between the US and Europe mean the West is far from the united force it was during the second half of the 20th century. If Trump returns to power, those fissures will widen. It’s also not a given that India must eventually choose between the West and the Russia-China axis. It has skilfully manoeuvred between major powers in the past. But to do that again, it must first recognize the reality of today. The multipolar world of the past 30 years is, once again, coalescing around two pillars. Ensuring that relationships with all major powers remain “well-oiled” — as Jaishankar put it — will need more grease than ever before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
26-08-2020||Opinion||Feluda and Co.||Reflecting on “Feluchand” — Feluda to his legion of fans — in an introduction to a special edition of Sandesh dedicated to, arguably, Bengal’s most famous detective 25 years ago, Leela Majumdar made some pertinent observations in her inimitable style. There was the matronly jibe at Feluda’s addiction to smoking. Majumdar then went on to heap fulsome praise on his razor-sharp intelligence, fearlessness, indefatigability and his commitment to justice. Majumdar was as generous in her assessment of Feluda’s creator, taking note of the tightness of Satyajit Ray’s plots, the near-perfect description of the settings, near or far, as well as Ray’s matchless ability to make the line separating fact and fiction nebulous. The importance of Majumdar’s note, however, lies in what followed. She spots, unlike many of us, the surreal nature of Ray’s creation. Feluda, Majumdar argues, is a bit too perfect. His triumphs over his adversaries are nearly inevitable; he is omnipotent; he is peculiarly solitary — his parents are (conveniently?) dead, but the rest of his bloodline, she writes, remains markedly absent across his 35-odd adventures. Most significantly, Feluda is free of moral warts, discernibly immune to such — entirely human — frailties as pride or prejudice. Feluchand, in all probability, is that rare Bengali member of the tribe of metahumans. The search for more complex, conflicted heroes in Ray’s literary universe should lead the reader away from Feluda’s adventures towards his short stories, especially those that were published under the ‘baro (dozen)’ series. Ak Dojon Goppo (1970), Aro Ak Dojon (1976), Aro Baro (1981), Ebaro Baro (1984) and Ak er Peethe Dui (1988), each a collection of 12 short stories (including some of Felu’s adventures), unveiled a few characters the shadowy corners of whose minds, where moral turpitude exists in an uneasy truce with uprightness, should have made them far more memorable than the infallible Feluda or the equally righteous Professor Shonku. The following — not the detective or the scientist — are Ray’s Twilight Men. Bankubabu, a teacher in a provincial town, refuses to stand up to his bullies (“Bankubabur Bondhu”). When he finally has the courage for confrontation, he does so with some help from a kindly extraterrestrial. Yet, timid Banku — he is even bullied by his students — does not allow the daily indignities to corrode his dedication to teaching, his solitary source of joy. Banku’s conscious choice of vocation over retaliatory violence should not be underestimated. Then, there is Tripuracharan Mullick (“Dui Magician”). Mullick — he is a magician — is a purist at heart, steadfastly resisting the perks that accompany the commercialization of performance arts. But as the Market consumes Art, pushing orthodox artists like Mullick towards penury and  oblivion, the man of principle topples over into the abyss, trading his integrity for an all-too-fleeting moment of fame. The shadows cast by the Twilight Men get deeper as we turn the pages of Aro Ak Dojon. We meet Batikbabu — furtive, eccentric, the laughing stock of gloomy, rainy Darjeeling. He has psychic abilities that reveal to him the murky past of mundane, found objects: a button torn from the coat of a man felled, unexpectedly, by stroke; a solitary glove worn by a murdered man; a piece of eyeglass whose owner drowned in the sea. Ultimately, the interest — fixation — consumes this humble, unassuming man, forcing him to draw blood. But the person who weighs on our judgment and conscience the most would have to be Ratanbabu. Devoured by loneliness, yet ever conscious of the magnetic pull of solitude, Ratan’s life is a delicate balance between his craving and simultaneous revulsion for companionship. Yet, he does — momentarily — find what we think he seeks. In nondescript Sini, a few miles from Tatanagar, Ratan meets Monilal — his doppelgänger. But their uncanny similarities lead Ratan into the twilight zone: as the two men stand on a trembling overbridge, mesmerized by the distant rumble of an approaching train, Ratan chooses a forked path to liberation, finally embracing the solitariness he had dreaded all his life. Do their grievous lapses — crimes — and minor triumphs make the Twilight Men lesser mortals than, say, Pradosh Chandra Mitter? There is, in fact, a case to argue that they are as, if not more, formidable than our beloved detective. This is because Feluda’s foes are, in a sense, extraneous to his moral essence. Ray, unfortunately, spares Feluda conflicts with the demons within, choosing to protect the detective with an adamantine shield of integrity. But Ratanbabu and his peers have not been the beneficiaries of such kindness. Pulled at the seams of the soul by conflicting, competing emotions, by tides moral and amoral, by forces great and mysterious, they, like flesh-and-blood men and women, bob up and down in murky waters, rising to the surface on occasions, often to sink in the end. Yet, they continue waging wars within and without. Their capitulation is not just honourable. It makes them disarmingly human. The colossal imprint of Feluda on the Bengali imagination and cultural discourse is not without merit. But the one hundredth birth anniversary of Satyajit Ray — the centenary celebrations began in May this year — could be an ideal occasion for the Bengali intelligentsia to explore the peculiar and problematic unimpeachability of the fictive hero (heroines are nearly absent in these works, at least). What compelled one of the sharpest students of human character and its greyness to make Feluda decidedly anodyne on the moral plane? Should not the contemporary cultural discourse on Ray’s rich literary legacy be receptive to not only Feluda’s luminosity but also the residual darkness in the Twilight Men? Such a public reappraisal may put Tripuracharan Mullick — his spectre apparently haunts night trains — finally at rest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid treatment charges capped at Rs 18,000 a day in private hospitals||Private hospitals in Jharkhand will not be able to charge more than Rs18,000 per day from a Covid patient irrespective of the severity of his/her medical condition, officials of the state health department said on Wednesday, minutes after holding a high-level meeting to decide the upper limit of treatment  charges. “The districts as well as private hospitals have been divided in categories, depending on which the charge has been decided. For example, Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro fall in category A, and the maximum charge in hospitals for Covid patients in these districts can go up to Rs 18,000 per day,” said state health director Ravi Shankar Shukla. “Similarly, hospitals have been divided in two categories depending on their accreditation,” he added. Later in the day, the health department issued an official notification stating that Hazaribagh, Palamau, Deoghar, Seraikela, Ramgarh and Giridih fall in category B, while the remaining 14 districts are in category C. The maximum charge for Covid treatment in private hospitals, as per the notification, was even lower in the districts in category B and C. As per the notification, in category B districts, hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs14,400 from Covid patients, while in category C, the maximum charge is even lower at Rs10,800 per day. The upper limits of daily charges is for patients who are severely ill and need to be put on ventilators in an intensive care unit (ICU). The charges will also vary depending on whether a private hospital is accredited under the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals (NABH) or not. The upper limit for a non-NABH hospital in category A districts has been set at Rs 15,000 per day. The limit is Rs12,000 in category B districts and Rs 9,000 in category C districts for non-NABH hospitals. The government has not only put a cap on the charges for severely ill Covid patients, but also for patients who are asymptomatic and only need isolation and basic care. For asymptomatic patients, the charge in an NABH accredited hospital cannot go above Rs 6,000 per day in a category A district. The cap is Rs 5,500 in category B districts and Rs 5,000 in category C. Non-NABH hospitals will charge Rs 500 less in category A and category B districts, and only Rs 4,000 per day in category C districts. A Covid patient undergoing treatment in an ICU without a ventilator will have to pay not more than Rs15,000 a day in an NABH hospital of a category A district. The patient, however, will have to pay Rs 2,000 less if the hospital is non-NABH. Similarly, a patient in ICU without a ventilator in category B district will have to pay not more than Rs 12,000 for NABH hospital and Rs 10,400 for a non-NABH hospital. The government decision comes a day after the Opposition BJP threatened a statewide stir against exorbitant charges of Covid treatment in private hospitals. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo welcomed the government’s move and attributed the regulation of hospital charges to the BJP’s extensive campaign against private hospitals. “Our party has raised this issue on different platforms, and eventually, the government had to come up with a regulation on hospital charges,” he said. Earlier in June, the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI), the umbrella body for many private hospitals across India, had decided an upper limit of Rs 35,000 per day on the expenditure for treatment of Covid patients in a private facility. However, several patients have complained of exorbitant charges in private hospitals across Jharkhand and accused the hospitals of taking undue advantage of the situation. The president of AHPI, Yogesh Gambhir, said that private hospitals would have to follow the government’s directive. “We will get to know about the feasibility once we start charging as per the notification,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar and Dumka temples to open, but only for state residents||The Jharkhand government has decided to allow Baba Baidyanath Dham of Deoghar and the Basukinath temple in Dumka to reopen for darshan for four hours a day but only for residents of the state. Based on the latest order, issued on Wednesday by the state home, prison and disaster management department, officials in Deoghar indicated that it would take a day or two to finalise norms and reopen the temple. Joint secretary of the department Manish Tiwari said, “As per the state government’s decision, darshan at the two temples will only be for residents of Jharkhand. The number of persons permitted for darshan shall not exceed 50 per hour in Deoghar and 40 per hour in Dumka. Most importantly, darshan will be permitted only for four hours a day.” He said the temple managements have been asked to preferably issue online permits and ensure devotees adhere to all the standard operating protocols prescribed by government of India in view of the ongoing pandemic. A Deoghar district administration official said the temple was expected to open within a day or two. “Although we had readied all groundwork in advance for regulating entry, we were waiting for the state government’s order. It may take a day or two for the temples to allow darshan as we need to finalise some last-minute preparations,” he said. As of now, only pandas, or servitors associated with the temple, were allowed entry to the temples to perform daily rituals. The state government had ordered the closure of the temples at Deoghar and Dumka, along with several other big and small religious places, ever since the nationwide lockdown was announced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, restrictions were withdrawn gradually in phases. But the Jharkhand government continued its stay on religious activities, including the famed annual Shravani mela in Deoghar, in view of the steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Baidyanath Dham in Deoghar was only allowed to open for small groups of devotees for about eight hours on the occasion Rakshabandhan that coincided with the last day of the month of Shravan following a nudge to the state by the Supreme Court in response to a PIL filed by BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||180 toilets under Dhanbad Municipal Corporation lying non-functional||Presenting a contrasting picture of the state government’s Covid hygiene claims, as many as 180 toilets spread over five circles of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation are lying non-functional due to various issues like poor maintenance, lack of cleanliness, and lack of water supply. Worse is the condition of over 67 modular toilets, which are lying either locked or unused ever since their establishment more than two years ago. Expressing disgust over the situation, Ashok Pal, councillor of Ward Number 20 said the direness of the situation is compelling many roadside shopkeepers to urinate and defecate in the open since the existing community toilet near the Rajendra Sarovar park was removed two years ago due to pond beautification. Three single unit toilet blocks had been placed instead of the community toilet which always remained closed. “While a majority of modular toilets are lying locked, others have become non-unusable due to broken taps and commodes, lack of proper electricity etc,” said Pal and added the proper maintenance of these toilets by deputing caretakers to ensure regular cleaning could have solved the problem. Echoing sentiments, Ankesh Raj, councillor of Ward Number 27 of Dhanbad, said, “Creating infrastructure without proper focus of maintenance has rendered the toilets useless.” “While almost all modular toilets in our area are lying non functional, we are operating somehow with the community toilets. We have entrusted the cleanliness responsibility of one to a local resident while the other is being managed by a physically challenged person who collects a nominal charge of Rs 5 per person for each use and carries out cleanliness work on his own,” said Raj. The positioning of of modular toilets, he said, has also been made in such unplanned manner that they have been placed in such area where they inaccessible, in stead of being placed in densely populated areas like marketplaces where the people need them most. Vijay Sao, a roadside tea shop owner revealed the story of modular toilets lying unusable beside his shop. “Initially after the toilets were installed, it remained locked for more than a year. After it opened, some anti-social elements including the operator of an adjoining pay and use public toilet broke the tap and commode turning it non-functional. He thought that a free toilet in his vicinity will render his pay-and-use toilet useless and affect his income,” he said. 67 of the 180 toilets in five circles of the DMC area including Dhanbad, Jharia, Sindri, Katras and Chhatand are modular toilets. 68 community toilets and 45  public toilets. While the public toilets being managed by Sulabh International are in a better condition, the community toilets managed by DMC through its own staff are in not so. Repeated efforts to contact Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner Satendra Kumar failed to yield.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city gets its first public square at Bistupur, thanks to Tatas||Tata Steel which completed 113 years on Wednesday, commemorated the occasion by gifting a Jamshedpur with its first public square at Bistupur, replete with a snack corner, fountains and a children’s corner. The square in the heart of the steel city, developed jointly with its utilities firm Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (formerly Jusco), was inaugurated virtually in keeping with Covid-19 norms. The public square also has a green buffer zone, selfie point and benches for people to relax in. The other features include landscaped islands, a food hub, a free parking zone, space for the disabled, public toilets, dustbins at regular intervals, lots of space for pedestrians and proper CCTV surveillance. "The public square will not be opened for visitors as of now. Once the pandemic is over, we will open it for the citizens," said a spokesperson of the utilities firm. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar congratulated the company and those who worked hard in making the public square a reality. “The public square is a gift to citizens and they must help maintain it,” he said, and suggesting that a graffiti corner be set up near the Bistupur police station and the Talwar Building. East Singhbhum SP Tamil Vanam also thanked Tata Steel and the utilities firm. Chanakya Choudhary, vice-president (corporate services), Tata Steel, spoke how the new facility would be a source of attraction for the people in the time to come. Tarun Daga, managing director, of the utilities firm, thanked all those who joined the virtual inauguration and all those who worked for the successful completion of the project. “Public squares are the pulsating heart of a community. More and more, new public plazas and transformed squares are emerging as a sustainable way to enhance urban liveability,” he said. It was with this in mind that the company chose Jamshedpur’s most important commercial centre, Bistupur, for the first of its kind public square, he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant joins Mamata, demands JEE-NEET be put off||Chief minister Hemant Soren demanded the deferment of JEE-NEET 2020 on Wednesday, adding to the chorus of voices, including that of his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, opposed to holding the competitive examinations next month in the wake of the pandemic. Airing his views on a host of issues at a virtual meeting chaired by Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi, Hemant asked the Centre to be considerate towards students and postpone the exams for the time being even though the Supreme Court had refused to cancel them. “Exams must happen, but it should not be rushed through at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising by the day. As far as Jharkhand is concerned, we are hitting a peak with large numbers of cases being reported daily, and in such a situation, exams will only complicate matters,” the chief minister said. JEE-NEET 2020, which was originally scheduled for April, got postponed because of the nationwide lockdown. As per the fresh schedule, JEE will now be held from September 1-6 and NEET on September 13. Hemant said, “NTA has only named centres in three to four districts of Jharkhand. This means, we will be forced to ply buses and open hotels to accommodate a large number of examinees, many of whom will come with their parents. Many students from neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal come to Jharkhand to appear for the exams. “In such a situation, Covid-19 cases will grow. And as in the case of any crisis, the Centre will put the entire blame on states.” Hemant pointed out that Jharkhand was also battling a crisis of beds, ventilators and other resources to combat Covid-19 and in the event of a major spread of the virus because of the exams, the crisis will escalate. “We (Opposition) must strongly raise our voice against this before the Centre,” Hemant demanded, as Sonia and other chief ministers, like Mamata Banerjee, captain Amrinder Singh, Uddhav Thackery, listened in. Hemant also asked the Congress president to redraw the Opposition’s strategy to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government that, he said, was to blame for derailing the country’s economy which has led to massive unemployment. “I don’t hesitate to point out that we as the Opposition haven’t been able to raise the issues effectively to counter the Union government and its anti-people policies. We have to be united and receptive towards our partners and draw up  strategies to prevent the ruling party from diverting the nation’s attention from core issues,” Hemant said, pointing to how GST, privatisation of PSUs, price rise, especially of petrol and diesel, were threatening to break the backbone of states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||College Ground to witness turnaround, thanks to JSCA||Jamshedpur’s famed College Ground will be spruced up by experts soon, courtesy a deal struck between its custodians and Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) on Tuesday to ensure that the popular venue can be used to promote cricket. Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) signed a 20-year lease agreement with Jamshedpur Co-operative College for using the ground situated near XLRI. As per the agreement, signed by JSCA president Nafiz Akhtar Khan and Jamshedpur Co-operative College principal Prof V.K. Singh, the greens will witness a major turnaround after it is prepared and managed by JSCA as per Board of Control for Cricket in India BCCI) standards. “Unavailability of grounds has always been a challenge and hindrance for us while organising domestic matches. Availability of the College Ground will help us conduct matches and promote the game in Jharkhand,” said JSCA joint secretary Rajiv Badhan. JSCA had been struggling to find an additional venue for some years now to ensure the smooth conduct of local tournaments, including JSCA league and inter-school events. The JSCA has been dependent on Keenan Stadium, Telco ground and Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Stadium in Uliyan, Kadma, for conducting local tournaments. The landmark Keenan, an international venue till 2006, was used for hosting BCCI matches, including Ranji Trophy. Sources revealed that the state cricket association has plans to construct dressing rooms for the convenience of players at the College Ground. “The dressing room plan was on for some years now, but it did not materialise in the absence of a lease agreement with the college,” one of the sources said. Cricketers were naturally appreciative of the move. “It’s a much-needed move taken by the ISCA. College Ground has become another playing venue for us. BCCI matches can also be conducted once the venue is spruced up. The venue would now be managed in a professional manner,” said Vishal Kumar who plays JSCA B-division league for a club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Thundershowers, lightning pound Jharkhand from early morning||Thundershowers, accompanied by lightning, lashed several parts of Jharkhand, including Ranchi and Jamshedpur in the wee hours of Wednesday, due to the impact of a low-pressure system. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas experienced heavy rain coupled with lightning and strong winds blowing at speeds of over 40 kmph. It started to rain at 3 am and continued for two hours, uprooting trees at several places in Jamshedpur and other parts of Kolhan. The boundary wall of Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute (SNTI) at Bistupur collapsed. However, no one was injured. The IMD observatory at Sonari in Jamshedpur recorded heavy rainfall of 88.5 mm. Arki in Khunti district recorded the highest rainfall of 94.5 mm. Simdega in southern Jharkhand recorded 82mm rain while Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum recorded over 60 mm rain. Reports of uprooting of trees and tweaking of tree branches due to the thunderstorm and heavy showers have come in from various parts of Kolhan. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and Chandil in Seraikela-Kharsawan, too, recorded heavy showers of over 50mm. Ranchi and its adjoining areas like Hindgiri and Mandar recorded around 20 mm rain. There were reports of moderate rain in Ramgarh, Bokaro, Pakur, Dhanbad and Daltonganj. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said southwest monsoon was active over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. "Today's thunderstorm and heavy rain in the wee hours was due to the impact of the well-marked low- pressure zone over north-west Bay of Bengal and Gangetic Bengal. The highest rainfall of over 90 mm was reported from Arki in Khunti district. Ranchi and several other places experienced rains in the wee hours," he said. Kotal said that heavy rain was expected to continue in isolated pockets of southern and western Jharkhand during the next 24 hours as the monsoon trough was passing through Jamshedpur. The forecast issued by the Ranchi Met Centre on Wednesday afternoon indicated severe lightning and thunder at a few places over Jharkhand for two days on August 29 and August 30. Statistics revealed that the rain deficit witnessed a drop of two per cent from Tuesday’s nine to seven per cent, due to a good shower show in the past 24 hours According to Met data, Jharkhand has received rainfall of 722.2 mm against a normal of 778.4 mm, a deficit of 7 per cent. Weathermen said the deficit figure would witness a further drop in the next 48 hours of rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad artists and sculptors bear the Covid brunt||Coal town artists and sculptors have had less than 10% of the usual business this year due to the Covid pandemic and lockdown. Worse is the situation of families who are traditionally engaged in idol making for several generations, their sole source of sustenance. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Abhishek alias Sonu Paul (36) son of renowned Dhanbad sculptor Dulal Paul said they used to get at least 50-55 orders during Durga Puja, but received only ten this year. “Apart from Dhanbad, we would get orders from Biharsarif, Koderma and China Kori in Asansol and a majority of our idols would range from eight feet to 15 feet. They were worth Rs 1,800 to Rs 20,000, but this year we received orders for 4-5 feet idols worth around Rs 8000 to 10000,” said Paul, adding that he cannot pay the five workers from Bengal with this year’s income. “All 15 of our Ganesha idols remained unsold this year, incurring huge losses for us. So far, we have received only five orders for Vishwakarma Puja scheduled on September 17, much lesser than usual order of over 20 idols last year,” he said. The Vishwakarma idols Paul’s team is making this year range from one to two feet instead of the usual height of five to six feet. Work began in February this time, like every year. 13 artists from Nabadwip and Burdwan in Bengal started working with Paul, for which they were paid a minimum salary Rs 10000 per month. “All the artists got stuck here during the lockdown and we had a difficult time paying their salaries for five months with almost zero income,” he said and added they eventually hired cars and sent eight of them home. However, five are still at the workshop situated on the ground floor of a house for, making Durga idols. “The state government should provide some relief as they did in Bengal. The artists stuck at their respective workplaces were sent home by the government itself,” said Paul, adding that their financial condition is making it difficult to pay their children’s school fees. “My younger brother Abhijeet Paul (31) is a hotel management degree holder and used to work outside but he joined the traditional profession due to our suggestion. We are now repenting for our decision. Had he been in a job he would have at least earned something,” he said. Swapan Paul (67), another artist of  Luby Circular Road of Dhanbad, said, “We also used to make 20 Durga idols every year but this year received only five orders so far.” They had also engaged five artists from Bengal who have remained at their place for more than eight months. Paying their salaries is difficult at the time when they are facing difficulty in trying to sustain themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-321
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Village volunteers build a 200 ft road in one day||Residents of Piprahwa Tola under Pandu police station in Palamau worked one full day to rebuild a 200-feet road that was too risky to navigate. “The road was riddled with potholes. Such was the condition that one would be bound to fall into one of these potholes despite care and caution,” Shambhu Sharan Singh whose wife Manju Devi is the mukhiya of the local Dala Kala panchayat told The Telegraph Online on Tuesday. Singh said it was risky to walk on the road at night. “Pregnant women would never wish to cross the road. 'The road pain is far worse than the labour pain', they say,” said another resident. Sources said a gush of rainwater from the two adjoining hillocks, Khaira Pahar and Lohri Pahar, had eroded this  portion of the road. Singh said the water is a major destroyer of the road but the problem became acute when a rich villager raised a concrete boundary wall across the road. Hence, residents decided to take matters in their own hands. Some came with tractors and JCB machines at Singh’s behest and filled the potholes. But the measure is temporary. “Panchayats don’t have any funds for road repairs. There is no provision for it either in the 15th Finance Commission funds either,” Singh said, adding that he paid for the fuel for using the machines. “The road was ready in a day, by Monday, August 24,” he said. Palamau villagers said they dared to build roads themselves only after a decline of extremism in the area. From the '90s till about 2001, extremism was at its peak and building and repairing roads in rural areas of the district was a risky affair. They said rebels hate good roads since good roads mean faster mobility for police. “Such was the fear of rebels in the past that people used to avoid making their own houses. But now, with extremism on the back foot in Palamau due to police intervention, rural people have become emboldened to build public utilities like roads,” said sub-divisional police officer Bishrampur Surjit Kumar. “We are happy that villagers are coming forward to work on useful things like making their own road,” said the SDPO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader beaten to death in Giridih||Protest erupted at Giridih's Tower Chowk for several hours on Wednesday following Rastriya Janta Dal (RJD) leader Kailash Yadav's murder. BJP leader Indralal Verma, who was with Yadav at the time of the incident on Tuesday, is seriously injured. On Wednesday, several BJP supporters and family members blocked the city's Tower Chowk demanding the arrest of the criminals. Officer incharge of Bengabad police station Prasant Kumar said that the 25 to 30 criminals were waiting for the duo at Motileda Dalitola. When Yadav and Verma reached the spot, they pounced on them with sticks and punches. The culprits fled the spot only when the locals gathered around the spot upon hearing the screams. While Yadav died on spot, Verma has been admitted to PMCH Dhanbad in critical condition. Police have started investigating the case, said Kumar. "The reason for which criminals attacked on them is yet to be ascertained. We are trying to find if it is the result of a past dispute," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign custodian Pawan Kumar from NorthEast United||Jamshedpur FC on Monday announced the signing of a highly experienced goalkeeper in the form of Pawan Kumar on a two-year deal for the upcoming Indian Super League season VII. Pawan, who hails from Gurdaspur in Punjab, signed from NorthEast United FC for whom he raked up 18 appearances over two seasons of ISL with 46 saves and 6 clean sheets. The 30-year-old’s safe pair of hands was one of the reasons behind NorthEast United's first ever play off qualification in the 2028-19 season. “I am delighted to have joined Jamshedpur. Looking at the growth of the club over the past three seasons, I always had an ambition to be at the Furnace. It’s like a dream come true. It’s a huge challenge for me as I know we want to qualify for the ISL play-offs in our our quest to become champions,” Pawan said. “Football is like a theatre and there are no performances without a fabulous audience. The fan following in Jharkhand and Jamshedpur is absolutely amazing as the passion for the game runs sky high. The Furnace lights up with 20,000 spectators each time Jamshedpur plays,” he added. Pawan brings experience and proficiency to the JFC squad having featured regularly in the I- League and ISL for over eight years. He made his debut with Salgaocar and later went on to represent Bengaluru FC, Mumbai FC, Mohun Bagan and Chennaiyin FC. The goalkeeper was a crucial member of Bengaluru FC's 2014 I-League squad. He also won the Federation Cup with BFC in 2015. Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle was all praise for the custodian:” Pawan has proven over many seasons that he is one of the outstanding goalkeepers in India. It’s a position in which we were looking to strengthen ourselves and I am certain that he will do a good job. He is confident and vocal in commanding the defence line, excellent with his positioning and can himself big against the best of the finishers in the league. I am excited to be working with him.” The goalkeeper, who comes as a replacement for Subrata Pal, will wear the coveted No.1 jersey for the upcoming ISL. Pal, who was the first-choice goalkeeper for JFC for the past three seasons, will be representing Hyderabad FC in the upcoming season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Godda deaf-mute rape: cops nab one, hunt on for another||One of the two accused wanted in connection to rape and murder of a 14 year old deaf and mute girl has been arrested while attempts are being made to trace the other culprit, Godda police announced on Tuesday, two days after the heinous crime. The body of the victim, who was bludgeoned to death, was found from a government school under Balbada police station area of the district on Sunday, triggering protests by local residents. Announcing the breakthrough at a news meet on Tuesday, Godda SP YS Ramesh said raids were held at different locations including adjoining Sahebganj district to arrest one Mallik Yadav last midnight and hunt is on for his accomplice, identified as Mithun Yadav. Both are in mid-20s. Police however didn’t disclose the exact location of Mallick’s arrest. SP said, “On the day when the victim’s body was found, Mallick had come to the incident spot to find out activities of investigation officials. When he learnt that he was under suspicion on the basis statements by a few villagers, he fled from there.” Yadav has confessed to his crime during the ensuing interrogation. “We have slapped cases under different sections of IPC and POCSO act against both the accused. Soon, we shall nab Mithun too,” SP said, adding that the two preyed upon the victim finding her alone at a roadside waiting for her parents on Saturday night. “The girl had gone to nearby place and was returning home. She was waiting alone at a roadside for her parents when the two took advantage of her, dragged her to nearby school building and raped in turns. Later, they killed her by a huge stone apprehending that she may reveal their identities,” said SP. Congress’s MLA from Mahagama, Deepika Singh, who had demanded chief minister Hemant Soren for quick arrests and speedy trial soon after the incident thanked police for swift action. She said, “I am happy with the way police worked with utmost sensitivity in this case and hope that another accused too will be nabbed soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 1056 cases take tally above 32,000 ||As many as 1056 fresh cases of Covid cases on Tuesday took the tally in Jharkhand above 32,000, while the toll drew close to 350 with 12 patients losing their battle against the dreaded virus in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated on Tuesday. As per government data, Ranchi alone accounted for 314 Covid cases on Tuesday taking the tally in the state’s worst-affected district above 6000. Out of the 1956 cases, 141 were from East Singhbhum, which took the tally in the district to 5381. East Singhbhum, which accounts for nearly 40 per cent of Jharkhand’s Covid deaths, reported eight of the 12 Covid fatalities in state on Tuesday. The findings take the Covid toll in East Singhbhum to 152. The virus, as per official records, has claimed 347 lives in Jharkhand so far. Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma and Hazaribag have also reported over 1000 cases so far. However, Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for more than 30 per cent of the total Covid cases in Jharkhand. These two districts have reported a total of 11,415 Covid cases so far, which is higher than the number of active cases in the state as reported on Tuesday late evening. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the number of active cases crossed the 10,000 mark on Tuesday despite 725 patients recovering from the infection in the past 24 hours. While East Singhbhum reported 146 recoveries, only 82 patients recovered in Ranchi. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 67.60 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 75.27 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 6.08 lakh people and tested more than 6 lakh of them. On Tuesday, the government collected swab samples of 14,751 people and tested 14,508 of them. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.07 per cent on Tuesday, which is lower than the national average of 1.85 per cent. However, the state has reported Covid casualties in double digit for two consecutive days, registering 27 deaths in the past 48 hours, figures with the health department highlight. Of the 12 deaths reported on Tuesday, one each were reported from Ranchi, West Singhbhum, Koderma and Bokaro, while East Singhbhum reported eight deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Village without Muslims observes Muharram||Hindus and Muslims observing rituals of Muharram can still be seen in a few parts of the country symbolic of the syncretic culture upholding the liberal values of the nation. But an entire village without a single Muslim family observing the Muharram rituals is certainly a rarity. To witness it, one must visit Nawada village in Simradhav panchayat under Birni block of Giridih district in Jharkhand, around 230km north of state capital Ranchi. The village of more than 70 Yadav families and over 20 Dalits has been observing Muharram for ages. “We have seen our parents observe Muharram since childhood. I remember even my grandfather used to say that they observed Muharram. The tradition has been continuing for ages. We do not know the exact number of years. But yes we do observe it with all seriousness as there is a legend in our village that a pandemic would break out if Muharram is not observed. There is not a single Muslim family in our village and no mosque. However, a cemented structure at the centre of the village is used as the dargah and keep the tazias,” said para-teacher Binod Kumar Yadav, 44, at a meeting of the villagers to chalk out preparations for Muharram especially in view of the Covid-19 restrictions. The villagers used to bring a Muslim cleric from another village for the three days of the festival. “Our grandfather used to say that some Muslims lived in the village several years back but they have migrated to other places in search of jobs. But the tradition has to be upheld otherwise it would bring bad omen. Since I remember, we used to bring an elderly Muslim cleric Islam Mia from Barwachatar village (4km from Nawada in the same block). This year too we would bring him,” said Binod. Ramu Baitha, mukhiya of Nawada village, said that youths do observe fast during Muharram. “The youths will keep fast from August 28 onwards and take out the tazia procession the next day and culminate on August 30. This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic there will be not be a long procession and not much crowd. But the tazia will be kept at all important points in the village for the people to pay obeisance,’ said Baitha. Farmer Barun Yadav said that a team of youths also whip themselves as a mark of mourning during Muharram. “We do whip ourselves to symbolise mourning associated with Muharram. In earlier years, women used to offer food to those taking part in the procession. But we do not know what would be done this year due to the Covid-19 restrictions and a small procession,” said Barun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding SUV kills woman near Hazaribagh||A speeding SUV crushed a woman to death after one of its tyres burst at Hadari in Barkatha on GT Road, around 65km from Hazaribagh. The SUV was on its way to Jamshedpur from Patna and travelling on the Ranchi-Patna highway. But at Barhi, it took the route towards Dhanbad. After one of its tyres blew out, the vehicle hit 42-year-old Meena Devi and a youth. Meena died on the spot whereas youth sustained severe injuries. The driver was caught by villagers who broke the windows of the SUV. The owner of the SUV, who was travelling with his wife, was taken into custody. Villagers blocked the road for some time to protest the incident. The injured youth, Sunil Kumar Yadav, 23, is undergoing treatment at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Eighty-one people were discharged from various Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad on Tuesday. The patients discharged include 39 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa Polytechnic, 23 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the BCCL regional hospital in Bhuli, 10 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the Sadar hospital, four from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Jagjivan Nagar, three from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at PMCH cath lab and two from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at SSLNT Hospital. The patients have been instructed to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha on Tuesday handed over to police an anonymous letter sent to him by a woman from Hazaribagh in which she cautioned the BJP leader about an alleged murder plan. The letter contains the mobile phone numbers and addresses of the suspects. The police have launched an investigation. Dhanbad police have arrested three persons in connection with a clash on Monday between supporters of Janta Mazdoor Sangh and Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto at the BCCL mine patch in East Basuria. Private miner Dhansar Engineering Company is excavating for coal in the area on behalf of BCCL. The arrested persons, West Modidih residents Yuvraj Pathak and Ravi Kumar and Loyabad local Gulam Rasul, were later sent to jail under the Arms Act. The sides fired gunshots on Monday during a bandh called by the Janta Mazdoor Sangh. Former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal on Tuesday met the deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, and requested him to take up the issue of constructing an additional underpass near the Gaya bridge to smoothen the flow of traffic. Agarwal drew Singh’s attention to the fact that the railways had already cleared the proposal for the underpass more than a year ago. The state government can execute the project with the help of the railways by paying it Rs 5 crore, Agarwal said. A team of excise department officials on Monday raided illegal liquor dens at Balugadda and Nai Duniya areas of Jharia and seized over 100l of country-made liquor, besides raw material like jawa. The team of Jharia policemen, however, could not arrest the operators of the depots. The Palamau Zila Adhivakta Sangh Bhavan in Daltonganj will be sealed for three days from Wednesday. Speaking about the move, district Bar Association general secretary Subodh Kumar Sinha said: “The decision to shut the Adhivakta Sangh Bhavan has been taken after more than two dozen lawyers tested positive for Covid-19.” Sinha said the building will be sanitized in the three days. He said the lawyers have been advised to work from home. Although the Bar Association has around 550 members, samples for only 160 lawyers out were collected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
26-08-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand police foil Maoist attack bid in major breakthrough||Jharkhand police in a breakthrough against Maoists seized 72 can bombs and four rifles, as well as a pistol and other explosives, in raids in Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum, Khunti and Ranchi districts. The raids followed the arrests of Maoist commanders Jitrai Munda and Jogen Purty in Khunti. They had during interrogation revealed the rebels’ plans to attack the police and paramilitary forces in Kuchai in Seraikela-Kharsawan and Tamar in Ranchi district. Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police Mohammed Arshi at a news conference said the Naxals had laid can bombs in large numbers at Raisindri hill in Kuchai to inflict casualties to the police and paramilitary forces during their anti-insurgency operations. He said that apart from the can bombs, the rebels had also kept rifles and ammunition hidden in Jharjhara hills at Tamar in Ranchi district for use against the forces. “Munda and Purty, whom the Khunti police had arrested on Sunday, had said during interrogation that Naxal leaders Anal, Ashim, Amit Munda, Atul and Maharaja Pramanik are active in Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum and Tamar in Ranchi district, where IEDs had been laid. The duo had also pointed out the places where the rebel leaders had kept rifles and ammunition hidden. “On getting the information, a joint team of Khunti, Ranchi, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan police conducted extensive searches. By Tuesday morning, we had found all the bombs and firearms the two rebels had spoken of," said Arshi. He said the police had found seven can bombs weighing 5kg each on a mud road at Meromjanga close to the Bandi hill in Kuchai and 65 can bombs weighing 4kg each on a road along the Raisindri hill in Seraikela-Kharsawan district.  He said the force had seized four rifles with 97 live cartridges and a pistol from Jharjhara hill in Tamar. The can bombs laid out on a road along Raishindri hill were to detonate when the police and paramilitary forces would pass through the area, said Arshi. A bomb disposal squad of Jharkhand Jaguar detonated the can bombs, he said. Arshi said anti-insurgency operations were still on in the areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-322
